[{"Title":"Captures the Dark Comedy and Lyric Poetry of the Book","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"200 out of 226 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm uncertain why the daughter of a Hollywood icon would select as her first director effort a nearly unfilmable book of linguistic time bombs and nearly unspeakable tragedy. Jeffrey Eugenides's book The Virgin Suicides is one of the underappreciated gems of the 1990s and surely Sophia Coppola must have known that the critics would have it out for anything she did (see reviews listed under acting Part 3, The Godfather). So Coppola, daughter of Francis Ford, decided to do something unexpected She made a gem of a movie that's easy to like and complex enough to savour.Taking place 25 years ago in Michigan, The Virgin Suicides tells the story of a group of teenage boys and the Lisbon sisters, whose suicides changed them forever. The book is told with a rather unique choral narrator (the entire story is in the first person plural) which makes it clear that the focus of the story is not the Lisbons, but the boys and their attempts to restructure the events of what must have been their final summer of innocence. Similarly, the film features extensive voice-overs, culled from the book, coming from an unidentified member (or members) of the gang. You might wonder why you're never able to distinguish between any of the four or five or six males who wander through the story, or why at least several of the Lisbon girls also blend together, but rest assured it's intentional. The Virgin Suicides is very much about a baffled collective.The movie begins with the first suicide attempt of the youngest Lisbon girl. When the doctor examining her asks why should would try to kill herself she offers the simple response, Obviously, Doctor, you have never been a thirteen year old girl. The book and film are both really about men and how incapable we are of understand what it's like to be a thirteen year old girl or a thirty year old woman or really anything in between. And what's even more frustrating is the fact that women seem to understand men so devastatingly well (a trait perfectly personified in Kirsten Dunst's portrayal of middle sister Lux). The narrative such as it is marches inexorably through the gradual awakening of the narrators and the inevitable realization that they never knew anything.Coppola, who also adapted the screenplay, makes decent use of the book's two metaphorical subplots -- an outbreak of Dutch Elm Disease and a cemetery worker's strike. The rot of suburban life lies at the core of this story and Coppola wisely never overplays her hand. She loves using mythic imagery, generally revolving around Dunst, an actress beginning to produce the kind of resume that speaks of longevity. Coppola's background in costuming is also evident, displaying the decadence and tackiness of the observing characters, contrasted with the spare Puritainism of the Lisbons.Coppola gets mostly good performances from the young generation of her cast. As the only two characters to get individual notice, Dunst and Josh Hartnett do excellent work. She's the animal core of the film and he perfectly captures the perplexed, corrupted purity of the male side of the story. Playing against type, James Woods is excellent as the Lisbon's introverted henpecked father and Kathleen Turner is effectively scary as their domineering mother.The film is also aided by some wonderful technical work including Jasna Stefanovic's nostalgic, but never cutesy production design and Edward Lachman's versatile cinematography. The soundtrack by the French band Air is also notable, mixed with various hit songs from the period.The Virgin Suicides has perhaps too many moments of whimsy, where it seems too devoted to its source, even when the material doesn't translate properly. But still, it's the moments of magic -- the Lisbon girls prom, an eerie family party, and phone conversation spoken only with records -- that stand out. I'd give this one an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Kept me quite still","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"143 out of 199 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had been meaning to see The Virgin Suicides since I first heard it was being released to film, based on its 1993 book by Jeffrey Eugenides. I never got around to it until the other night when I rented it on video.Oh. My. God. This film was beautifully done with its easy-on-the-eyes cinematography, the shades of colours, the portrayal of seasons, the flawless actors (all of them), the way they moved & spoke.As in the book, this film is told as a memory of a group of boys' fascination & obsession with the lives of a group of very blonde sisters.It's not your typical formula film & includes a wondrous soundtrack, to say the least, with hypnotic contributions by Air. It still lingers in my mind - the true mark of a great film, in my eyes.The book, the film, the soundtrack I recommend them all. "},{"Title":"A depressing movie that is beautiful and timeless","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"95 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As far as really really good movies I've had the fortune of seeing recently the one that really stands out is a overlooked movie that came out last year called The Virgin Suicides. The movie while one of the more depressing movies in recent memories is just brilliantly directed by first time director Sofia Coppola (it was also her first screenplay - quite impressive indeed). I thought you know going into this movie A) I'm a guy and B) depressing movies just sometimes make it really really tough for me to like the movie they have those endings where its like you emotionally feel like you have just fallen off a cliff... yet despite A) and B) I was very moved by this movie... the directing, cinematography, acting, music - all work extremely well hand in hand complementing each other. This movie will make you even more so want to enjoy every second and moment with those rare & special people you meet on the roads of life.Josh Hartnett as Trip Fontaine turns in a very cool performance. Kathleen Turner turns in a performance that is so good you wonder how she got overlooked when it came Oscar time... and of course James Woods is incredible as are all the Lisbon sisters. Kirsten Dunst is intoxicatingly beautiful in this movie and really proves she is going to be an amazing actress to watch in the years ahead.Probably my favorite sequence in the movie is the telephone sequence towards the end... the scene starts out and your not quite sure where it's going to go... but once the needle on the record strikes and the Todd Rundgren song Hello It's Me starts to play it transports you into a genuinely touching movie moment (and a great use of split screens) as you watch the boys and Lisbon sisters phone each other back playing music that perfectly fits. Another favorite scene is where Josh Hartnett leaves the Lisbon house... and you know he is sorta on this not-really a date - date. The montages throughout the movie and their interludes with the music by the band Air combined with the beautiful cinematography by Edward Lachman are just pure movie magic.All in all a movie that draws you in despite its slow moments, depressing moments, and haunting moments... a movie full of life, quite moments, passion, imagination, reaching out, and those moments in life not usually seen in movies that are beautifully captured in a very passionate way. Going back over the movie I find that when the movie works you become much like the boys in the movie fully enthralled with the Lisbon sisters and searching for clues and answers as to why... why... why... as key and subtle moments pass by... its very hard not to fall in love with the Lisbon sisters... and though they exist solely in the realm of this movie... you feel that they are real as if they were someone you know in your life either as sister or a friend that you care about deeply and you feel their ups and downs... yet at the same time you can't reach out to help... though you desperately want to... "},{"Title":"Dreamy, poignant, captivating...a must-see!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"95 out of 128 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides.  Just the name may scare away viewers from this film. But if you are a fan of the 1993 novel, you will appreciate the way this vivid portrayal captures the spirit of love, life, and death.  The story begins with an introduction to the Lisbon family.  Mr. and Mrs. Lisbon gave birth to five daughters Cecile, Lux, Mary, Bonnie, and Therese, all ranging in ages from thirteen to seventeen.  Following a suicide attempt from Cecile, her parents and sisters struggle to give her what they think she lacked before; love, attention, admiration.  But somewhere along the way, Cecilia grew lost and constantly withdrew from many situations.  One tragic night at a Lisbon party, Cecilia succeeds at committing suicide.  What follows is a bittersweet experience in the girl's lives.  The story is narrated by the neighborhood boys, who lust after the girls, collecting everything they can of theirs and holding meetings just to talk about the wonders of their forbidden fruit.  After strict Mrs. Lisbon shuts the house in maximum security isolation, the girl's only contact with the outside world is through these boys.  This poignant, beautiful drama, written and directed by newcomer Sofia Coppola, captures the smooth lifestyles of mid 1970s suburbia, along with the beauty and angst of teenage life.  It shows us how deeply through the heart emotions can run, and how to get in touch with them.  Kirsten Dunst, the beautiful and talented young actress that portrays the most rebellious of the sisters, is stunning and provacative.  Her best work yet. "},{"Title":"How much can you write about dead trees?","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"86 out of 117 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A strange, surreal flight-of-fancy of death and love, remembrance and how romanticized our memories become. It's also very funny, tending to mix the black comedy of something like Heathers with the stifling suburban scenario of American Beauty (but it's better than both). Kirsten Dunst is fantastic as the foxiest of five golden-toned sisters in the mid-'70s who feel trapped by their parents (a peculiar, but not overly monstrous couple), trapped by their feelings, trapped by time. They can breathe--and live freely--only in their fantasies (and perhaps in death), but do their realities represent a prison? It's the talent of writer-director Sofia Coppola not to push everything over-the-top; she's careful, she leaves the viewer contemplating the characters' motivations and actions. The situation is indeed unexplainable, yet it is in our nature to expect a resolution, to expect concrete evidence as to WHY and demand an answer. Yet there are no answers to the sadness of the strangers who live across the street, even as we pass through their lives and through their houses. The Virgin Suicides offers fascinating food for thought. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Engaging and heartfelt - a MUST see!","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"86 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides is a touching, artistic film which transforms you through various stages of grief to realize what you already knew all along - Suicide is pointless. The film focuses on the lives of five teenage sisters from the perspective of the teenage boys who adore them. It's warm, funny, and totally engaging&#133;not to mention a soundtrack to die for!  There are incredible moments of cinematography - images that burn like when mother Kathleen Turner insists that her daughter, Kirsten Dunst burn her rock albums, Kiss, Aerosmith&#133;.the overwhelming stench and smoke billows out the doorway behind her when Kathleen throws the rest in the trash&#133;and without a flinch she re-enters the billowing doorway. Only a few rocky transitions between scenes catch you by surprise and pull you out of Sophia's incredible imagination and back to your theatre seat. With wonderful performances by Kathleen Turner, Kirsten Dunst, James Woods and the rest and powerful directing by Sophia Coppola&#133;you're left wondering  as any friend or parent would - why? Didn't they know we loved them?  "},{"Title":"Sofia Coppola is a genius","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"71 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've searched for this movie more than two years, cause I've read the book and I do love it. It's one of the most beautiful stories about teenagers that had ever been written. The suicides of these five beautiful girls aren't to be taken seriously, it's a metaphor the author uses. He wants so write about the strange and often really terrible feelings teenagers have. And Sofia Coppola created an atmosphere I can't describe. Just as a light wind on a hot summer day, if you know what I mean. She's really one of the greatest young directors (especially female) of our time. Lost in Translation is a masterpiece as well. The actors were good, Kirsten Dunst is such a great actress, she should do more movies like The Virgin Suicides, where she really has to act. Josh Harnett is wonderful as Trip and the girls who play Therese, Mary, Bonnie and Cecilia, are great discoveries. If you like films with depth, films you have to think about, this one here is remarkable for you. Please, watch it and immerse in the world of the Lisbon girls and the boys next door.P.s. I hope I didn't make too much mistakes. ) "},{"Title":"Stunning cinematography makes this film the masterpiece it is","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"44 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've never read the book, so I don't know how different this is. The only thing I know is that this adaptation by Sophia Coppola is fantastic.The movie is about the Lisbon sisters, whose parents are overly protective. After one of the girls, Lux, stays out late with boyfriend Trip, their grip tightens, and the girls find themselves under house arrest. This leaves one option, which everyone knows from the title.When you read the title, you automatically assume that this movie will be insanely depressing. It's not so, as you have plenty of time to prepare yourself. There is some pretty funny dark humor, which is mostly used by the guys, and is foreshadowing what's to come. This is one of Kirsten Dunst's best performances. I also now know why so many people fell in love with Josh Hartnett. He's absolutely handsome as popular guy Trip Fontaine. Throughout the movie, I watched with disgust at the parent's actions. It's not right to break curfew, but do you really need to put them under house arrest? This movie has an R rating in the U.S., but it's not really that inappropriate. There are some really touchy parts, but nothing to drastic. The cinematography is stunning, and the best part of the movie. Sophia Coppola is a fantastic director, and I love her work.--9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Depressing, beautiful & thoughtful","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"73 out of 128 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Virgin Suicides is a movie by Sofia Coppola that talks about the Lisbon family. A group of boys, who adored them, come together after 20 years and try to solve the mystery of the Lisbon sisters. Parents (James Woods, Kathleen Turner) think that the world is too evil and cruel for their five beautiful daughters, Lux (Kirsten Dunst), Mary (A. J. Cook), Cecilia (Hanna R. Hall), Therese (Leslie Hayman) and Bonnie (Chelse Swain). After the youngest of the girls, Cecilia, commits suicide on the first and only party of their life, Mr. and Mrs. Lisbon change the rules to be more strict. When Lux decides to brake the rules, they are taken out of school and their lives become full of misery and pain.To me, Virgin Suicides was one of the best movies I have seen in my short life. It made me think a lot about those girls and feel sorry for them. They were so beautiful and just in desire to live, but they were miserable under the strict commands of their parents. They knew about the boys who adored them and after the imprisoning, turned to them for help. They were all trying to find a way out of the misery and sadness in their own way.10/10 "},{"Title":"First movie made by Sofia Coppola","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I expected more from ''The Virgin Suicides''. This movie is told to be so good and even having a big name as Sofia Coppola helped me to have a big interest in watching it. But I found it a little bit boring, and also without a purpose Okay, the girls committed suicide because they hated the life they were having with their horrible mother (Kathleen Turner) and called the boys because they wanted them to be witnesses of their suicide. And? I really lacked some reality in this movie. Not only from the parent's isolation from the world(come on,any teenager I know would try to escape from that horrible parents,me included) but some scenes after the Lisbon's girls died are so out of place, like the party where people uses gas masks.Nice thing to see Josh Hartnett as Trip in this movie. He was always beautiful,but definitely changed for better.aka As Virgens Suicidas - Brazil "}{"Title":"Beautiful, but not a great adaptation of the book","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sofia Coppola's film is an adaptation of Jeffrey Eugenides excellent novel of the same name. It is a beautiful, visually stunning movie, but it fails to capture the book's spirit.The Virgin Suicides presents itself as a story about five mysterious Lisbon sisters. It all starts when the youngest one, Cecilia, tries to commit suicide, but, unsurprisingly, tragic events don't stop there. In essence, this is a coming of age story for the group of boys, who watch the Lisbon sisters and fantasize about them long after they're gone. It's also the story about the death of suburbia in the 70s.The cast is very good, if a little surprising. Kathleen Turner and James Woods are excellent as the parents. Kirsten Dunst might not seem as the perfect person to play the most rebellious of the sisters, Lux, but she is quite good in capturing the character's spirit. Josh Hartnett as the school hearth throb Trip Fontaine, proves to poses an acting talent in one of his earliest roles. Too bad some of his later work was forgettable (or embarrassing). But bringing Trip Fontaine to life was not an easy task, given the importance of the character and the fact the screen time was limited, and he pulls that off with ease.Copolla does her best to keep all the important dialogues and scenes from the book. Great attention is given even to the little details only people who've read the novel will notice the bracelets, brown-and white saddle shoes, Trip Fontaine's necklace. Directors and screenwriters rarely do that these days, and it's a big plus.However, the film never manages to be more than just average, if stunningly beautiful. It somehow includes all the details, but completely misses the atmosphere and spirit of the novel. It's probably because of Copolla's choice to focus on the sisters themselves and not the boys; this way, much of the mystery about them is gone, and it was one of the driving forces in the book.But a film doesn't need to be a great adaptation of the book to be good. However, The Virgin Suicides is never fully able to exist on its own; there are many scenes and situations that seem confusing if you're unfamiliar with the book. So at the same time it fails to capture the novel's spirit, while being too dependent on the novel to fully stand on its own. "},{"Title":"overwhelming and beautifully done film...","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  genuine film talent runs in the blood. sophia coppola's debut is so perfectly done that it'll be hard for her to top. her use of camera angles and shadowing and filters came together so well. i didn't get to see it big screen but you don't need to. it's so elegant and large a film.the acting is subtle and astute. the soundtrack lends to the film better than most films i've seen come out of new hollywood.the only continuity flaw i saw was the elm tree being in the front yard towards the end after it was so cerimoniously cut down. being the psychological focal point of the film, they should have been more vigilant chequing the dailies...virgin suicides and american beauty both show profound promise for new hollywood. see them both... "},{"Title":"Nepotism at it's finest ( worst )","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"30 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning does contain spoilersNepotism favourtism, especially towards ones relatives. ( Webster's Dictionary )Nepotism  it's not what you know but who you know. ( everyone else )I am now convinced that everyone is a sheep.  I have been reading the reviews in here and from professional critics and I can't believe what I am seeing.  People are saying that this film is brilliant and wonderful and heart wrenching and such.  They say that Sophia Coppola has made a hauntingly auspicious debut with The Virgin Suicides.  And I saw the film yesterday and I can't believe I was watching the same film that these people were.  Because when I left the theater I was angry, again.  Angry that a film like this was allowed to be made simply because Sophia is Youknowwho's daughter.  And look at the cast in here.  Many of them are Coppola cronies that have appeared in his films before.  You have Kathleen Turner who was in Peggy Sue Got Married.  Danny DeVito was in Rainmaker and of course you have Scott Glenn as the priest, who was in Apocolypse Now.  James Woods doesn't have a direct connection with Coppola, work wise, but he sure is a Scorsese cronie and Scorsese and Coppola are friends so I'm sure Woods and FFC have met on many occassions.These four names, although not Hollywood heavyweights like they once used to be, are still quite a casting coup to get for your first film that looks like it has the budget of a used car.  Toss into the frey Giovanni Ribisi, Josh Hartnett and Kirsten Dunst and you have a great cast that can do wonders with almost any material given to them.  This however, is not one of those films.  I'm not sure if it's inepptitude can be solely blamed on Sophia Coppola but since she is the writer and director, where else can you look.  This is not a haunting film.  This is not a tragic film and this is not a great directorial debut.  This is a film that has very little plot that we haven't seen before, and it is quite poorly directed and very poorly paced.The Virgin Suicides tells the story of the Lisbon family seen though the eyes of the neighborhood boys that were not really in love with them, even though the script will have you believe that, but rather more confused, fascinated and in bewilderment of them.  The girls are all beautiful and they are all untouchable because of over-protective parents and moreso an over zealous mother who used Jesus as her savior and reason to not let her children out of the house.  She doesn't want them anywhere near boys and when she finally does let them go to a dance, she makes them wear identical dresses and adds cloth to the length and to the bust line.  Okay, so this is nothing that we haven't seen or heard about before.  Take films like Carrie, Mommie Dearest, The Menenez Brothers etc and this kind of thing is something that has been done before.  But then the daughters all die and we know that because of the title.  So now the rest of the film has to show us why they decided to expire themselves.  Why did they kill themselves?  That is really the question.  And of course we all know that it is because of mom and dad. Ho Hum.Now I am not opposed to ideas being recycled, after all, there are only so many stories you can tell.  Eventually they just become variations of the original.  Karate Kid is a rehash of Rocky, all Cyborg films are a rehash of The Terminator and every action spy movie is a clone of James Bond etc. etc. So now the trick is to tell your story well and do something intriguing and exciting to keep the audience interested.  Take what American Pie did or even a film like True Lies.  American Pie was a retread of Porky's, Fasttimes and many other teen films from the 80's.  But they added some 90's gross out humour along with some revamped gigs from its predecessors.  True Lies had a funny script and a funny Arnold and Arnold to play off each other and so now it stands on it's own as a great spy flick.  The Virgin Suicides not only isn't original, it isn't entertaining or even very good.  And that has to start with Sophia Coppola.I counted, ( after I began to count ) about 10 different segments in the film that had no bearing to the story, just shots really, that were there for no other reason than to be there ( was there an editor present on this film?).  There was one scene where the girls are in a bathroom together and they do nothing there.  They don't really talk, they don't give away a big secret, they don't do anything.  And then it goes onto the next scene.  Now that is maddening.  Coppola's direction is ambiguous, unfocussed and doesn't have any aim as to what she is trying to say.  Not only that, but if you want it in plain english, the film is boring, tedious and quite pretentious. Maybe she has better films in her future but she is going to have a short career in Hollywood if she keeps making films like this that are crap.The Virgin Suicides is actually one of the worst films I have seen in my life.  But it does one thing and that is it confirms one of the oldest adages in the world. It's not what you know but who you know.   How true in this case, but having the same genes as the man who made the Godfathers and Apocolypse Now does not mean you can make movies like him.  This is a prime example of that.1 out of 10  "},{"Title":"I wasted an hour and a half of my life!!!","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't believe it, that I actually sat through this crappy film, constantly hitting display on the good ol' DVD remote to see how much longer was left. And, while the movie only runs 97 minutes (including credits), it sure felt like an eternity!!! Hanna Hall plays Cecilia Lisbon, the youngest of the five Lisbon daughters, and is the first to off herself, even though it takes a second attempt before she succeeds, mind you. At first she tries in the tub with a razor, but that doesn't work. She goes to see a shrink (Danny Devito) who tells her parents (James Woods and Kathleen Turner, who seems to be lost in this role) that he thinks Cecilia just did it for attention. The parents decide to have a little get together for the girls in their basement and invite some of the neighborhood boys over. Cecilia doesn't seem like she is having fun so she excuses herself and makes her way upstairs. A little while later, a noise is heard and Mrs. Lisbon (Kathleen Turner) and the rest of her daughters and the boys make their way upstairs and out the front door, where Mr. Lisbon (James Woods) is holding Cecilia, who is draped over a fence, the spike in her back. She jumped out of the bedroom window and succeeded in offing herself this time. I found the acting by Kathleen Turner in this part to be just down right pathetic.Kirsten Dunst plays Lux Lisbon, the second oldest of the Lisbon daughters. After she goes to the homecoming dance with Trip Fontaine (Josh Hartnett) and doesn't arrive home until early morning in a cab, Mr and Mrs, Lisbon pull the rest of their daughters out of school and keep them confined in their house. I guess you can say the girls go mad after awhile. After Morse coding the neighborhood boys across the street, they go over the Lisbon household where Lux is in the living room, smoking a cigarette. She opens the door and tells them the other girls are upstairs and that she will go out to her parents station wagon and wait for them, they plan on going for a ride to get out of the house. But they don't. The boys go down to the basement and one of the girls is their, hanging. Another one over-dosed on sleeping pills, the other one, well...I don't remember and poor little Lux is in the garage, door shut, engine running on the wagon, dead as can be.Well, la-di-friggin-da. Am I suppose to believe that this is the only means for the Lisbon girls to rebel against their parents? That all 5 of them would choose to end their lives? When you let your daughter go to the dance with someone with a name like Trip Fontaine, you're only asking for trouble. Lux was constantly screwing around with a new guy every night on the roof of her house, as we see all to well from the neighborhood boys scoping her out from the bedroom of one of them with a telescope. Why didn't one of them, LUX, just take off and go somewhere? Maybe it would of made their parents see that, no matter what is going on in the outside world, you can't keep your children confined forever. If Lux can screw around on a rooftop than certainly she can rebel enough to run away somewhere. None of these girls where shackled up, locked in their room. There were no bars on the windows!!! Needless to say, I hated this movie. It left me feeling emptier than a bolemics stomach. "},{"Title":"Cecilia's Diary Angst as Posed Pulchritude","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Sophia had a lot of good advice, and took a risky path. All is invested in the twin narratives of voice over and story-by-image rather than theater conventions.What a voiceover! By the strong Ribisi. What images! This may confuse some who expect there to be a plot, to have action and explanations. None of that here. Nothing is explained and it is somewhat questionable what happens.That's because Ms Coppola builds her narrative around Cecelia's diary. We see everything through a haze. Along the way, we encounter numerous unreliable witnesses. The psychiatrist -- strong here --  is DeVito who made a comedy of `Pale Fire,' for chrissakes (`Throw Momma from the Train'). The lover, who testifies, is institutionalized. TV reporters give twisted reports. The parents dissemble.Presumably DeVito advised on the Nabokovizing of the narrative, so that we cannot know if the remembrance is true. (The `Lolita' references are continuous, including the casting of Dominique Swain's (`Lolita') sister as Bonnie.) It is, therefore, all about collecting photos from the trash and weaving a story around misty remembrances and fantasies (the nightly trysts on the roof). It works not because it rings true, but because its falseness rings true.There's lots of moving back and forth in time and imagination, all done cinematically. Added in the coconspirator with you, the narrator, is the Church -- the Virgin of the title originates with the surrogate mother, who exists only as a reinvention of history. Here, she is a card.How great to see Woods as a peripheral force rather than the fulcrum of a film. The removal of trees and the decay of the house probably figure more strongly in the book.  .  "},{"Title":"Tragic, Morbid and Disturbing Theme Explored with Extreme Sensibility","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1974, in Michigan, the lives of a group of teenage boys are affected by the suicide of five girls from the Lisbon family. Cecilia (13) (Hanna Hall), Lux (14) (Kirsten Dunst), Bonnie (15) (Chelse Swain), Mary (16) (A.J. Cook) and Therese (17) (Leslie Hayman) move with their Mathematics teacher father Mr. Lisbon (James Wood) and their possessive housewife mother Mrs. Lisbon (Kathleen Turner) to a calm suburb house. Their beauties attract the attention of a group of boys that meet in the house on the other side to watch the girls. When Cecilia commits suicide, the girls stay at home for a period, returning to school later. When the handsome football player Trip Fontaine (Josh Hartnett) seduces Lux and spends the night outside with her, Mrs. Lisbon locks the girls at home, leading them to commit massive suicide.The first time I saw this movie was on 15 October 2001, and I was impressed with the magnificent debut of Sofia Coppola as a director. Yesterday I saw The Suicide Virgins again and I keep my first impression. Sofia Coppola uses the opposite style of her sensationalist father, and explores with extreme sensibility this tragic, morbid and disturbing theme, the suicide of teenagers. The behavior of the American society is subtly criticized, through the condemned action of the press and the lack of attitude from the neighbors and school community, since these agents see and comment the abnormal behavior of the Lisbon family and take no attitude to help the girls. The nostalgic music score, with classics from the 70s, is another plus. With regard to the charismatic team of actors and actresses, their performances are simply stunning. Five years later, it calls the attention the modifications mainly in Josh Hartnett, who I believe was participating of his first important movie he was a practically unknown teenager, and now is a famous adult actor. Kathleen Turner, from the sexy and gorgeous Matty Walker/Mary Ann Russell of Body Heat (1981) to this awful Mrs. Lisbon, is also impressive. The Suicide Virgins is a movie that deserves to be watched many times. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) As Virgens Suicidas (The Suicide Virgins) "},{"Title":"Sofia Coppola has now wasted 2 nights of my life.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First in The Godfather 3, now with The Virgin Suicides.  What was the point of this movie?  Was it(a) To engage the viewer in the trauma of suicide?  I hope not, because we never got to know the girls well enough to care about them -- they came across like zombie-chicks in a Palmolive commercial, always smiling gently but vapidly.(b) To share in the experience of those who cared about the deceased? Again, I cannot imagine so.  The boys across the street cared about them, for sure, but did anyone believe in their passion?  They seemed to like the girls simply because the script told them so, not because they were acting like real teenagers act.  For example, what actual teen boys would subscribe to travel magazines in order to fantasize about going abroad with the objects of their crushes?  Teen boys may fantasize about a lot of things, but picturing girls as Taj Mahal princesses is not one of them.(c) To show the horror of modern American suburban life?  Haven't we seen this before, and better? James Woods played a math teacher who caved into his wife's demands while sporting short-sleeve collared shirts.  How unoriginal.  Same for Kathleen Turner, who burned her daughter's records and couldn't imagine she didn't love her daughters enough.  Been there, seen all that before -- only in non-cliche form.Coppola's direction was amateurish, as well.  The Danny DeVito scenes, for example, should have been placed further apart, and the shot of the boys holding a lighter came across not as the homage of real humans, but more like the encore of a 1984 Night Ranger concert. "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The virgin Suicides is in my opinion Sophia Coppola's best movie to date. I have read the book and found the movie to be faithful.******Spoilers******This movie reminds me a bit of a beautiful nightmare. Five pretty blond sisters in an upper middle class Midwestern community kill themselves NO! The story settles on neighborhood teenage boys obsession with the unattainable Lisbon sisters, Therese, Mary, Bonnie, Lux and Cecilia. Lux is the main focus and is portrayed by Kirsten Dunst, an excellent choice. The viewer becomes equally entranced by these girls wanting to know everything about them and knowing absolutely nothing. Being a female I related better to the girls story and had to wonder after awhile why are these boys so interested in their lives? After all none of the boys are particularly appealing except Tripp FOntaine (Josh Harnett and a bad wig). I had to watch this movie twice one time right after the other. To me, at least the second time around and after learning more about the book, I realized this is a book and movie focusing more about the boys. They are desperate for these girls and have no way of knowing what to do. One would think that they would simply talk to them instead of resorting to finding the meaning in a diary. Apparently boys do not think this way. They look and wonder and get tongue tied at the very sight of the girls. It is almost as if they are prevented from getting too close to them. These boys essentially just cannot relate or know a female in any sense. They just loved them. The whole plot is very much up for debate and bound to have different opinions. Why did these girls kill themselves? What were they really like? even simpler questions like what made them laugh or cry all result in the same answer. The boys do not know. What is even more confusing to them is that the girls seem to know exactly too much. Lux of course is considered the fairest sister. She is aloof and very aware of her beauty. She of course causes the school hunk Trip to turn to mush. Funny how someone can have that affect even for a hunky guy who was 'never one to pursue'. They girls are slowly fading throughout the movie leaving the boys more and more anxious. They question the Lisbon suicides even when there adults as if the answer will magically appear or the girls were suddenly come back to life.In fact this movie was really a thought provoking piece. I found it depressing at times and quite lovely as well. The whole cinematography is beautiful and the teenage actors were very good. Definitely a movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Vacuous Drivel","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What did I learn from nearly two hours in the theater? Was it that Neighborhood boys discover their sexuality and delve into the mysteries of womanhood through their friendships with five sisters? A resounding no! I did learn that if you have a cruel, repressed and possibly religious mother all hell can break loose and the children may commit suicide, rather than stay locked up in their rooms for all eternity.Nothing in the film struck me as being true (except possibly John Woods' performance). The dialogue was trite, bordering on embarassing. Apart from the suicides, the story is hackneyed and lacking in any insights. The boys who ponder the circumstances of the sisters' deaths have nothing to add to the movie. Even they say that after 20 or so years they have no answers to the haunting questions surrounding the suicides. So what is the point?Give me a break. One of the very worst movies I've seen - ever.  "},{"Title":"EXTREMELY DISAPPOINTING","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing The Virgin Suicides, even though I've seen it seriously panned by some critics. Unfortunately, my excitement quickly turned to agitation very early into the film, which actually felt more like an after school special than a poetic movie about Love Sex Passion Fear Obsession. Wasn't this supposed to be something of a black comedy, too? The maudlin narration, done 25 years after the events which turned the Lisbon sisters into objects of further obsession by the neighborhood boys, begins the unfortunate descent.To me, the story, which was well-acted by most of the cast, doesn't work as the remembrances of a collective adolescent imagination. The point of view of the narrator, who is speaking for all of the neighborhood boys, is completely unbelievable. The boys' memories of the girls don't ever feel mythical or mysterious enough to make the narration work, even though we're constantly told how hard to understand all of this is. These definitely don't sound like boyhood memories, even when 25 years of introspection and growth are taken into account. We could rely on the story as a straight narrative, then, but the characters are too thinly sketched to be believable. This, is intentional, but just doesn't work to the desired effect. The bond between the sisters, though, seemed to come across (powerfully, at times), and the young actors are definitely likeable in the movie - including the keen teen dream Trip Fontaine, a young womanizer who steals the hearts and loins of his female classmates. Michael Pare's role as the older, all-too-obviously-in-a-clinic Trip Fontaine, however was the worst acted and written role in the movie.My biggest beef is with the direction and the dialog. I hear Sofia was true to the dialog in the book, which makes me more than reluctant to pick it up. What was meant to be poetic came across as banal. The scenes which appear to strive to be the most powerful were the most annoying - especially James Woods' and Kathleen Turner's discovery of the body of the first daughter to successfully take her own life. And what about that sprinkler? Was it supposed to be a punctuation mark or was it supposed to be funny?  I could only survive through these moments if I forced myself to understand what Sofia Coppola was trying to achieve. Even the wonderful score by Air sounded trite in certain meant-to-be-powerful scenes, some of which even seemed to be lifted directly, but to less effect, from other movies.I encourage Sofia Coppola to keep making films, of course - even if I was extremely disappointed in her first feature-length attempt. It's easy to see that her career has the potential to produce some gems. "}{"Title":"Well-packaged, unobtrusive, tastefully done and... without substance","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"93 out of 182 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sofia Coppola's film is not unlike the music provided by Air for its soundtrack nice, but a little bit hollow. All in all, I would say I enjoyed this film, just like all in all, I enjoy Air's music when someone puts on one of their CDs during a dinner party (Air is a favourite of many people who have dinner parties that I know). Air's music is immaculately packaged, unobtrusive, tasteful and on the whole, unobjectionable. Coppola's film is exactly the same. Liking Air and liking The Virgin Suicides is, if not a complete, absolute and irrefutable sign of having good taste, at least not a sign of having bad taste, that's for sure. But what exactly was this film about? The meaninglessness, hypocrisy and hollowness of suburbia and respectable, bourgeois society (a favourite target for many artists). The voyeuristic nature of the media (another popular one). The spontaneity and genuineness of the young (epitomised by Cecilia, the youngest sister in the film), a spontaneity etc which is killed off and sucked dry by the stifling, unwritten rules of respectable, middle-class, white American society. The slow but steady death of nature at the hands of the human race. Yadda yadda. Can I object to any of these themes? No, of course I can't. They're all worthy themes and the film was nowhere near preachy about any of them. Credit to Coppola for that. As I said, this film is very tastefully done. I'm not sure though The Virgin Suicides could be about some if not all of these things and more besides, yet it remains soft in focus, airy (not just in the soundtrack) and somehow, void of substance. Yet I cannot say I wasn't enjoying it as I was watching it, just as I cannot say I haven't enjoyed listening to Air playing in the background at a dinner party. But the enjoyment was never more than skin-deep. And to be honest, though I've been left with nothing negative from this film and the fashionable French band's music, I've also not been left with anything positive either - nothing that lasts, nothing to keep. This is all just... an unobjectionable lack of real substance with a very clever, unobjectionable appearance of substance. All very tastefully done, of course. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A visually beautiful bore","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After viewing this film, I've become interested in reading the book it was adapted from. Not because the movie struck me as a stunning masterpiece, but rather in the hopes the book will do a better job of telling a potentially good story.Pretty cinematography, settings and music make for some nice eye and ear-candy (not dissimilar to Sofia Coppola's Marie Antoinette), but don't help in communicating the plot.The supposed mystery of the Lisbon sisters failed to draw me in. While the subplot ultimately leads to their punishment, too much time was devoted to Lux's relationship with Trip and the time spent locked up in their rooms was not investigated. Apart from Lux, there was no character development and I didn't care for any of the characters.What mystery was there that plagues neighborhood boys? While the boys became scarred for life, I felt unfulfilled and bored. Honestly, I'd describe this film as a light-hearted flick rather than depressing. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Superficial, pretentious crap","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had great hopes for this movie, having read some of the other comments. Rarely have I been this disappointed!This movie is a complete waste of your time. Most of the characters are totally unbelievable. There is no explanation for their drastic actions. No spoiler here - just read the title!The soundtrack and the cinematography give the movie a pretentious air that the plot never justifies. "},{"Title":"Sub-Par Snob of a Movie Masquerades as a Think-Piece","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The virgin suicides tries to be a thought provoking movie by being slow and boring.  One might try to find a surprise conclusion as to why each of the daughters committed suicide besides the obvious fact that the parents were very strict disciplinaries.  The odd thing is that normal teens would not be as submissive but instead retaliate such strict rules. The character's never get fully developed and much of the questions are left unanswered.  Why is the mother so deep into religion that she becomes out of touch with reality and the father so helpless to act.  If suicide is the answer for imprisoned souls then it is indeed sad.  But the problem is that there were not enough examples of the mother treating her children in such cruel ways to justify the imprisoning of their souls and gave them such hopelessness to drive them to sub-sequential suicides.  Yes, we do see obvious symbolism to their imprisonment but badly placed such as the gas mask choke party held by the locals.  Suicides were merely used as shock value because the director had no good ideas on how to develop the plot to a climax much like an action movie using explosions and car chases as a gimmick to further the plot.  Because that is the only time that I questioned why in the beginning.  Why did that girl commit suicide? Why the hopelessness?In the end this movie is slow, boring, and amateurish.  Slow because the characters did not act out the conflicts.  Boring because nothing amusing happens but instead the director forces you to think by placing obvious symbolisms.  If you want me to think, the director should at least offer me something amusing in return.  Instead, teenage suicide became the only visual gimmick (which visually could have been so much more) that the director had to offer.  This whole movie does resemble a scene in the thought provoking film, American Beauty.  The scene of the plastic bag twirling around in the wind because that seems to be the only essence that Sophia Coppola was capable of capturing much like her acting, amateurish.  On a scale of 1 to 10, I would give Virgin Suicides a -5 for being snobbish and -5 for insulting my intelligence. A total score of -10 "},{"Title":"Well made but ultimately unsatisfying","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had not read the book before watching the movie, so I did not know what to expect. I was immediately captivated by the movie - it is very well made, well acted and the lead characters are very engaging. However, I was not too sure the director was very focused on what she wanted to achieve. It seemed to move back and forth between seriously dealing with the issue of youth suicide and making jokes about the topic. I have seen in some other reviews which suggest that the pointlessness of the suicides in the movie is intended to emphasize how pointless suicide it. However, I think that mixes up cause and effect. While suicide is ultimately pointless, it usually occurs for a reason. Therefore, it is important to try to work out the causes of suicide if there is going to be any way of preventing it occurring. In this case, the causes of the suicides are not really explored. "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm torn about this movie, I watched it years ago while flipping around TV late at night, and have been haunted by it since. I was maybe fifteen when I saw it, and had no prior knowledge of the book, or even the title of the movie as I watched it. The movie is absolutely compelling, it really gets you to sympathize with the characters, locked away from the outside world in seeming perpetuity, then in a shocking (to me) ending, pulls out the rug out from under the viewer in an extremely morbid way, the way only tragedy can. The worst part about how the movie ends is the inevitability of the conclusion, when the entire time you have a feeling what is going to happen, then know for certain, yet wishing for the ending to change cannot make it change. Watching the movie really made me question religious fundamentalism and social conservatism, especially around the subject of sex, but it is the ending that has haunted me for quite some time, and even been present in some nightmares I've had since I first watched it. It really is a tragic tale, and definitely not appropriate for younger viewers, and while I don't think I want to ever see it again, I will definitely remember it for the rest of my life. "},{"Title":"Not without merit but ultimately disappointing","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  VERY SLIGHT SPOILERSSeeing this after reading strong reviews i expected great things of Sofia Coppola's debut feature but by the movie's end i felt let down. The film does have some very good qualities to it namely its overall look with its soft colours and lighting and the soundtrack by Air is fantastic. However one almost feels the soundtrack captures the beautiful haunting mood better than the narrative of the film itself.The movie depicts the decline of a family of 5 beautiful sisters, after one of them commits suicide, as seen through the eyes of the neighbourhood boys. This is however where the film encounters its main problems. Coppola cannot seem to decide whether to tell the story of the boys obsession and keep the girls as distant and mysterious or to show the story of the girls and how they are driven to their fate. This lack of decisiveness leaves the tale rather empty. We end up not really understanding why the girls act so extremely to their very strict odd parents. We never feel we understand them or know enough about them to really comprehend them the way we would if the movie had forgotten the boys and shown us more of the girls life and upbringing. At the same time to do this would have reduced the movie's mystery and endangered turning the film into a depressing tale of domestic life which although may have been more effective is, one suspects, not what Coppola wanted.The alternative to this would have been to concentrate more on the boys who narrate the story and show less of the girls home life keeping them as a haunting presence over the boys and the movie as a whole. The movie works best when it delivers the rumours and glimpses of the girls that the boys fantasise over, as it is we see too much of them and not enough of their effect on the boys. Having not read the source novel it is difficult to comment but i have a suspicion that this second alternative would closer to it in spirit. In the end we end up with something between the two and get to know neither the boys or the girls making it hard to sympathise with the characters.Another minor problem was the casting in relation to the characters age. Despite it being a teen movie norm all the sisters bar the youngest looked far too old a matter accentuated by the fact that the boys looked much younger than they were supposed to be. Yet this small asthetic problem could easily have been overlooked had the movie been stronger dramatically. 2/5 "},{"Title":"A group of men remember five teenage girls from their youth.","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this film on video not too long after it was first released. Remember being a bit underwhelmed to be honest. However, after watching it again yesterday have changed my mind considerably. This is because this time I watched it with a different approach. The best way to describe this film (and recommend it hopefully) is probably to ask some questions which played on my mind for quite a while afterwards. These are only my interpretations, but here we goThe film is narrated by a group of boys, well, men who are remembering being boys is more accurate, although the very young sounding voice alerted me to something and led on to the first question IS THIS NARRATORIAL VOICE RELIABLE?I would suggest the clue to this question is in the title of the film 'The Virgin Suicides' - well they were not all virgins were they. According to the male's telling of the story, Lux has been sexually active by the time of her tragic death. Also, Trip Fontaine (and this is listed in the Goofs section here I noticed), speaking as a washed up bloke approaching 40 sitting in rehab, remembers being stoned and walking into the wrong History class the first time he meets Lux Lisbon - he was, according to the story, stoned every day - and on this day we are shown him escaping being caught by a teacher in the corridor. One, the sign on the door says 'Language Arts' and Two, he was a big pot smoker at the time so in all fairness his memories might be a bit fuddled to say the least. The fact Trip mentions 'History' is revealing as well. History is told by the victors - and the victors here - or survivors if you like, are all male, white, middle class and heading towards a Mid life crisis. At least a few have had broken marriages and relationships, handily using the Lisbon sisters as an excuse 'They spoilt us for any future girlfriends and wives', the narrator says. The narrators are re-writing history through the prism of their own present lives - and like any history, we should be aware that this tale is both extremely edited and also an apology. Who is the object of the gaze? Who is being described and - importantly - WATCHED. The five girls obviously. I do not think it is any coincidence that during some of the boys' fantasy scenes concerning particularly Lux, the filming is connotative of old 1970s adverts for soap (Lux!!!!) and shampoo. This leads on to another question Why do the girls organise for the boys to be the first witnesses ('audience') to their mass suicide? I argue this is the only way they feel they can speak back (have a voice). Consider it, they are virtually imprisoned in the house and their only link with the outside world is via a telephone and - vitally important inclusion - the telescope. The boys watch the girls, particularly Lux having sex on the roof of the house - and the girls know it. They are being watched like hawks by their parents and the boys across the road. Once you start to take into account the unreliable narrator of this story, you will (trust me on this one) really really be spooked. There is a nasty edge here - but like the silenced version of events from the girls themselves - it is always just out of shot. Lux gets seduced and dumped in the middle of a football field, the male narrators version of Trip 'a gentleman who never talks about his conquests' is air brushed. This is a fourteen year old girl remember, who has to find a taxi home.The dreamy way this film is shot is clever and appropriate. The narrator cannot be trusted. Watch again for the sneaky smiles that Lux keeps giving over her shoulder, again straight from an advertising campaign for just about anything - according to the boys' story, she even smiles up at the telescope when they are watching her on the roof with a series of boys. Again pure middle aged male fantasy. The prevalence of the image of the Virgin Mary (Our Lady) is not there just because the family are strict Catholics, but part of the boys' (and then the men's) fantasy of the Virgin / Whore dichotomy. When I watched it with these things in mind, it was just a revelation. Would love to see a re- write from the Lisbon sisters' perspective. Just my interpretation - suspect there are many!Oh, one last thing those diseased (Dutch Elm Disease) trees lining the street - like the girls, they are marked for destruction. "},{"Title":"A well crafted movie but the storytelling is lacking.","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Virgin Suicides is a sort of mixed bag. It's a beautiful made movie with wonderful directed sequences in it but the storytelling doesn't always makes sense and is simply terrible lacking at times. A case of 'style over substance' you can perhaps conclude.It isn't always clear in the movie where the movie is heading to. This is mainly because there are often characters introduced in the movie, who once after they are out of the story, make you wonder what exactly their purpose for the movie was. Characters come and go in this movie and once you think that they are going to play an important part for the movie, they are already gone again. The story isn't always told from the right perspective which makes this movie at times a bit incoherent to watch. This is also due to the fact that at times the movie is set in 'present time' (1999), while the rest of the movie is set in the '70's. Those sort of scene's make it pretty obvious that this movie is based on a book. I'm sure all those element worked just fine in the book but for a movie it is pointless and adds no extra value to the story. A lot of things still remain unclear after the movie has ended, which makes this movie as a whole an unsatisfying one to watch.I also never really got into the characters. I never quite knew what went on in those girls heads and I never felt their desperateness and their cry for help. The portrayal of their parents (James Woods and Kathleen Turner) was also a opportunity wasted. Instead as strict and tough parents they are portrayed as simply narrow minded people, who have their own ideas about what's good and wrong for their children. If they had portrayed the parents as two completely strict and tough persons, the movie would had become more, claustrophobic, sensible, emotional and more understandable.The cast is good and has cameos in it from Danny DeVito and Scott Glenn and roles from Josh Hartnett and Hayden Christensen before they received real fame as actors. The movie however isn't really a character movie. The main essence of the movie is put on the style and look of it. For that reason the movie also perhaps feels a bit as a waste of a great cast.The movie is good looking and well directed by Sofia Coppola but it seemed that they forget about the story at times. It makes The Virgin Suicides a bit of an incoherent movie to watch at times. Because of the lacking storytelling the movie never truly becomes emotional or truly understandable and therefor it's nothing more than a just average drama that is good looking but nothing more than that.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Book to Film Adaptations Imaginable","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"24 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This adaptation of the book is hardly worth a mention. I'm only writing because I was so appalled by it watching it the second time (the first being in the theater some years back). Watching it last evening, I couldn't get through the first sixty minutes and had to turn it off (this rarely happens). The book, which I'd read between my first viewing and the ill-fated second, is an amazing exploration of the decay of an American era and the explosive domestic drama that results thereof, in a world where physical reality and society (personified in the film by the Church primarily) collide. It is a book about men and our inability to access women, thus also our emotionally gooey sides. It is a tragedy in that great tradition, so much so that the tragedy within the narrative transcends the narrative itself to comment on a greater tragedy... which is what good art can do.But we get none of that from this train wreck of an adaptation. Which is really a shame.Coppola instead opted to present a nostalgic view of an era, lingering on what I think are meant to be humorous shots of out-of-date cars and suburbia... bored moments of awkwardness... first kisses... Basically it looks like an after school special or a long but semi-serious episode of Saved by the Bell. She presents a view that (and this is the great failure) sympathizes clearly with the inscrutable sisters when the text of the book in no way even accesses the character of these sisters. That's the problem. These girls aren't supposed to be sympathetic. They're inscrutable. Lux isn't a heroine, which she's clearly made into through this film. She's not some kind of grand dame answer to sexual repression. She's the victim of it.This is a book about young men, and men of age, trying to understand their world through the collective totem of the Lisbon sisters. Emphasis on totem. It is not an after school special romanticizing the supposed dreaminess of female adolescence. Ultimately, this isn't a film or book that women should appreciate any more than men or men more than women - it's a human story about men trying to understand women, not women's supposed superiority over male ignorance.Really, thinking on it it's a story of how girls age more quickly than boys. Most boys are awkward and clumsy at 14 (granted, well portrayed in the film) when many girls are quite grown into their adult shapes and can attract men far older than themselves, rendering them dangerous when coupled with the off-limits element. This is a physiological reality that comes into conflict with the values of a society. This reality isn't a male or female reality. It's a human reality, inasmuch as there exists filial and legislative restriction against premarital and youthful intercourse. But in this movie there is none of that nuance.Instead we see a clear, banal, crude sympathy for the suicidal girls. That is a failure, particularly considering the book is written - self-deprecatingly, at times, of course, but still written - by the male characters who, I should mention, don't despise men as much as this movie presents. They admit male foolishness and adore the memory of these young women, but they aren't self-loathing. Neither do they sympathize with the girls. They can't. They don't understand them. So the film shouldn't presume to enter that landscape, which is clearly not laid out by the book. There is room for a film-maker to embellish upon a narrative, but for a Freshman who clearly didn't get the text she was reading, this spells train wreck.We could have been told a story about gender in America and the post-sexual revolution landscape as it related to a decaying Detroit. That would have been nice. Instead of the story the book presents, this film adaptation presents a systematic misandry lacking any nuance or creativity or artistic merit. Better had David Lynch directed this film than Sofia Coppola, who's going to have to do a lot more than put Bill and Scarlett in a room together to convince me she's a real directorial talent and to make up for her performance in the Godfather III, which was the pinnacle of celluloid dross and artistically unforgivable.Last words don't bother. Give the book a read. "}{"Title":"Those girls have a bright future ahead of them","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Set in 1974, the story centres around a group of teenage boys and their fascination with five mysterious sisters known as the Lisbon girls in their final days.The story begins with the attempted, and then successful, suicide of the youngest Lisbon, Cecilia who impales herself on a metal fence during a party that was intended to cheer her up after her first suicide attempt. The family are left devastated and while the four remaining sisters, Therese, Mary, Bonnie and Lux (played perfectly by Kirsten Dunst) don't outwardly display the same self-destructive tendencies Cecilia showed, it is clear that their strict upbringing by their passive father and overly religious mother is a source of discontentment for them; most notably Lux, the youngest and easily least content of the remaining girls.A glimmer of hope appears when Trip Fontaine (Josh Hartnett), the cocky high-school heartthrob falls in love with Lux, who ignores him at first, which makes him want her more. He asks her to the homecoming dance and her parents reluctantly agree but only if he can find dates for all of the sisters so that they can all go. There are, of course, no shortage of potential dates.The evening goes well until Lux misses curfew because she is having sex with Trip on the football field. He loses interest in Lux immediately afterwards and abandons her, leaving her to make her way home the next morning by herself, causing the girls' parents to put them all on total lock down. They are taken out of school and withdrawn from the world almost entirely.Feeling dreadful for the girls, the neighbourhood boys do what they can to help them feel connected to the world, such as playing song lyrics down the phone to each other and using flashing lights to communicate Morse code across the street.The lock down seems to send Lux over the edge as she starts having sex with random boys on the roof of the house, much to the boy's amusement.One evening the boys think their luck is in when the sisters invite them over after Mr. and Mrs. Lisbon are asleep, seemingly to go for a joyride or road trip. But when they arrive Lux appears to be in a melancholy mood. In reality, the sisters have each taken their life in a different way in a different room of the house and they just wanted the boys to witness it.I must admit that I went into this movie biased towards liking it as years before viewing I had the ear candy that is the soundtrack composed by French duo, 'Air' that compliments the movie's dreamy, surreal tone perfectly.No real reason or catalyst is ever given as to why the sisters feel that suicide is the only escape from their present reality and some feel that the movie glamourizes suicide (the movie is very beautiful), but I would argue that as the story is told through the eyes of a boy who idealises the girls, many years after the events of the movie took place, he is telling the story as he remembers it, not how things actually were. "},{"Title":"A Chick-Flick by Definition&#x85;But a Good One","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yea, Silver Spoon and all that, but Just because doors are open and You have all the Money in the World, doesn't mean You can Create Your Own Style and Deliver the Goods. Director/Writer Sofia Coppola, in Her Directorial Debut, manages to be Taken Seriously on Her own.For a Novice Filmmaker She Impresses on a surface level with Artsy shots of Girly Things and the Film is about Girly Things and the way Girly Things Titillate Boys. It's also about Parental Oppression to the point of Abuse and Torture. The Movie is Downbeat with a Backbeat of Pop Cultural and High-School Flash. It tells its Tale of Trouble in Paradise with a Good Look and Bad Outcome in a way that is somewhat Refreshing. The Visuals in Virgin are what Shine whereas the Narration and some of the Montage can be Clunky at times.Overall, it's a bit Different where it Needs to be and is Engaging enough to make it Above Average for this Type of Teen Angst Thing. But it does feel Awkward at times and some of Her Flourishes, mostly the Writing, don't quite have the Impact Intended. The Ending is Clumsily Handled, but the getting there is Worth It, especially for its Targeted Teen Female Audience. It is by default a Chick-Flick, and a Good One. "},{"Title":"beautiful,dreamy,hypnotic,sensual","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" i first heard about The Virgin Suicides through my cousin who at the time had a crush on Kirsten Dunst.He informed me that this was his favorite movie with her in it.Seeing as i like Kirsten too i thought i'd give this movie a shot.my expectations were blown out of the water.Right from the start the movie grabs you and pulls you into the sleepy community where the Lisbon's lived.Beautiful and dreamy cinematography intoxicates you and mesmerizes you into feeling the same way as the boys and wanting to know as much as you can about the girl and their life living with over-bearing parents.It wasn't until later that i realized the movie was based on a book (i don't pay a lot of attentions to credits).The book just like the movie really pulls you in,right from the start.However,there are several changes.the differences in how the Lisbon girls look (somewhat) and the book goes on a little bit longer than the movie and in my opinion the movie has a better ending.if you are expecting and fast-paced action flick or a gory horror movie this film is not for you.but if you would like to escape reality for a while and learn about the lives of 5 beautiful sisters in the mid 70's than check this one out. "},{"Title":"A dreamy and beautiful work of art","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Virgin Suicides is a unique film about youth, upbringing, love, pain, life and death. Wonderful music and cinematography create a dreamy atmosphere that stayed with me after watching it.The Lisbon family consists of 5 sisters, aged 13 to 17, and their strict parents. The girls are the object of affection of mostly every boy in town, yet no one seems to have any concept of what they are really like. Early in the movie, the youngest sister attempts suicide, which serves as the catalyst for the movie's events. 5 Neighboorhood boys become fascinated with the girls and try to get to know them in any way they can. The viewer is taken along through the dramatic events and moments of beauty that take place in their lives. As in the book, we are given some insights into the thoughts and feelings of these young people.The movie has many strong points The narrated monologues, the dialogs, the characters, the way it's shot, the acting, the plot it's all very very well done. The movie enchants its viewers effortlessly and subtly. Many people will also find this movie easy to relate to, because of its universal themes.What also strikes me about this movie is the way it shows the media's take on the dramatic events in the film Always emphasizing the negative, making a spectacle out of it and missing the point completely. The town's other families also have their opinions about the Lisbons, without actually knowing what happened and why. This to me is just like real life.If you haven't seen this movie, go watch it. I recommend paying close attention to every word and every image. Only then will this movie's subtle magic really creep in. "},{"Title":"Goosebumps","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes, in very rare occasions the talent of a person go to his children and this is that case. Francis Ford Coppola is an awesome director but Sofia can be better.OK the movie is about five sisters that end up commenting suicide, and why and the events that end up with their dead is a mystery. And that basically is the plot of the movie.There are just a few movies that may gave you goosebumps one time, most of them at the end, but this one give you that sensation every five minutes. Is a trip to a girls mind, that we (men) really cant understand, but this film gives you an idea whats happening there. I would like to hear the opinion of a woman of this flick.Rent the movie, watch it on TV, I don't know how but you have to watch it, is one of those you don't wouldn't want to miss. "},{"Title":"Why do you not get it?","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Virgin Suicides is a truly beautiful film because it simply presents what is.It describes in the way a good novelist does; not leading you to absolute conclusions and not telling you what to think. You are required to bring something of yourself to the film.At no stage does this film either glorify or horrify, which is it's strongest point, which makes the resultant act so effective.It is truly beautiful as a film, as is the cinematography and the acting - well on the whole it didn't seem 'acted' you felt like you were watching life unfold (albeit in a literary fashion). I'm planning to read the book, but however that pans out - a moment of glory from Ms Coppola. "},{"Title":"Beautiful... spoilers?","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is has a dreamy feel to it almost the way a day feels when you find out someone has died, beautiful is amplified in everything because of such an ugly event.The boys dreaming of being with Lisbon girls and their fantasies of what it would be like. This film struck a cord with me maybe because I've had suicide in my life I relate to it a bit more than the general viewing audience. Sophia does an outstanding job with such sensitive material even making it funny at times ( the taking down of the fence and the neighborhood wives serving lemonade while the whole town watches). Many minor details help the viewer feel what its like living through the experience the priest coming over to a disheveled house and being of no comfort, Celcia haunting those around her and the diary. I read a lot of different comments about this movie and read things like you never find out why.. well thats the point. You don't know the real reasons why anyone does it you can only guess, hence the boys trying to figure out the mystery. It makes the film that much more real. I give this movie a high mark for many reasons the photography, the music,the way it made me feel like I was 14 again and dreaming all the time. It may not be for everyone but everyone should give it a chance... I didn't like it the first time I saw it, but watching it again made me appreciate it on so many levels.  "},{"Title":"Most captivating movie in a while","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw 'The Virgin Suicides' a few years ago, and didn't think it as good as it could've been. However, after a recent viewing, my opinions have changed completely. I think it is one of the most gripping captivating movies I have seen.The emotion conveyed by the acting is outstanding, and the movie on a whole leaves you with an eerie feeling, which I think is quite hard to obtain. The movie soundtrack - Particularly Air's songs - are brilliant, and add to the movies tension.Kirsten Dunst is the best actress in this movie. She comes across very strongly as is needed to play Lux, and manages to hold the attitude that is needed throughout the film. Hannah Hall is also extremely good in this movie, though it is a shame she is in it for such a short space of time.  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Tragedy","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thank you Sofia Coppola; Had this been attempted by someone other than herself it might have turned into a flimsy, debauched puddle of a movie.The book was brilliant, capturing the euphoric highs and the desperate and depressing lows of adolescence and beyond. The Film captured all of this wonderfuly starting at the end and then retreating back to the beginning, traces the fate of the five young femmes des formidables.I cried when I read the book; it having reminded me of my own lost friend whose life was self-extinguished. Such an event truly touches us all and to see it captures in film is endearing, nostalgic, and sad all at once.Bravo "},{"Title":"Entertaining and thought provoking","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Those who give this movie a bad review probably fall into the category of someone who likes all the loose ends wrapped up.Life doesn't work that way and this movie stays true to that theme.A film well worth seeing strictly for the Kubrick like obsession with visuals.The questions the film raise and only sometimes answer makes this movie more than popcorn fun.  It's a melancholy reminder that being young and being free will always be paths separate from one another.Sofia's freshmen project is to be commended.  "}{"Title":"hm","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How can someone not like this movie? This movie was fantastic.I can not explain in any form of words how meanful it meant.This movie was so interesting it kept me at the edge of my seat wanting to know what's gonna happen next? "},{"Title":"Blindingly nostalgic","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an incredible film, one of the MOST UNDERRATED films of all time. The acting is superb, the direction and cinematography flawless, and the score is brilliant. I really cannot say enough good things about this film. I must say, though, that if you loved this film, READ THE BOOK. It delves deeper into the story and the characters, and is so rich and fascinating to read, it will take your breath away. I cannot watch The Virgin Suicides enough times. I've already seen it four times...I absolutely adore it. Thank you Sofia Coppola, for such a beautiful film, Jeffrey Eugenides for writing such an amazing story, Air for the breathtaking score, and Kirsten Dunst, James Woods, Kathleen Turner and Josh Hartnett for their wonderful performances.  "},{"Title":"The suicidal suffer - and so do the viewers","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the first and to date the only Sophia Coppola film I have seen. I am an iconoclast when it comes to The Godfather part III in that I am probably the only person alive who likes it better than he likes part II. Still, it is curious that someone who was not bothered by the critiques (to put it politely) of her acting in that film because she had never wanted to be an actor anyway would choose to become a director is not the principal role, in theater, of any director to direct the cast?Whatever Coppola's natural talent (or lack thereof), her directorial debut has to be proof positive that aristocracy, inheritance, nepotism or whatever you want to call it has its merits. For one thing, thanks to her father's fame, experience and connections, Coppola was not going into this blind or alone and there was no need to reinvent the wheel. The cast and the cinematography should be enough to clear that up.However, my problem with The Virgin Suicides is this the characters. This has to be a fault of the writing; however, not having read the novel, I cannot say whether that is a fault of Coppola's or of Eugenides's. Whatever the case, no acting could possibly have saved these girls.I'm not particularly bothered by the unrealistically sharp reaction of the mother during the second half, nor by the parents' equally unrealistic defense of the girls in the face of the public. The story itself is not exactly literal and the embellishments must be seen in this light. The destruction of the Lisbon girls is, of course, a cautionary tale and a metaphor of the life-sucking and banalising nature of American Suburbia. The sensationalizing of the paparazzi and the confusion of the locals is a commentary on the absurdity of the whole thing.The thing is, the literal and the metaphorical elements are not well-juxtaposed. Apart from being beautiful and (mostly) innocent, there is really no life to any of these girls, nothing to be sucked out. As such, their destinies did very little to move me. But this wouldn't really be a problem if it weren't for the fact that the film tries to touch on the literal theme of suicide, not only through the commentaries of the observers wondering why but also through the film's halfhearted attempt at breathing life into one of the girls.Lux, Kirsten Dunst's character, is obviously supposed to be the exception in this soulless tribe. Unfortunately, her outlets for individuality--the typical teen-angst refuges of alcohol, tobacco, sex and rock music--are no less superficial than the insular half-acre plot she so desperately longs to escape. By the time the girls begin receiving the fliers for exotic vacations, it was too late in the film to convince me that any of them would know where to look for escapist fantasies or even be able to conceive of what a real escape would look like.In short, the script tries to do much in using egoism and suicide as a metaphor for the self-destructive insularity of suburban homesteads and at the same time touch on the literal aspects of what suicide is all about. Suicide is a horrific phenomenon stemming from terrible mental states and a film that attempts to deal with it on a literal level should definitely not banalise the reactions of the self-victim's entourage.The film makes heavy use of Roman Catholic iconography to seemingly little end. At first glance it seems the only thing it does is to give some sort of rationale for the parents' core beliefs about raising daughters, but there is no commentary on how these beliefs affect the course of action the mother's eventual crackdown makes almost no reference to religious justification. The priest who comforts Mrs. Lisbon after the suicide of her first daughter assures her that he listed Cecilia's death as an accident--in Catholicism, suicide is grounds for denying Christian rite of burial--and yet the viewer is not comforted one bit by this gentle but false cover-up. Contra the Catholic League, the commentary here is certainly not on religion itself but on the vacuousity of the religious life in American suburbs. Anyone who has spent considerable time living in the suburbs of the United States understands that religion is definitely IN but not OF them.Overall, it is a valiant first effort, though given the poor choice of source material I can't be sure whether this is Coppola's doing or simply the massive fountain of talent she has with her offering heavy padding. It makes me want to see more of Sophia Coppola--if for no other reason than curiosity--but I am not, to say the least, eager to watch this film a second time. "},{"Title":"Gaps and Pieces, Trivial Facts, and Outrageousness of Human Beings","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In a genteel, middle class, mid-western, middle-minded suburb of any town USA, five beautiful virgins commit suicide. To their parents (James Woods and Kathleen Turner) who wanted them to be happy, marry, and become just like them, it was the ultimate cruel mystery. To the neighborhood boys who noticed and yearned to know and love them, they were the ultimate question marks. And to the sisters, the question they can't avoid is why their sibling slit her wrists and then jumped from her window impaling herself on the fence. This perturbing situation permeates the daily lives of the family afterward as they try to settle into some obscene form of normality but never can quite settle down, nor will others allow them.Surrounding the family are outside eyes that question their every move. Was it the fault of the parents? Or, was it the sisters, their school, their friends, or ultimately the society in which the family interacted? No one has the answers least of all the boys next door who are voyeurs. They long to be with the beauties but have neither the social skills nor the courage to charge the invisible moat surrounding them. Virtual prisoners, the daughters have been made housebound by the grieving parents. Coppola centers the story however on Lux (Kirsten Dunst), who is the target of the ultimate high school magic man Trip Fontaine (Josh Harnett). He lusts after the girl that he ultimately disgraces and abandons on the football field. Never wiser, yet mournful in self-pity and nostalgia, as an adult (Michael Pare), Trip remains shallow and unchanged, a rehabilitation center patient never successful. An entire film dedicated to never answered questions, it is the first film directed by Francis Ford Coppola's daughter, Sophia. Whether this is her own work or one heavily mentored by her father is my question for her latter films seem to lack the kind of subtlety visible here. As a first timer, the deft handling of actors is both lively and insightful. Coppola leaves clues throughout the film in bits and music that answer as much as raise questions. The Virgin Suicides is an exercise in frustration. As described by the narrator, it is simply in the end, gaps, pieces, and trivial facts that only leave audiences guessing and wondering. "},{"Title":"Wonderful in Every Way","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This has to be one of the best films of the 90's and yet was curiously overlooked by many. Devastating in its execution and one of the best soundtracks ever. Between Coppola and Air the most incredible atmosphere was created. The performances from the all the young leads (both male and female - including a young Haydn Christianson) are fantastic. I know that the subject matter related to youth but even as a 37 year old I found something to relate to. Most importantly this is an adult film with complicated and difficult themes at its heart. Its mix of magic, atmosphere and shocking reality make it a 'must see' for anyone who enjoys intelligent cinema.Watch it now. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece in two media.","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jeffrey Eugenides' novel is one of my favorites. I can't count the number of times I've read the book, written essays, etcetera... about the book, and others. I knew it was a film, but I never got around to seeing it until just the other day. I wasn't sure what to expect, from anything in the film.It was amazing. It was less than inches away when it came to being close to the book. Sure, it left out a few select things, but the time cuts and flow of the film was terrific.The actors were terrific, as well. Josh Hartnett was the perfect Trip Fontaine, Kirsten Dunst captured every aspect of Lux, and Giovanni Ribisi had the ideal voice for the narrator. That's just to name a few. As for filming techniques, it was flawless.I give this film a 9 out of 10, and recommend it to anyone who has a fancy for dark humor and serious themes. "},{"Title":"I nearly followed suit after watching this trite film with mildly redeeming visuals.  (May contain spoilers.)","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this movie after my girlfriend bought it for 12$CAN at MusicWorld.  And I must say, YOWZA!, what a pointless movie.  Nothing happened in it except for what was expected from the title.  None of the characters evoked the least amount of interest for me except James Woods' one (and that was simply on the virtue that it was James Woods).  This was certainly meant to be a character-based movie, and Dunst's and Hartnett's characters were vacuous and I found I didn't care one iota for them, both apparently promiscuous just because they are teens.  Personally, I'm sick of the teen sexpot stereotype, and I thought that maybe an independent film would provide a little freedom from it.  Suicides certainly doesn't, and it doesn't in a conniving way.  The story is equivalent to that of a teen sex romp or a bad softcore porn, minus the porn, minus 3 years from the main character's ages (so that it's outright wrong to be turned on by it, despite the absence of nudity), plus some suicides tacked onto the beginning and end of the film to make it seem like a clever drama.  Not that I like teen sex romps or softcore porns per se, it's just that I like movies to be what they are.  Also, I found myself pretty bored for most of the thing even though I usually like slower movies and it was only 137 long.In it's defence, I was drunk, tired, and uncomfortable whilst I watched the movie, but I've done that before and enjoyed movies that were like this. And there was one good aspect about the film, and that was its presentation. The visuals were crisp and artistic and the music was good when it was present.In summary, the flick gets a 6/10 - 3 points for an almost decent story, 4 points for presentation (mentioned above), and -1 for that awful wig Josh Hartnett wore (or -2 if was -- God help us -- real). "},{"Title":"The Point of the movie?","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pros Lisbon sisters, Good music for the time. Cons Unbelievable characters, sloppy directing, narration.I have been sitting here trying to figure out the point of this movie. The critics loved this one bit avoid like the plague. James Woods and Kathleen turner just don't seem believable as the lisbon sisters parents and they seemed a tad too strict. But that may have been the point of the movie. The lisbon sisters are really very idiotic because they could have waited till they were 18 then go to college and have all the freedom they wanted. one of them was 17 for christsake! The dudes seem a bit too young for the girls yet they could drive and were drinking punch . Kirsten dunst comes off as a spoilt little brat. The narrator (giovanni ribisi) had a really annoying voice plus the movie didn't seem to go anywhere. This clearly looks like a first directorial effort and maybe sophia coppola will get better.Premise Lisbon sisters decide what to do when they are locked up at homeThe Virgin suicides recieved no academy nominations but won an MTV awardGrade 3/10 (Slovenly directing by Coppola. Aviod like the Plague) "},{"Title":"A misguided attempt at capturing the hardships of adolesence","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite some good performances and flashes of promise, Sofia Coppola's maiden voyage as a director unfolds like a wicked daydream that only serves to put you in a bad mood.  The story follows the short of lives five teenage daughters of strict, religious parents.  The world that Coppola paints of the mid- to late-seventies, the time during which the story takes place, is one in decline.  Coming of age in this world proves to be hard for the girls, and their lives at home only add to the hardship.Discovering themselves and boys is challenging, given their confining existence, and the one thing Coppola does achieve is capture the sexual tension that goes with being young, beautiful and untouchable.  When boys finally do enter the picture, first there is glorious escape, then the inevitable disaster that only tightens the restrictions placed on their lives.  This is the point when the movie goes exactly where you expect it to, but it takes its time getting there and the only ones who don't seem to know what's going to happen next are the people onscreen.For a better meditation on life in the seventies, watch the jubilant Dazed and Confused or Ang Lee's quietly melancholy The Ice Storm.   "},{"Title":"a film so dull i found myself also contemplating a self-inflicted end","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  No. Not even the ethereal mix of Air on the soundtrack and that constant, nagging sunlight beaming through the Kirsten Dunsts hair could stop this film from looking like a 2 hour Midol advert. The characters, other than Lux, have no depth what so ever...the film is set in the post-hippy suburbs of America, but it's done all wrong. What gives the suburbs their charm is their illusion of non-activity. Sofia Coppola should have known better. For a family of beautiful, blonde, popular, middle-class girls to be suicidal for NO APPARENT REASON is rather unlikely. While almost interesting in concept it does not shine enough for the silver screen. No quaaludes, no disco, no prog-rock. No cherry lipgloss or Sasson jeans? Rent FOXES instead!  "}{"Title":"Pretentious Nonsense.","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Seriously, it's not that great. The reasoning behind the storyline is never explained, but rather poorly implied through pseudo-intellectual photography and random narration. There are no heroes (just self-centered/absorbed sisters and stalker boys), no villains (just clichd, stereotypical 1970s parents), and no point to speak of in this film, and it is basically pretentious bullshit. Look how deep and insightful I am. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're a Coppola, we get it. Now could you please make a film that isn't completely overrated and doesn't suck? Thanks, Sofia. In all truth, the movie just doesn't make any sense. Some girls commit suicide because they are completely ridiculous, and they drag the neighborhood boys into their scheme for some final attention. That's the entire movie. They weren't facing insurmountable odds, the world wasn't completely unfair - their parents kinda sucked, big whoop. The only character of real substance is the youngest sister, Cecelia, who might actually be facing some real issues of neglect from her family, being the youngest of 5 and all. Her sisters are completely infatuated with themselves and seem uninterested in her or anything about her. Furthermore, they do not show any remorse following her death or concern after her first attempt at suicide - like she was never really there. I can rationally comprehend Cecelia's suicide and feel sadness for it... as for the other four, good riddance. "},{"Title":"NO EMOTIONAL TIES","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first death of the five daughters, Cecilia, didn't move me or touch me. The scene lacked any emotional substance. I firmly believe that the same emotions elicited in real life situations should be elicited from the viewer of a tragic movie scene. I feel the director/screenwriter lost an effective edge to involve me, the viewer, into his/their movie. When I watch a movie (since I'm not a professional movie critic), I look for the entertainment value first. How well does it entertain and involve me. It started slow and ended without truly moving me. I should have felt something for those poor girls. But I didn't. Beaches, Terms of Endearment, The Color Purple I felt something for the principle characters- sympathy, pity, empathy, compassion.The introduction of Josh Harnett's character, Trip Fontaine, gave the movie some movement.James Woods' character falling asleep during Trip's visit with Lux certainly showed his involvement with his daughters. Not much influence and certainly indifferent. I thought that made a good statement.The scene where the boys contacted the Lisbon daughters with romantic music was very touching. Otherwise, for me, it was just an average movie with none of the actors performing with any strength. I was expecting better.I'm giving it a five and that's being generous. The overall average score at this writing was 7.3. I don't see it. "},{"Title":"Flew right over my head...","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Huh??  All I can say is, don't believe the hype.  This stinker had no plot, a mostly unrealistic portrayal of the 70's (yes, I was there), horrendous pacing and no character development to speak of.  Every character in the film could have committed suicide and I wouldn't have given a damn.Usually I'm very generous when rating a film, but this movie was one of the most pretentious pieces of artsy-fartsy trash I've ever had the misfortune to watch.  Even the interactions between the characters was unrealistic, pretentious and forced (apparently to fit a badly written screenplay designed to appeal to some unknown demographic).This is one film I'll be sure to forget about as soon as possible.  I rated it a generous 2/10 (would have given it a one, but I was so relieved to see the girls finally off themselves at the end that I realized the movie did have a little redeeming value... the fact that it finally ended).  "},{"Title":"Boring and ineffective","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this film boring and ineffective- Sophia, I wanted to like it, but it left me with little to chew on.  It seemed as though everything had been thrown together with little thought of making it cohesive. There was potential for depth but it was never reached. You can be subtle and still give some clues (see _The Graduate_).  Supposedly it's true to the book, but maybe this was a time to take some liberties with the original story, and/or be creative with the script.  Neither gender was well represented either. The music was good; buy the soundtrack but skip the film. "},{"Title":"The title is the plot","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Virgin Suicides is like an episode of The Wonder Years for people who like to know the ending when the film begins to roll.The film is about a group of teenage daughters and their would-be young male suitors, fumbling through their formative and experimental teenage years trying to keep their actions hidden from the disapproving adults.While Sofia Coppola manages to evoke a feel and mood of what I imagine Iowa in the 70's must have been like, the obvious plot, the tepid voice-over and the stilted dialogue all provide adequate toilet breaks for the final predictable denouement which is predetermined by the title. "},{"Title":"Just like adolescence...","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...this movie is awkward and interminable! An absolutely pretentious piece of twaddle defined by both a lack of focus and a failure to present believable characters, The Virgin Suicides is ample proof (if any was needed) that nepotism will get you everywhere in show business. This film suffers from a lack of point-of-view (I dare you to define who the protagonist really is) and, even more importantly, a lack of point! We are never made to care one whit for the lives (or deaths) of the Lisbon sisters, nor are we shown any traits that make us interested in the creepily voyeuristic boys who adore them for no ascertainable reason. From the pretentious voice-overs to the first-year film school blocking of scenes, this is an amazing waste of time and resources. The Virgin Suicides must certainly be in the running for worst film ever made. And Sophia Coppola, already reviled as an actress, has proved she can't direct, either. See Lost in Translation, a nausea inducing movie about a crybaby child of privilege meeting a washed up actor with no amount of charm at all, for further reference. "},{"Title":"Great showcase for young talents then","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie brought high school movie sub-genre to a weird spot as it places the high school life backgrounds and all the complexities surrounding it facing the contrast element of death and loss and coping with them. The movie goes curiously with it's opening and builds its story casually after-wards. The time frame background permits the story to exhibit cultural practices that may be deemed strange by people nowadays. Yet these weird practices gives a great way for the story to development into it's unpredictable ending. The acting overall is surprisingly good. James Woods and Kathleen Turner did their parts well in acting out as the parents. This movie sure was a showcase to display then young talents such as Kirsten Dunst, Josh Hartnett, Hayden Christensen and even Leslie Hayman. Cameos and smaller parts by Michael Pare and Danny DeVito nicely add some flavor to the movie as a whole. "},{"Title":"Intangibly Beautiful film","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sofia Coppola's The Virgin Suicides is a one of a kind film that evokes a certain ephemeral yearning that hearkens to the days of our teenage hood, when hormones rage, emotions flare, and life has just begun its parade of confusion, tragedy and wonder. It's hard film to put in a box as it evokes a special kind of mournful atmosphere that's hard to duplicate, and an atmospheric, lurid quality that I've never seen done so well. Except ,aye in Donnie Darko. Coppola almost borrows from Cameron Crowe's gauzy, cloud stained aesthetic with her combination of ethereal music, free flowing work from the actors and undefined narrative that leaves you feeling a variety of different emotions. In classic American suburbia, five angelic, untouchable sisters are the object of every neighbourhood boy's yearning affection, and blooming lust. Ruled over by a fanatically conservative mother (Kathleen Turner), and a repressed father (James Woods cast excellently against type as a feeble, twisted man), the sisters find their blossoming womanhood hindered by their mother and father, resulting in a confusing, stunted coming of age that only ends in tragedy. What a beautiful, intoxicating tragedy it is though. The oldest of the girls (Kirsten Dunst), becomes entranced by boyish hunk Trip Fontaine (Josh Hartnett), and from there events spiral downward. The cast is top notch, Dunst shows uncanny maturity, Woods is tragically pathetic, and Turner is a force of misguided religious fury. There are perfect cameos from Scott Glenn, Danny Devitio, and Michael Par as well. It's a hard movie to describe in words, let alone a review, but if you watch it, think of it as a free form musical, visual essay on what it means to be young and influenced by your environment as you come into your own, and whether that effects you negatively, positively, or downright disastrously, as illustrated here. "},{"Title":"Retrospective Review Lingered with me afterwards... the power of a great soundtrack.","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I came to this film being a huge fan of Sofia Coppola's other film Lost in Translation. Lost in Translation is a 10/10 picture for me and one of my favourite films ever, so I went into her first film The Virgin Suicides with high hopes..It's about a year or so since I have seen it, and while writing this review, I must express that I was initially disappointed expecting more, even dismissing the film as a little boring....However, the film kept coming back into my thoughts afterwards and I can still recall vividly the opening shots of the film accompanied by what I now consider to be one of the greatest soundtracks ever made, by the French duo AIR. Using their music for the film was in my view, a genius choice from Coppola.I will never underestimate the power of a soundtrack in a movie and neither should you. Take for Example John Caprenter's Halloween. The film test screened to audiences without the infamous score and the test audiences thought it was a bad film, you know what it became with the score in place, an outright classic. Music can be just important as great cinematography..I certainly took away the soundtrack from the Virgin Suicides, I was listening to the whole album regularly. Then slowly but surely parts of the film crept back in to my thoughts, the beautiful cinematography, the great performances, the wonder. The soundtrack and the film are intrinsically linked. I look forward to seeing it again, knowing I will definitely enjoy it more than the first time round.. It's definitely a grower... "},{"Title":"''Don't let it die a virgin!''","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A beautifully depressing and sad movie about 5 sisters, who ended their lives at a very young age. The movie has an interesting way of telling a story, the story is told by the boys who loved the girls, but unfortunately the movie feels kind of cold. It is very hard to emotionally engage in the movie, since you never really get any real and emotional character interaction, it never really showed any of the girls communicating with one another.Just 2 of the sisters had their time under the spotlight, for most of the movie, and that, in my opinion, destroyed the real lust and emotions the movie could have had. I wanted to see more character engagement in the film, i get that the idea was to make you feel sad and emotional via the lenghty sad fragments of the girls dieing of boredom, being oppressed by their religious parents, but at least they could have made them talk with each other.When you look at the movie as a whole, it was a really good movie, but then, when you start thinking about some of the details, which i mentioned above, the movie kind of loses its charm and just seems blatant and plain, so it is better to just enjoy it, without trying to figure out the details and flaws of the film. "}{"Title":"A Haunting Fantasy Of Suburbia","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always told friends of mine that my dream girl would be a combination of Jennifer Lawrence, Emma Stone, Liz Phair, and PJ Harvey, a sort of 1990s alt-rock hellion/cool actress who also has a slick sense of humor. It's all fantasy, sure &#x97; no one on the face of the Earth probably has all the qualities I like most about these women &#x97; but everyone, young or old, is guilty of materializing love, romance, lust, whatever you may call it. One can only imagine all the '70s era teenage dudes who saw that infamous Farrah Fawcett poster and thought I want a girl like that, and one can only imagine the present-day tween girls who are still sobbing over the fact that their ideal husband, that black haired smolderer from One Direction, has left the boy band in favor of a normal life. Everyone knows they can't always have who they want, but why not obsess over the things you can't and never will have? In some ways, desire is even more dangerous than contentment; contentment is temporary, while desire can last for ages, forever.Upon the release of The Virgin Suicides in 2000, critics and audiences were perplexed as to why all the Lisbon daughters (expect for the subtly tortured Cecilia) all killed themselves on the same day. Was it the fault of their overprotective parents? The boys who looked at them as objects rather than people? Their deaths cannot be looked at too analytically because the film is far too cryptic to give too much away. The Virgin Suicides, however, is not cryptic when displaying what these girls represent the childhood crushes you never made it with/understood/got to know, the idealism of sex in a pre-sex world, the fantasies you made better in your head but ignored in the scheme of reality. The deaths are not just tragic; they also act as the demise of idealism. What happens when you step out from the shadows and realize that a golden-haired Lisbon girl or a Jennifer Lawrence/Emma Stone/Liz Phair/PJ Harvey combination do not and will not exist anywhere other than in your dreams? The film marks the beginning of that awkward period in which you begin to shed the wool skins of rose-colored childhood and try- on the brutal truths of adulthood. The Lisbon family appears to be a healthy, picture perfect rendering of the American family. Father (James Woods) is a well-liked math teacher at the local high school. Mother (Kathleen Turner) is a doting housewife. Their beautiful daughters, Lux (Kirsten Dunst), Cecilia (Hanna Hall), Bonnie (Chelse Swain), Mary (A.J. Cook), and Therese (Leslie Hayman), are pretty in the most untouchable of ways. The neighborhood boys are fascinated by them. Neighborhood girls want to look like them, to be them. But after Cecilia attempts suicide, the pleasant landscape begins to fade. Father is unhappy, passive, almost a ghost. Mother is overly possessive, forcing her daughters to dress in modest clothes, punishing them with isolation in retaliation for the slightest mistake. But then Cecilia goes through with her suicidal intent. Lux has sex for the first time. The boys become even more intrigued. In response, the Lisbon parents keep their daughters in such confinement that most would accuse them of abuse. Then, they all kill themselves at the same time. The end.Or is it? The lives of the Lisbon girls were short and enigmatic, but their porcelain beauty haunts the pubescent boys who lingered over them for so many lusty months. The guy who took Lux's virginity (Josh Harnett) abandoned her that very same night &#x97; a sickening move, considering the location (a football field) &#x97; but in retrospect, he talks about her like she was his true love, unmatched by any other. The narrator is plagued with the confusion surrounding their deaths, as if he can't understand why the Farrah Fawcett poster on his wall would suddenly leave him alone to experience the real world. The combination of the loss of innocence and such a traumatic event leaves them stunted, trapped in sweatiness of their younger days.The remarkable restraint of The Virgin Suicides is what makes it such an exceptionally eerie piece. The directorial debut of Sofia Coppola, who has gone on to make other masterpieces in understatement, such as Lost in Translation and Somewhere, is photographed in an unsettlingly warm sepia lens and finds its music in period songs that don't quite fit, making for a soundtrack that obviously uses tunefulness to hide a souring inside. What Coppola has done here is remarkable She creates a conceptually stunning (almost plastic) world but finds the truth in it by keeping things on such a low note. As viewers, we always feel like we're being kept out of something, only heightening the swirling mist of mystery the film initially promises.Sometimes The Virgin Suicides is just too restrained for my tastes, but it doesn't make the film any less mesmerizing. It projects a depressingly comedic but affectingly melancholy aura that leaves a lasting, dreamily nightmarish impression. Read more reviews at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"Polished Adaptation of Euginides","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An extremely hard novel to adapt to the big screen, from one of my favourite novelists Jeffrey Euginides comes the directorial debut of Sofia Coppola who would go on to direct the award-laden Lost In Translation. Kirsten Dunst plays the role very well and the performances given from the parents of the five elusive Lisbon sisters, Kathleen Turner and James Woods were very impressive. The film cleverly mirrors the pungent adolescent anxieties and dark trails of obsession that are laced throughout the novel, however the film is less visceral and more Hollywood than would've been preferred, Sofia polished most of the feeling out of the film, however the story and style forgive all the film's flaws. "},{"Title":"ethereal haunted teenage dream","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 25 years ago in an affluent Detroit suburb, math teacher Ronald Lisbon (James Woods) and his wife (Kathleen Turner) have five beautiful girls. The neighborhood boys led by Tim Winer are all fascinated by them. The youngest Cecilia (Hanna Hall) tries to kill herself. Psychiatrist Dr. Horniker (Danny DeVito) tells the strict parents to let the girls interact with boys. They throw a party for the girls but Cecilia throws herself out the window impaling on the iron fence spikes. Father Moody (Scott Glenn) tries to comfort the family. Cecilia haunts everybody. Lux Lisbon (Kirsten Dunst) is the most outgoing and catches the eye of hunky Trip Fontaine (Josh Hartnett). Lux and the sisters Mary (A.J. Cook), Therese (Leslie Hayman) and Bonnie (Chelse Swain) would always hang out together. After a night out, the girls are kept inside with little outside contact.Sofia Coppola brings a floating sad mysterious moodiness to the movie. She creates an unique dreamy vibe. The girls are fascinating but like the neighborhood boys, they remain a mystery throughout the movie to me. They feel like something imaginary that one can't get a hold of. That is very fascinating but after awhile, it's also very tiresome. We are forever outsiders looking in. I love the music, the mood and the style but I still want more. "},{"Title":"The Virgin Suicides is a great introduction to Sofia Coppola's work.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A group of male friends become obsessed with five mysterious sisters who are sheltered by their strict, religious parents. The lives of an eclectic group of men who live in an affluent Detroit suburb in the '70s are forever changed by their obsession with five sisters. Roger Ebert wrote The Virgin Suicides is Sofia Coppola's first film, based on the much-discussed novel by Jeffrey Eugenides. She has the courage to play it in a minor key. She doesn't hammer home ideas and interpretations. She is content with the air of mystery and loss that hangs in the air like bitter poignancy. Tolstoy said all happy families are the same. Yes, but he should have added, there are hardly any happy families. All in all a movie that draws you in despite its slow moments, depressing moments, and haunting moments... a movie full of life, quite moments, passion, imagination, reaching out, and those moments in life not usually seen in movies that are beautifully captured in a very passionate way. "},{"Title":"Ugly can also be beautiful!","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes it is possible to see beauty in something that most people find ugly. Art has this kind of things.And I think this film shows exactly this dichotomy! Firstly, the ugly part the virgin suicides' family problems such as Cecilia's suicide and the severity of the mother. However, everything in film looks beautiful the narrator's voice, the happy moments with the boys/girls, the fake smiles of the parents, ...What at a first glance could seem just a simple teenagers story, is actually a strange one, with unpredictable scenes.Beautiful story ) "},{"Title":"A commentary on patriarchy","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" *Spoilers* I think that many people would rather argue that the suicides were obviously caused by the fact that the girls were sheltered; there can be no doubt that that was a factor. However, I have a different, idiosyncratic point-of-view. I think that the girls committed suicide because they lived in what they perceived as a man's world. There is evidence to back up my opinion. The first girl committed suicide during a party intended to keep the girls social; she probably noticed that the boys invited to the house were jerks, especially after noticing how they mistreated the kid who was mentally handicapped. During the same party, a teenager shot a dirty, sensual look at the mother (Kathleen Turner) of the five girls. The fact that she was not surprised by this behavior testifies to the mother's awareness that boys and men had been motivated by lust. The film was narrated by the teenage boys, and they even went out of their way to read the diary of the first girl. Throughout the movie, they only showcased their interpretation of why the daughters of Kathleen Turner's character killed themselves. One kid, for instance, even knew the sewer system as a way of getting into girls' houses; on a similar note, the boys collectively used a telescope to peep into the house of Kathleen Turner's family and often caught Kirsten Dunst engaging in sensual/sexual activity with a said, particular boy. Josh Hartnett's character also slept with a teacher's wife and eventually became a mental fixation of Kirsten Dunst's character. The film also displays camaraderie between Josh Hartnett and the girls' father who happened to be a teacher at the school the girls attended; such an encounter was symbolic of the cooperation which existed between men in controlling women. The event, for instance, mirrored the telescope scene. The fact that the girls did things like engage in sex and smoke marijuana testified to the fact that the girls had not been as sheltered and innocent as made out to be; Kathleen Turner, for instance, made Kirsten Dunst destroy her Kiss records. Although the relationships between the daughters and their dates were not completely unrequited, the girls were more discouraged than satisfied with their relationships. It is thus my interpretation that they committed suicide out of despair due to the fact that they could not envision a future in which they could control their destinies.*Spoilers* Simone De Beauvoir would be proud of the movie. There is no doubt that it causes one to think. It addresses important issues such as innocence, lost innocence, selfishness, cruelty, lust, isolation, desire, relationships and disappointed romance. It is worth watching, but the overarching message can be taken too far. I find it ironic that the film's fictional setting had taken place in a suburb of Detroit during the 1970's. The film bewails the control that men have over women, but the city of Detroit soon experienced urban decay after the couple left the house upon discovering that all their daughters committed suicide.6/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderfully tragic","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I know there are better movies out there. I know there might be flaws, maybe in the technical aspects, maybe in the story, I know all that... but this is the best movie I've seen so far. I saw it for the first time when I was at the local Blockbuster and the title caught my eye. The story reminds me of a time when boys secretly adored girls. When it was normal to collect information about them, to watch them from afar. Innocence. There's tragedy in all this, but this movie has a magic that just makes me love it. The choice of actors is good, the story is captivating and the soundtrack is wonderful. I've lost count to how many times I saw it and it's always like if it's the first time. "},{"Title":"Had a good concept, needed more of an execution.","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film that has a very odd vibe throughout. There always seems like something isn't quite right. The only issue for me is, you never quite place what the movies' theme is. There bit's and pieces you can interpret and figure out, but the overall theme seems a bit lost on me. What made these boys so obsessed? Their looks? Does this mean the theme is about looks? I really don't know, and if it had been more clear, I would have loved this movie, but because of my confusion, I only liked it.The movie felt like a mix of American Beauty and Donnie Darko. I think that's a pretty good way of putting it. It has a lot of odd things going on. Some of these weird scenes work well, but others... Not as much. Perhaps it's because Sofia Coppola was just starting her directing career and she was trying to figure out her own style. That's what this movie feels like. There are pieces of Sofias style that is present in her later movies, but there's a lot that feels out of her comfort zone. I think the film shows her potential that she eventually expanded upon. One thing I loved was the soundtrack. Both the score and the 70's music used worked really well, and it was cool to hear some of those great 70's classics. Also a lot of the visual style of the flashback-esque scenes of Lux look really great and establish her and the girls as beautiful and dream like. Overall I think it's an interesting movie that has potential, but I don't think it quite delivered 100%. Perhaps the the book that this film was based on is more clear with it's themes and ideas, but this film just wasn't clear enough for me. "},{"Title":"Rad","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is no denying that this film romanticizes suicide as a response to escaping a strict parental grasp, but the way this is executed is perfect.Its brilliant and very thoughtfully created, i would recommenced it without a doubt. The way that it is filmed is perfect and the chosen actresses, they don't even need to be as attractive as portrayed because the importance of the boy attraction is what is important not our own attraction. If you like odd films this one is something i would recommend, it is sad but not emotionally challenging to watch which means it is suitable for most viewers, of course the underlining plot line is adolescent suicide this should be taken into context of course. However it is done brilliantly and is a must watch! "},{"Title":"The Virgin Suicides a Great Book, Movie Good but not the Same","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Years ago I read the book, saw the movie on DVD more than a year ago, and it is one of my all-time favorite films. There is one major problem with it, though. The storyline in the book went much, much better. But the casting of Kirsten Dunst and that girl who was the best friend in TRU CALLING, I'm not complaining, and the music in the film sure hit the sad spot. It's very emotional to the point of being bittersweet before really hitting you. But then, the book was even better. I can say many good things about the film, but I'd always have to return and say the book was even better. The metaphor of the dying elm trees in the book as the symbol of the end of the Norman Rockwell era of America, was vastly underplayed in the film. And the way the book ended, it was surely the saddest, most heart-renderingly upsetting ending a book ever had, yet there was no such a despondent scene at the end of this movie. Although the haunting music helped...But the biggest mistake? (And the very talented Ms. Coppola should have picked up on this) In the book, the suicides are one at a time, each one precipitating the next. But in the movie, the Lisbon girls do a mean thing, luring the boys into the house, to let them find a grisly house of horrors. No, No, No. And again No! If I was Jeffrey Eugenides, I'd have put a stop to this aberration. The girls of the book committed suicide out of teenage angst, despair, feelings of hopelessness, but they definitely didn't call out for an audience!Despite these flaws, the general mood of the book was there in the movie, and I'm sure this would have been a challenge to most film-makers, even those far more experienced than Sofia, so I would say that she did exceedingly well. Another thing The book described the house as a shambles, a gigantic mess that had to be professionally cleaned up afterward, and took days. There was nothing like this in the movie. In the book, the Lisbon girls were like chicks that had fallen out of the nest, they were wraiths. You could see a mile off that something was wrong. Nothing on this level of utter despair in the film.It's just that the movie will forever remain in the shadow of one of the most poignant books ever written. Certainly the saddest thing I ever read...Then again, the happy scene with the girls in the car which turns out to be a fallacy, not what really happened, this was pure genius, and the book doesn't have it, so even more congratulations to Sofia!To cut a long story short, I'd advise anybody READ THE BOOK, AND SEE THIS MOVIE. Definitely both. The full experience. "}{"Title":"Beautiful and haunting","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The imagery is beautiful and the film sticks with you , very haunting. The acting is excellent and the music perfect. As always Kathleen Turner gives a masterful performance. Melancholy pervades throughout. This is not a feel-good film, but one that sticks with you afterwards,giving you much to think about. I know I will remember this one for a long time. The characters seem so real. I can't compare it to anything I've ever seen recently. For its plot and its stunning cinematography, the convincing performances given by all, I think it is a gem of a movie. It makes me want to read the book on which it is based. If you can't imagine this happening, believe me, I grew up in a house like this. Maybe that's why it had such an effect on me, but nonetheless, I believe anyone will find it a compelling film. The period costumes and songs are well-done but the theme is timeless. "},{"Title":"Surreal and Intoxicating, but also Disparate","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel the need to quickly preface this review with two facts. One, I have not read the book, which I think in most cases is a good thing when one reviews a movie as it sets an unrealistic point of reference across mediums with varying strengths and weaknesses. A film should stand on its own regardless of however far it has (or hasn't) strayed from any source material. Two, I admit to not understanding what exactly the point of this film is. Maybe it's because I didn't grow up in the 70's, or because I'm not a girl/woman; I don't really know.The first third or so of this film (before Trip's introduction) is dreamy and mesmerizing. The plot line likes to float a little, but used correctly it can leave the audience that much more interested in whatever over arching theme is being presented. I especially enjoy the awkward teenage humor not to mention the humor innate in the narrator's reflection on his youth. There's some very vivid imagery that would seem to lead to some character development and we get to learn a little about the people whose perspective we're getting the story from. The calm surrounding such a young and seemingly unprovoked suicide also adds some serious intrigue. As an audience, we're all asking ourselves why, or after some thought, what clever ripples will resonate throughout these characters' lives? Unfortunately, what made this first bit so darkly magical is jerked away in a flash. Abruptly the film shifts to focus solely on one sister, Lux, and even then we are only really witness to her actions, not who she is. The argument is of course that this is precisely what part the boys/narrator sees, but without really knowing who's telling the story, there's no real way to connect the dots, to gain any understanding what level of profundity this has on our spectators or how much gravity it holds. Does any of this affect THEIR actions? Do they change what they think because of watching Lux, or are they simply mystified by Lux? We're all mystified by Lux by now, and I'm mystified at why the film isn't spending much time on why we aren't asking any questions about the other sisters aside from why are they even there? From here on out, The Virgin Suicides takes on an episodic approach that in effect shows us what we've already been shown about Lux (that she's rebellious), reinforces the isolation of the remaining three sisters, and continues the theme of bewilderment by the boys. I don't have a problem with any of this; what I wish is that the movie had explored the consequences of this behavior, the impact that these changing opinions and lifestyles had on the characters. But in this film, the characters are all very fuzzy to begin with and only remain fuzzy. We know the changing situations affect them, but not in an emotionally, relatable way.The appropriate and expected shock moment comes and goes with all the reflective voice-over, yet there's no gratification. OK, I can live with not exactly understanding why the girls did what they did, I understand that the film isn't about them, it's about the boys who observed them. But with all the contact near the end and the invitation to the boys to discover the horror, there's no sense in why the girls wanted to share this sort of twisted intimacy with people who didn't even seem to be their friends. Furthermore, the audience is alienated even more because we don't know the boys/narrator either! Frankly, the two main parties involved in this film didn't know enough about each other to produce a substantial impact. And I really hope someone doesn't read this and think something like the whole point is how this tragedy between barely-acquaintances can stick with you... I mean maybe that is the point, but it's not a very good one, and it went through some really interesting stuff to get to a really dull conclusion.I like it, its fun to watch, but there's such a disparate element to all of what's presented that I find myself not believing that it actually ended without any further revelation. Is it a good movie? Maybe. But is it one you'll really need to watch more than once until you forget it? No. "},{"Title":"We know how it will end, but we want to know why, and despite knowing, we still are left in the dark","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Rarely does a film compliment a period's bubbling nostalgia and give us a tale of sorrow and woe so calamitous and so saddening to the soul. Let alone a newcoming writer/director. Sofia Coppola's The Virgin Suicides is a depressing, yet favorable story of five sheltered young girls, kept on the shortest leash by their heavily religious parents, who wind up receiving the intimate eyes of some local boys, and end their tragic lives by taking them.It's upper class suburbia in Grosse Pointe, Michigan, circa 1974. The girls are thirteen year old Cecilia (Hanna R. Hall), fourteen year old Lux (Kirsten Dunst), fifteen year old Bonnie (Chelse Swain), sixteen year old Mary (A. J. Cook), and seventeen year old Therese (Leslie Hayman), and their parents are Ronald (James Woods) and Sara (Kathleen Turner). They have been kept under strict order since birth, and the parents always expect the worst, especially now, what with boys entering the picture.What makes the parents become even more on guard is when young Cecilia's suicide attempt is unsuccessful. When her parents try to throw a basement party, with the neighborhood boys, Cecilia is tired and sick of it all, and attempt suicide again, this time being successful. It is then that the girls become even more forced into the box of seclusion that will eventually accumulate into depression.Those neighborhood boys are left mostly vague, possibly on purpose, but one in particular is the central focus for their team and that's the Junior stud, Trip Fontaine (Josh Hartnett). He wears his bad-boy jeans proudly, his clothes with a preferred slickness, and he comes with his own silently narcissistic attitude. He catches the eye of Lux, but because he is used to all the girls gawking at him in the hallways, he is stricken with surprise when she seems impassive at any approach of attraction. She, herself, much like her sisters, strives for perfection and, again, much like her sisters, earns it, yet he is drawn to her more than any of them.When Trip proposes the idea to Mr. Lisbon that him and his friends would take the four girls out to the dance, he is hesitant at first, quickly reverting to his book of strict parenting rules, but talks it over with his wife, and reluctantly agrees.The film is plagued by a rather blunt ending, yet, like always, it's how we arrive at that ending that matters, and Coppola, working from author Jeffrey Eugenides's original source material, makes a film of divine complexity, sheer whimsicality, and an impenetrable love for a dreamlike world. The Virgin Suicides is very colorful and atmospheric, beautifully capturing the heart, spirit, complexities, and eccentricities of the seventies, like the hesitation of house-parties, where parents are lingering over the shoulder, the keen passion and feeling in falling in lust with the mysterious girls next door, the hungering for more intimacy at such a tender age, and the inherent feeling of ripping through stern boundaries.And when it comes down to the majestically enticing score is when The Virgin Suicides shines bigger and brighter, with songs by Heart, Styx, and the ever-so-pleasant Gilbert O'Sullivan. It creates the seventies atmosphere and charm, not off of stale clich, overly mixtaped music, and goofy hairstyles, but captures the destruction of innocence and the rebellious phases with sheer heart and realism. Depressing, but ultimately, very moving, touching, and meticulous in its design and craft.Starring James Woods, Kathleen Turner, Kirsten Dunst, Josh Hartnett, A. J. Cook, Chelse Swain, and Anna R. Hall. Directed by Sofia Coppola. "},{"Title":"It's easy to see how Coppola got further work...","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...based on the evidence of this auteur debut (despite its flaws), but I'm thinking that if I were to read the source novel from which she adapted this precocious little fairy tale, I'd be disappointed with what she ultimately accomplished. Essentially a memory tale of adolescence ala Stand By Me and other far superior films, with a strong subtext of upper-middle class anomie and distress, The Virgin Suicides marks the beginning of Coppola's multiple collaborations with Kirsten Melancholia Dunst, with every suggestion that Dunst serves as Coppola's idealized self. I have little doubt that their latest venture, The Bling Ring, is going to explore similar territory.Well-shot by DP Edward The Lord's of Flatbush Lachman, with an evocative score from the French electronica band, Air, and a passably interesting (though somewhat anachronistic) soundtrack, The Virgin Suicides limns the absurdly romantic self-destruction of a family of five seemingly well-adjusted girls in a mid-70s setting of (presumably stifling) suburban contentment. Despite strong efforts from cast and crew, however, the story just doesn't hold much water; the back story is sketchy and motivations seem tenuous at best. The inexplicable suicide of the youngest daughter to the side, little is done to establish the sort of neurotic group-think that would lead the remaining quartet to indulge in following her like lemmings over the existential cliff. Sure, there's a somewhat draconian parental crackdown in the wake of Dunst's dalliance with the school bad boy (well-played by Josh The Faculty Hartnett in an embarrassing Prince Charming wig), but since the rest of the daughters are little more than cyphers, it's nigh on impossible to accept such suicidal solidarity as believable, let alone the exhibitionistic manner in which it's accomplished. Mayhaps my impression of it all as a fairy tale is apt; I can only leave that as a thought for potential future viewers.Nonetheless, there's still plenty to like about Coppola's maiden effort. The acting is quite good Dunst, despite being obviously older than the 14-year-old she plays, is marvelous, evincing all the traits of vulnerable beauty and delicate angst for which she's known; support from the likes of Hartnett, James Videodrome Woods as the well-meaning but mostly ineffectual father, and Kathleen Body Heat Turner as the zaftig, domineering mother, along with bit parts from Danny Taxi DeVito, Scott The Right Stuff Glenn, and Michael Streets of Fire Par, and journeyman appearances by Jonathan The Ruins Tucker and Hayden Star Wars EpII-III Christensen, all contribute to Coppola's unified vision, blurry though it may be. Some of the lesser characters are a bit stiff, but there's really little for them to do anyway, and for the most part they're easily accepted.That Coppola progressed from this flawed but impressive debut to the triumph of Lost in Translation and then fell from grace into the disappointing failures of Marie Antoinette and Somewhere somewhat mystifies me, but that likely won't stop me from catching up to her latest endeavor, if only to see if her apple can roll back toward the tree from which it fell. "},{"Title":"Disappointing...","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like many others, I was wondering what the meaning of the movie was. However, unlike others, the more I found out, the less I liked the movie. I think most people dismiss the idea that the meaning of the movie is to criticize draconian-style parents, but if that's not the point, then what is the point. Unfortunately, the movie made that a rather ambiguous point. What lead to my disappointment were the Sparknotes on the book. URLs are not allowed in reviews, You can find it pretty easily and start reading from the character analysis.First, while I thought the intro of Trip in the movie was great, it seems that there is much more to Trip than the movie reveals. While it showed Trip smoking weed in the movie, Sparknotes refer to his burgeoning drug trade. Perhaps it was Coppola's desire to make Trip into a likable character, but I don't know why based on what happens in the movie.Second, the following page in Sparknotes refers to all the symbolism in the movie, such as Lux's bra on the crucible which Peter takes and the long bath Cecilia takes prior to putting on a dirty ill-fitting wedding dress to her party... What...? Did I miss these points in the movie?So then I wonder what else I missed. What seems to have happened is that since it is impractical to fit an entire book into a movie, they did the next best thing (being sarcastic here) which was to take the Cliff Notes version and make that into a movie. Although Sparknotes may reflect one person's view, I can at least better understand perhaps what the author was trying to say better through Sparknotes than I did from watching the movie. Since the original author was male, and the narration of the story was from one of the boys' point of view, perhaps the movie was about how the girls seemed inaccessible to them. The movie partially got that point across, but only partially. Or perhaps the movie was about the mundane and hypocritical life in suburbia and that for Lux, Trip was her escape, and even for Trip, Lux was her escape... I was also wondering about the title of the book since we know Lux was not a virgin... However, what also seems to be missing from the movie is the fact that it is a line from a song from Lux's favorite band... Whooops, somehow that was left out of the movie, too, wasn't it?In a way, it would be nice if someone else would do an adaptation of the book... but I imagine that is unlikely.Anyway, despite my disappointment, I felt the movie was worthwhile with a 6/10 rating. I thought there were strong performances by Josh Hartnett and Kirsten Dunst, and a good supporting performance by James Woods. Based on what I read about the character of Mr. Lisbon, he played the role well. "},{"Title":"&#x85;we will never find the pieces to put them back together.","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Apocalypse Now (1979) and The Godfather trilogy (1972-1990) have made the Francis Ford Coopla an icon in film history. Following in those daunting footsteps is the prodigal daughter, Sofia Coopla. One naturally watches one of her films with certain expectations. I'm glad to say I wasn't let down. The Virgin Suicides (1999), based off the novel of the same name by Jeffrey Eugenides, lacks the in-your-face violence of her father's pictures, but retains the remarkable subtly in its context. Whereas Francis Coopla focused on the underworld of organized crime and the brutality of war, Sofia's debut film was one about the turmoil in the suburbs.Despite not being direct about the family's lives, the film offers many details the audience must pay sharp attention to. Notice the scene early on in the film where one of the boys enters the bathroom of the Lisbon sisters at the chaperoned party scene. As he looks around, close-ups expose the religious objects in their bedrooms, walls, and even their bathrooms. The dull colors of the room differ very greatly from the boys' dream-like fantasy of Kirsten Dunst's character, her orange hair blowing in the wind and her smooth skin bathed in the high-key lighting. Throughout the film we see the boys' vivid sequences of the girls being truly happy, free in a meadow of golden wheat, and extreme close-ups of their seductive features such as the eyes and lips. However, it is hammered constantly and rather darkly just how in contrast the girls' lives are actually lived.The scene of the Lisbon sisters readying for the homecoming dance is a vital one, seeing as the dresses they are forced to wear are drab in color and devoid of variation. It reaches its peak, at least in my opinion, in the long overhead shot of Kirsten Dunst discovering her solitude in the eerily blue low-key lighting of the cold morning on the empty football field. Remember not too long ago as the kids rode together to the dance we saw the bright yellow and oranges of the evening sky and setting sun; creating the distinction between cold loneliness and the warm feeling of belonging. By use of colorful cinematography, camera placement and close attention to details, Coopla creates a movie that hits hard in very quiet ways. Its moments of surreal beauty are constantly paralleled by the harsh grays and pale whites of the Lisbon home that was those girls' harsh reality. Was the theme to the film that religion can be an oppressing authoritarian stronghold on a youth's life, or that women's inner emotions are truly indiscernible by men. Perhaps in the broadest sense, with those many point-of-view shots of people on-looking the Lisbon family plight, the theme to be derived is that humans tend to look away from the problems of others. "},{"Title":"movieinthepark.blogspot.com","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The five Lisbon sisters, daughters of a very conservative and old-fashioned couple. Lux (Kirsten Dunst), Cecilia (Hanna Hall), Bonnie (Chelse Swain), Mary (A.J. Cook) and Therese (Leslie Hayman), barely get out of house, except for school and picking up the mail. Nevertheless, the Lisbon sisters get the attention of all the boys in the neighbourhood. The younger one attempts to kill herself. At first, she does it in vain, because her parents noticed early enough to avoid her success, but she eventually succeeds, when in a party thrown by her parents when she recovered from the previous attempt and after asking permission to go upstairs, jumps from the windows arriving over a grid, dying instantly. Between, a group of neighbours were gaining an obsession for the now four sisters. When Trip Fontaine (Josh Hartnett), asks Mr. Lisbon (James Woods) for permission to take Lux on a sort of date, he agrees with the condition of taking all the sisters with them. And so he did. Lux arrives home too late, losing every kind of freedom she had, if you can call it to what they had. The sisters never get out of home again, appealing to the obsessed neighbours help... One of the still very few Sofia Coppola has directed. I must say it didn't work very good, and she hasn't convinced me yet. She surely doesn't have anything to do with her father, but neither this one nor Lost in Translation can bear her fame. We'll see about that. Just to conclude, a word to the soundtrack which is very good, most of it written and performed by the french duo Air. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Fine debut from a promising director.","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cecilia was the first to go.What defines Sofia Coppola to me as a director is the distinctive atmosphere that accompanies each of her movies. Whether she's adapting someone else's work or making a movie based on her on material, that otherworldly feeling is there. It doesn't matter if the film is focused on the mundane (Lost in Translation) or an incomprehensible tragedy (The Virgin Suicides), you can tell that she's the director. That distinctive fingerprint is what makes her one of my favorite directors, even though I think she's yet to make a masterpiece.The Virgin Suicides is the story of five adolescent sisters of various ages, told from the perspective of the four boys that knew them. Knew them as well as the audience gets to, I guess I should say. We only see fragments of the girl's lives, as their overprotective parents keep them mostly hidden away from the world, and Coppola also follows that mold with her film and storytelling style.Of the girls, we get to know Lux (Kristen Dunst, in what I think was the best performance she's given), the flirtatious, lovely middle child, the most. This is a movie full of great performances, actually, from the five girls playing the daughters, to Josh Hartnett, James Woods, and several others. Even the periodic narration was excellent, which is not something I say very often.I think the best way to watch The Virgin Suicides is with little expectations, like I did. It's a beautiful, haunting movie that isn't perfect, but will stick with you for days and begs to be watched again. "},{"Title":"An ethereal experience...","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked it. I really did. I'm not expecting everyone to feel the same about it though. It stroke a deep cord in me that I could relate to every minute of it. I loved the way Sophia Coppola presented this horrific and heart-breaking experience in a tantalizing dreamy manner. This movie is about a tragedy, but you, unlike other movies, get to examine it only from the outside. You see nothing but the surface. Throughout the movie, you never see any of the girls object or snap at her parents. They are just smiling all the time! The rage, the trouble, the rebellion (or whatever you might call it) that led to the girls' suicide is left for your imagination to speculate and develop. In this movie, the audience is nothing but a real life bystander, seeing nothing but the surface level of things. "},{"Title":"The film AND the book - beautifully, disturbingly enigmatic.","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having read both the book and watched the film I can truly say that although obviously there are slight differences between the two, the soul of the book has certainly been portrayed fantastically in the motion picture.Kirsten Dunst is particularly successful at conveying the figure of Lux, debatably the main character of all the daughters. A role unlike her others, she slips into it with ease and must be applauded.The film contains a mixture of emotions from beginning to end all the way from a wilting sadness to a deeply-rooted happiness. The daughters are almost a match to the daughters in the book and the depth of weirdness about this film is perfect to the original story. Definitely watch it if you have the mind for a very unique film such as this. "}{"Title":"The Virgin Suicides","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sofia Coppola's debut. A debut film that already keeps the promises she fulfilled with Lost in Translation and also partly with Marie Antoinette. Her trademark is observing the little unspoken things between humans. This makes her one of the most modern directors today, because she is able to catch the feel of a whole generation, if you want to say it impassionately. In The Virgin Suicides she looks at suburbia with all its falseness and beauty. She looks at inhuman TV journalism. She looks at religious motivated repression. And most of all she shows us girls growing up, struggling with this system, reaching moments of pure luck, but ultimately failing. All of these rather dramatic themes she treats with appropriate seriousness, but also with a big amount of humour, and this fact raises her work on yet another level. Because often humour is the way that lets errors in our society come to light even clearer than big tragedy. The French band Air provided the awesome soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A beautiful story, a bit slow","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies that appeal to me tremendously, that is movies about childhood and coming of age written by and for adults. Most of them are based on books, making beautiful stories, with soul and originality.In The Virgin Suicides the story is told by four kids, trying to understand five beautiful girls in a very strict family, living across the street. Final tragedy makes them only less likely to understand the feelings and lives of the girls and renders them impotent watchers of a story they haven't been part of, just like everyone else.But this is not a moral easily detected. This is not a movie where black is black and white is white and the ideas of the writer/director are forcefully pushed down one's throat. The story is watched and then relayed to the viewer. You can either sympathize with the strict moral mother or hate her you can agree with the freedom or death slogan or believe it stupid; you can understand the reactions of the boys or curse them for not acting faster or better or differently.Bottom line you have to see it to make something of it. I personally think the movie is a good one, but not a great one. If I could, I would rate it 7.4. "},{"Title":"The trees, like lungs, filling with air. My sister - the mean one - pulling my hair.","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is not about simply suicide, it is about the questionable occurrences in that persons unstable life to propel them to that. What I mean by questionable, is the mystery that entwines itself with suicide and Sofia (writer/director) captures this.The acting is wonderful, the weak link is certainly Josh Hartnett, but everyone else is so great it sort of covers that up. Kirsten Dunst certainly is a stand out as the sexy, yet innocent vixen Lux Libson. Her acting was the highlight of the film. The Libson sisters all have excellent chemistry, as the sullen and quiet young blondes.The cinematography is also absolutely brilliant along the music. It is a dreamy, dreary, imaginative, unpredictable tour de force. It is one of the best films I have seen that deals with the extremely sensitive and taboo subject of suicide. "},{"Title":"Why did they do it?","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ****!!!CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!**** The girls don't commit suicide over their parents. They commit it because of love and life.This movie is adapted from a novel and contains all the elements of a great novel such as foreshadowing and metaphors. There is more to it than what is said and done.In Cecilias diary she mentions...The trees like lungs filling the air. My sister the mean one pulling my hair The trees were all tainted on the block. The musty smell, the asphyxiation and the tainted air. This was a metaphor for the girls themselves.The suicides were committed over love and how love is depicted by the opposite sex. The boys couldn't figure out why they did it because they were the catalyst to provoke the girls to do what they did. They thought the girls were getting better when they were only making it worse.Being quarantined by their parents only helped them see how tragic life really is.Cecilia realized this right away and further more with Joe, the boy with down syndrome and the charitable efforts of everyone around them sacrificing their own humility to make this boy happy. My thoughts are that she sees the definitive hard ships that life offers first hand and chooses the only other option to get away from it.However, as someone commented before, i don't think it was glorified. They don't show her slit her wrists, they don't show her take the leap, no expression of fear, anxiety, depression or remorse. Sophia just depicts a solemn expression and a child's lifeless body enough to express the horrifying image as it is.The rest of the girls follow suit in the same manner.And a point to express interest in , is the final shot of the boys standing on the street staring at the house.IMO this shot contains a lot of information about the movie.They are standing on that front section of the lawn between the road and the sidewalk. Amongst the rows of the trees. The camera pans along the road displaying several cut down stumps as well as the trees that are still standing.The boys are left standing as well and metaphorically speaking... the girls have been cut-down.It seems the internal struggles are synchronous with the lives of the trees throughout the entire movie. Sophia symbolizes life as a blight, and the only way to end a blight is to cut it down. A brilliant directorial debut. "},{"Title":"A stunningly atmospheric and unusual piece of cinema","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well what a surprising little gem this is. I wasn't too sure what to expect from it, knowing only that it was Coppola's debut and that it had a rather ambiguous title, but I was completely blown away by it. The haunting music, the nostalgic montages and truly fantastic performances combine to create an extremely evocative snapshot of the trials and tribulations of teenage life. The frequent references to the time it is harking back to are also very strong, allowing the viewer to be fully submerged into the era. Kirsten Dunst is indeed a revelation, somehow managing to be sexually precocious, childishly innocent and standard stroppy teenager all at the same time. (The record-burning scene was remarkably convincing). At the end I felt rather unsure what its overall message had been, and it is perhaps slightly lacking in substance, but with a mood as powerful as this, substance seems like an irrelevance. "},{"Title":"Nicely directed little film","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sofia Coppola showed a lot of promise with her very first feature length writing/directing assignment in Virgin Suicides. There isn't much of a plot and the entire film is shown in flashback. James Woods and Kathleen Turner are the Lisbon's - parents of five beautiful teen-aged daughters. Mr. Lisbon isn't really anyones idea of a man or the family head and Mrs. Lisbon is too much of a puritan. What we don't know at the outset but begin to understand later is that was the reason for the first daughters suicide.Kirsten Dunst playing a spunky younger daughter falls in love with Josh Hartnett, the town stud and starts breaking the rules the tyrannical matriarch wants to enforce. There are very few events in this film but the style is relaxed and very watchable. The characters are well fleshed out even if some of their actions are uncharacteristic although this is an ensemble piece. I would rate this higher than the more celebrated Lost in Translation by the same director. "},{"Title":"Something Special","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie before I read the book, and though the book got off track from the main story occasionally, I found that the movie itself lacked something. It was very well done, the atmosphere was excellent, the acting superb, the narrator, however I wasn't satisfied at the end of the movie. Perhaps it was the lack of music in the background when the boys ran out of the Lisons' house after discovering Bonnie's body.From the trailer I thought this movie would be better. It wasn't quite what I expected, but for first time director Sofia Coppola it wasn't a horrible movie. It had it's good parts. Like the school dance the girls went to, that was a beautiful part of the movie. Or when Lux woke up on the football field and she took a taxi home, I found the atmosphere wonderful.So all in all this movie isn't anything spectacular or amazing, but it is something special.7/10 "},{"Title":"Nostalgia tinged with melancholy.","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What made write this review is the fact that I found the soundtrack CD at music store & bought it just 2 days ago. Upon playing it, a rush of memories & images came back from 6 years ago when I first saw the movie & my own memories of the 70's. This movie affected me. Six years ago I walked out of the theatre thinking WOW! I felt drained, but glad that I had seen it. This film transported me back to the mid-70's when I was a kid. My sisters were the same age as the eldest three characters in this story. I felt that I was in some way, watching a film made in that era. From the costumes, art & set direction, the photography capturing that golden hazy effect that many American films had back then. It made me remember and flashback all manner of things that I experienced then. The choice of French electronica duo Air to score the film was inspired. This isn't my favorite film. But Sofia Coppola created a film that I keep recalling & reviewing in my mind from time to time. A heady mix of nostalgia tinged with melancholy. If you were a kid or a teenager during the mid-70's from a Western cultural background, please watch this. It will transport you back. But if you're an average viewer with no emotional ties to the 70's, enjoy it for it's artistic merit & emotional themes. We all sometimes forget what it was like to be an adolescent. "},{"Title":"Exceptionally  moving, exceptionally real","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is on of the best society-criticizing movies I've ever seen. It's a well done critique on America's straitlaced society. The film is so real, because there are so many families in America today that cherish this life style which prescribes People live to stick to the rules, not to have fun! Kathleen Turner shows extraordinary acting skills. She is the one you really get mad at while you're watching the movie. She is by far the best actress in this movie.After ''American Beauty'', this is the best movie of this kind! All in all it's just a particularly moving film! "},{"Title":"The Virigin Suicides","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had been meaning to see this film for a while, ever since it had been released in 2000. I picked up the book, and read it through the course of a week. The book itself is very unique in the sense that there is no one main character, all of the girls are blended so we think of them as one. I was highly impressed with the book, and was anxious to see how this would translate to the screen.First time director, Sofia Coppola, with much to live up to her father's credits, does a fine job here. The cinematography was simply gorgeous. The way Coppola captures the era of this time, along with the colors she uses gives this film the feel it needs. That is what I was most impressed with. The young cast also does a fine job. Dunst portrays Lux Lisbon in a way that is true to the book. Josh Hartnet does a nice job as well. The rest of the cast, while not experienced, portrays their characters how they should be portrayed. James Woods is the winner in this film, however. Playing Mr. Lisbon, he demonstrates everything I thought he would be in the novel. There is not a weak link in this cast.My only complaint with this beautiful film is the script. As with all movies based on novels, I expected for there to be some differences. Where I thought the novel to be too long, I felt the film was 30 minutes too short. I felt Coppola robbed us in the ending. Where I expected this dramatic, long finale, I was left with a 10 minute disappointing ending. I also felt she took the wrong route as to how the whole movie was laid out. While many scenes were very true to the novel, I would have liked to have seen more interview-type scenes, such as the one's with the older Trip Fontane. The Virgin Suicides is a book of theories and evidence, and I didn't feel that Sophia used that to her advantage. She tried to much to tell the story plainly, and not showing just how obsessed these boys, and this community really was with the Lisbon girls. She does show this kind of in a secret way, where a one time viewer would not pick up on it. And those rushed scenes don't give us the feeling as too how sheltered these girls' lives really were.However, if I had not read Eugene's brilliant novel before, I probably would have appreciated this film even more. A very tough film to translate and Coppola does an above average job for a first time director. 4/5 "}{"Title":"Brilliant, if fraught adolescence movie","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A lumpy, occasionally indulgent movie, Sophia Coppola's first is nonetheless outstanding. She's helped in her version of Eugenides' novel by some brilliantly selfless acting from a handful of Hollywood stalwarts, particularly James Woods. Josh Hartnett, Kirsten Dunst and Hanna Hall are the pick of an entirely absorbing teenage cast.The film is, however, entirely Coppola's. The lurching temperament, though uneven, is in keeping with the sense of emotional extreme that one associates with adolescence. More than this, the film is generally seen through teenage perspective. One is always in two minds as to whether we are watching the fact or a metaphor. I think that this system is brilliant and operates well in its destabilising of simple linear story telling or adult moralising (along with flashbacks that aren't and on-screen cutaways). My problem, such as it is, is that it's not sufficiently well controlled.Returning to this film after having absorbed the over-cool Lost in Translation shows up this film's vigour and creative caprice at the expense of its purpose. It packs no less emotional punch though. The party sequence in the Lisbon's basement is an example of how the rest might be. It's a true, sweet and (at its close) deeply upsetting set piece in a film only marginally less good. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A bizarre and different movie, but it's good.","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie revolves around 5 sisters Cecilia, Lux, Therese, Bonnie, Mary who have strict parents and a strict life. They don't have fun and their parents take so much away from them. They all commit suicide in the end.The movie really shows what being couped up can do to you. It not olny hurts you but it also makes you choose wrong decisions for yourself and other people. This movie isn't over the top, it may be slow pacing, but it's because it wants to show realistic events in an fiction movie. The actors and actresses are great, and the movie as a whole is cinamatic. It is rated R but it's not to bad besides some sexual content. Thsi movie isn't telling parents to let their children do anything, it's just warning them that if you shelter them like in this movie, they may end up just the opposite like in this movie.My rate is 9/10rated R- strong thematic material "},{"Title":"Downbeat look into suburbia.","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a story of a group of sisters who are brought up under strict rules by their parents in a well of American Michigan suburb of the 70's. These sisters seem to have it all, but one day that turns upside down when one of the unstable sister's, the youngest one, commits suicide. Not too long after going through a lot of pain, memories and being overtly sheltered by their parents, they follow the same suit of their youngest sister. These deaths puzzle the neighbourhood boys who were obsessed with these five girls for some time and even today they still haunt their minds. We follow the story through entries of one the girl's diary, the memories and interviews of these boys who knew the girls, who now are grown-ups.This highly acclaimed indie flick by Sofia Coppola and produced by her father Francis Ford Coppola, is stunning and highly enticing, but it's incredibly empty underneath the dreamy visuals and poetic look into the American dream and that of the underlying dark mind of suburbia. Its vision is beautifully portrayed and there's a disturbing and insecure tone that lurks behind the screen, but I just didn't feel anything for these characters. Yeah, I enjoyed the performances, though they just didn't move me. Call me cold-hearted if you must. But saying that I did find it more interesting than 'American Beauty', which also follows a similar storyline about the dark side of suburban life. Coppola in her debut feature as director shows a lot promise and sophistication in her vision and that of adding to any small details that seem to eventuate throughout the story. She controls proceedings with such refinement and simplicity, by keeping you watching when nothing much is really going on. This is also because of the steady control behind the camera and tight editing that makes this sway along rather nicely without bogging it down. All of this definitely translates into her second feature 'Lost in Translation'. The story itself, which is crafted from Jeffrey Eugenides's novel, is explored in a documentary style with it cutting to interviews and a narration that is done by Giovanni Ribisi. The plot is elegantly slow and tremendously dour. And so are the performances. James Wood as the clueless father, Kathleen Turner as an over-protected mum and Kirsten Dunst as one of the sisters are outstanding and convincing in nature. Josh Hartnett seems to pull out the same old performance in every film he does, although it seems to fit the buck on this occasion. Also there are some small cameos from Scott Glenn and Danny De Vito. The chemistry between the casts is incredibly smooth and convincing. The dialog that comes from these characters are naturally fitting in tone and in capturing the awkwardness faced by teens and parents. Sometimes it would dry up with little or no dialog but still it concealed a certain sense of depth and also added was dabs of offbeat and hurting humour that comes off rather dark most of the time. The film looks great amongst its settings of outer suburbia; the performances are more so the film's backbone, but another factor would be the dreamy score by Air. They come up with a softly handled soundtrack that swells with its zesty vibe and also on the soundtrack are some groovy 70's tunes that fit right in. Like 10CC's 'I'm not in love'. A right choice of music makes the film hit the right notes.A talented cast and director makes a sublime film that creates an uneasy mood of realism and distraught. It's definitely worth a look. It might have been rather empty for me at times, but the flick did hold my attention greatly. I guess the ambiguity of these girls are just part of the parcel. Though if you're not into art-house cinema, you might not get anything out of it. "},{"Title":"A brilliant movie","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At first, I didn't know what to expect from this Sophia Coppola's movie. I was totally and positively surprised. This movie is a series of raised conflicts. You can't figure out what is the real problem. All the conflicts are raised. It is one of the saddest movies because it is about the real life. The movie does not solve any problems, they are all abstract, philosophical. This movie is brilliant because we, as viewers are able to feel the emotion even if there is no way to photograph it as problems in the heads of the characters. This is a pure example of modernism cinema or art film. The content is totally intellectual, it deals with something complicated, it's an open form. This movie is amazing!!! "},{"Title":"made me think.","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this movie was the type of movie where i was stunned. i sit silent. not making a move. no idea what was to happen next.the virgin suicides, based on a book by jerry eugenides, is about a group of boys' obsession with 5 sisters who come from a very overprotective family. once the eldest daughter kills herself, the parents become completely overprotective. a boy, the school hunk, tripp asks out lux lisbon and 3 of his friends get to take the other 3 sisters to the dance. tripp and lux are in love as the other sisters learn to love their date. the three sisters return by curfew except for lux, who returns the following morning after falling asleep at a football field.Their parents completely isolate them. taking them out of school, the girls have to stay in their room all day. They get travel catalogs in the mail which is the farthest they get out of the house. They send letters to their dates (not including tripp) and the boys send letters back. One night the boys come to the sisters' house and sees lux sitting on the couch smoking a cigarette. she lets them in and tells them she'll be waiting in the car. The boys wait for the girls, but eagerly make their way to the living room.At this point, i was expecting the parents, or the sisters. i was not expecting what was to come next.One sister hangs from the ceiling. the other two lie on the floor, pills down their throats. I was stunned. They found lux had locked herself in the car and died. the lisbon parents try to live a normal life, their outdoor tennis and afternoon tea with older people.This movie is simply amazing.8.5/10 Definitely. "},{"Title":"Mysteriously Haunting","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sofia Coppola, definitely makes a stunning directorial debut. A movie which will leave you haunted and also will also have you left with questions unanswered. This movie was good, and the performances make it better.Kirsten Dunst and Josh Hartnett both gave good performances. Kathleen Turner and James Woods' performance as Mr. and Mrs. Lisbon, was brilliant. Since the story is narrated right through out, and is been viewed through someone else's perspective makes it seems realistic, and makes you wonder what really happened within the Lisbon family.This film would just absorb you into the Lisbon world, and leave you feeling shocked, and amazed. I would definitely recommend this movie to all 'teen movie' fans. However this is more than a teen movie -this is a movie about parents, life and desperation  "},{"Title":"i did like it...i think","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I tried to watch this film a year or two ago but never got into it. I noticed it at a friends house and having seen 'Lost in Translation' I was interested in seeing this piece which previoulsy I had not realised that it had been directed by Sofia. I did like it and I would agree having flicked through a few other comments on this film it does possess a very dreamy, hazy and soft feeling. I believe the music and cinematography adds to this. I like Sofia's style, it seems unique and different to so many films around these days. It's not a film that will have you sitting on the edge of your chair nor will it bore you or depress you. The only thing that I personally didn't really get was the fact that in some ways I watched the film and almost felt empty because I didnt understand the true reasons why these girls lives ended. Perhaps thats not important in the story of this film, its just my personal view. But I guess with a film like this its best not to read into it too much. Take the information that is given to you and leave it at that. It is a unique film with a strong director.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think Virgin Suicides was a great movie and everyone gave their best performances and work to find who their characters are and what they come from and Kirsten Dunst gave the best performance she took away all of her horror and comedy and want to try to have a better performance and have to try make the best character Lux is.Everyone work hard to get what their character lifes are and what they live to and the boys see what every girl wants and other stuff to you know what i want to see in the film and see some of the characters more relax and not too scared and have a better life for some of the characters and that all bye  "},{"Title":"Promising","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one's got substance. The title gives a lot away... but in  the endyou'll feel kind of a rush. Much like you do when you ride a vehicle that does a sudden brake. You'll know what I mean if you see this movie.Very good performances from the players... not very impressive exposition, unless to leave 2 or 3 of the girls as thumbnails was intentional. Speaking of exposition, I found a scene where James Woods does his lecture with aviation lingo amusing.Watch for a cute x-ray sequence where the shot pans down, and we see through Lux's dress and see Love trip written on her undies.Not sure of how I felt about Trip Fontaine's character NOT given any real closure. Maybe it just had to be that way.See for yourself and you be the judge if my thoughts here are accurate.Grade A-or 9/10 "},{"Title":"incredibly moving film!","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is without a doubt one of the most original, touching and brilliant films that I have seen recently. Even my brother who dislikes everything that i mention was impressed. The cast were absoloutely superb, and in particular Kirsten Dunst and Josh Hartnet. Sofia coppola has really hit on to a winner with this film and the result is a film close up there with American beauty. The film is tragic but it doesn't make you cry and the way the girls live there life is genuinely upseting and keeps u watching the film until the end credits. The dark and subtle look at death and family tradegy makes this a treat and great to watch, Refreshing and superb.I would recommend this film to anyone that likes original films with great direction and a bit of class. "}{"Title":"Moody melodrama","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While this movie might lack a standard plot structure it succeeds spectacularly in capturing the mood and feel of a certain generation. Obviously this movie will speak loudest to those who experience adolescence in the seventies but it also communicates strongly to all people recollecting that period of their lives. The great tragedy imparted in this movie is that of young beauty extinguished and the fruitless search to discover how this crime against nature could have occured. The cast is uniformly good though James Woods (one of my favorite underappreciated performers) and Kirsten Dunst really shine. I enjoyed the mood this film conveys enough to view it twice. Recommended, 8/10.  "},{"Title":"A Gem","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" *SPOILERS WITHIN* I can understand why some people would not like this movie. The story, about a family of five daughters and their strict parents, is not your usual high-concept popcorn movie. But there is so much great stuff going on in this film that it blew me away. First, Sofia Coppola is an immensely talented filmmaker and I cannot wait to see what she does next. She recreates the 70's era effortlessly, and allows the characters to all be real people instead of mere thumbnail sketches. The cinematography was beautiful, never distracting but always full of genuinely real images, which served to offset the hallucination tone of the movie. There is a relaxed pace to the film, and I was drawn into the hazy, misty memories that make up the bulk of the story. Coppola knows how to get the best from her actors... I am no fan of Josh Hartnett but even he was great in the movie as a confused, lovesick teenager. The Music- Most of the soundtrack was scored by the music group AIR, whose dreamy sound fit perfectly into the story being told. The other songs were period pieces, never blasting away, but used beautifully at all the right times.James Woods, even in his small part, was excellent as always. He is such an amazing actor in that he can play drama, crime, comedy, and everything else. Never in this movie will you doubt that he is an ACTUAL math teacher.What I also loved about the film was that there was no concrete, smoking-gun solution as to why the girls committed suicide. The solution wasn't the point of the film, the journey was... and if you are in the mood to enjoy a sweet, haunting journey then you will love this movie. Thank you, Sofia.GRADE A "},{"Title":"Great Story, slow paced","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed the story of this film. It was quite depressing yet entertaining. Also a big suprise to see Michael Pare(haven't seen him since Eddie And The Cruisers 2Eddie Lives) James Woods was great as a father who wants to do good for his daughters but is trapped hiding behind his wife who seems to have all the say in the family. My one complaint for this film is the pace. The film moves very slow at getting to the climax.  I felt myself waiting for something big to happen in the story but it never does untill the last five minutes of the film. If you enjoyed Lost In Translation, check this out.*** of **** "},{"Title":"Just see it!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie! Too many movies ask small questions while using great means. This one does the opposite- big issues of life and living are handled with by using everyday topics and questions. Become a little smarter- and who knows, maybe you'll learn something about the easiness of life- as well as the hopelessness- see it!  "},{"Title":"A beautiful, dreamy, depressing masterpiece.","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Personally, I found this movie VERY intriguing and beautiful. It's a gorgeous, depressing tale of the 5 doomed Lisbon sisters and perfectly carves the path of depression. It shows how depression is so easily misread and forgotten. This movie also shows how blurry it is to figure depression out, how confusing and mysterious it is.The Virgin Suicides always makes me cry, especially the first scene. It's so dreamy that it just takes you away. And is it just me, or does this movie remind you of the 60's?To those of you who say that this movie is rubbish and has no plot, I suggest you look deeper into it. The plot is pretty evident and contrary to popular belief, not every movie has to have the classic stereotypical people and gore that every other movie has. I think The Virgin Suicides is a wonderful, morbid twist on a fairy tale, only a tad too depressing to the kiddies.I give it 10 out of 10 stars  ********** "},{"Title":"...........","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I had no idea what it was about, I didn't know the title, and I have no idea why I decided to watch it, but I did. The parents in the movie remind me of my mom, she isn't as over protective as they were, but she's almost as bad. The end was the most sad and shocking thing I'd ever seen, I'd never seen a movie this powerful. And I don't think there will ever be another movie this powerful ever again. Of all my favorite movies, this is my ALL TIME FAVORITE, it's come on Lifetime a couple of times, and it's labeled a chick flick, but I couldn't care less. Its my favorite movie and I'm sticking to it!!! 10/10 .....last "},{"Title":"Don't you remember..","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ..the images of your teenhood. Love is swept away by the everyday occurrences - and leaves behind a tale. The Virgin Suicides is Sophia Coppola's art piece of remembrance. "},{"Title":"Alternate title How NOT To Raise Your Children","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Few coming of age films have the sensual, dream-like quality as this 1974 look at upper middle class American suburbia. Written and directed in 2001 by Sofia Coppola (Francis Ford Coppola's daughter), this mesmerizing account of adolescent sexual socialization (set in the posh suburbs of 1974 Detroit) has a bittersweet quality, yet is tragic as well. A group of young teenage boys come into contact with five bewitchingly beautiful teenage sisters in their affluent neighborhood. Each savor the short time they have with these girls, who are extremely overprotected by their devout Catholic parents (Woods and Turner). Humorous, sensual, and highly evocative of boy-meets-girl awkwardness as seen through the boys' eyes, this film is a tribute to an American way of life not unlike American Beauty. However, the dreaminess comes to an abrupt end... an awakening, if you will... by the boys as they come to grips with a tragedy they are barely able to comprehendWith a memorable original musical score by the group, Air, and a list of the familiar favorites from the rock groups of the seventies, Virgin Suicides is a clear winner for anyone who has precious memories of growing up during their early teen years... but may be shocked by the consequences of being kept isolated by one's parents too long.   "},{"Title":"Alternate title How NOT To Raise Your Children","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Few coming of age films have the sensual, dream-like quality as this 1974 look at upper middle class American suburbia. Written and directed in 2001 by Sofia Coppola (Francis Ford Coppola's daughter), this mesmerizing account of adolescent sexual socialization (set in the posh suburbs of 1974 Detroit) has a bittersweet quality, yet is tragic as well. A group of young teenage boys come into contact with five bewitchingly beautiful teenage sisters in their affluent neighborhood. Each savor the short time they have with these girls, who are extremely overprotected by their devout Catholic parents (Woods and Turner). Humorous, sensual, and highly evocative of boy-meets-girl awkwardness as seen through the boys' eyes, this film is a tribute to an American way of life not unlike American Beauty. However, the dreaminess comes to an abrupt end... an awakening, if you will... by the boys as they come to grips with a tragedy they are barely able to comprehendWith a memorable original musical score by the group, Air, and a list of the familiar favorites from the rock groups of the seventies, Virgin Suicides is a clear winner for anyone who has precious memories of growing up during their early teen years... but may be shocked by the consequences of being kept isolated by one's parents too long.   "},{"Title":"The Virgin Suicides (Sofia Coppola, 1999)","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERSThe virgin suicides is Sofia Coppolas first directorial debut (her acting debut in her fathers trilogy being a traditional source of rage for all film fans), based on a popular best-seller. It had all the elements to be a very praised movie and it certainly was.James Woods and Kathleen Turner star as the worried parents of five beautiful girls (Kirsten Dunst, A.J. Cook, Hanna Hall, Leslie Hayman, Chelse Swain). We are given practically no insight on the girls but in a way thats the point. A group of teens in the neighborhood practically live their lives obsessed with the beautiful sisters (one of them is Josh Hartnett in a sympathetic role as the boy obsessed with the Dunst character). You dont have to be Sherlock Holmes to figure out what happens with the sisters in the end (although not all of them end up being virgins). The boys continue to live obsessed with them.Sofia is not a bad director. She has picked up some nice things about her father, like the very stilized dramatic scenes (the boys finding the dead girls) and the courage to use unusual shots (Kirsten Dunsts panties when Hartnett arrives at her house). The cast is all OK without anything mind-blowing. The story is mysterious, yeah, but at least for me the mistery is more elaborate than interesting. All in all, the movie is not bad in any aspect, but its really a forgettable affair. Not flawed enough to be bad and not inspired enough to be good. "}{"Title":"Sofia Coppola's treatment of this story, successfully reaches two goals at the same time","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sofia Coppola's treatment of this story, successfully reaches two goals at the same timeThe remarkably achieved ethereal atmosphere and narrative, accompanied bythe outstanding soundtrack, poetically deliver just about the necessaryinformation to strongly portray one of the pathetic side effects of the American way of life Teenage suicide. Simultaneously, it represents a sort of anesthetic supposedly needed in order to survive in such a competitive socio-cultural environment.All the clues needed are there Mr. Lisbon blocking out reality, even religious comfort, by watching a baseball game right away. No time for processing his daughter's death in American suburbia. Neighborsand local priest have to see him doing fine. Socially sedated Mrs. Lisbon, in her quest to be another perfect suburbanmother, never understands what went wrong with her daughters' upbringing.And last but not least, the essential impertinent and trivializing mediainterventions.There's no need to say or show more, neither about the boy's thoughts or further explaining the specific reasons of the girls' lives or deaths. This distance taken is precisely what rather makes us reflect on a social structure, that takes material values to it's worst extremes and mass produces everything, including suicide, instead of finding temporary, artificial comfort or justification in the specific personal motivations of the characters.It somehow reminds us, with all due respect, of American Beauty's (Sam Mendes) eloquence.If the book works in a similar way, then Sofia achieved what only a few are able to, as we all know. If not, we have a great reflective film that perfectly stands on its own.  "},{"Title":"READ THE BOOK","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched the film after much raving from a friend, and felt disillusioned by the whole thing at the end. I felt something was missing. I love the medium of film as an artform so can appreciate this film as exactly that; art. But for me, at the end of the day, the film was only a trigger for me to want to find out more, delve deeper. So I bought the book. It's the best book I've ever read. They always say the book's better than the film, and the truth is half the time it is. It's true here too. While the book may never make any more revelations than the film does, it's more beautiful, deeper, emotive, and leaves you in a state of quiet melancholy. Watching this film again afterwards only left me feeling utterly disappointed as it could do nothing to repeat the kind of emotional response I had reading the book. It's quite simple, if you're serious about film and culture, watch both, enjoy both, fall in love with the book. Incidentally, it's by Jeffrey Eugenides and his second novel Middlesex ain't too bad either. "},{"Title":"No one is serious when you are sixteen..","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To die among those humid violets.I  like films that got to do with the lost of innocence.that sad `Camus' moment when you realized about `the truth'. THE VIRGIN SUICIDES have that quality.Also the concept of being `pure'.Sofa Coppola understood'that age' _with small detailscaptured moments,the sweet and bad smell of memory.The symbolism works perfect here,some scenes remains you of other imagesCecilia  lying face upwards in a bath likeJohn Everett Millais''Ophelia',(` La blanche Ophlia flotte comme un grand lys.'),and a bloodstreaked Laminated picture of the Madonna and Child.The five Lisbon sisters always together ,then 5,4,3,2.one. (the scene where the four sisters lying on the floor ina `dream like state',then the priest enters.)The perfect `innocence' picture' I have in mind is of the long straight hair( la hippie) touched by the ray of sun like the photograph taken by William Eggeston of that young `red hair'girl. It also reminded me of Nastassja Kinski in Tess,all of them are beautiful melancholic films about  `that' disappointment,is like the destiny forcing you(with a gun to your head) to grow up.(`if you dont' do it now.you'll be dead). My true God,Arthur Rimbaud was right La vraie vie est absente'.I always loved `coming of age' films.To Kill a Mocking Bird,(some Truman Capote books) Can you help me with other films about the subject matter?I declare my love and admiration for Sofa Coppola,I think she is multi-talented,interesting&interested in arts,music,esteticism.She really has good taste. Her latest film LOST IN TRANSLATION received standing ovation in VENICE FILM FESTIVALAfter THE VIRGIN SUICIDES,(the most affectionate film about longing and lost of innocence) Sofa was a `promising film-maker',now she is a true talent and we should admire her (she really has a personal vision).  "},{"Title":"Its good, not great","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I kinda had great expectations for this movie, story about 5 sister who killed themselves sounded like something i would like to see. Movie is good, for a first time director, but sometimes i just felt like it went on and on, and i still cant figure out the real reason why they did it.  "},{"Title":"highly disturbing, and haunting","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie this week on thursday at 2 a.m. with my best friend, and I still can't stop thinking about it. The movie is so haunting and disturbing that I couldn't sleep for a while after we finished it. It's a great movie, but so sad. Anyone thinking about watching it I would highly suggest that you do, or better yet read the book and then watch the movie. I hope you enjoy! "},{"Title":"A slight confection; like a masque without didacticism.","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is the sort of construct that seems ever on the edge of collapse; there is not actually much there, and the actual matter of the film doesn't make a radical virtue of this.One never gets to know or feel that much about the protagonists; whether the goggle-eyed, impotent boys or the inscrutable, tabula rasa girls, whose neuroses and suicidal motives are almost entirely vague and obscured. Dunst is quite a creature, I must say; the most epigrammic of all in that she allows us glimmers of real emotion amidst the stylized, sombre inscrutability. There is little point looking to the plot events or the narrative structure to cast much light on affairs; both are flimsy, summed up by the rather slapdash voice-over. The VO device, as so often in recent American films, is a pointless, glib hindrance to the effect of the film. The mystery - so studiedly evoked by Miss Coppola in much of the picture - is always muted and cheapened by the predictable, facile words spoken in voice-over.Now, James Woods - in a wonderfully cloddish turn - and Kathleen Turner - impressively dowdy and intimidating - are absolutely splendid as the subtly dysfunctional parents. Not cliched ogres, but fleshed-out characters; they alone seem to provide any sense of motivation. But also the musical soundtrack; not really Air - theirs is fair fare but predictable and lacking variation - but the oft affecting choice of 1970s period pop songs - such forgotten figures as Gilbert O'Sullivan are resurrected, and hit home.All is vague as to the exact time setting, and the choice of records seems to place the film in a very vague, part-idealized 1970s-per-se. The film can thus be seen as a neatly drawn if slight dream narrative; it is fine really, for what it is, though with maybe too many feet in mainstream waters. Also, it's a bit too transparent in construction compared to its clear precursor, Picnic at Hanging Rock. Though both films hold onto their sense of a central enigma, Weir's film troubles the soul far more. The Virgin Suicides is competent film-making, and a promising debut from Sofia Coppola, but it lacks especially careful and thoughtful handling; and it lacks much of a script.Rating- *** 1/2/***** "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Airy","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had wanted to see this movie for a long time. Throughout the film, I felt as if I was floating in mid-air--hypnotized. The movie was sensual, listless, hypnotic and exquisite. I especially loved Kirsten Dunst as sexually provocative Lux Lisbon and suicidal, journal-writing Cecilia Lisbon, whom said in the beginning, Obviously doctor, you've never been a thirteen-year-old girl. Overall, this is a beautifully made, elegant movie. I give huge props to Sofia Coppola in her directorial debut. "},{"Title":"Tastefully done","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides is a daunting tale about 5 sisters in 1970's suburbia. This movie is poetically incline, even with its morbid ending. The sisters are very interesting, as Cecilia seems to be the most out-of-place of the five, and Lux seems to be the most adored.The only problem I have with this film is the many actions made my the characters that are never explained. Instead of being left with suspense, you're left confused with their oblivious motions. But I guess that's to add wonder and for the movie to be thought-provoking.At any rate, the acting is great and the ending is tastefully mysterious...which makes the movie tastefully done.Rating 9/10  "},{"Title":"Beautiful story","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A beautiful film. The story is excellent (haven't read the book), a real story. So different from the garbage we see nowadays. It really came over me like a storm.Also fun to see some faces we now recognize in other movies but back then didn't know.James Woods was good but his part is minor. Kathleen Turner is quite good as the religious wife. "},{"Title":"Desire and Death.","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ****Excellent***Good**Fair*PoorFrom a very young age there is always going to be that girl who you desire. The one you dream about. The one you constantly think about. But what would happen if that girl killed herself? To a male that's what the Virgin Suicides symbolizes. This is a unique film based on a very original novel. The film focuses on the girls battle there over-protective parents and there unhappiness. As well as how the boys desire these girls and how there suicide disturbes them.This is a film that could mean anything to anybody and that's what art is. Art could mean one thing to somebody and another to somebody else. As a male with a family who's not over-protective I could understand better the boys side. And I see the film through there perspective.RATING 4 STARS  "}{"Title":"Brilliant debut!","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sofia Coppola is not a good actress, we all agree. But she seems to have inherited some of her father's talents. Her directorial debut, THE VIRGIN SUICIDES, is rich in atmosphere and tells a sad, yet poignant story.A great film indeed! Better even than some of the old Coppola's films. I can't wait for Sofia's next!9/10 "},{"Title":"A work of Art some possible spoilers","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just rented this for the fun of it, and a friend of mine likes the group Air. I don't really care for Kirsten Dunst but I kinda like Josh Hartnett and James Woods.What I saw was unreal. Sure it was long depressing story with an ambiguous ending, but in the end the surviving characters are more the wiser. Just like Heathers, American Beauty and Midnight Cowboy, this film shows the harsh realities of life and REALISTIC ways that people in a situation deal with it. Come on people, Vin Diesel doesn't save the day neither does a bullet dodging Trinity. These are everyday people doing what they think is right.I was impressed by Sofia Coppola's film debut not only as a director but a writer.  Umm but I'm sure she got daddy to pull a few strings...Wow but one of the comments made about Kathleen Turner, yes she did gain some weight, but so what. How long ago was Body Heat?Overall it's a rich slow-moving film that has to take time to dissolve. The ethereal haunting soundrack varies between the group AIR and various 70's songs. Adding to this is Ed Lachman's hypnotic cinematography. He also shot 'Far From Heaven' so mood is definetly one of his specialties.I liked it it was good  "},{"Title":"A real disappointment.","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film garnered critical raves and has a stellar cast.  It looks nice, and at first you expect you will enjoy the film.  But the characters have no depth, and the situations lack believability. Unless you like killing time, avoid Suicides. "},{"Title":"Very well done, but painful to watch","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have wanted to see this movie for a long time, mostly because I like James Woods.  I was definately pulled into something much more than I wanted.  The movie was very well done, and mostly well acted, but the story is extremely depressing and it's drearyness makes it very sad as well.  Some scenes were somewhat over the line and disturbing.  Danny DeVito and Scott Glenn both appear in cameos.  Kathleen Turner has gained a lot of weight since her last movie!! Overall a very well done movie, but I will never volunterily watch it again.  I feel that it would be unfair for me to rate it. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Movie That Will Not Get Out Of Your Head","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides is by far one of the most beautiful and haunting movies i have ever seen. It's about these five beautiful sisters who all commit suicide in a short period of time at a very young age. Their story and life is told by their neighbors, a couple of young teenage boys who become obsessed with the Lisbon sisters and their suicides. This movie was just unbelievably amazing, the cast, the costumes, the music, everything was just so beautiful. I would give the Virgin Suicides 10/10 "},{"Title":"It's a thinking one, I'll tell you that..","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie for the first time last night at about 130 in the morning (half asleep and with drowsy thinking)and although I totally did not grasp an understanding of the ending, it left me thinking about it for the rest of most of the night. The Virgin Suicides is one of those movies that leave you pondering for answers and rationalizing a theory that puts the last peices of a very complex puzzle together. Although the Lisbon girls are in fact the central characters in the movie, the viewer can only know them as the neighbourhood boys do---from the outside looking in. Kirsten Dunst's portrayal of Lux Lisbon was well done. If you are used to seeing her in movies such as Bring It On or Get Over It or other so-called teen movies with a conventional plot, I wouldn't classify The Virgin Suicides as a typical teen movie. It is much more deeper, darker, mysterious--even depressing, yet funny and captivating at the same time. This one makes you think...and by the end of it you'll have your own theory as to why the 5 beautiful Lisbon sisters put an end to their lives. "},{"Title":"A dreamy, moving film","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Again, the variety of reactions to this film illustrate the wonderment of being a movie-lover. I loved this film (and as a 56 year old male). I thought that it showed the confusions, dreams and wrong turns that can occur in adolescence (by both parents and teenagers). The girls, so unreal at times, were tragic figures but, for me, it was the boys' story too. A great script with a dream-like pacing, and such good acting. "},{"Title":"My Ribs Hurt!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've never laughed so long and hard at a movie in all my life. This film is a great comedy, except for the part where the five sisters kill themselves. While there is that tiny sprinkle of tragedy, this film brings more laughs than a pack of high school cheerleaders trying to get an A on a physics test. I had to look at the credits several times, as I was sure that Billy Drago had directed this film. Only he could achieve such mastery. If it's a rainy day and you need a rollicking comedy to pass the time, check out The Virgin Suicides.  "},{"Title":"Pure, simple, beautiful...","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't read this book before I saw the film, and I still haven't, but this is one of the most gut wrenchingly touching, and tantalisingly beautiful movies I've ever seen. I don't know if its because I'm a teenage girl, or just a girl, but I really feel like this should hit a spot in everyone. I'm not repressed by my parents in any way and, luckily I'm not suicidal either, but the subtleties and nuances of the pain, confusion and beauty of sometimes just being, shown in this film, are impossible to ignore for me. Oh please, c'mon, agree with me, let yourself go. "},{"Title":"highly enjoyable","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie was enjoyable to watch. The music coalesced well with the visuals. I thought the visuals maybe tried too hard to be stylish, as much as Sofia Coppola would like to think she doesn't go over the top. Compared to say, Michael Bay, she doesn't, but the movie's style sometimes gets in the way of the story. In the grand scheme of things though, it just made the 1970s seem really cool; then again, that isn't all that difficult to accomplish.I'm not sure whether or not this was Coppola's intention (I'm going to guess not), but the themes of the film came off as really heavy-handed and melodramatic. Since the film came from the book, and I'm guessing the director didn't want to p*** off the writer, this was probably unintentional, even though it would flow well with the self-important, hazy visual design.What the movie does do a great job of is going out of its way to romanticize the 1970s, suburban life, and especially the Lisbon girls, who are turned into dreamy, angelic fairies, which may be a justification for the slightly excessive, unnecessary stylization (Ooh, a dream-like atmosphere, how clever!) of visual design. That is to say, there is a high likelihood that teenage boys viewing this movie could very well develop a dangerous crush on Kirsten Dunst. The acting was quite good...the talent seemed to follow Coppola's vision perfectly, whether or not this is a good thing...I'd say, mostly good. I'd recommend it. Because my opinion is so important and all. "}{"Title":"An American 'remake' of Wuge nuzi he yigen shengzi(1991)","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a wonderful cultural translation of the Chinese movie Wuge nuzi he yigen shengzi. It depicts the problems of suburban teens in the 70's and tells the story of the Lisbon sisters who have to cope with the problems of having parents that are much too conservative.Therefore their only way out is  .... out of this world. "},{"Title":"Eerie, gorgeous, incredibly feminine","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I figured out why I felt such a sense of loss after watching this movie, and why other males may feel the same way the time, the circumstances, and the Lisbon girls are, together, very appealing, and consequently, males envision themselves a part of it, as a new character that also has the perspective of the movie viewer.  This sense of loss comes, I think, when you recognize that, even if such a scenario was viable, it's for naught, because the Lisbon girls are already gone. I suppose that I feel the way the neighborhood boys would have felt if a romance with a Lisbon girl might ever have been possible, it certainly is no more. "},{"Title":"much better than I thought it would be","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film on dvd, not at the theatre release. I must say it was much better than I thought it would be. It has sweetness and sorrow at the same time. It talks about friendship, innocence, love, attraction, adolescence and much more. It also talks about music and the way it expresses our sentiments.It reminds us all when we were teens -a period of life when we are half mature, half innocent- and the way we felt about the opposite sex, the way our parents behavior was decisive for our personality as a whole -in this film tragically involved to the death of the girls. It also reminds us the way a piece of music used to affect our feelings and express our mood, when we were young.Very good directing, acting, and musical score. Everything was very good. The film somehow reminded me of another one, Stand by me. There is absolutely nothing in common about the plot, but it leaves you with that same bitter-sweet feeling at the end.Do see it. "},{"Title":"...most beautifull shot in movie history","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie really got my attention, even though I had no expectations on this movie. All i knew before I saw this movie was that (I am giving away the end now) the girls would all commit suicide. I don't know why a critic would give away that? However, once i have seen the end i thought i was just excellent. No real reason why the girls did it, only speculations. This is not a Hollywood-feelgood movie, and that's what i love about it. No hero in the end who will save them, no smart endings. It is just sad and beautiful. What now strikes me also 3 years after it's premiere is that 3 of the characters have made it huge in cinema today, Kirsten Dunst (Spiderman), Josh Hartnett (Pearl Harbor) and Hayden Christensen (Star Wars Ep2). So the cast crew most be happy.The acting in this work of art is at its peak, Kirsten Dunst who posses more charm then the rest of the filmindustry combined, and she's talented too, is really glowing with charm in this movie. Josh Hartnett (Trip), is a very good match with Kirsten (Lux). James Woods is doing a good solid role as the girls father who tries to let them have some fun in their short lives, and Kathlen Turner is the non-understanding mother, who eventaully locks the girls up in their house. We also se Danny De Vito as the shrink. All of them are one with their characters. The do not play it is almost real.The camerawork is nice, no more no less, just perfect in this movie. Sofia Coppola who did not do such a great job on Godfather III, is now forgiven, since this is her real strength, directing. Some of the scenes and the mood in the movie is the BEST i have ever seen. When Lux is waking up on the football field is the most beautiful shot in movie history, early morning, wonderful girl (lux that is), blue shade. That is better then the magnificent views you get in LoTR or in any other great movie. It is just so darn good.Air is providing the movie with splendid music. The song playground love is so happy, slow, so strange (like all their music), not only that the music is so great it also fit the movie.I would say that the message is Too much love will kill you (a Brian May song), their mother kills them with too much loveDo yourself a favor and see this movie, or see it on more time. This is artwork. "},{"Title":"JUST LIKE LIFE","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard the title of this movie, I was interested. With a name like that, how can you ignore it? So I read the book, haunting, beautiful, sad, dark and incredible all in one, when I read the other reviews and see people diss it it makes me extremely mad. Americans have been taken outside of our own minds and asked to stoop to stupid levels of entertainment (i.e. jackass, adam sandler movies, and things of that nature) that when something ORIGINAL or thought provoking comes along, such as this film, people just dismiss it and have to put it down because they aren't smart enough to understand it. This film is shot through with so much light, life and color that it's hard to remember that it's extremely dark, and studies some heavy crap. Certain elements stay with you long after the film is over, and if you've seen the movie you know exactly what I'm talking about. Many people say  I didn't feel anything for the girls because you don't get to know them THAT is a cop-out, those girls lives show on their faces. Then there's always the inevitable  I didn't get that movie, well some fools don't realize that it's the BOYS story to tell, you are seeing things as THEY saw them, NOT the girls. Things aren't always resolved in real life, does that mean that each movie needs to be tied up in a cute little package with a bow? No, it doesn't, and this movie does not set out to do that. The adaptation of the book to the screen was the best I have ever seen in a movie. And if you read the book first and have seen the movie repeatedly (as I have) you see things that were mentioned in the book that are IN the movie, but are not brought your attention to (the bugs on the cars in the beginning, Cecilia's Zodiac Mobile) so it becomes very multi-layered.The acting, especially Kirsten Dunst, is top notch, she has never done better, and I am a HUGE Kirsten fan. Kathleen Turner is almost unrecognizable as Mrs. Lisbon, the girls' mother. Even Josh Hartnett is good. It's a very sad, beautiful and moving film and I would suggest to anyone. "},{"Title":"Very compelling and worth watching at least once","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is about 5 teenage sisters as seen from the eyes of 4 teenage neighbor boys. The girls are all beautiful and the boys are infatuated with them. The parents comprise of an overpowering religious fanatic mother who runs the house with a strict hand and the father is a school teacher who subversively supports some of the girls normal wants and needs. The title is ridiculous because before you ever see the movie you get a premise as to what happens with the girls. I suppose you are intended to believe because the mother cracks down on all because of the 14 year olds indiscretion. The story is narrated from the boys remembrances about 20 to 25 years later. The movie centers around Lux the 14 year old played by Kirsten Dunst who falls for the school Romeo who takes her to the big dance, has sex and then dumps her. This leads to the mother played by Kathleen Turner going ballistic and placing the girls under house arrest which eventually leads to the suicides. If this movie had any other title you would not have a clue as to what happens in the end and even though it happens and you know it will it is still a surprise when it does happen. The title comes from the book of the same name, but I have seen many movies from books with different titles so it seems somewhat moronic. This movie moves along very well and is worth watching at least once. "},{"Title":"Interesting view","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  `The Virgin Suicides' was a very interesting and memorable film.  I thought the movie was well done.  I liked it enough to watch it and it kept my attention but I would not want to watch it again because it is a little disturbing.  Although oddly enough, I would recommend that others do see it once.  It has a very interesting take on teenage suicide.  Other films that deal with teenage suicide use a totally different technique than this movie did.  The view that was taken on teenage suicide in `The Virgin Suicides' was from the outside.  We don't get to know the characters very well and we never learn what they are thinking or feeling.  This is very different than how films like this usually are.  Most films tell the story from the victims point of view, this film is from the outside looking in.  At the end of the film you are left feeling very confused and no clearer than you were in the very beginning of the film.We never find out why the girls committed suicide or what they were thinking and feeling.  I thought this was a very interesting and different take but it left me with many questions.  I do believe that this makes the film more memorable though because after watching the movie, you go on thinking about it, trying to figure out what happened and why/  This feeling bothered me because I couldn't figure out why these girls would go to such drastic measures because I never knew what they were feeling.  Teenage suicide is a very serious issue and I believe the movie left the audience with many questions.  This made the audience feel like a person close to a suicide victim, left with only questions and not any answers. I didn't exactly identify with any of the characters because my parents were not strict like the Lisbons were and I never have thought about suicide.  I think the films main messages about teenagers/youth culture were that suicide is a real and serious issue that is very confusing and not well understood.I believe the film did a pretty well of capturing the realities of teenage life/youth culture.  I believe it captured the reality that young teenage girls feel they have no way out.  Before the youngest daughter, Cecelia kills her self on her 2nd attempt she meets with a therapist and she says something to the effect of `you obviously have never been a teenage girl.' I think this captures the reality of the troubles of young girls today.I think the neighborhood boys who obsessed over the Lisbon sisters were very real.  The sisters were all attractive and I think it is very realistic of adolescent boys to fantasize about attractive girls, especially if they live next door.  At a young age you want to know everything about the person you have a `crush' on as these boys strived to learn all that they could about the Lisbon sisters.  The boy's spied on the girls, went through their garbage and even found the diary of the youngest Lisbon.  I believe this is a reality for young boys.One thing that I didn't feel was realistic of teenage girls is that none of these girls rebel.  Most teenage girls at least argue and fight with their parents about rules.  None of these girls ever fought against their parents rules; all five of them just took them as they were.  I thought it was extremely unfair for all of the girls to be locked in their house, not allowed to go anywhere, because Lux violated her curfew but none of the girls try and fight their parent's decision.  Lux cries in the scene when her mother makes her burn her records but she doesn't fight with her mother about it, she just does it while crying.  All and all the film had a very interesting view on teenage suicide and I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Artful, Sad, Tragic, Wonderful","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perfectly exicuted work of film making.  The end is spoiled in the beginning of the movie, so your not bothered with many suspenseful parts.  And this is an art movie with its share of symbolism (dead trees, the colour green). I was instantly attracted to this movie when I saw the title (hard to ignore, isn't it?) but really the movie doesn't glamorize suicide the way I thought it would, this film took on the more difficult task of giving us a movie about suicide that didn't torture us with the tedious details of a tortured life.  The movie is a real, down-to-earth story about five girls, the boys across the street, and the pointlessness of suicide and other selfish acts. What needs to be kept in mind is that the movie is told from the outside looking in (the reason some reviewers complain of the plot being empty). It's designed to leave you with feelings of why, like what the boys at the end say At the end we were left with pieces of the puzzle, but nomatter how we put them together we couldn't find a reason why or words to that effect. Overall, the movie is sad, funny, beautiful, creepy, and undenyably good. "},{"Title":"Visually stylish, mentally empty","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides, to me, is one of many films that is overhyped and overrated.  Yes, it is visually stylish - and at least in the beginning fairly well written and directed.  The acting is quite good, particularly from Dunst, Woods and Turner.  The script totally fails to be tied together, however, and ends up weak, empty and pretty much meaningless.  It is difficult to tell what the director intended this film to mean - if indeed it was meant to do anything beyond depress.In the end, this is a disappointing mess that could have been so much more... "},{"Title":"One of the best page to screen adaptation","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sofia Coppola who had he howling in the aisles in Godfather III has found her comfort zone behind the camera.  It is a rare occasion a book ever lives up to my mind-created hype on screen.  This one does.  It's just as puzzling, humorous, eerie, and entertaining as every page.  My hat's off to Sofia and the talented, first-time author. "}{"Title":"Memorable, but probably a love it or hate it film","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is kind of what I would classify as an art film.  Meaning that it doesn't fit into an typical categorization.  And doesn't seem to be trying to target a main stream audience.  I suspect people will either love it, or hate it.  It is a tragedy, and a dark movie.  If there is a message in it, I missed it.  However, there were several scenes that I found very memorable, and enjoyable.  Also, I think we all consider the music of our teenage years to be the definitive music.  This movie was set in the 70's and has some great music in it that I enjoyed as I was a teenager in the 70's.  The movie revolves around a family with 5 teenage girls.  The youngest of which commits suicide when she is just 13.  A neighborhood group of boys is telling the story in flashback (25 years in the future) as they were fascinated/infatuated with the girls in the family.  The father (woods) is a teacher at the school where all the kids go, and the mother (turner) is over bearing and constrictive, trying to protect the girls to the point of suffocating them.  The acting performances were great.  And I really did get the feeling that the movie captured a sense of suburbia America in the 70's.  I recognized the characters in the movie from my own high school.  But, I don't know what the movie was ultimately trying to say.** spoilers do follow **I think there were some clever scenes in the movie, showing the relationship between teenage boys and teenage girls.  In one Trip (Hartnet) is pursing on of the teenage girls (Dunst) and sits next to her while a film is shown in class.  The voice narration on the film, about two weather fronts meeting for a storm, I thought kind of symbolized the moment of the two teenagers meeting for a relationship.  Likewise, later while watching television, a voice over about lions in Africa seemed to convey a similar message.  I could go on.  There were other interesting scenes, that I would call good/interesting film making that to me made the movie worthwhile.  But, I didn't find a message in the movie that wrapped it all up to make it seem like a really great movie.  So, I ended up kind of straddling the fence on this one.   "},{"Title":"Beautiful story - plus there's Hayden Christensen!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great. The plot is great, the cast is great, the acting is great and the visuals are great. It's a bleak and haunting vision about boys who fall in love with their neighbours - four close girls - the Lisbon sisters. They are all blond and beautiful - but they don't have boyfriends, because their parents are strict Christians who don't beleive in boyfriends at such young ages. The parent's overprotectiveness goes so far, that the youngest Lisbon sister commits suicide, and thus her diary adds juice to the story.All the while, you have to remember that the movie is set in the boy's eyes. Although it is about the boys attraction to the girls, and tells about the girl's lives, the whole movie shows the girls as being mysteries forever - not even the veiwer can see the true them in full. That's why this movie'll stay in your mind for ages, days after you watched it - which you should've by now! "},{"Title":"Dreamlike and thought provoking","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that is worth watching.  It makes you think and stays with you after seeing it, a very thought provoking piece indeed.  Sophia did an amazing job with this one and she captured the time period on film so beautifully.  The shots were very dreamy even though the content was not so dreamlike at times.  This film used the camera and soundtrack to tell this story perfectly.  The actors did a great job, the dance/afterwards was a great scene - it all worked together so well.  A very moving film, not your run of the mill 70's teen movie.  I cant wait to see what else Sophia does, she nailed this one! "},{"Title":"Great movie with Dunst at her best","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am kind of miffed that people had such a hard time with the themes of this movie.  That quite possibly could be the central reason for the reviews being so wide spread.  I happened to love this movie.  I am a big Kirsten Dunst fan and she could not have been any better in this movie.The entire cast is incredible and it is hard to look away from the screen even for a second.  The thing that makes this movie so great and interesting to watch is the depth of genre as well as story.  It starts out as a simple coming of age comedy.  People do goofy things just like any other person does growing up.  It then morphs into something more dramatic.  The entire movie turns at the dance.  It goes from an incredibly adorable movie, to a movie where you can't believe where it finally winds up from that moment.It is a tale that shows that perfection may not be worth attaining or pursuing, and it maybe that pursuit which hurts the people around us and ourselves.  The point my friends is that perfection may not be the best thing.  It may even be the worst of things.  This movie if you look at themes is equally articulate as it is beautiful and well made. It is a breath of fresh air from one of the most unlikely places. "},{"Title":"Truth, Beauty, Freedom, Death.","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've heard various comments, some good, some bad, about this film since it's release. Quite honestly, no comment about this film deserves to be negative in any way. This film was a gorgeous interpretation of the shattered lives of five, beautiful, intelligent, intriguing teenage girls and their impact on five respective young, naive, innocent boys. Sofia Coppola's remarkable, dreamy filmmaking makes for a compelling, heart-wrenching story that should be an integral part of every teenage, much less, mass collection. It is not a drama...it is a documentary of our own lives and how little we realize that we take it for granted.  "},{"Title":"As enjoyable as the subject matter can be","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoiler Alert, but if you can't tell what happens by the title, you shouldn't be online anyway, you should be shopping for a brain.The movie was very rough going to start with.  The smallest Lisbon daughter has attempted suicide and when she is asked why, replies without a trace of emotion, 'Obviously, Doctor, you've never been a 13 year old girl', as though he was a moron for asking the question in the first place.  You know she is depressed only because the narration tells you she is, there is nothing about her manner that would suggest such drastic actions are in her destiny.The Lisbon parents are strict but the daughters seem to thrive on each other.  When the smallest girl successfully kills herself, during a party no less, none of them seem to be affected, which is weird to say the least. I felt like they were all living in an alternate universe, that the parents and the kids created a world that did not allow for emotion or any outside influences.That was shattered when the girls are allowed to go to a school function, all at the urging by Trip (played by Josh Hartnett), who has a crush on Lux (Kirsten Dunst), and the girls acted like real girls who live in the world. I was surprised to see Lux having a cigarette, making out with Trip, etc., the normal things a kid does.  From what's onscreen, I didn't think Lux knew what a cigarette was, so that seemed a little inconsistent.  When Trip and Lux have sex on the football field, and he leaves her there, she is naturally grounded as are all her siblings.  They don't have a trace of rebellion in them, which is not only unreasonable but slightly ridiculous. When Lux is ordered to burn all her albums, she's crying, but she's not screaming and fighting either.  Eventually, Lux and Trip are able to get together, but only on her roof (!) and only for awhile.To back up for a second, ALL this is being closely monitored by four neighborhood boys, who are all so obsessed with the girls that it borderlines on awe at times.  They get their hands on the youngest girls journal and read it with reverence.I would have liked to have seen a fight.  I would have liked to have seen a reaction to suicide other than in the media.  And you really don't know exactly why any of them killed themselves.However, there is much to admire - Josh Hartnett's appearance, about 1/2 hour in, gives the movie a much-needed injection of life (sorry); he's Mr. Cool, and everyone knows it, including him.  He is separate from the neighborhood boys and rightly so.  When he is disposed of, rather abruptly I might add, you want to see him again.  Dunst is very good at knowing which buttons on a boy to push - she knows what she's doing, but again, her situation does not allow for much stretching.  Woods and Turner as the parents are fine but I still would have liked some insight into them as people.Sofia has a bright future behind the camera, judging from this effort. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"ending it all","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was a bit of a rip from 'wonder years' with the adult male voice narrating for the 5 boys. Coppola wanted you feel so much what the boys were thinking and wondering but you hardly notice them and don't give a damn what they have to say, because what they say was trying to be so meaning full it was so lame. Someone should have told Coppola about that problem while it was been filmed but you have to start with some sort of work I guess. It's well acted with a good soundtrack by Air. 'American Beauty' is much better all round even when it is done for the mass.  "},{"Title":"vanilla ice cream with unforgettable aftertaste","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really surprised when I knew that this is the first screenplay that Sofia Coppola has written, let alone her first directorial debut! The overall impression I got from the movie was a very dark and suffocating emotion that flows around the Lisbon house, just like the ultimate control from the Mrs Lisbon (played by Kathleen Turner who was excellent in her role of a controlling mother). The chemistry between Josh Hartnett and Kirsten Dunst was mesmorizing. The awkward teenage years of secret crush and broken hearts all came back to me as I was reminiscing about my own high school years. The dark humour was subtle but unforgettable. I give it 3 out of 4 stars! "},{"Title":"i honestly don't know what to think.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was haunting.  It had no clear message.  However, the viewer cannot help but think about it.  You know that sofia coppola and the author both had a point, but you wonder what in the world it was! i mean, was it oh that's so sad!? cuz really, that's kindof immature. could it have been, notice you don't ever know why, so don't assume people don't have problems? or maybe strict parents kill their children? i really don't know for sure, and that is what is haunting, you either want to know why they all died or why the movie exists. maybe the point was to just be weird and talk about the confusion of adolescence, but really, do we need a suicide movie? how about one that an audience can relate to better.  i mean, sure, i've wanted to die before. i've thought about suicide, but never considered it as an option. and even if i had i don't see how this movie would help me. it's too shady. it's such an iceberg principle-based movie, but too much so. it becomes superficial.  i'd rather learn from the movie, than just get depressed from it. "},{"Title":"Does anyone get the point?!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would like to address primarily a few of the points that others have made about this film, and hopefully to dispel some illusions. The Virgin Suicides has had mixed reviews, and it is a pity that many people watch the film for the wrong reasons.For instance it is clear from many Imdb users that they saw the film after watching other more recent Kirsten Dunst movies. This is not really a film for Kirsten fans to put it mildly. It doesn't have the upbeat tempo of all her recent work. Furthermore it is a pity that Kirsten Dunst has become as big a star as she is. For people often see VS as an excuse to get people to see a film by shoving in Kirsten as the lead role. What they forget is that this is a time when Kirsten was not well known. For the film buffs around, yes, she had been in Jumanji, Small Soldiers and Interview with the Vampire, but she was still hardly known.Secondly to people who think of VS as a chick flick should get your simple, stereotype brains if you have them back to romantic comedies. Sure there is undisputably a touch of feminism to the work, not least due to the directional talents of Sofia Coppola. But chick flick!Thirdly to those that think of VS as improbable, go have a look at Independence Day. It is not uncommon for close relatives to share a bond of emotional conflict. There is nothing unreasonable about sisters all committing suicide and it's not as if killing yourself is an unheard of phenomenon.For those that say that the plot is tissue thin, for those who say we don't get to know the Lisbon sisters, for those who wanted concrete proof at the end of why the suicides happened, for all those looking for answers listen carefully.By making these accusations you've missed one of the major points of the film. The story is told for a masculine perspective, from one of the boys. They don't get to know the girls to understand them. The whole point is as mentioned in the film, that they had scraps of information but there was still empty gaps. The Lisbon sisters are meant to be enigmatic. There is no point in telling the exact story, for that would be trite and impossible. Even the sisters may not know their own reasons. Why they did it? Especially how they died as a lot of people want to know, is irrelevant. And the plot is not tissue thin. It may not be amazingly varied because it follows teenage girls under a strict household. How exciting is three months of your life!This is one of only two films directed by Sofia Coppola, and as you would expect from the daughter of Francis Ford, she has her own elegance. There is a stamp on this unlike any other film. The cinematography is simple but at times powerful. The songs are so intertwined with the film that they work so well, especially those by Air. Giovanni Ribisi is a great narrator, and Kathleen Turner/Woods make a good couple. Actually the acting all over is frankly superb. Skip Dunst and look at the other sisters. It's amazing that when you take AJ Cook and Chelse Swain out of bad horror films (Ripper and Mangler 2 respectively) their dramatic acting is brilliant. Move aside Dominique Swain your sister may not have your success but she definitely can act. The roles here are minimal but they do have a considerable impact on the film. (Also look out for a small role from our very own lightsaber welding Hayden Christensen)In the end it would be good if all the actors in VS had just starred in this film, rather than have fans of the actors watching the film, as opposed to people wanting to just watch the film (I am as guilty as everyone else).Maybe the problem is that most people are unable to grab hold of this film for fear of the subject matter, for fear of depression, or maybe just simply because they would watch a Hollywood blockbuster or a romantic comedy over it any day. This is a haunting film, brilliantly made, and sadly underrated.  "}{"Title":"Beautiful, but lacks substance","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie after a friend told me about it.  Her opinion of it wasn't very high, so maybe I went into it a bit biased.  For Sofia Coppola's first screenplay and directorial debut, she did the best job possible. I'll start with the characters.  One of the first we meet is 13-year old Cecelia, an emotionally detached young girl who doesn't stick around for very long.  She attempts to kill herself in the beginning of the movie, but manages to do it on her second try, a week or so later.  I didn't see the point in her character at all.  Her death strikes a major blow on the family, setting up their behavior for the rest of the film, but that's it.  The five sisters range in age perfectly from 13-17, enabling them to experience the same growing pains simultaneously.  Their personalities are different, though; Lux is the wild one while Bonnie is the quiet, conservative one.  The oldest two were paid the least attention in the script, so we never really got to know them.  The only girl we really know anything about is Lux, played by Kirsten Dunst.  The overbearing parents were played by James Woods and Kathleen Turner, but both of them take the backseat in this movie.  Trip Fontaine, played by Josh Hartnett, does well as the cool guy who manages to change the sisters lives' forever by inviting them to the homecoming dance with his friends.  To fill out the major cast is a group of young boys, all at different growth stages, who have a rather unhealthy fixation on the sisters.  Their entertainment consists of spying of the girls and stealing items from their trash.  The movie is sort of told through their memories, 25 years ago, of the mystery surrounding the Lisbon family. Considering this film was set in the mid-70's and the girls are young teens, I don't see the parents as being overly strict.  The way the parents dealt with the girls' misbehavior by imprisoning them in their home was inhumane, but the original family rules were fair in my opinion, especially for the 14 and 15-year olds.  If I were out all night with a boy at 14, I would've been grounded for a month.  Had the girls been a little older, their anger and disbelief would been justified and more realistic.  The plot in Virgin Suicides is as thin as tissue paper.  There really isn't one, we're just lead through a few months in the lives of the Lisbons, beginning with the youngest daughter's suicide and ending with the the other four girls' suicides a few months later.  This isn't really a bad thing, though, as this movie isn't the type that needs to follow a formula.  The ending doesn't really tie up anything, except we learn that the parents moved out of the home.  The group of voyeuristic boys are just as puzzled at the end of their story as they were in the beginning, so nothing is accomplished there.  The boys themselves are an odd bunch, they're of varying ages, too, but look and act like they should be huddled around comics and MAD magazines instead of fantasizing about a bunch of elusive girls.  The movie wants you to feel pain and sadness for the girls, but I honestly didn't care about them, except for Lux, who was the only one to display any real emotion.  The other four are neglected in the script, so it's hard to feel connected with them.  For those who like depressing, slow-paced films like American Beauty or Ghost World, Virgin Suicides would be a perfect film.  For those like myself who like lots of depth and intricate plots that tie up nicely at the end, this might not be the most fulfilling movie experience.  The film is beautifully directed and acted and I would congratulate Ms. Coppola on a job well done.  I'd give it a  6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Hypnotic and Beautiful","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sofia Coppola's debut film The Virgin Suicides is a sad, insightful, and hypnotic piece of film. The story revolves around a group of boys who come of age in the 70's while they obsess over a group of neighborhood sisters. Without giving any of the well concieved plot away, the film is all at once a mysterious love story, and a depressing tale of teenage disillusionment. To go beyond that explanation would be to give away some interesting turns that the film takes. The performances are superb especially James Woods and Kathleen Turner as the overprotective Mr. and Mrs. Lisbon. Kirsten Dunst and Josh Hartnett also (surprisingly) turn in outstanding performances. While The Virgin Suicides is a sad tale and emotionally heavy, it is also very mysterious, beautiful, and absorbing and worth the time of anyone who needs a change from everyday movie watching. "},{"Title":"The most improbable and depressing movies I can remember seeing","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides is a highly improbable story of the suicides of 5 beautiful teenage sisters.  Cecilia, 12 commits suicide at the beginning of the movie and Lux 14, Bonnie 15, Mary 16, and Therese 17 do so at the end, all on the same night.  It is a highly contrived movie designed to provide maximum tragic and depressing feeling in the viewer.  And in this it succeeds.  Some have commented that they wished for a different ending. I too wished for that.  But even more than that, I wish I had never seen the movie.  I found it to be the most depressing and disturbing movie I ever remember seeing. The story is told by four neighborhood boys looking back for 25 years in the future who were fascinated with the girls.  Therefore, we know nothing of the girls thoughts or what they talked about.  The boys' tragedy is the lost years they could have had getting nearer to and interacting with the girls. Others have commented on various improbabilities of this film.  Here are mine.  Is Lux so stupid or lustful as to blatantly bread curfew?  Is it reasonable that four teenage sisters who are well aware of the effects of suicide on those that are left behind conspire to commit suicide on the same night and by different methods, or for that matter, commit suicide at all? Was that drastic final solution the only course available to them?  No.  We know from the book upon which the movie is based that the suicides occur one year from the date of Cecilia's first attempt.  Therese is now and and Mary must be months away from 18.  Therese at least could simply leave and Mary could follow thereafter.  The boys were invited over that night on the pretext of helping the girls run away, a solution far more reasonable than suicide.  Instead, they are met by Lux with whom they talk for a few minutes before she leaves for the garage.  Why were they invited?  Probably to add dramatic effect when the find Bonnie hanging and jump over one of the sisters legs when they run out of the house.  Why didn't they try to save Lux?  She had only been the garage for a few minutes.  And what about Mary? They could have probably saved her.  In the book, Mary survives her first attempt without the boys' help.  Or perhaps the whole ending is a dream or a metaphor for the girls transition from adolescence to maturity. Two scenes at the end of the movie haunt me still after 3 months.  The first is of Lux letting the boys into the house and telling them to wait there for he sisters and she will wait in the car.  As she leaves, she turns and looks back at the boys.  In my mind, that look was one of deep sadness and said, I will never see you boys again, but what I am about to do , I do because I must not because I want to.  The scene of her arm hanging out the car window is a conformation that she did indeed do what she had to do. Kirsten Dunst was outstanding in this movie.  I can't separate Lux as a fictional character and Kirsten as an actress.  To try and shake myself out of those two haunting scenes, I have emersed myself in Kirsten Dunst movies with happy endings,including True Heart, Bring it on, Let it go, Crazy Beautiful, and of course Spider Man, but not Deeply "},{"Title":"Sheer Beauty","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those chick flicks that even some guys will dig. I really enjoyed this movie, so much that I bought it. It is beautiful and intriguing- though can be hard to watch because it leaves you feeling a bit melancholy. "},{"Title":"GOOD/BAD","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is confusing and the plot isn't so developed for the ending but this movie gives off a certain feeling that leaves us wondering just why we couldn't relate and love it like all our favorite movies that we've related to in some way. This movie was made to let you wonder just why you didnt understand it so in this beautifully directed tale of sisters you sit there impatient and left to wonder.7/10  ...I gave it 7 because i think it was misunderstood by some people just not patient enough for this outlook on life.tagged for RENT it and make sure its due back on time or watch it on a movie channel "},{"Title":"Was This Movie a Comedy?","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is superbly cast, and puts the public on notice of the bright future awaiting Kirsten Dunst and Josh Hartnett and is worth watching if just for them, but I failed to see any other reason to watch it. Granted, I'm long past my teen years, but I can still remember the emotional pain of acne and the awkward search for popularity and the approval of my peers. But please, what's the problem with these beautiful Lisbon girls? Maybe the local department store doesn't carry their shade of blush or their cell phones are on the fritz, but none of these girls would suffer from a lack popularity or male attention. This movies fatal flaw is that it never builds and conveys the cause of the Lisbon girl's depression that must precede an act as desperate as suicide. In fact it mocks the act. "},{"Title":"Depressing, yet beautiful...","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was in the mood for a fine piece of cinema the other night, and my girlfriend recommended The Virgin Suicides. I knew little of the movie, except that it was critically acclaimed and had Kirsten Dunst in it. Needless to say we rented the movie, and I was pleasantly surprised.From the get go, I was hooked. Although a short movie, it is flawlessly paced. The opening and ending scenes were very well done. James Woods, as always was excellent, portraying a father who lost a child(ren). Kathleen Turner was excellent as well. (Kirsten Dunst wasn't too bad herself P)The movie's ending left me feeling so down, it felt as if I had known the Lisbon girls personally. The movie, however, is not about the girls. It is about the boys who were in love with them. Do yourself a favor and rent this movie. You won't be disappointed.8/10 "},{"Title":"has all the perks, but a plot that falls short","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i loved everything about this movie... except for the ending, they could have extended it so much more but they didn't, they just ended so abruptly. I did not see the point of this, it just left me feel incredibly unsatisfied. the sound track was so great though, it just raptures you, and left me feeling depressed at the end of the movie, but i think that was the point. the acting was great, good direction and production. The drop off at the end i think might have been to leave you with your own created reasons... Maybe my imagination isn't good enough but I didnt figure it out. That's what really gets on my nerves about this movie, it doesnt justify any of the events throughout it. Not my kind of movie "},{"Title":"So beautiful, it breaks your heart. 9 of 10.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since I had read the book and still remembered the feeling of desolation it left me with for weeks, I was very reluctant to see this film. But then, I thought, can any movie ever mirror the deep emotions the book holds, and translate them truthfully into images? In this case, the answer is yes.The atmosphere is artfully set from the very beginning; a heartbreaking sense of mystery shrouds the Lisbon household in silence and elevates the girls to neighbourhood Virgin Marys. To the boys who speculate and dream about them, they are angels, not quite human. And this is what they become to the viewer, too; idolised creatures of light, since we only ever get to know them through the eyes of those teenage boys. And this is what makes both the novel and the perfect film adaptation so memorable, so beautiful and so sad; we never learn what finally pushed them so far as to end their lives, all in one single night (except Cecilia, who has gone before, as Poe would have said). We never see their perspective, never hear their thoughts, and thus they retain their mystery and die the saintly death of martyrs. The film is brilliantly handled, with impressive colours and music. The actors put in high quality performances in giving life to incredibly complex characters. Kirsten Dunst deserves a special mention for her portrayal of the most visible Lisbon sister, Lux, with which she stands head and shoulders above an already formidable cast.    This is a rare gem of a film, a timeless story on the beauty in the eye of the beholder. Never since Romeo and Juliet has death seemed such a tragedy. "},{"Title":"I believe in two things  sex and death.  But at least after death, you're not nauseous. -- Woody Allen","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I were teaching a film class and this week's topic was how to set a tone in a film and keep it consistent throughout, I would show The Virgin Suicides.  There is a sense of impending doom that hangs over the film from the first frame.Is it really about death, or is it a metaphor for that feeling one has before, during and after puberty, that everything is ABOUT life and death? Are the girls' suicides meant to represent the fact that they simply mature faster than boys and are ready to advance to the next level?We may be debating these questions for the rest of our lives, which is always the mark of a thought-provoking film.  The Virgin Suicides captures a time and a place in all of our lives, when hope sprang eternal, and sex, as mysterious and alluring as it was, turned our lives into an impossible dream. "}{"Title":"The best adaptation ever? Probably","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know how many of you out there are familiar with Jeffrey Eugenides amazing novel which the film is based on, (everyone should read it!!) but Sofia Copppola's debut is so in - tune with it that I was highly impressed. Many sequences are exactly as described in the book (an amazing feat) or just really represent the whole moody, depressing and haunting feel. The Virgin Suicides is just generally a fantastic film which deserves a lot more credit for what it is, and also for being such a great adaptation.  "},{"Title":"Surprising and Offbeat...","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie takes you away up among the clouds and then softly puts down on the grass half asleep wondering if what you've just experienced was real. Perhaps not a must see, but certainly a 9 out 10. What I found most unique about the film is how the pace which I guess is slow ( but you don't mind it ) it leaves you wanting it to slow down even more, so that you could savor that great taste and make it last. I highly recommend this film to anyone who yearns for something different and thought provoking. Bon Appetite! "},{"Title":"Soporific, ethereal, nostalgic journey","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cinematography in this movie is the outstanding star. Never has a dull street in a dull town looked so utterly beautiful and compelling. Then there are the Lisbon sisters - each one a vision of blonde loveliness - who pour themselves over the screen like ambrosia. Yes, the story is ponderous and naval-gazing, but for pure joy of watching, there are few equals.Kirsten Dunst (mark my words, a future superstar and oscar winner) is perfect and completely wonderful. The soundtrack is good, too.Students of film making take note! The Virgin Suicides is possibly the most mesmeric film ever made!   "},{"Title":"Beautifully made...","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen The Virgin Suicides, and although some will not agree with me, I thought it was great. The whole movies shows how many girls feel going through the often traumatic time of high school. Kirsten Dunst was amazing, and so were all of the Lisbon sisters. Also I think this is one of the more fascinating roles that Josh Hartnett has played. All in all I thought the cast, directing, and the movie itself was great. "},{"Title":"Cliff Notes would be useful for a film that is dead in spirit but not in body","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The feeling of being in a long daze that is finally lifted by the ending of the film is the sense of sleepy melancholy that I found myself experiencing in the waning moments of The Virgin Suicides.  The movie is one of the most quiet and subtle since the silent era and even a rocket scientist will find himself unsure of what it all really means.  Sofia Coppola appears to want to explain that the restrictions of parents with high expectations can break your heart and also end your life.  The movie is not bursting with the energy and feeling that you want to reach out and hug it as Ghost World proved but there is a sense of foretelling the fates of the four beautiful girls by allowing them to witness teenage rites of passage and experience excitement in the short moments before their untimely deaths.The Virgin Suicides is restrictive in that the focus is always on what is revealed at the end with the demise of four siblings and not on the fundamental qualities of the lovely sister's lives.  Certainly their lives are rooted in being cooped up in the home they share with Kathleen Turner and James Woods and they exist solely as empty creatures who are already dead in spirit but not yet in being.  Lux Lisbon is the only sister who seems to believe that there is a way out of the misery and appears to have an outgoing personality that will prevent her from allowing her spirit to die.  Inexplicably we find that she is little more than a facade who is not comfortable with the person she appears to be and her life ends tragically like all the rest.  Kirsten Dunst is one of the best prospects of her generation aside from Natalie Portman and Thora Birch.  Her determination to make Lux Lisbon human despite her inhumane treatment of herself is painful and yet enchanting to witness.  Kathleen Turner and James Woods find themselves relegated to the back-burner but this makes perfect sense because the four girls would never have been able to commit suicide if their parents were very engaged in their lives.  What remains unclear in the closing moments of The Virgin Suicides is the true motivation for the mass termination of life.  Lux Lisbon appears to have some reason for choosing this fate but the other girls are not well-defined in their own pursuit of the goal.  There is never a clear plot that drives home this motivation but it somehow fits together in a rather compelling directorial debut for Sofia Coppola.  Just be certain that you read the cliff notes first.9/10    "},{"Title":"A Haunting Masterpiece","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sofia Coppola makes a remarkable directorial debut with The Virgin Suicides. The film is generally dark - dealing with themes like alienation, social malaise and teen suicide. Yet, it avoids becoming overhelmingly morbid.In the end, the filmgoer is left with a sense of lose following the deaths of five very appealling characters. Yes, there are unresolved questions and a desire for an alternate conclusion. Still, while haunted by the absence of the deceased, the audience is better for having met these people.The story is told through the remembrances of those who knew the victims. Of interest, is the manner in which the (now adult) narrators are still coming to terms with the deaths. Ultimately, The Virgin Suicides is less about the perished. Instead, the picture focuses upon the long-term affects the dead have upon the living. This narrative concentration gives the movie a dreamy, almost fairy tale quality.Coppola does an incredible job juxtaposing the glowering aspects of the piece with moments of genuine charm . . . In fact, it is her delicate handling of the more tender scenes that subsequently gives weight to the more intense drama.The cast is first-rate . . . Kirsten Dunst (as a blossoming teenager, living with a suffocating mother) is absolutely enchanting. Kathleen Turner (as the well-meaning, but overbearing parent) displays real depth. In lesser hands, Turner's role could easily have become a two-dimensional antagonist.The Virgin Suicides is a real gem. It possess the power to make you fall in love with the doomed characters. By the last reel, you'll experience the void left by their untimely departure. Ultimately, the film's sadness stays with you long after viewing. However, so to does its nearly hypnotic charisma.This film rates a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A must see for The Ice Storm lovers!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Quite a grim and sad story, though performed with great warmth from all of the involved (except for Kathleen Turner who acts with such coolness, she'll scare you!) Remarkable script, beutifully shot, this film is a must for all who loved The Ice Storm. James Woods acts (as always) with great conviction as the father, although the part isn't that big, it's a really big reason to see the flick, Kathleen Turner is convincing as the mother, the part that really makes the story. All other parts are played as good as needed, but are essentially just works of the story line itself (wich isn't a bad thing!), and give little chance to shine. The casting is just about perfect and makes the film feel very real.  "},{"Title":"Sofia, where art thou?","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't get it. I really want to, but I don't. For a movie as beautifully filmed as The Virgin Suicides, it sorely seems to be lacking a major theme. I enjoyed the cast, the performances, the score, the direction; but I just don't understand what Sofia Coppola is trying to say. At first I though it was a meditation on overly strict families, and then I thought it was trying to say something about how mean teenage boys are to teenage girls. Then I was confused as to whether it was a drama or a black comedy or both. I suppose it helps to read the work that it was based on, which I will do shortly, but in the meantime I mostly feel cheated. It seems that the appeal of this movie lies in either revealing something beautiful or something sinister about white, upper-middle class kids of the 1970's which #1 would give it a rather narrow audience, I suspect, and #2 it fails to do so simply because a main point to the whole thing is never clearly defined. It just left me feeling kind of empty.I suppose I could be wrong, some of the greatest films I have ever seen I didn't like initially. I truly hope I am, because there's too much good stuff here for it not to add up to something.    "},{"Title":"a melancholy enigma","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  for a long time, i was apprehensive about watching this movie. i felt the outrageous notion of beautiful, well-to-do teenage girls committing suicide could lead to a exploitative, manipulative movie.coppola successfully avoids this trap. what we're left with is the (presumably) central question from the novel why did this happen? as the narration makes clear from the beginning, the question has never been fully answered, so the story is bound to frustrate.the film is constantly heart-wrenching, even (or especially) when focusing on mundane things, as the knowledge of impending tragedy hangs over the proceedings. one theory could be that the girls simply refuse to play the dating game, and to be treated badly by the boys. their aloofness could be akin to that of ed crane in the man who wasn't there; they feel like strangers in this world and feel a next life could only be better. but this is just my conjecture.maybe it's best to view the suicides as surreal, as if this were a buuel movie.at any rate, one aspect of this story that is true to life boys' inability to solve the mysteries of womanhood. "},{"Title":"WOW!!!!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this on a Showtime channel, I heard about the film before and I decided maybe I can sit through a bit of it, but this movie really pulls you into this well-done drama done by the daughter of Francis Ford Coppola.This film is VERY haunting, and will mesmerize you. I was able to keep back the tears on this movie, but I bet many won't. It's just that depressing as you see these five beautiful sisters who have strict parents and want them under their control.You can FEEL it going through you when you watch the scene where Lux (Kirsten Dunst) is ordered by her mother to destroy all her rock records. The pleading will wretch your mind.I think this is a masterpiece for Sofia, IMHO, in one of her first movies.***1/2 out of ****However, I believe you can only watch this once because of the depressingness you will feel afterward. It's THAT dreary!!! I'm not joking!!! "}{"Title":"oh my god!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  that's pretty much the feeling of this movie... one of the best movies made, and one of the best I've ever seen.  It's beautiful, haunting, and really sad.  One of the most moving films I've ever seen.  the only thing better than the movie and the score is the book. "},{"Title":"This movie was absolutely brilliant!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This performances of the actors and actresses in this film were phenomenal. The story and direction were also superb.  To have such complex characters in a cast this large is nothing short of remarkable.  Also, I think it is important to note that this is one of the few films where watching the DVD version with the director narrative was worth seeing.  Sofia Coppolla is a genius!!! "},{"Title":"A delightful drama","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Both the theatrical adaptation of Jeffrey Eugenides's novel of the same name and Sofia Coppola's directional debut, the Virgin Suicides is a spectacular depiction of the destruction of innocence, one which is both tragic and at times, darkly comedic. It leaves a lasting and haunting impression in the telling of its saddening story of the five Libson sisters Cecilia, Lux, Bonnie, Mary, and Therese whom live in upper class Michigan suburbia during the mid seventies. *SPOILERS INCLUDED* Cecilia, depressed and neglected, is the first to commit suicide after surviving a first attempt. Following this occurrence, the remaining girls' parents' overprotectiveness threatens to smother them which is why they enact their rebellion in possibly one of the most powerful methods committed to celluloid. The Virgin Suicides is definitely recommended.Grade A  "},{"Title":"memorable","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one that will last with you long after viewing it- It did for me. Beautifully constructed- Probably the best film for me for 1999 and is another film in my small DVD collection that I never tire of viewing. Kirsten Dunst is memorable here as Lux Lisbon(1 of the 5 daughters)and the rest of the cast(including James Woods and Kathleen Turner as the strict Parents also make this film what it is). Please if you haven't seen this before- you have to. A masterpiece and a great debut from Sofia Coppola.10/10 "},{"Title":"A sleepy drama with many too holes...","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Upon completing this film my mind has become a numb and blank page. I felt as if I was walking through a dark tunnel with a flashlight, patiently watching, waiting for answers to questions posed by the film, which are never answered. The film seems to be more of a time capsule to capture these mysterious blond sisters in the few moments just before their departures, rather than a plot with a beginning, middle and end. Kirsten Dunst as Lux Lisbon emerges as the most intriguing character and is the focus throughout the film, but as a viewer you are never given the privilege of understanding, you are a mere observer--just as the four young boys. Their obsessions with the Lisbon girls is never explored to a rational capacity, however Trip's role in the film which is pivotal is dropped, leaving you wanting to know more, to know why.The montages in the film are aesthetically pleasing. The director's use of wide shots seems to widen the gap between viewer and story are we meant to stay at the distance we are placed? Why are we not allowed into the minds of the Lisbon family?The pace of the film is slow and there are several things that are implied but never explained. The ending does not seem to fit into the tone of the movie; the viewer becomes attached to the Lisbon girls, especially Lux, but yet, the film ends on a note about the obsessed young men. A movie that leaves one yearning for more or regretful for spending the money.  "},{"Title":"haunting","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found The Virgin Suicides one of the most depressing films i've seen for a long time. But i like to feel different emotions during the course of a movie, whether it be happy or sad or both. I also enjoy watching movies that are set in past decades such as the 50's, 60's and 70's, which is why i'm a big fan of The Wonder Years. Sofia Coppola has made a very good film, it captures the time and feeling so well. It tackles so many issues in life such as adulthood, suicide, parenting, drugs, rock n roll and relationships. There are so many good scenes in this movie, the party for the Lisbon girls, the phone sequence playing records, the dance, burning the records (if that happened to me i would be devastated. The movie quite remarkably enabables you to relate to these young girls and boys. I know so many Trip Fontaines and wish i knew more Lux Lisbons. The music captures the mood as does the use of the camera colour lenses. The cast is first rate, Turner and Woods are twisted parents, Hartnett is cool and nervy at the right times, but the film belongs to Kirsten Dunst, she is beautiful, seductive, lovable and believable as Lux. She makes me wish i was her boyfriend. Not a film for everyone, but certainly worth a look. "},{"Title":"Grosse-out on teen suicide","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was put round the film festivals for nearly a year before going into general US and UK release, and it's not hard to see why. On one level we have a nostalgic growing up in Grosse Point Groves (it's set in Grosse Pointe, Michigan though the location shooting was done in Toronto). On another, we have a sort of a psychological mystery story with an ethereal air &#150; Peter Weir's  Picnic at Gross Pointe. There are also a few gross-out teenage bits &#150; Grosse Point Pie? There is also the perfectly serious and disturbing question of teen suicide. All these elements do not sit well together, though Sofia Coppola tells the story in a fairly coherent fashion. The whole thing smacks of excess and improbability &#150; do we need quite so many dead young beauties? Must the parents be such dorks? Need the studly young Tripp be so shallow? Need the boy voyeurs be so ridiculously young? What decade are we in anyway? The stated date is 1975 but the hairstyles and clothes are 50s and 60s. Don't overprotective/overdisciplining parents produce rebels rather than corpses? Anyway the box office was not very kind.Only one of the doomed sisters, Lux (well played by Kirstin Durst), is given any kind of personality, and the intra-group dynamic among the sisters remains unrevealed. Her parents, dorks though they may be, are nicely portrayed by James Wood and Kathleen Turner, who do as well as the script allows.  Josh Hartnett does a good vain little high school Lothario. Danny de Vito is wasted in a brief cameo as a psychiatrist.Perhaps what we have here is a book that doesn't really lend itself to filming &#150; what seems moving in print sometimes comes across as slapstick on film. Suicide, especially by the young, is not easy to laugh about, and this film suffers from confused intentions and  its lightness of approach. No, I think the definitive Grosse Point film was Grosse Pointe Blank. "},{"Title":"Not another teen movie","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides,like `Death in Venice', the center of the story is not death; To me the beautiful girls who vanished one by one symbolizes the tragic ending of something we cherish so much,it may be the innocence of youth or could be a dream that will never come true.This young boys seems fascinated with the quintet girls they also idealizes them as`untouchable goddesses I'm sure  they ,as adults, recall this particular period in the mid-seventies how happy they were when they make contact with the secluded beauties, the boys & girls exchange messages by playing popular(pop) songs on the phone.Sofia Coppola is more interested in the depiction of teenage life,the beauty of it,And The tragic of it,she achieves where all teen movies failin the mood,the spirit,The music,the clothes,the suffering and even the glory of being a dreamer.All the young cast are wonderful,especially Kirsten Dunst as the precocious `Lux' She really shines. This movie don't need to be realistic like a documentary,it works as a dark,gloomy and fascinating tale and  is better to avoid easy psycho-social explanation.When a tragedy had happened we all ask why? in `The Virgin Suicides' we keep silence.  "},{"Title":"Simply put - A horrible movie.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As soon as this movie finished I was left with this disgusting feeling inside.  Although I dont think a movie could be worse than Freddy Got Fingered, I will say this movie belongs on the shelf next to it.   These girls are so depressed I wish they would of just taken care of business within the first five minutes of this film.  But instead you watch the film just wishing it somehow turns out different than you know it will.  To sum it up, A very predictable movie with characters that have no human spirit at all.  Do yourself a HUGE favor and burn any copy of this film you might come across.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, moving movie","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Knowing the subject matter I was hesitant to watch this movie, but I am extremely glad I did.  My heart ached as I watched the isolation the girls were in and the parents who just don't get it.  The performances were outstanding.  Kirsten Dunst is radiant and broken, trying to fill a void that she can't quite reach.  Kathleen Turner is harsh and strict, thinking what she is doing is best for the girls, but making the matter worse.  James Woods seems to shrink after the death of his daughter, unable to stop or comprehend what is happening around him.  Josh Hartnett is also outstanding, and you some how feel satisfied with the misfortune that appears to have befallen him as an adult.  I think the two scenes I will always remember are the scenes when Kirsten Dunst wakes up alone in the football field.  You can feel her sense of betrayal and pain.  The other scene is with the scene where the sisters are exchanging songs with the group of boys across the street.  They don't say a word, instead the music speaks for them - the girls reaching out trying to explain how isolated they are and the boys understanding them amazing well, but not quite enough to stop what is going to happen.I am eager to see what Sofia Coppola does next. "}{"Title":"My new favorite movie!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the Virgin Suicides with little, to no expectations. I thought if I viewed it like that, I would not be let down by a poor showing. Within the first ten minutes of the film, I found myself drawn into these girls' lives, and just how simple, yet complex they are. I was in no way let down by the film, and I was so happy that I found this little treasure on the shelf at the video store. I quickly ran out to purchase the book, movie, as well as the sound track. (Which is well done by Air, whom I have had the pleasure of seeing at a club.)My favorite scene in the movie is when the girls are playing a bit of phone tag with the boys across the street. They begin playing albums for each other. The songs say everything that they couldn't. It's just a beautiful scene.If you are wanting to see a movie filled with fast paced action, this is not the one for you. But if you want to simply sit back, and be entertained, I strongly suggest that you rent it, maybe even buy it.  "},{"Title":"An impressive debut, and what a gorgeous film to look at!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A friend loaned me this one on the weekend, and I was completely bowled over. Sofia can finally put all those nasty comments about her acting ability to rest, since she has found her true calling in life, and that would be as an indie filmmaker. Here, she has crafted as artful and tasteful a movie about suicide as humanly possible. Were it not for the subject matter, content (no nudity, a smattering of profanity, brief drug use, and some implied sexuality) would have only garnered The Virgin Suicides a PG-13. There are so many nice touches to this film that I don't know where to begin. The use of coloured filters to convey mood is so refreshing in this age of computer manipulation of colour, the audible thump of needle to vinyl every time a song begins, the careful attention to detail in the fashion and set design... this is the most beautiful movie on such a serious subject I have ever seen. Some have said it is grim and depressing, but I didn't find it that way at all. Since we never truly get to know the Lisbon sisters, the end (and I will not spoil this) comes across as less shocking and more disappointing, since I would like to spend more time with these characters and get to know them better. This is mostly true because of the excellent performances of all involved. Kirsten Dunst is a revelation, I can forgive Josh Hartnett for Pearl Harbour, and James Woods and Kathleen Turner both do excellent work in carefully modulated performances. I would not hesitate to recommend this to friends, but at the same time, I would warn them that it's not what they would expect of the subject matter. "},{"Title":"Nice film, its a pity it just stops.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really wanted to like this film. Indeed, on the strength of the reviews, I went and bought it. I like the way it is shot, the story and the performances, all the way up until it just stops. I know the end isn't meant to be uplifting, but i felt that the film just stopped. There was no sense of closure, which I felt from American Beauty. I was left wondering what the point of the film was... Please don't do what I did and buy the film on the strength of the reviews you use here, check it out first because you might find, like me, that this film has a lot in common with a broken pencil - pointless. "},{"Title":"original, accessible and relevant","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very strong first work.  Love for the craft and love for the subject matter. Fresh, original style/voice yet unforced.  Can't wait to see her next film. I liked the way she restrained from moralizing, and revealed the weirdness and mystery of the girls.    "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Film...Sorta","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** Oh my gosh, this movie rocks. It shouldn't be rated R, it should be PG-13, except anyone under 11 SHOULD NOT see it. The images are a lil frightening to a 12 & 13 year old...Kirsten Dunst did an excellent job. That goes for Josh Hartnett, James Woods, Kathleen Turner, and the girls who potrayed the sisters as well. This is a lil review I wroteI must say that The Virgin Suicides may be one of the greatestmovies of all time. It most annoys me while I watch the film, and theperson watching it with me asks Why did they kill themselves?, Isit almost over? and all other questions. They simply do not understand the beauty of the film.From the opening scenes, untill the devastating end, you feel real sadness for the neighboorhood boys who went through their lifes adoring the Lisbon sisters, and never having the chance to interact with them.After 13-year-old Cecilia's first un-expected suicide attempt, the Lisbon household starts to warm up, and the Catholic parents become less strict, they through the girls their first and only party. This was the first accqauintance of the boys and the Lisbon girls; where Cecilia suceeds and ends her life. There are only four sisters left, Lux, 14, Bonnie, 15, Mary, 16, and Therese, 17. After the girls go back to school, they act as if nothing happened. One of the most significant happenings to the Lisbons, is when Trip Fontaine, the new high-school stud, starts to have feelings for Lux. Trip asks her to the homecoming; after lots of consideration, the parents allow him to take Lux, as long as he has dates for the other girls also. When Lux is too late, Mrs.Lisbon goes wack, and locks the girls up, for good. There for there was no longer any more communication with the outside world.This film is outstanding, congradulations to Sofia Coppola, on making a favorite movie among many Americans, and non-Americans at that. The cast was choosen great. Each girl chosen to potray the sisters, did an excellent job.If I were to rate tht film myself, I would have to give it a 4/5.The only reason I did not give the film a 5/5 is because I have also read the novel by Jeffrey Eugenides. Sofia did indeed leave out lots of information, and the narrator didn't provide enough. The look and feel of the filmdefinatly seamed set in the 70's. Ms.Coppola could have done better, but not by far. "},{"Title":"I am deeply concerned that now I know why people commit suicides...","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the movies that actually make you think about it... I am not going to comment on the plot but i am going to borrow a book and read it... Of course it's a bit surrealistic, like all the move essentially, because director never shot movies with actresses that look like normal humans, and all the Lisbon sisters are too good looking to be real...) I'm sure all the other users have already commented on the plot, so here are my feelings... One of the most interesting and touching scenes is when Lux wakes up alone in the field (and that's where I agree with Sofia Copola, because it's her favourite shot too)... It's worth watching, but never watch it with a bunch of drunk friends, because you actually have to understand and think about it... I am not sure if I feel in love with the movie, but it had a certain impact on me at that stage... I am deeply concerned that now I know why people commit suicides... "},{"Title":"Mysteriously good","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I gave this one a 9. I really liked this movie because it does a good job of telling a little story. How good it does it is shown by the fact that, through the movie, you really feel what the boys feel about the Lisbon girls, I mean, you will be as drawn to their beauty, but mystified by their personalities as well, while, on the other hand, you also get to know the struggle of the girls, and be suffocated by their circumstances, just like they are. That, in a few words, along with a good story, it's excellent acting and direction, and I'm really happy that director Sofia Coppola is finding a true vocation. Great 70's sound track too!. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film is haunting, I saw it years ago but I still think about it. The girls are played very well, Kirsten Dunst seductive (although not sticking to the character portrayed in the book). The setting is perfect, no other sets and props could have looked better, and the soundtrack was very fitting. The opening scene is one of the most memorable visual moments, the amount of blood in the water not overdone but still dramatic. As I watched this my friend and I, instead of during a horror film, didn't clutch at each other but were just detatched from the disgust we wold have feel had it been real, we were to blinded by the unreal of beauty of it. Much as I love the film I did feel at times it touched on tackiness, reminisent of 'That 70's Show' in some of the filming. I found that Celia and Lux were the only sisters that seemed to have any character, the others faded into each other and seemed to form only one other sister. The parents were aimable to watch, although I didn't find them as dazzling as some of the other reviewers did, and I found the presence of Danny Devito unnecessary and frankly, quite bizarre. Trip Fontaine is well played but the admiration the girls at school seem to have for him touches on comedy. I love this film, it's the kind of film you always have at the back of your mind always after you have seen it. "},{"Title":"Mute and speechless","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought there aren't any more of those movies that can just leave you speechless at the end, you just go mute and... Any sound, even a whisper or a sigh would have been concidered as a violence to the atmosphere that this film leaves in the room after it is over. So - it requires solitude or a certain degree of open mind if you're more than one person watching it. It reached out and touched me very deep inside. Thank you Sofia Coppola. Thank you Air for the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Spooky","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not a movie for everyone, and everywhere. You have to bee in the right mood to fully enjoy this film. It is has a sad , spooky , dreamy, melancholical feeling to it that no film has ever had.  Sofia Copolla does an excellent work, the Soundtrack is possibly in the Top 3 of all times , montaz and editing are top , and the performances are excellent. Don't expect to see allot of sentimentality here ( allthough the are suicides and all.)  This film cannot be described,You have to see it. And see it NOW. VERY good film.10/10 "}{"Title":"This one will catch you off-guard","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't exactly sure what to expect here, having some previous knowledge of the plot. It seemed to me that it would be some monstrous mistake by a first time screenwriter/director, trying to explain how five young sisters met their demise.  I am here to tell you that I was totally wrong.I consider myself, a good movie critic. I am a senior citizen, male, and always looking for an interesting film.  This one is more than that. it is an intricately woven tale of five young girls who appear perfectly normal on the surface, but beneath this calm-appearing exterior, beats a heart of a drastically different nature.Sofia Coppola is the master behind this work. You will see at once, that it is poignantly directed. It is both haunting and eerie, yet filled with blissful moments. Even though it starts a little slow, you will find yourself drawn right into the story. It comes across as being totally believable, even with the odd premise it stands for.Throw in a fine job by Kathleen Turner, and even better job by James Woods, and a unique performance by Kirsten Dunst, and you've got more than enough reasons to watch this excellent film. there are even a few cameo roles by people you will recognize, thrown in.  I seriously doubt that you will easily forget this strange, yet pleasing movie story. It's as if it actually happened.Here and there, one of the boys does a narration to keep the flow going and it works perfectly. If you were thinking of taking a chance on a cinema experience, by all means, watch The Virgin Suicides. Even the title works.  Trust me. "},{"Title":"a good first outing for Sofia Coppola","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After hearing and reading reviews on Sofia Coppola's directorial debut, I was perhaps a little apprehensive(?) about seeing this movie, but a friend of mine convinced me to watch it, and I did. After I had hit stop, the first word out of my mouth was Wow. (note, not Wow! as in excitement but Wow. as in Deep.)This movie had a good storyline, great photography and even better acting. While the story had the occasional dull patch (what movie doesn't?), it had enough to keep me intrigued, almost as much as the boys who spent their time trying to figure out the five Lisbon sisters. Several scenes in particular really stood out - Lux waking up alone on the football field, the boys playing records over the phone to the girls after their entrapment, and the burning of the records by the overprotective mother. The occaisional, subtle one-liners (Cecilia after her first attempt, Obviously, Doctor, you have never been a thirteen year old girl) lightened the mood at the right time, and reminded you that these are real people.The pick of the actors were quite obviously the one's whose characters we got to know best. Kathleen Turner's (The War of the Roses) overprotective mother, James Wood's (Riding in Cars with Boys, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within) distant father figure, Josh Harntett (Pearl Harbour, The Faculty) as Trip, the guy who got the closest, and the best of them all, Kirsten Dunst (Bring It On) as Lux, the rebellious daughter, if you could call it that, who tried to buck the system, ie, her parents, and ended up doing it in the most poignant of ways.While a fair amount of other people who have commented on this movie have stated that they wanted to know WHY they killed themselves, I believe it is one of the standout features of the movie. Of course the parents, in particular the mother, were a factor, but it comes across that they are not the only reason, and asks you what you think, much like the boys. (Even now, when we run into each other... we end up in a corner going over the evidence, trying to figure it out.)8/10 "},{"Title":"Tragic story of helplessness","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An eloquent narration of a story that is ultimately tragic and repugnant. The viewer is sometimes displaced and never put at ease by awkward humour and unconventional shots.A shortcoming of the movie is the lack of delineation of the male(s) narration and the parallel female viewpoint. The narration of the boys contains flavours of a female's interpretation of events.A thoughtful movie that is recommended.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I could relate ...","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While most felt there to be much missing for the film ... and for those who didn't grow up in an overly protective, sheltered household this movie is probably very foriegn ... I could understand it all too well. The viewer is only given a glimpse into the Libson home because the story is told by the boys in the neighborhood and they can only know what they see from their houses, at school and from their interactions with the daughters. The fact of the matter is there is a dark, almost repressive side to Kathleen Turner's character. For further examiniations into mothers like this - who care more for keeping up appearances rather than actually happiness - you should read the English version of the La Casa de Bernarda Alba (The House of Bernarda Alba), a play about a widow with several daughters who keeps them cooped up in the house after the father's death and is OBSESSED with appearances and repressed sexuality.The father doesn't get involved because he long ago decided the mother would be the primary caretakers, possibly because they only had girls and he concluded that he could therefore, not truly take care of them in the way a woman could. The mother, obviously very repressed herself, deals with every situation by tightening her grasp on them. She provides no affection, only strictness and regime. She probably controls every aspect of their lives from what they want to be when the grow up to when they can get their drivers' liscences. I was often tortured as a teen because I was raised by my mother to believe that boys were bad and that it was immature and ridiculous to be young and in love and feel affection for the opposite sex. If you're told this everyday of your life from birth, you either grow up thinking Mom's right and constantly feeling guilty for having human urges, or Mom's wrong and lash out.School was probably the only outlet for the girls and once it was taken away there was no other alternative. When you're young, you don't think that someday you can grow up and run away. 15 can seem like forever and they probably didn't see anything changing, so they killed themselves to make a point.Of course I'm only reading my own experience into this, but for me, all arrows pointed to this sort of maddness. Often families who have seemingly perfect children and perfect lives are only really good on putting on a front for everyone else. The only thing that can give off that glossy shine of perfection at times is the strictness and rigidness that can only come from determined parents, bent on keeping their kids sheltered and in an advanced state of arrested development. And you really start to think you're going crazy when you get punished for being a normal teenager. It didn't matter how many times I cried and told my parents it was normal for an 18-year-old girl to want a date to the prom (Emphasis on want, not have). They said it wasn't normal and they were the law in our house.I also only have sisters, but so far, none of us have killed ourselves. We just all grew up and moved away. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and confuse","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After watched this movies you will feel strange and depressed. The story is beautiful and the characters good but there is something bad on the movie. The plot is so confused and the events flux too many time. Apart Lux Lisbon you will not grow fond of the other Lisbon sister as there would be; good instead about the parents. The best thing about this movie are the photography and the soundtrack; the image of Lux alone on the football field will touch you so much such as the songs, the boys, listen at the phone together the four sister. As conclusion i can judge this movie beautiful and confuse....like a poetry.Domenico de Romanis  "},{"Title":"Blood is Thicker Than Water","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many have described Sofia Coppolla's directorial debut as dreamlike, comparing it to Peter Weir's Picnic at Hanging Rock and it's easy to see why. Coppolla uses soft colours, angelic actresses, a lush soundtrack and a camera that is like a casual, wandering eye, almost too lazy to follow the narrative often veering off to focus on the white-picketed wholesome suburbs to which the central characters belong. However, much like Picnic&#133; this all works to deceit us, hiding us from the darker forces at play.The Lisbon Sisters are the objects of fantasy for the majority of hormone-charged boys in a quiet Michigan suburb. Behind their beauty is a mysteriousness that has left all the boys captivated and longing to satiate their appetite. For some of the neighbourhood boys, the Lisbon girls become an obsession, and it is through these characters that the viewer is related the tragic story of the sisters' lives. When Cecilia, the youngest of the five sisters attempts suicide, their overbearing mother (Kathleen Turner) becomes even more protective of her daughters. When Cecilia later makes a successful attempt at taking her own life, the family is plunged into tragedy and the neighbourhood is rife with rumours. As the months pass, and things seem to be getting back to normal, the second youngest daughter Lux (Kirsten Dunst) becomes increasing rebellious, culminating in one night of wildness, forcing her mother to punish the four sisters severely, with tragic consequences.While beautifully shot and well acted, the virgin suicides seems to have little point, rambling along quietly, occasionally threatening to explode without ever quite doing so. However, it never bores, and the slow pace compliments the rest of the movie like a fine wine would a feast. Generally though, a slow narrative is designed to flesh out the storyline, and this is where the problem arises with The Virgin Suicides. The sisters are as mysterious to the viewer as they are to the boys in the film, as their motives and thoughts are never fully explored, except in one scene where Cecilia's Diary is found and read aloud by the boys, which is both touching and telling in its exploration of what appears to be a normal 13 year old girl. However, the lack of explanation will likely leave many viewers frustrated and its not recommended if you're a fan of the open case/ shut case linear narrative. The virgin suicides may be a beautifully shot film, with dreamlike qualities that are certainly to its merit, but one cant help feeling that it thinks its deeper than it in actuality is. 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"incomplelte film.","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After watching the virgin sucides i felt somewhat let down.  The Characters, acting, style and soundtrack where great.  Where this movie fell short was the erratic story telling.When it began, i felt drawn to know more about the characters but in the corse of the story the characters where not hardly at all.  It seems as though the director tries to do to much with too little and ends up leaving the story empty.  You get a little bit about all the characters but not enough to really feel for them or really care much about them.  the only exception was the parents.  woods and turner did an excelent job with their rolls, the sublime details really brought some emotion to the parents but no understanding.As the audience you get little pieces of a story but end up with missing pages.  ribsi's naration was great but there wasn't enough.  same with the girls, i just wanted more of the characters not a little bit about everything.  this movie lacks direction and true story telling.I'm left wanting to read the book because it seems like sophia coppola tried to do to much in to little time and ended up with a hollow ending because its no suprise what happens and the characters where to incomplete to realy care what happend to them.Not a bad movie, worth the little time, the book would probly be a much better way to catch this story though. "},{"Title":"What did I miss?","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Did I see the same movie as the people that gave it a 7.3 on the IMdb rating scale saw?  The movie seemed to be about something but whatever it was about surely eluded me. This is one of those movies the viewing of which makes me think I am from another planet. Take me to your leader...    "},{"Title":"An intense, creative view on adolescence, the seventies, and mystery","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A gorgeous, well-conceived story set in the background of the nineteen seventies finds five young men caught up in their deep obsession with five neighboring sisters.  After an apparent eternity of observing these beautiful creatures from afar, it seems that the boys are finally going to fulfill their undying fantasies.  Instead, the plot twists with a tragic turn of events that leave the boys forever altered in a way they never imagined.  In truth, could one really imagine a film with the title, The Virgin Suicides actually ending with and they lived happily ever after?  "},{"Title":"Almost, but not quite","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I walked into this film hoping, expecting it would really be something great, something that would make serious comments about a serious issue. The film opens with the death of the youngest lisbon sister, yet her death evokes no emotion, no pathos, no nothing.  In fact, the same feeling is carried on throughout the film.  We never really know, or see too much about the lisbon girls, especially the other sisters besides lux to feel any sort of emotion for their deaths.  I'm a teenager, i understand that life is hard, but simply telling us isn't enough, as an audience we need to see it, but more than that, we need to believe it.  Simply having some mediocrely performed/written about burning records or being locked at home isn't going to cut it.  If you want to see a more believeable suicide see dead poets society.  The film was slow paced, and didn't seem to make any general statement or reveal any grand truth.  Granted, there was good use of symbolism, good writing during the narrations and semi-decent direction. Katleen turner turned out an excellent performance, as well as james woods. Josh hartnett was good, but his character, like those of the lisbons were just not delved into deeply enough.  I guess I just wanted something more out of this film then I actually got, maybe that was just my unrealistic expectations, i don't know.  That seems to be the way with all the coppolas, however, able to obscure the truth the film serves to reveal. "}{"Title":"Probably the best dark comedy I've ever seen!","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the most outrageously funny dark comedy I've ever seen!  The ridiculousness of some of the characters as well as the dialogue kept me laughing throughout the entire movie.  The soundtrack is excellent as well. Anyone who hasn't seen this movie should be cautioned not to take the plot seriously; this is not a sad dramatic movie that some have mistaken it to be.  Sofia Coppola, as well as the author of the book, purposely meant this otherwise tragic type of story to be transformed into truly ridiculous situations and occurrences; don't get hung up on the whole suicide thing because that's not the point of the movie.  Sofia Coppola has done a perfect job with a type of movie that is difficult to pull off.  "},{"Title":"A non-depressing suicide film with class rarely seen in US flicks today","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had only just been lamenting the pitiful output from the US (after seeing Moulin Rouge, hyped beyond belief even in these pages but a loud & lurid, sprawling, overemotional mess) in the past 12 months when I at last got around to renting this classy number.  Having been put off by the prospect of it being a touch maudlin considering the subject matter I found this one of the most genuine and enchanting movies I have seen in a long while, and if ever from a US film.James Woods is approaching mythic status after this enormously restrained and affecting role, consuming the part and never exposing himself as being anything other than the maths teacher he played.  Kathleen Turner transformed herself into a character actress with a long career ahead and the younger elements in the Lisbon family (only two of whom are really exposed here) are as alluring and awe inspiring as the film narrators (neighbourhood boys besotted with the girls) suggest.What I loved most about this movie is that it never gets on a moral high horse or tells you how to feel or who to feel for, it tells it like it is without any emotional manipulation.  The music (by Air) may feel cold but suits the blissed out and dreamy seventies hues and the cordial formality enforced by the domineering mother (Turner).Sofia Coppola surpasses much of her fathers work with one film and engenders much excitement as to where her career will take her (hopefully not to the depths of her fathers Jack).  Rent it buy it borrow it and prepare to be entertained and not reaching for the razorblades in sympathy.  "},{"Title":"7/10","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful images, teasing music by french-group 'Air' and a more than promising debut for Sofia Coppola as a director. Woods has the best bit-part as the absent-minded father. The only negative thing I can mention about this film is the failure of uncovering the mistery behind the suicides. That's somewhat unsatisfying after seeing such a pleasant film. Dunst must have been very pleased with the way she was photographed, she looks stunning. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Misguided Comments Unknowingly Support Theme (*SPOILERS*)","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great disparity exists on viewers' opinions of this film.  Personally, I enjoyed it, but do not see it as a masterpiece.  Nevertheless, a great number of comments are focused on the lack of meaning of the suicides. These people often focus on the apparently flippancy of the deaths and the lack of reason behind them.  Those who feel this way are unknowingly playing the role of the parents in this film.  Sure, the girls are provided for, but one needs more than the necessities to thrive.  The burning of the records serve as a symbol of the removal of what makes life worth living.  The records themselves are meaningless; it is the mother's need for control and protection that eventually cause the total loss.  The suicides are not simply teens throwing around their angst, but instead a state which was slowly drifted into after the color was removed from their lives. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and bedazzling.","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE VIRGIN SUICIDES (1999)  Rating 9/10A daring idea indeed, The Virgin Suicides is a critically acclaimed gem that has so many words that could describe it. It's a shocking, disturbing, dramatic, interesting, beautiful&#133;I could go on all day. I liked the way this movie ventured into things we haven't seen done quite so professionally lately, it was certainly a great movie that has the guts to be different and even funny in its seriously no-jokes premise. Sofia Coppola, following the family tradition of directing, gives a stunner debut directing effort in this film, she has total promise for the future. You can see Coppola's effort shining in the behind-camera areas, and the performances in front of the cameras are amazing. Kathleen Turner is real and strictly engaging, while Kirsten Dunst is entirely bewitching as the most interesting and risky sister. This film leaves on a totally haunting note and you may have to just sit still and watch the credits for a few minutes before walking again. There are also some really neat camera-tricks and some shots that will definitely be remembered for their visual excellence. Sofia Coppola may need to work on her story-telling skills (which are indeed good, but in the middle The Virgin Suicides may tend to drag on for some audiences) but I was very satisfied with this fascinating and memorable picture that will certainly stick in your sleep.  "},{"Title":"Something is missing","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, this movie was beautiful to look at, but to me, there was definitely something missing from the story. I think I lacked an understanding of the girls lives because I certainly could see no reason to even contemplate suicide. Perhaps showing more of their home life or whatever exactly was their problems would have helped out here.Like I said, the movie looked beautiful but I couldn't accept the girls choices without an understanding of why they chose it. "},{"Title":"What an excellent film...","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful film and not just for for the wonderfully gorgeous Josh Hartnett (Trip Fontaine) and the excellent soundtrack and 70's costumes. Having read the book I went to see this film thinking that it could not possibly live up to my expectations - however, apart from a few minor emissions it followed the story wonderfully and was well acted and directed. The director dealt with a difficult subject and did so with class and understanding! "},{"Title":"I thought i liked it but 10 minutes later i realized that i didnt","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the film last night and i thought it had many good elements on it, some kind of charmed, some kind of style, some kind of magic. But this morning i woke up and i had plenty of questions in my mind. Whats the film about? About the girls or only about Lux? About freedom? Im a social worker and i think that films shouldnt try to embrace teenager and social problems just in a superficial way to get to be cool and win the audience.Except for the music and some good performances i think that this film doesnt even touch an idea.Some things are serious and they should be threatened that way.Last conclusion too superficial, too pretentious and all you get to see at the end is Luxs face everywhere in the film. "},{"Title":"Comparing the book and the movie","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was excellent! However, if you read the book you will be disappointed! It loses the intensity and power although Josh Harnett may keep you entertained! The movie also leaves out some important points of the story such as the fact that one sister (Mary) survives at the end and then commits suicides again. Overall, though, a good movie "},{"Title":"This movie is bold enough to be about what it not said, and not say so.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Almost Pinter-esque in that it is about what is missing--it reveals by concealing.  I think it's very rare that a movie risk going over a person's head.  Although it is a highly narrative film, it avoids exposition.  It is extremely well-written and fearlessly directed.  Subtle, and stark. Beautifully done. "}{"Title":"Remember when you where a teenager","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this film, I felt something different, it was like a return to the past, and the way of feeling of the teenagers. When everything is or absolutely fantastic or absolutely terrific, when life is only the present, when nothing is under your control. The fotograph of the film is very beautiful, like the girls of the family, like the things we idealize. This is not an action film, is an emotional film so what happend or why is not the most important. Why do they that? Because little things are sometimes a big drama. When some people says that is slow I thing they must be in a hurry for something, there are things that you can enjoy only little by little. "},{"Title":"It's all about Lux!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say that I was very impressed by The Virgin Suicides. It was a very haunting film. Sofia Coppola's direction is unique and very impressive. The soundtrack was great. And I must say, I was extremely impressed by Kirsten Dunst's performance as Lux Lisbon! The character was mysterious, beautiful, unpredictable, and very interesting. Of course, Kirsten Dunst is my favorite young actress and I've always enjoyed her in the movies she has been in. James Woods and Kathleen Turner were right on as the stern parents of the Lisbon sisters. Josh Hartnett is in the movie but only in the middle of it. It's more of a cameo if you ask me. Overall, I like this movie a lot. It has artsy camerawork, good music, performances, direction, etc. Kirsten you rule! I love all the movies you are in, keep up the awesome work!  "},{"Title":"disturbing but good","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very well-made. I enjoyed watching it alot even though it was quite depressing and disturbing. But it was real. It showed reality and I am happy it didnt really seem too Hollywood if you know what i mean. Overall i thought it was very good. 8/10 "},{"Title":"tragic, beautiful, amazing","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is a tragic and thought provoking view into the lives of five tortured girls and the boys who were obsessed with them. The five girls were always a mystery and something that no one, even the psychologists, would or could ever understand. The movie shows all the repercussions of the deaths of these five girls. More than their family and those boys were affected, the whole community was. The music for the film is very appropriate for the film and the directing is excellent. "},{"Title":"Stylish and thought-provoking","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd like to begin by saying that last night, I had the second strangest triple-feature I've ever had (after the beginning of the Gumby Movie, Fight Club and then the rest of Gumby).  This time it was the Virgin Suicides, Dude, Where's My Car?, and Unbreakable.  I knew the least about Virgin Suicides and it ended up being the most consistently good movie of the night.Here we have a movie that manages to visualize the way a teenaged girl sees the world (I'm thinking of that wonderful diary sequence and of Trip's introduction).  It rings very true.  And although the ending is very sad, you come away with the sense that this is the only way this situation could have resolved.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A Little Captivating/ More Confusing","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are many good things about this film.  The sets are beautiful, the music is entrancing, the dialogue is good, and the acting, especially Kristen Dunst is superb.  The film has all the right touches to make an excellent movie, but it just does not succeed to that level.  What The Virgin Suicides lacks is a punch and some character development.   There are five Lisbon sisters and Dunst's character Lux is the only one barely delved.  Although we get to see her actions they are never explained and the emotional impact these events cause never get explored except for the mysterious suicide.  The youngest Lisbon sister Cecilia the most intriguing of the five starts to develop into an emotional being when the neighborhood boys find her diary after her suicide and read from it out-loud, but this stops just as abruptly as her life.   From watching the DVD behind the scenes I learned that the book actually never elaborated on any of the sisters but they are used more as a sexual fable for young boys sexual puberty.  This may have worked for the film if screenwriter and director Sofia Coppola had surrounded the story around the neighborhood boys who often fantasize about the Lisbon sisters. Instead she sloppily weaves both groups of characters together completely voided either of any emotional connection to the audience. The film overall is entertaining although it is loosely held together and simply just strange. It would almost work better as an experimental photographic art book since its visual sting is its strongest element.  Kristen Dunst shined and Sofia Coppola has many characteristics of a great filmmaker she just needs to evolve with her creativeness.  I look forward to any of her future projects.    "},{"Title":"I found a different message","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"       As I was reading through the film reviews posted up, I found that I took something totally different from the film. As I was watching it I couldn't help but think this film was about freedom. James Woods and Kathleen Turner are over-protective parents. I think if they would have let their daughters live a little, they(probably)wouldn't have commited suicide. All they needed was to live their lives.     I watched this film awhile ago so I'm not going to try and write some in depth review of the film that I don't fully remember. There were certain things I did remember, though.     I remember I loved the dreamy-like mood of the film. I thought it brought a certain creepiness to the film. I also liked the lighting in the film. It seemed to set the tone for certain scenes perfectly. I did enjoy Kirsten Dunst's performance. When she gets the right material she can do wonders (Interview with the Vampire), but when she gets bad stuff, well, it's bad (Get Over It). Plus, James Woods is one of the greats. He always seems to be overlooked by a lot of people. But he is amazing. And Kathleen Turner was perfect as the over-protective mother.     Sofia Coppella could have a good career ahead of her. I'm one of the few people that didn't think she was bad in The Godfather 3. But I think she is a nice director and I'm interested to see what she'll do next.     I enjoyed the mood and the acting. I will probably buy it whenever I see it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Paltry Compared to Novel","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I refuse to recommend this movie to anyone.  After having seen it and read the book, I stand by the fact that the book is undeniably anbd infinitely better.  However, by all accounts, this film SHOULD be much better.  Sofia Coppola in her infinitely bland creativity took it upon herself to practically copy the book word for word.  Whole scenes read exactly like the book.  However, Ms. Coppola missed one important thing in her crafting of this film...the fact that the very strength and purpose of the novel is to show the desperation of the neighborhood boys.  Her film barely gives a thought to the boys, instead focusing soley on the Lisbon girls themselves. Apparently, Ms. Copplola did not realize when she read the fantastic and stunning novel by Jeffrey Eugenides that the whole thrust of the Lisbon girls and their lives is that they CANNOT be known and CANNOT be understood, neither by the readers of the book or the watchers of this poor substitute for art of a film. "},{"Title":"Depressing yet empowering","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented The Virgin Suicides last night and watched it this morning. Many people told me I'd like it and I wanted to see how the next generation of Coppola's were doing. I found the movie very empowering and thought provoking. As a teenager myself, I know how much stress is in our lives. Most adults don't know, and this movie tells them about it.Even though I'm not the biggest Kirsten Dunst fan in the world, her acting was very good. And Josh Hartnett, who I fell in love with after seeing Pearl Harbor, played his of the high school hunk football player very well. But, I think the best acting was done by Hannah R. Hall, who played the youngest Lisbon sister. She was featured in the movie for only a short period of time, but her acting was amazing.All in all, I highly recommend The Virgin Suicides. The ending is depressing, but it makes you think about the life of these teenage girls. I give it 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"I cried until I ran out of tissues!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, no, I didn't. There are some moments in The Virgin Suicides that touch you, not really sorrowfully, but kind of reminiscent, and you smile a sad smile when any of the characters are happy. This is rare, however.The film is set in 1975, and is basically about the Lisbon sisters Lux, Mary, Bonnie and Therese.  Beautiful, deep and the most popular girls wherever they are. A group of teenage boys are besotted by these girls and often go on dates with them. Within a year, every one of the 5 Lisbon sisters has taken her own life.  The girls all seem so real, not like the usual spoilt kids you see in most movies. And you feel genuinely sorry for the parents whenever the next girl goes, and the boys too.  I was sobbing at this. I think it shows what happens to a family when suicide is involved, what happens to the friends, the teachers, anyone who knew the person involved. It's a genuine classic and I want it to be seen that way. stacy_g_ie   "}{"Title":"As great as the book, a little peek into the world of suburban teenage blight","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love the smell of Suburban Teenage Blight in the morning. Great movie! I adore the book and started to read it before I saw the movie, and was very happy with the outcome of the film. The film doesn't lack in anything, direction, acting, story, visuals..... Sofia Coppola may be the next great. She went right for the details, from the 20 packages of tampons to the bronzed baby shoes. There are some small missing details, but the film doesn't lack for it, and it is as great as the book. I am interested to see what she does next. "},{"Title":"What Is A Masterpiece?","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched the DVD of THE VIRGIN SUICIDES again last night in the hope that I had misjudged it the first time around.  Like most people, I'm susceptible to movie reviews and after reading the words magnificent and glorious and haunting and brilliant directorial debut I wanted to love this film.  Regrettably, it didn't improve with a second viewing. Proclaiming any work of art a masterpiece may be the artistic equivalent of Einstein's' theory of Relativity in that it depends on the perspective of the viewer.  I should state upfront that I'm not a teenager, so maybe I shouldn't be commenting on a film made from a famous book on the subject of teen suicides.  And to be honest, this film may have poignancy to younger viewers that was lost on my mature sensibilities.   I was brought up on the films of Ingmar Bergman and Stanley Kubrick, so I'm not hooked on thrill a minute, T & A festivals or on following Indiana Jones on another crusade.  For me a film is either good or not good---------or great, when you're lucky enough to find one and awful when you're not.  A film either has to have marvelous action/special effects, or have a good story and be intellectually engaging.  I prefer the latter.  I expected the latter in the case of THE VIRGIN SUICIDES.  Instead I found suppressed hormones and five teenage girls who believe that being female is a liability.   Almost as a religious pact, they decide to withdraw from the world permanently.  The Lisbons are a highly dysfunctional family.  Dad is a socially inept math teacher, while mom is a strict disciplinarian who forgets she was once a young girl.  I call the family dysfunctional, yet the nice middle class family I saw on the screen is quite common in American life.  That may be the real and tragic message of this film.I'd like the people who saw this as a masterpiece to look at Ingmar Bergman's CRIES AND WHISPERS, which also has deep sisterly emotions in a family crisis and let me know what they thought of it.  If THE VIRGIN SUICIDES speaks to you, then this really may be a great film, but CRIES AND WHISPERS speaks to everyone----------and isn't that the definition of a masterpiece?Jay F.  "},{"Title":"This could have been a painting or a photograph.","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides is resplendent with still-life photography. Somehow the camera manages to unravel a little of that human facade that often obfuscates a person's internal makeup and character. You don't have to be unusually perceptive to slice through the outer layers of these characters and find a glimpse of their affected souls, the camera does that for you. There were moments, especially when watching Kirsten Dunst as Lux, I found  a light emanating from the cavernous insides of the characters and glowing amidst a drab milieu. The montages revolve around a central point, a epicentre where the will of the character dictates the movement of the surroundings. Sometimes, while watching Lux, the scenery seems to pullulate elliptically about her. When you consider that the scenery was fashioned like still-life photography, with every inch fixed and significantly conspicuous, this rotation exuberantly guides the observer and the film's periphery elements, towards the emotional centre.What do I mean? I think Sophia Coppola quietly unveiled the inner lives of her characters and did so while remaining taciturnly committed to allowing the story to tell itself. What is interesting is that at times, with the possible exception of Lux's character, the story and the characters are inseparable. There is a melding of the two, a fusion of body and motion that guides the viewer through movements, not unlike a symphony gliding towards a finish, or crescendo, or maybe resolution? I admire Coppola's ability to remain quiet, in modern American film this is a rare quality. It is also noteworthy that Coppola did not exploit the sexuality of her characters to make up for the lack of gratuitous violence in the story. The sexuality of the characters is never denied, never overlooked, but is allowed to flourish organically, slowly unfolding like a flower whose moment has come and whose world is anticipating its arrival.One could criticize this film because it appears that Lux dominates the story and she does. However, I do find that she provides an appropriate apex, a needed centre for the rotation and litany of the film. We also could criticize the screenplay for shrouding us in a thick mystery, a persistent rhetorical refrain of Why? How? Who? But there is a reason there isn't an omnicient narrator, for, like a portfolio of still-life photographs, we are left with images and the narration they exude, not the philosophy or paradigm rendered putative by pedagougery or didactics.  "},{"Title":"Words are never enough","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A cinematic tour de force! Absolutely breathtaking! Every scene executed with such precision you'd swear you were there. Mrs. Coppola paints a surrealistic picture of the tragic suicide of five beautiful sisters with a felt tipped brush and watercolours. Anyone who's ever been young and lost someone to tragedy, but didn't quite understand why should rent this one.  Some should do it twice (I did)! "},{"Title":"Still thinking about the movie almost a week later","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When compared to the recent fare of teen movies as of late (Can't Hardly Wait, American Pie, She's all That, Drive Me Crazy, etc...), this is a refreshing change.The cinematography is excellent, making this a very easy film to watch. The soundtrack includes excellent original tracks by Air, as well as some of the best mid-late 70's songs by Heart and Styx to name a few.Several reviewers have complained about the lack of plot or character development, but this is intentional.  After the ending, one can't help but watch scenes again to try to figure out exactly what happened.Overall, a very good film.    "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  **Warning  Spoilers Ahead**I really don't know how to feel about this movie.  On one hand, the acting was great.  On the other hand, the story wasn't.This movie basically follows the lives on the 5 Lisbon sisters, from the point of view of the boy across the street that are obsessed with them.  The movie starts off with a sad kind of mood when you see the youngest Lisbon sister, Cecilia (Hanna R. Hall), in a bathtub filled with the blood that is coming out of her wrists.  She recovers, but later on in the movie she hasn't gotten any happier and commits suicide.The 4 remaining sisters, Lux (Kirsten Dunst), Mary (A.J. Cook), Bonnie (Chelse Swain), and Therese (Leslie Hayman) are trapped in a house with their over-protective parents (James Wood and Kathleen Turner).  All of the real trouble starts when Lux convinces her parents to let her and her sisters go to a dance with Trip Fontaine (Josh Hartnett) and some of his friends.Lux and Trip get a little freaky on the baseball field, and Trip leaves Lux there.  Lux wakes up the next morning, and breaking curfew is not permitted in her house.  So what do her parents do?  They put the whole family of girls on lockdown, even prohibiting them from going to school.  All of these events lead to a conclusion that you already know from the title of the movie.The story line was pretty good.  But the way that the movie was executed didn't.  It was decent to watch it once, but it's not the kind of movie that you watch a 2nd time.  The dialogue wasn't interesting at all and the voice-over by one of the obsessed boys just made it even worse.The acting was no something to be snubbed.  James Woods did the best job in the little role that he was given.  The scene where he talks about the plants breakfast being photosynthesized was priceless.  Kathleen Turner also did a pretty good job with what she had to work with.  She was only in a handful of scenes.  Kirsten Dunst actually shows of the acting skills that we all know she has, but rarely shows.  Josh Harnett is also very good in his role as Trip.  Even though I found his character kind of pointless and thrown in.  A.J Cook, Chelse Swain, and Leslie Hayman do a good job with what they have.  They are very pretty faces, but barely get to speak so you can't tell if they are good actresses or not.  And then there is Hanna Hall.  She was perfect in her short but respectable role.  I didn't understand why the boys had such an obsession with the girls.  And what was the point of the Lisbon sisters calling over the boys to discover their dead bodies?  How did the boys get the journal of Cecilia?  Didn't her parents want it?  What did they do, sneak into the house and get it?  And why exactly did all of the girls commit suicide?  I guess these are all questions that you have to answer for yourself.  Not good, but not bad either.  6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Just Like Life","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contains SpoilersSofia Coppola may not be renowned for her acting but judging by her directional debut there is a lot of talent in the family.The Virgin Suicides is based on, believe it or not, the much acclaimed novel of the same name by Jeffery Eugenides. It follows the life of five Lisbon sisters who, in turn, take their own lives, much to the disappointment of the boys who are obsessed with their every waking move.The film is told by one of those boys, who, even 25 years later, still remember well the life of the young girls. The title suggests that it's a somber film, but fortunately it's not the case. With the story being told from a boy (or man) about the lust he felt for the girls, we are presented with a wonderful black comedy.From the very beginning the film has a haunting mood to it when Cecilia, the youngest sister at 13, lays in a bath, her wrists slit open. She survives and is sent to a psychologist (Danny DeVito) and from this comes one of the most memorable parts of the film.  And luckily it keeps the momentum going throughout the film.When Cecilia does take her life for real the film takes two courses. First is the way it effects the family and the second the way it effects the already besotted boys.James Woods and Kathleen Turner do two fantastic jobs as the parents of the sisters. Its disturbing to watch as Woods goes from being a competent family man and Math's teacher to a man who loses touch with the world and converses with some plants asking them if they've enjoyed their photosynthesis breakfast. Turner plays the narrow minded, cautious religious mother. The film could have made her look like the cause for the suicides but it doesn't look that way at all, she is just a mother trying (too) hard to protect her daughters.The sisters go on with life as normally as they can but it all comes to a head after the Homecoming where Lux (brilliantly acted and casted Kirsteen Dunst) plays up and they are all trapped in their own home, shut off from the outside world.The boys are determined to find everything about the young girls. They read Cecilia's diary to find out what girls think, after exploring their bedrooms they come face to face with tampons and they wonder why guys who are jerks make Lux laugh. This is where the black comedy comes into the film and is totally believable.The film, of course, ends tragically and it ends with the question 'Why' because its up to the audience to try and think why the girls would do such a thing, just like the boys have been doing for 25 years. Sofia doesn't add anything to what the book said (indeed the film cuts out the part where Mary survives the mass suicide and then kills herself) which is very nice to see because it could have been ruined.A special mention has to go to the score of the film. Air have done a brilliant job at this, perfectly fitting in with the often-dreamy mood of the film. Also the title track 'Playground Love' is an excellent song on its own. Also the directional techniques that Sofia uses are pleasing, the day cycle (from her Dad's Rumble Fish) is great to see as the house falls into disarray.The film will not be to everyone's taste and the ending may disappoint some for being undecided, but that's the whole point. This film is an overly enjoyable 90 minutes into the lives of the five Lisbon sisters who live their lives as teenagers, lives which is full of love, fear, obsession, passion and death. Just like life.  "},{"Title":"The death of five sisters caused by stifling love","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard good things about this film but it did not prepare me for the masterpiece that this undoubtedly is. The film almost has a documentary feel about it at times and is superbly acted by an ensemble cast. It tells the tragic tale of the Lisbon sisters who, in the Sixties, the era of freedom, are stifled by overprotective parents who do not appear to have left the forties. The Lisbon sisters are full of life, particularly Lux. Rather than let them grow, after Lux stays out all  night following the homecoming dance, the surviving four sisters, (Cecilia, the youngest has already killed herself by this point) are withdrawn from High School and only have contact with the four boys, that are obsessed by them, via the phone and records they play to each other. This leads to all of the sisters killing themselves for reasons that noone can understand. The performances by Wood, Turner and Dunst stand out and the Direction of Sofia Coppola is brilliant. The atmosphere is perfectly conveyed. This is a MUST SEE film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, captivating story with great performances","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ===== Rating System ***** Must see **** Very good *** I liked it, but you might hate it ** I hated it, but you might like it * Avoid ==== ***Spoiler ahead, but it's also in the title, you know***Cheerful title, but fortunately the movie is much better. The Virgin Suicides is a small, intimate story about five girls who commit suicide in a relatively short time. The world around them, and especially five boys who were closest to them, is amazed, ignorant about their motives and the five think about their time together and what drove the girls to their terrible act.    It's Coppola's stylish and patient direction and the overall excellent performances that make this a remarkable, if not, great experience. Kirsten Dunst, who arguably carries the movie, is as great as ever, but the ace in the sleeve is James Woods, who shocks the world by actually giving a nuanced and brilliant performance. James Woods plays the girls' father/teacher who tries to give them a break, but is overruled by the consistent mother, played by Kathleen Turner. A lot of people on this site who complain about this movie state the movie doesn't really have a point, it would leave to much to the imagination of the viewer. I think the mystery IS the point of the movie, kind of a wake-up call to the viewer to discuss the motives of the parent(s) to keep their children safe at the house, away from the boys and the motive of the girls to kill themselves. The movie gives plenty of clues to figure it out, so have fun doing so.     See it. ****   "},{"Title":"Sofia plays with the emotions","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find this an emotional movie. It's no big action thriller, the story is a simple one, but still the movie is very entertaining and enjoyable. Very good debut for Sofia Coppola. Kirsten Dunst and the other four actresses who play the Lisbon sisters putted solid performances, so as the parents, James Woods and Kathleen Turner.7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Simply Fantastic! (possible spoilers in review)","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hadn't heard about this movie before seeing it just last night. My brother got it on DVD for his birthday and it had just started, the party scene was begining and from that moment on I was hooked - no pausing to get drinks, snacks, toilet breaks etc. - simply pure concentration on the story played out on the screen in front of me. To anyone who's seen 5 characters looking for a writer (I think that's the title but may be wrong), the feelings of intrigued addiction are similar, and much like the boys narating the movie, you too become obsessed with the girls, and find yourself retracing key moments in the film trying to decifer the true causes and true drives leading to the film's climax. At different moments the film drifts from feel-good, to spooky, to scary, to hopefull, and depressing. Whilst Sophia Coppola demonstates a fantastic talent for capturing the less obvious (or at least less pronounced) emotion within each scene (for example the scene at the dance behind the curtain where the camera is far enough back to focus on the awkward, unsuccessful relationship between one sister and her date, instead of the passionate example of the other). All the actors did a fantastic job, with the 5 lead girls showing talent for projecting obscure, subtle, and confused emotion in their characters, lending a realism to the parts not many actresses would be capable of, and even less at such a young age. However, even though she had relatively little screen time, pride of place goes to Kathleen Turner's cold portayal of the mother, more interested in covering her youngest daughter up than the fact that she had just attemped suicide. Overall this is a fantastic film that I'd advise everyone to see, not all the answers are given, and it doesn't really try to push home a point. It's kinda like one of those psycological ink blot tests - all you're told is a story, the conclusions you have to form yourself. "},{"Title":"As true and true can be.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First I saw the movie. Then I read the book. Then I saw the movie again. Well done Sofia Coppola. The adaption of book to screen is outstanding, the best I have ever seen. The casting, the sound-track, the narration, the setting. It is all just, just right. The book is brilliant. The movie is brilliant. The Virgin Suicides of a story highly worth telling. I am glad is was done so well. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Last year this screened at the Melbourne Film Festival and unfortunately I missed it then and when it screened on General Release shortly afterwards.Fortunately It has just been released on Video and I managed to grab a copy of it from my local Video store. I wasn't disappointed- What a beautiful, mysterious film this is.I haven't seen much of Kirsten Dunst's previous work (except Interview with a Vampire) and what a talent she is!! The Music was great- Air did a terrific job with the score for the film and the other background music that was used also fitted in well with it.If you have yet to see this - I would recommend this to anyone. Sofia Coppola will be one hell of a director if this is any kind of sign to come of hers. "},{"Title":"I gave this film a 10.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sophia Coppola does an excellent job of portraying the life of five teenage sisters. Of varying ages, the sisters seem identical and different at the same time. But Coppola does a good job with the story, which at times is a bit strange. I still don't understand the ending, as it leaves you hanging on a hopeless note. But the story, which is one of a voyeuristic genre, follows the sisters through the eyes of a group of boys that pine after them. I'd definitely recommend this movie, since it's enjoyable, and mostly, intriguing. Although it is depressing (what do you expect from the title??), it's also worthwhile.  "},{"Title":"A bit of a letdown","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's so terrible to have high hopes for movies. X-men, The patriot, Hollow Man...movies that you wish wouldn't suck. But they do, and you feel really stupid.Now here's The Virgin Suicides. Cool! It was a sundance hit! Cool, It's got James Woods! Cool! It's a original idea! But, no...no, it kinda sucks.It starts out cool and, you know, keeps you for awhile, but then, it kinda goes nowhere and it ends up being all weird and stuff. Now granted, there are some beautiful scenes and the cinematography is stunning, but other than that...it just kinda leaves a sour taste in your mouth. Kirsten Dunst is really quite good as are all her sisters and parents, and even Josh Hartnett and all the other boys. I don't think it's the acting, I mean, the acting is pretty good. You really gotta look at this film as a whole. As a viewer, I just felt so letdown and so confused. Check it out for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Terrific little number","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow...what a capitvating story! And one I have not seen yet in a movie. Breaking some new ground here with the story.More than anything I got the sense the movie was floating or wafting by as the story slowly and evocatively unfolded. Left me with the same sense I got watching Picnic at Hanging Rock. We see what is going on on the surface with the characters, and we get rare glimpses inside. But in the end you're left with just the mystery.See this movie! "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I put off seeing this movie for a while as the title made it seem no less than another twenty bopper movie I would have avoided normally.But was I wrong, this movie is one of the most beautifully done and painfull movies I have seen since American Beauty.I highly recommend this movie to everyone who has ever felt the pain of love lost, or isolation. "},{"Title":"Sublimely affecting ...","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the first time in my life, I just cried during a movie.  The Virgin Suicides has left me aching in the pit of my stomach, wistful, somehow ecstatic with the tragic romance of it.  I'm not a wuss -- really, I'm not -- but I still have a lump in my throat.Who knew Sofia Coppola had any talent? "},{"Title":"Haunting... with a caveat","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unlike most of those who have commented, I had not read the book. What I found was a haunting film that will probably stay with me for a long time. A laudable effort, especially for a first one. The film did leave me a bit dissatisfied, but of a mind to get and read the book to quench my curiousity- no film could hope to do more. Oh, the caveat? This film is NFTD (Not For The Dim), come on folks, you know who you are. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"       I think that this movie was wonderfully acted and show great promise for Sophia Coppola as a director.  Don't even bother watching it, however, if you need your cinema handed to you on a platter with the plot sectioned off like peas and mashed potatoes in a TV dinner.  You have to think and feel if you're going to enjoy this.  More so than with a Keanu Reeves movie.     As a Michigander, it was kind of hard to believe that the movie spanned the course of a year without a single snowflake on the screen, and that anyone could sleep outside during football season without waking up frost-bitten.  On the other hand, I got a warm fuzzy feeling inside when I heard soft drinks referred to as pop.     Anyone who has ever had a crush that they didn't act on has the capacity to enjoy this movie.  If you want a sad film with no validation in its denouement, this is it.  Give it a look if you're feeling up to it.  "}{"Title":"Awful waste of film","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have nothing against any of the cast members, because it's not their fault. Their talent was wasted. This movie was so bland that it very nearly put me to sleep. The title makes it sound like a wonderfully sinister and compelling film about teenage girls coming of age. Don't be fooled. Nothing funny happens, nothing really sad happens because the characters are too unlikable to care for. I wish i could find the words to fully express how pathetically bland it was. Even the perverts who may be attracted to the title will be disappointed. I sat there watching it, waiting for something interesting to happen, it never did, and I felt rather cheated out of $4 and two hours of my life. It made a feeble attempt at being artsy and failed. Please, do yourself a favor and avoid this one. "},{"Title":"Haunting portrayal of repressed suburbia","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With her short independent film, Lick the Star and her full-length debut, The Virgin Suicides, Sofia Coppola demonstrates an understanding of the pain of growing up a repressed teenage girl in suburbia.  The lives of the Lisbon sisters are beautiful on the surface, but underneath a facade of happiness and innocence lies a curiosity for the dark side and rebels with good cause to commit suicide.  Central to the cause?-- The Lisbon parents, who are neurotically protective of their daughters, to the point of driving them to their deaths.  Although the viewing audience knows from the title that the girls will ultimately commit suicide, the end is still chilling and somewhat unexpected.  The viewer is left haunted and unsettled by the final moments of the virgin sisters.  The girls are frozen in a moment, and will remain that way because of their deaths.Perhaps the most important component of the film, however, is not the girls' suicides, but the boys fascination with them and ultimate empty sadness at losing them.  We the viewers identify with the boys, wanting to claim the loveliness of the girls for ourselves.  Like the boys, we too are left baffled and hollow by their loss. "},{"Title":"A tremendous disappointment","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so bad I can't even begin to limit or enumerate specific comments on why I(and my wife)disliked this so much. There was nothing clever, interesting or worthwhile about anything in this. It was dull and boring. I know opinions  differ on movies and sometimes dramatically, but this had no redeeming qualities. The main family alone was boring enough to not watch it. I wish I could be more specific, but the movie was too much of nothing to inspire any real comments.  "},{"Title":"Promising debut from Sofia Coppola","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides (Sofia Coppola, 1999)If you can't act, direct! At least, that's how Sofia Coppola's foray into the world behind the lens was widely greeted by critics before the release of The Virgin Suicides. A week later, the silence where there had once been jeers was deafening.The Virgin Suicides is one of those rare birds like Psycho; a relatively badly-received book is turned into a movie that made a whole lot of ten-best lists. Every major performance in this movie is wonderful. Kathleen Turner let herself go to hell for this role (presaging Ellen Burstyn's academy award-worthy performance in Requiem for a Dream, perhaps?), James Woods is the very epitome of a math teacher, the hormone-laden neighborhood boys are-- well, teenage boys are teenage boys, I guess.Like most coming-of-age films, while watching this I found myself making comparisons to the godfather of modern coming-of-age films, Birdy. Like that film, The Virgin Suicides takes a cast of relative unknowns for its stars, surrounds them with minor characters with much bigger names (Woods, Turner, Danny DeVito, Michael Pare, etc.), and just lets them come of age. There's a plot, of course, but the theme is allowed to be derived by the actors simply existing. And despite the title of the film and the main plot point (which involves the second-youngest sister, Lux-- and who names their kid Lux, anyway?-- being romanced by Cracker alum Josh Hartnett), this is a movie about four teenage boys and how they see the world. I found myself smiling many, many times at how well Coppola captured the essence of being thirteen and male (and wasn't half as embarrassed at any time during this movie as I was at Matthew Modine on prom night in Birdy, thankfully).It's a good, solid film, but it never really rises to the level of greatness. But give Sofia Coppola some time; after all, Francis directed some real bombers before lucking onto Roger Corman and teaming up for the classic Dementia 13. This is a young director who's going places. I wouldn't be surprised if a lot of the younger, less-known names in the cast followed her to the heights, either. ***  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully tragic","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know how people can call The Virgin Suicides a comedy, having known people who have attempted suicide, and luckily lived to regret the attempt, it is not a comic situation.  I don't feel the movie treated the topic lightly, instead it chose confusion as to Why? as the delivery mechanism.I was wanting the movie to end almost from the beginning because I didn't want to see the suicides.  This remark should show how involved I became with the characters, I didn't want them to die.  Having spent more time than I would care to admit in Oklahoma, I know that I've met the parents and girls before.  In my opinion, not enough time was given to the grief of boys who loved the sisters.The acting, directing, and writing were all superb, Mr. Coppola should be proud. "},{"Title":"Haunting and captivating.","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the very first frame, this film filled me with a sense of nostalgia. Even the Lisbon girls' neighbourhood looked vaguely familiar. But I'm not talking about that gooey, lets-take-a-trip-down-memory-lane nostalgia, I mean that it really brought it back to me, what it felt like to be a teenager.As for Sofia Coppola's connections in the film industry, I think it is extremely unfair to judge her merely on who her dad/husband is. I think she can hold her head high with a film like this under her belt.What pleased me most about this film was its dream-like qualities, like when the guys turn up at the girls' house in the middle of the night, offering to take them wherever they want, then it cuts to a shot of them all piled in the car, euphoric, free. Next thing you know, we're back in the house and the girls are dead.Despite the title, there can be no doubt that this film is viewed from the guys' standpoint. The girls are portrayed as distant, almost intangible things.Top acting marks for Turner, Woods and Dunst but for me, Josh Hartnett stole the show. "},{"Title":"Well Done Sofia,  and Kirsten Is DELICIOUS!","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have not read the book, but I think this movie was good.I never thought I could forgive Sofia for being the WORST actress to ever destroy a major film, but she really seems to have some of dads talent after all. And what can you say about Kirsten? She is in my opinion one of the most beautiful women in the world, and she can ACT to boot!Definately worth seeing but don't expect a feel-good movie. "},{"Title":"Cool, funny, dramatic. A great debut film!","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sofia Coppola's debut film, The Virgin Suicides, is a great masterpiece of 1999.It has some of the darkness and frankness of her father, Francis Ford Coppola's, films but then goes off into a style of her own.For all those who said that Sofia Coppola has no talent because of Mary Corleone in The Godfather Part III, I say to check out this picture and be proven wrong. She has definitely in my opinion put herself on the list of great new writer-directors like P.T. Anderson and Quentin Tarantino. Hell, even Tarantino studied to be an actor at first but found out where his true talent lied.With great performances by Kirsten Dunst, James Woods and Kathleen Turner and wonderful writing and directing, Coppola's debut picture is a magnificant ride that deserves to be hailed as one of 99's best.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently rented The Virgin Suicides to see the dearly loved, absolutely gorgeous Josh Hartnett. Well of course, he was beautiful, but definitely not the only good point of the film. As a teenager, I found myself relating to the Lisbon girls. The movie was funny, romantic, and an all-around total tearjerker. Josh Hartnett's best! "},{"Title":"very well done","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of the better I've seen in awhile.  This is what filmmaking is about, no need for the poppy Hollywood perfect cheesy ending. If you are the type that likes to have everything explained to them, that feels the need for a story to be completely spoon-fed and tight, to know why everything happened in the movie, and to have everything come around full circle at the end - you will not like this film.If you are the type that can enjoy a good story in and of itself, and enjoy the tale it tells, and think about your own answers to the questions posed without needing someone to tell you what is correct - you stand a much better chance of liking this movie.The film isn't phenomenal, but it tells a good story, raises awareness of(without being blatant or delving into tonnage of theory, as if there is a single cause) of teenage suicide, especially during the trying times of women's adolescence.  It does so without suggesting that the writers have some monolithic explanation for it, it does it without being trite, overproduced (like so many with a top-40 soundtrack), or otherwise cartoonish. "}{"Title":"BUY THE SOUNDTRACK!!!!","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is something to be said for the music chosen for this movie's soundtrack.  No other music could portray the sorrow and anguish like the the sounds from the band AIR.  Have you ever had a wonderful, amazing dream, and then you wake up and realized it was just a dream...well that's how this soundtrack left me.  "},{"Title":"Who's ya daddy?","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being the daughter of Francis Ford Coppolla and the wife of genius Spike `Being John Malkovich' Jonze, there was a lot of pressure on the standard of Sofia's directorial debut. To be honest I think the girl had balls for even looking at a camera.As cinematic as the book is, Jeffrey Eugenide's novel demanded a directing talent with great emotional understanding and vision. In my view, Sofia was the perfect choice. The essence of nostalgia she has captured from the 70's middle class life in suburbia is truly inspiring.The Virgin Suicides focuses on the life of five beautiful young girls, the Lisbon sisters. At its core, it is a mystery story, a heart-rending investigation into the impenetrable, life-altering secrets of American adolescence.After one of the five sisters throws her self from a bedroom window, the remaining four are locked up behind closed doors, away from the fun, the boys and everything that makes little girls, little girls. It's not difficult to guess how it all ends. Fantastic.  "},{"Title":"Another Talent In The Coppola Family","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was roped into watching this movie by a few female friends. At first at I thought it was gonna be a chick flick.  Was I wrong or what. Sofia Coppola's amazing writing and directing makes this movie a 10.  The story was very original and well planned. The cinematography was incredibly beautiful and moving.  I loved the acting and Giovoni Ribisi's Narration was excellent.Looks like directing runs in the Coppola family. "},{"Title":"Keep an open mind","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many comments have been made on this film, so I will stick to the most important bits. Firstly, on a technical level, this film is beautifully shot, it is artistic, it manages to convey a mood clearly, you don't have to guess what you're supposed to feel, it is ethereal, distant, very dreamlike.  All this has a point, though, I think it achieves exactly what the director wanted.  I would have shot it in the same way, if I could have pulled it off.Now, the story has been shot down in many comments, for lack of plot, but that really is the point of the whole film.  We're never quite sure why the five sisters commit suicide. We can only guess, forming our guesses from what a boy who lived in the same neighbourhood tells us.  Was it because their mother was so strict?  Surely not.  If you look at the father throughout the film, you will see that there is something off about him.  He doesn't seem too surprised when his youngest daughter commits suicide.  He never shows any emotion beyond hopelessness.  As though he has accepted his life as it is and that is that and it cannot be changed.  His family is falling apart and he continues going to school (he is a teacher) and talking to the plants in the passage, as though it is something he does daily and NOTHING is different in his life.  When confronted about his daughters' absence from school he just shrugs it off.  All this has convinced my boyfriend that the daughters committed suicide because their dad was molesting them.Viewers focus on the mother, strict, paranoid, so the gentle father is overlooked.  Go and see this film, take it all in, and keep an eye on that father.  Did he molest the girls, and is that why he just accepts their deaths?  Molested girls react differently to the situation, does this explain the older girls' reserved attitude, and Lux's wild sexual behavior?  Could the youngest one not take it anymore?  Who knows?  The film is so beautiful, reasons don't really matter.  Stimulating and DEEP. "},{"Title":"Why?  The answer's right in your face...","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many have commented on the lack of character development, and the slow moving pace.  What movie did they see?  'The Virgin Suicides' is a poignant work of ark the depicts the coming-of-age of neighborhood boys and their endless fascination with five sisters; sisters who ultimately take their own lives.  One main complaint that I've read about the movie is that there is no explanation on why the sisters decided to kill themselves; however, I thought the reasoning was quite apparent.  Was Cecilia's death ever spoken about after the fact?  Did the Lisbon sisters know how much they were really loved?  Did the sisters ever fathom that they would be talked about for a lifetime by the boys who vehemently admired them?  The narration is beautiful, and the acting is superbly executed.  Kudos to Sofia Coppola for a job well done. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but the book was better","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sofia Coppola did a pretty good job of adapting The Virgin Suicides to film. Unfortunately, she emphasised style over substance (mood over plot) and left out much of the character development that could've made this a great film.In the book, each of the daughters was portrayed as 3-dimensional, but only Kirsten's Lux is developed in the film. Perhaps this is because the other 4 sisters were played by inexperienced actresses. Bonnie, for example, was very close to Cecilia and not only erected a candlelight shrine in her memory, but said the rosary every night in the garden where Cece died. This could have been a very touching scene.Some of the character development was very subtle, & easy to miss. For example, Ron Lisbon's talking to plants at school. Talk about going off the deep end...Someone on this message board mentioned how Ms. Coppola had softened or sugar-coated the story, and several others have said she didn't give us enough motivation for the suicides. I agree. If you read the book (SPOILER) the house physically falls apart (much worse than in the movie), with rain/snow pouring thru a crumbling roof, filling the basement. Much of the furniture is torn apart, perhaps to provide firewood after the heat is turned off. Without shopping or deliveries of food, the family is forced to eat canned lima beens stored years before in the basement bomb shelter. Malnutrition sets in, and Lux is listed as weighing only 99lbs at her autopsy. These are some of the reasons for the suicides, & the writer-director should have provided these in the movie to explain what happened.One last comment-- an Australian poster condemned this movie because he believed it was about rich American kids consuming too many resources. I would NEVER call a US father trying to support a wife & 5 teens on a schoolteacher's salary rich (unless you're from Ethiopia). And the family becomes even poorer when the father is fired. Malnutrition & burning your sofa for heat are NOT signs of affluence!Suggestion-- please read the book, then watch the film again. You'll get the best from both media-- the movie's vivid visuals & moody soundtrack, & the novel's depth.Happy New Year! "},{"Title":"suicide gene running strong in a family...","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Macabre story of the Lisbon sisters is told in a way that you tend to imagine it really happened. It's borrowing something from the Heavenly Creatures - being as beautiful and deadly. Difference is that the Virgin Suicides is not based on a true story, it's just using the same effect. Then again, who cares, really?The life and destiny of this 70's suburban nuclear family leaves you wondering what really happened and why. It doesn't provide any clear answers - if any at all - but it has enough athmosphere to keep the story going. Much of that is based on the well-designed music, made by the ingenious French synthesizer combo Air.  "},{"Title":"It's indescribable.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides is not a story about five sisters who kill themselves at different times.  It is also about the loss of a few things in life adolescence, happiness, and the most important factor, innocence.Based on the highly praised and bestselling debut novel by Jeffery Eugenides and this film also marks the directing debut of Sofia Coppola, the daughter of legendary director Francis Ford Coppola.The film begins as the adult narrator (Giovanni Ribisi) recalls a horrific series of events that changed the lives of four young teens, all boys who lived in the same Detroit suburb where the events all took place during the seventies.Coppola shows that she has the courage to play the movie in a soft tone and not hammer down the death scenes.  Wise move.  Another part of the film that is simply astonishing is the cinematography by Ed Lachman (The Limey).  The shots of the street where the homes around surrounded by elm trees is not only beautiful, but I found it astounding , too.  I can say the same for the musical score, which is masterfully done by Air, a French group.The key part of the film are the performances that are definitely first-rate (and some are Oscar-worthy).  James Woods is good as the harmless and witty Mr. Lisbon, and so is Kathleen Turner as Mrs. Lisbon, the religious wife who runs the home with an iron fist and no questions asked. What surprised me about Turner was that she's very soft-spoken and never uses physical force as James Coburn displayed in Affliction.  Kirsten Dunst's performance as Lux Lisbon, the perfect one of the five Lisbon daughters is simply a knockout.  Josh Hartnett is solid as Trip Fontaine, the hunky high school heartthrob who falls in love with Lux for a short time.  Danny DeVito and Scott Glenn are good in their cameos and so is Michael Pare as the older Trip, who's in a drug rehab and regretfully admits most people never taste that kind of love.  At least, I did.  His performance is quietly touching and it's good to see him in a good movie for a change.As for the movie, the suicides are the turning point of the film and like the neighbourhood boys, I was deeply touched, yet I was saddened as well. How could I describe The Virgin Suicides in a few words.  Well, there's one word that best describes it.  It's indescribable.  End of story.  "},{"Title":"Some wonder why, others just want to walk away.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Any plot points I reveal here are given away in the first 5 minutes of the movie, so no spoiler warnings are necessary.  There seem to be two complaints against this movie.  The first is that it has no story.  The second is that the girls' tragic deaths has no point.  I think that holding those two things against the movie is missing the point. First, this movie does not have a plot in the way that Star Wars or Casablanca has a plot.  This is more of a passive story, where things happen to people, rather than people make things happen.  I would not consider the weakness of a plot to be a valid criticism, because this movie does have a story (how the Lisbon girls' lives changed after their sister's death).  The girls themselves have few lines, and the story is told through the neighborhood boys' perspective.  The narration is provided from the view of someone telling what had happened 25 years ago on the street where he lived.  Second, the entire point of this movie is that the girls' motive is not understood.  Anyone familiar with the subject of teenage suicide knows that this is common.  In an era when one in four girls has attempted suicide, I think this movie deals with the subject far more realistically than any film I have ever seen.  We're meant to wonder why these girls would do what they did.  You can either sit and wonder, or you can just shrug your shoulders, walk away, and save your money for realistic movies like Dude, Where's My Car? and Scary Movie. "},{"Title":"That Seventies Film??","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A nostalgic film that is less about the nightmarish act of suicide than it is about the daydreamy teenage perspective boys have of girls. Even though we are allowed in the girls' house (and medicine cabinet) we never really get inside their heads. As a result there's a hint of the Stepford Sisters...quick now, who was the oldest?? Part of me wanted the film to be more like the conversation in the station wagon on the way to the dance. To see the world as seen by the girls...Instead it felt more like a pretty scrapbook of emotional hues and clippings. There's a touching telephone turntable discussion. It is next to impossible to capture the intensity of first love, of conflict with parents, of sibling fondness and friction. Really, try telling your coming of age to someone...see if it doesn't break down in vignettes and shadows detached from the real bodies. I think that's the point of the wicked news-reporter of the west (was that in the book, I don't recall it?)Which is not to say I don't like to see a director try...Hmmm, The Virgin Suicides sorta recalls some of Francis Ford's work The Outsiders and Rumblefish (a fine film). Sophie does use real teenagers...mostly unknowns at this point too. Again it's her first film, the apocalypse can come later. Speaking of which the film is done largely in voice-over, which is a problem for some folks, so I'll mention that here.I wonder if the mythic, telescopic distance the boys here have from the Lisbon sisters mirrors the distance Sophie Coppola had from a normal childhood?Oh heck, who among us had a normal childhood...  "}{"Title":"For a change, a story which actually made me wonder!","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think it is reasonable to argue, that this is one of the most interesting films of the year - To say at least. I first saw this film, without any prior knowledge of it. Perhaps that is why it struck me with such a force.It has been said, that The Virgin Suicides belong in an art gallery rather than in a theater, and I reckon that is true. Throughout the film I felt like a poem was read to me, and its words stuck to me for an unusual long time. (To be honest they are still with me)In only a few minutes, I was sucked into the universe that Sophie Coppola had created, and for the next hour and a half, I found myself in various moods, ranging from sadness and compassion to delighted happiness and even laughter. And finally I was left asking myself (as I think it is intended) why it happened.Why DID they do it?, you might ask. Well, why does anyone do it?, I would answer (Is is not, what the film too, asks its audience?)For once, I have trouble, pointing at a thing that bugged me...I gave The Virgin Suicides a 9 - The first film to achieve  such a score from me... "},{"Title":"An interesting subject, disappointingly handled","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sofia Coppola's directorial debut has received much hype and attention from press and audiences alike. It focuses on a year in the lives of 5 beautiful teenage sisters and the boys that admire them from a distance. It attempts to adopt a dreamy, spaced-out style which is (apparently) redolent of the novel it is based on, but in doing so, it loses a lot of the coherency and emotional depth which would make it an interesting study of teenage angst and suffering.The main problem with the film for me is that the characters' motives are barely explored. I think this is a deliberate ploy to show the story from the teenagers' perspective, suggesting the way in which life at that age can seem like a series of meaningless, unconnected experiences. Unfortunately, without the ironic distance to hint at potential meanings behind this (false) perception, the film itself becomes shallow and empty. In particular, Mrs Lisbon's behaviour as the girls' mother is presented without any explanation, without even a glimpse at why she might be so strict and dictatorial. In general, parent oppress their children because they are afraid of losing them, and this is suggested in only one shot in the film - when the boys take the girls for a date and Mrs Lisbon is left standing in the hall, looking nervous and upset. Without more exploration of this sort, she becomes a two-dimensional tyrant of a mother and the audience is unable to feel sympathy for her.Perhaps this is the film's biggest shortcoming - however hard I tried, I couldn't for a moment feel sympathy for any of the characters, not even the girls. As a result, any emotional impact the film's tragic denouement might have had was lost on me.There are some positive features to this film which deserve a mention. The soundtrack, a combination of Air's dreamy tunes and some classics from the 60s and 70s, is absolutely stunning. The filmmaking is excellent on the whole, creating a dreamlike beauty which is intoxicating and attractive. The performances are fine, particularly Kathleen Turner (despite the character's limitations) and Kirsten Dunst as Lux. This isn't a terrible film but it's a disappointing one - Sofia Coppola could have done a lot more with the concept, or chosen a story with more emotional depth, to display her abundant directorial skills.  "},{"Title":"a faithful adaptation of the novel","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie could have been a disaster, if Sofia Coppola had not been so careful to faithfully adapt the script from the beautiful novel by Jeffrey Eugenides.  I'm glad that it was directed by a woman rather than a man, because I can just imagine how the focus could have been tawdry and sexual. The story is told from the neighborhood boys' point of view, which adds to the distance and mystery surrounding the Lisbon sisters.  Coppola did subtly show how the house was beginning to fall apart, an analogy to the girls' deterioration, but in the book it was more extreme--more trash on the stairs, the rotting newspapers on the front step, a foul stench.  Also in the book, right from the start the parents were shown as more strict--in the film their sudden strictness after the dance comes as a surprise. Overall, a well-made and surprisingly humorous film.   "},{"Title":"No words can define the brilliance here.","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is brilliant. It is handsomely shot, like a dream. This is not only one of the best movies of the year, but I am a teenager, 15 years of age, and I am glad writer-director Sofia Coppola knows what teenagers are like. I have always had mass distaste for Kristen Dunst's acting abilities, Interview with the Vampire excepted. This movie, shows her talent. I was amazed. Ed Lachman(Erin Brockovich)'s cinematography is like poem, with awesome music by Air, and editor Melissa Kent(The Rainmaker)'s very smart pacing. If a person did not like this movie, they did not understand the point of view, or was never a teenager. I love every little thing about this movie, James Woods and Kathleen Turner are two of the finest actors, and I am glad they chose to show their abilities here. Thought-provoking and brilliant. Another talented filmmaker in the Coppola family. "},{"Title":"Remarkable Debut for Director Sofia Coppola!","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'The Virgin Suicides' is a beautiful, understated, and tragic drama, punctuated by great rock music of the late '70s, and featuring terrific performances, particularly by Kirsten Dunst, Josh Hartlett, and a nearly unrecognizable Kathleen Turner. What makes the film even more remarkable is that it is the directorial debut by Francis Ford Coppola's daughter, Sofia, best known prior to this by her less-than-stellar performance in 'Godfather 3'! Her sensitivity with this material establishes her as a director to be reckoned with, and a true directorial talent!The film focuses on the five Lisbon sisters, beautiful, yet repressed by a religious and overly protective mother (Turner), who encourages their intellectual growth, but tries to block any sexual or emotional stirrings. The girls turn their passions into other channels, bonding tightly with one another, and viewing the world as outsiders. When the youngest attempts, then succeeds at killing herself, the family gains an unwanted notoriety, and a group of local boys begin to worship the remaining sisters from afar, gathering materials, and creating a fantasy world about them.Lux, the most beautiful and free-spirited of the sisters (Dunst), attracts the attentions of the most popular boy in school, Tripp (Hartnett), who confuses raging hormones with love, and begins a campaign to 'have' her. Winning the respect of their father (James Woods, in another excellent 'against-type' portrayal), he succeeds in wearing the mother down, and arranges 'dates' for the sisters, so he can take Lux to the Homecoming Dance. The party provides the springboard for the tragedy that gives the film its name, and catapults the girls into icons that the boys who admire them can never forget.There are many reasons to buy this film; Coppola's understanding of how boys and girls interact, and her sure touch with their issues about sexuality; Kirsten Dunst's best performance to date, conveying both sweetness, and barely suppressed erotic desire; Kathleen Turner's breakthrough as a character actress, sacrificing her glamorous persona for a stocky and frumpy matron. There are some excellent cameos, as well, particularly Danny DeVito as a clueless psychiatrist, Scott Glenn as a family priest who offers platitudes instead of comfort, and Michael Par as an older Tripp, reminiscing about Lux, and their 'love'.This is a very special film, one that you will not soon forget! I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Death and The Maidens","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has been for me a very strong experience for a lot of things. First, I left Sofia Coppola as a bad actress in The Godfather - Part III and now I find her here as a very good director. Second, the story is told with a great tenderness and ability, like if it was only a fantastic dream. It remembers the atmosphere of Picnic At Hanging Rock with these beautiful girls and their tragic destiny. Kirsten Dunst is astonishing in her performance her beautiful look cuts the screen and her eyes take you apart in another world. She's really one of the best actresses of her age but a good work too is done by the parents James Woods is a stupid man, completely absorbed by the strength of his wife, played by a Kathleen Turner, never been so cruel. Bit parts for Scott Glenn, Michael Par and Danny De Vito. Splendid photography by Edward Lachman and good music by the French group Air, which are good fellows of the tragic meeting of these girls with death. "},{"Title":"A great debut film.","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing Sofia Coppola's debut at acting in THE GODFATHER PART III, I was sceptical of her directing debut. I had no reason to. This is better then any film her father has made in years. THE VIRGIN SUICIDES is about 4 sisters who raised in a strict household. Their mother (Kathleen Turner) is a religious fanatic and their father (James Woods) just does whatever he's told. The four girls live in a neighbourhood across the street from a bunch of prepubescent boys, who idolize them from afar. The film tells their story and in so doing, gives a realistic picture of teenage life. This is a wonderfully directed, acted and written film. "},{"Title":"a healthy signal","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film signals that not all is decaying in American cinema. With a generous helping hand (and some solid connections) from dad, Sofia Coppola has gone and quite bravely adapted a pretty slow paced philisophical shocker of a novel. She does this with talent and inspiration and comes up with a stylish perspective on gender politics, generation gaps and suburban humdrum lives.The soundtrack, as beautiful as it was when I purchased it 6 months ago, is nothing compared to the way it sounds whilst watching the film. It is an integral part of the piece, creating an almost ethereal atmosphere.The acting is generally of a high standard, standouts include the (almost) ever excellent James Woods and the totaly miscast Scott Glenn who reminds us that even the power of your dad's connections should be handled with care.  "},{"Title":"Excellent first movie from Sofia Coppola","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Admittedly I was already aware of the basic plot before seeing this film, but even so I was absolutely mesmerised throughout the entire screening.  Coppola's direction pulls out the best from the cast and the photography is at times simply stunning.I only have 2 complaints, and they're fairly minor.  The first is Josh Hartnett's constant mumbling  of his lines - this is probably on purpose for his character but at times he was very hard to understand, if at all.  The second was the casting of Kirsten Dunst as Lux Lisbon.  Although she was excellent in the role, Lux was supposed to be the 2nd youngest at 14 years of age and Dunst is clearly older (she was 16 when the movie was filmed).  When you see her alongside all the other sisters (in particular Cecilia the youngest) it's easy to understand why many of critics mistakenly thought Lux was the eldest daughter.  However her performance was great regardless so it's only a picky problem.All up, I'd give it 4.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is NOT a movie about suicide.  If it is, that is simply the very uppermost layer of this textured and finely crafted movie.  What the movie seems to really be about is the perception the young boys have of the women.  The suicides are not so much real suicides as they are representative of the shattering of pristine and goddess-like images the girls that the little boys have.  The boys do not actually 'see' these girls, they see the goddess-like images that they impose on the girls.  Therefore, as one of the girls really gets 'real', there is a 'virgin suicide'.  The fact that a woman could direct this, and get so in step with the male psyche, is simply astounding to me. "}{"Title":"For Softies! ;-)","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This a soft, soft movie. The music is soft, the photography is soft, the (male) characters are soft and the camera is often in soft focus. This is a good thing, don't get me wrong. The Virgin Suicides managed to suprise me, but not in a abrupt way (it's soft!) the story line was off of the beaten track, just as the dialogues. Definite plusses are the five daughters, painfully pretty and acting very well; as well as the musical score by Air (Playground Love i think, is the 'lead' track). So it scores good on the predictability criterium, but less so on the balancing of characters. Dunst as Lux Lisbon is too much on the foreground, we don't see or get to know the other sisters at all. And it's a little bit ridiculous to get an 18-year old actress (Dunst) to play the role of an 14-year old girl. And the voice-over is also too much present, somewhat less would have been nice. Worth the trouble. "},{"Title":"A bad movie","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Warning some spoilers ahead) After reading some enthusiastic comments about this movie, and after liking the Air soundtrack, I decided to see it. The movie centers around beautiful 5 sisters, their parents, and neighborhood boys.It starts off by a suicide of one of the sisters, without any reason, explanation or motive. The girl just goes out from a party and jumps out from a window. Now we're supposed to feel bad and pity the family, and lament a death of a beautiful girl. But we somehow don't. Why? Because this is a bad movie that can't make you feel anything. It is, probably, about not being able to feel or do anything creative.Then the other 4 sisters are made to look like as if they're being mildly intimidated by their parents, while in fact nothing extraordinarily happens. The mother makes one of the daughters burn her vinyl collection as a punishment - a good director could probably make something as boring as this seem evil and exciting, but not this director. The sisters just sit around and look beautiful, while we wonder why on Earth anyone bothered to make a movie this bad.In a desperate attempt to make up for obvious lack of anything sensible happening, the writers decide to, without any sort of reason, make those 4 girls kill themselves. That's the whole movie. Plus some wannabe failed artistic direction, pathetic attempts to give the storyline credibility, and lame dialog.This movie does nothing but to reveal director's dull, blank imagination. Ed Wood, here comes some competition.  "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was crap, a lie from start to finish.  It is one thing to contend that none of the other characters really knew the Lisbon sisters--it is a serious problem when the film itself, or we the audience, don't know either. The girls are no more real human beings to Coppola that to the boys who worship them...they are symbols with no real identity of their own.  What do we know about them, other than that they are all blonde and beautiful and that they give up on life pretty easy?  The film's fetishizes them but doesn't bother to know them.Oh, wait, I think I'm on to something here...they aren't supposed to be real characters.  Like I said, they're symbols!  They may seem to represent the ideal of middle-class suburban affluence, but their mass suicide puts the lie to this fantasy, exposing the corrupt, soul-killing truth of life in bourgeois America.Thanks, but I've heard that one before. "},{"Title":"Virgin Suicides v. Serial Mom","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie mainly because Kathleen Turner is in it.  She usually plays a formidable on-screen presence, and this is no exception.  As Mrs. Lisbon, KT is the strict religious matriarch of the family, consisting of husband (James Woods) and five girls.  As the title indicates, the five girls die, and the only real mystery to the viewer is - how, and when, and why.  The film has amusing moments, but the sombre feeling of impending tragedy prevails throughout.  It is tempting to compare the movie to that other KT film Serial Mom because in both cases the mother is the determining factor.     Serial Mom is a black comedy, and thus not meant to be taken seriously, the mother in that film is extroverted and defends her brood by killing those outside the family whom she considers a threat or who have otherwise offended. She has some kind of mental block which enables her to live quite cheerfully in spite of any recent killing (a Dr.Jekyll and Mr.Hyde personality).    In the Virgin Suicides the mother is introverted, and tries to protect her offspring by shielding them from outside influences - to the point of smothering them.  The girls feel they have no other escape except suicide.  Mrs.Lisbon's religious convictions with their thou shalt not.. emphasis, is evident, but she seems unaware of what her influence entails.  She's as much a victim as her daughters, and is genuinely aggrieved and shocked by their deaths.  The movie is well acted by all concerned and is a change from the normal action block-buster.  "},{"Title":"At last,  a good movie about teens","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not since Cameron Crowe dominated the 80's and 90's has such anoriginal voice come along.  This is a movie maker to watch outfor-  Miss Coppola has an enormous amount of talent.  This filmis a fascinating journey into the minds of a neighborhood ofkids in the 70's.  There's no real star making performance, other than the mood of the film itself.  A wonderful film,  Ihighly recommend it.. "},{"Title":"A beautiful debut.","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the best films I've seen in my life.  Sofia Coopla did such an amazing job and I'm looking forward to her next projects.The film has a very strong subject that we all need to learn about, suicide, love, sex, obsession.  With combining all these things, with wonderful acting from Kathleen Turner ( not her best performance but very good), Kirsten Dunst, and Josh Hartnett. Another performance I really liked in this movie was that of Chelsea Swain, sister of Dominique Swain who shines in Lolita.In the end this is a very well done film and I recommend it to anyone who really enjoys the art of film making. "},{"Title":"See it! Nothing more than that.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I see a lot of films on a regular basis, and it's rare that I have the same feeling the next day as when I leave the cinema. And that's not a bad thing!If anyone doubted Sofia Coppola's ability as a director, she has done an absolutely phenomenal job of answering her critics with this film - it's beautifully shot, emphasising the contrast between the lovely, clean town the girls inhabit, and the much darker feeling that go on inside their heads.I've never been a fan of the three leads, James Woods, Kathleen Turner or Kirsten Dunst, but this film has given me new respect for them - Woods is terrific as the father who slowly slides into something close to madness, Turner is amazing as the strict and ridiculously conservative Mrs. Lisbon, and Dunst....well....if she doesn't become a major force in the film industry after this film, then Hollywood is even more screwed than we think it is....she's phenomenal as Lux.Filled with many subtly dramatic scenes, the film is not depressing, but merely a joy to watch - Josh Hartnett as Trip Fontaine brings to the film a brilliant sense of humour, making it even MORE human.This film has been criticised for not having a clean ending - but that is the point - the film is told from the point of view of the boys, who never really get to know the girls properly, and as a result, neither do we.If you only see one film this year, see this! "},{"Title":"A visually poetic film","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that The Virgin Suicides was one of the most visually poetic films i had seen in a long time. The use of a very nostalgic, almost blurry yellow/blue hue on the entire film creates this feeling that really makes the film a beautiful experience to sit through. I guess you can't deny that part of the visuals is also the 5 Lisbon sisters, adding to the whole golden sunny 70s feel. I think the set production people did a great job, and of course, Sofia Coppola.My favourite scenes from the film, well, one of the most striking to me is when the camera shoots the house from exterior and the lighting, shadows, weather, everything changes in high speed. I thought that scene was extremely poetic, if you don't mind me repeating the word. I also thought that in Lux's final scene, when the boys watch her from behind, through the back glass door, and then when she turns... i thought that scene was really beautiful-scary, in a weird way. She seemed almost like a ghost returning. Very uncanny, or something like that.Plus, a few final notes about the show - when watching it, i was very often reminded of Brian De Palma's Carrie. I guess the similarities are there the 70s straight haired blonde look, the impossibility of going to the prom, finally going and becoming prom queen, and the horror the ensues... i thought the scene when Lux became homecoming queen, i was almost expecting the bucket of blood to splash on her (!) and i guess it did, in it's own way later.Plus, i thought that Coppola inserted humour in very subtle but effective ways. A few examples would definitely be the way Trip Fontaine swaggered around school, tucking his hair around, and when the camera revealed Lux's underwear with Trip's name on it. That was really funny, because it used a very 70s dissolve which really set the tone as well. I thought Sofia Coppola's style was very subtle and gentle but also very powerful as well.I liked The Virgin Suicides on many levels. I'd give it a 9/10 (and I've voted!). But to me, the most striking and commendable thing about the film is the visuals. I think Coppola really captured the mystery about the girls that the neighbourhood boys went through. I'd recommend it to anyone who wants to see how beautiful a film can be.   "},{"Title":"Solid","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides certainly leaves its mark.  Filled with great imagery (the Lisbon house and the sisters themselves among them), wonderfully shot, and surprisingly playful,  the movie also contains several nicely captured awkward moments, mostly whenever someone from outside the family attempts to talk to the sisters.  Even though the film centers around Lux mostly (who gives off an angelic aura greater than any TV angel), the other sisters never fall into a simple group category.  They're never completely anonymous, only distant.  For me, two big marks that it left were of Lux picking up her coat and tiara in an empty football field and of a drunken adult yelling I'm a teenager; I've got problems while being pulled out a swimming pool. "},{"Title":"Floating","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What an incredible voyage through all the mist in youth... Elegantly done, this movie does something other suicidal movies don't It doesn't try to explain why, because the complexity of human beings is unexplainable. Beautiful, touching, by the end you'll feel like the boys and like floating... "}{"Title":"Why does ANYONE dislike this film?","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, so a main complaint I've noticed resurfacing here is that characters are underdeveloped.  May I first remind you that the narrator was one of the obsessed boys.  Coppola (wisely) uses minimalist characterization to reproduce for the audience exactly what the boys were feeling at the time highly intrigued, yet ultimately distanced from the girls and their mysterious motivations. And as for lack of plot, go watch a Bruce Willis movie that's more at your level.  'Virgin Suicides' is not about action, is about emotion.  It is a transcendent experience revolving around mood, and can only be fully appreciated through use of the abstract mind.One more thing Believe it or not, Sofia did actually show promise before this film.  A few years back she made a very sharp short called 'Lick the Star,' also about female adolescents.  Less concerned with ambience (more plot), it was nonetheless sophisticated and observed the workings and transfer of popularity (not to mention an amusing yet sincere plot to poison male classmates).  It plays occassionally on the Independent Film Channel (IFC) for those interested in seeing Coppola's earlier story-telling prowess. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides is a remarkably well made movie with excellent performances across the board. There are many great movies but few create such a sense of emotion. There are scenes that seem to exude pure happiness, angst, grief etc.Sofia Coppola has made a fantastic first movie. It was adapted from an equally great novel of the same name and captures it perfectly. I've never seen a movie so true to the book it is based on. The soundtrack written mostly by Air creates a beautiful almost surreal tone and adds greatly to the movies overall effect.I can't say enough good things about this movie and would recommend it for anyone. "},{"Title":"Flowers dying in the sun","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are no reasons in this movie and this makes it special. We know from the beginning, like in an ancient greek tragedy, that something -in this case, a massive suicide- is going to happen and we don't find, even with our efforts, a reason that could explain the suicidal tendencies of those beautiful and angelical sisters. Lisbon sisters were like flowers dying in the sun. So simple as this. Sofia Coppola filmed with passion and simplicity. All the actors, specially Turner, Woods and Dunst understood what she wanted and the meaning of their characters. And these are the reasons why this beautiful film is in my top ten, in a place I can define...because there are no reasons.  "},{"Title":"Incredible dream-like images, excellent actors and great adaptation by Sofia","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think The Virgin Suicides is one of the best films of the year.  The images are very original and make you feel as if u were in a dream.  The cast is incredible Kirsten Dunst shows again her natural talent, Hannah Hall(Cecilia) is excellent, as well as the other Lisbon girls.  Josh Hartnet is incredible as well as the other boys and the voice of the Giovanni Ribisi as the narrator.  The music of AIR makes you, in some, really undersatnd the mood of the film.  Sofia Coppolla is brilliant at directing, and has made an amazing adaptation of Eugenides, wonderfull and touching novel, in which teenagers are really taken seriously.    The best film about obssesions, refusal to growing up and beauty.   "},{"Title":"Sophia coppolaa pulls off an almost mystical triumph","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was completely floored by Sophia Coppola's The Virgin Suicides. The story is great, the acting is great, the directing is great. Her use of dissolves and choppy editing make for a fantastic moody feel. The atmospheric music by Air along with a wonderful soundtrack of seventies pop hits pushes this film along nicely.The scene where we meet Trip, The high school stud, played along to Heart's magic man is unforgetable. Kirsten Dunst is the epitamy of beautiful and I fell for her from the get go. She exudes confidence making her character almost unearthly. This is a film not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Haunting first feature from Coppola with some great performances...","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sophia Coppola shoots out of the gate with a skilled first effort.  This film is filled with a haunting romanticism, told from the viewpoint of a group of neighborhood boys who seem like they could have been any of the friends I grew up with.Set in the seventies, the film could have played up the kitsch factor, but instead, takes everything extremely seriously, which adds a sweetness and truthfulness to the story.  Great performances all around, especially from Dunst, Hartnett, and the voiceover from Giovanni Ribisi.  You can hear the hopeless resolve and confusion in his voice as he articulates the useless pursuit of trying to understand the beauty and suffering that was the Lisbon girls.  Highly recommended!   "},{"Title":"a cheerful movie, but not too cheerful","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film shows an amazing view of the way how boys see the feminine world. It focused on several aspects of the teenage mind under a protective parental wing without, yet, showing a way out; otherwise, that view of suicide as a solution to problems could be dangerous to the week-minded.Personaly, I loved the detail (I don't know if intentional) of green as a cheerful color, but not too cheerful appearing in the end, specially in the form of mint, which they used to disguise smells.  "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say I am jealous of many people who have seen this movie long before me.  When it was originally released in 1999, the local theatre has finally shown it at a much later date - June 23rd, 2000.  I've heard about the film long ago the name was always catchy to me, and it had great strength behind it.  For me, this will most likely be on my favorite films of 2000 list.To describe the film is hard to explain.  Picture a very dreamlike American Beauty told with sorrow and compassion to all it's characters.  Although from the title it is rather obvious what will occur, you don't really know when the film will reach itself at it's climax.  This is because the characters don't do anything incredible to make you like or dislike them, they stay very human to what reality is like.  You have your own views on the characters and aren't given your handful of good and bad ones.  This is how the film works so well.Sofia Coppola has shown she has great strength behind the camera.  Her script makes these complex characters very simple to follow and she obviously knows what she wants out of her actors.  The visuals will appear very dreamlike at times (credit also needs given to the great editing throughout this picture) and will also give you haunting images that will stay with you for some time after you see the film.  While her work may not equal up to a Paul Thomas Anderson film, she may very well give Sam Mendes a run for the Academy in years to come.  I hope we see more of her.I recommend this film to those who like to get away from mainstream material every now and then.  This will not only bring you on a trip back to the 70s, but to a time where films like this where meant to be seen by everyone. "},{"Title":"Quirkily fascinating","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An at times self-consciously quirky account of those tricky adolescent years when nothing seems to make sense and love hurts, but no love hurts more. Sofia Coppola has captured to perfection the feel of teendom - the awkwardness, the inability to articulate, the awful family parties. And the seventies themselves are re-created with wonderful (and possibly squirmily embarrassing for those who lived through them) verisimilitude. Nothing much seems to happen in this sleepy town, but the film is packed full with delicious incident. Coppola gets a bit too clever for her own good on occasion (the X-ray view of Lux's knickers is fun but jars, for example) but this is overall an admirably confident and thought-provoking work. Roll on her next effort! "},{"Title":"Looks gorgeous and feels sad","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A slight film with only the bare bones of a storyline, The Virgin Suicides is nevertheless invested with affection, drama and a deft visual touch. In seventies suburbia, five sisters are growing up and fighting the overbearing control of their uptight parents. After the youngest takes her own life at the second attempt, the lives of the remaining four come under close scrutiny from the rest of the neighbourhood, not least a group of hormonally-charged teenage boys. The usual rites of passage follow - homecoming, getting drunk, first boyfriends - and the story spirals slowly towards its inevitable, tragic conclusion.The Virgin Suicides is slightly over-reliant on its source material, betraying its literary origins, and the director's love of the novel, with a smidge too much voiceover. Also, the metaphors it uses are occasionally so heavy-handed they're barely even metaphors (the dying trees, the burning of the rock albums). It makes up for this, though, with its languid feel and superb, almost wondrous use of light. You know the ending because of the title and this leaves a melancholy shadow over the film, which Sofia Coppola punctuates with glaring sunlight through the trees and the glitterballs of a school dance.Coppola also coaxes top-drawer, understated performances from her cast. Although Josh Hartnett just does his Josh Hartnett thing, Kathleen Turner is adapting from sexpot roles to mother roles with a skill that belies her often drab 80s heroine routine. James Woods, normally so brash, is brilliantly vulnerable as he slowly loses control of his family and himself. Best of all is Kirsten Dunst as the rebellious fourth daughter Lux, who with this and Drop Dead Gorgeous is fast proving herself one of America's premier film actresses. (Yes, Lux - the parents are trying to stifle the light that burns so bright, you see. I did say it was a bit heavy-handed.)It's a curio piece, a gentle coming-of-age period drama that was never likely to find much of an audience. But all those involved give all they have, and it's certainly more than interesting that a daughter of one of Hollywood's most famous dynasties chooses to make her first film about a dysfunctional family. But it is more than that - a reflection on love, death, childhood, awakenings and hope. Satisfying.  "}{"Title":"the virgin movie","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I felt the story was underdeveloped. It lacked focus throughout and closure at the end. I would have liked more insight into how ALL the girls felt instead of just Kirsten's character. The movie was beautifully filmed and hope Ms. Coppola makes more movies! "},{"Title":"Story without heart","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sophia Coppola's gentle retelling (with the emphasis on gentle) of the Lisbon girls' suicides twenty five years ago in The Virgin Suicides, while competently done, evokes about as much emotion as the reserved Lisbon family themselves.  You leave the movie thinking you have witnessed a sterile event.  Even attempts at social criticism involving the upper class neighbors, who carry on with their martinis and golf games even as a tragedy is unfolding, seem to be muted.  You might blame this on the actual low-keyed family that preferred to sit and watch animal kingdom TV shows or the cold, unloving matron who unwittingly believed that nightly curfews would control the sex drives of her teenage daughters.  But something is missing if the most confrontational thing a mother can do to her daughter is to burn rock records in the fireplace.  The Virgin Suicides had clearly a promising start.  The initial death of daughter Cecilia and her implicit reference to our lack of understanding a teenage girl under repressed conditions signaled a serious-minded focus of the film.  Then just like that, The Virgin Suicides verged off to a teenage voyeur movie involving a group of testosterone charged boys obsessed with learning every detail about the surviving girls.  It also doesn't help that Coppola deliberately portrayed Lux in a Lolita-inspired, almost lurid role (played well by Kristen Durstin) that had a dominated screen presence or that the pathetic father (appropriately understated by James Woods) always appeared spineless and out-of-touch. In the end, this film lacked the punch and vitality of a similar theme picture, Blue Velvet, which gave you the proper superficiality of a well-manicured neighborhood but dug through to the subterranean pathos of those lives.  The Virgin Suicides only skimmed the surface. "},{"Title":"This is the best movie of the year....so far.","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best movie I have seen this year.  Usually saying that around June doesn't mean squat, but this movie is an exception.  It is very well done despite the fact that industry laughing stock Sophia Coppolla (Godfather III) is getting all the credit for it.  If she did write and direct this on her own then good for her, she has finally found her niche. I think the best character in this movie is Giovanni Ribisi (Boiler Room)as the narrator.  Although you never see him he has the most powerfull lines in the movie.  The ending of this movie is fantastic and I can't say too much more without spoiling the movie.  All I can say is see this movie while you have the chance. "},{"Title":"A superbly accomplished slice of cinema","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the very opening, the trademark Coppola class is very much evident.  Young Sofia casts an orange-filtered eye over a muted suburban life, with a remarkable ability to make every single scene interesting somehow.Perhaps one of the best things about this film is its slow-burning subtlety.  It's clever, but not in a 'clever-clever and don't we all know it' way.  Whilst the film is undeniably laced with black humour, this serves only to enhance its poignancy rather than detract from it.The dialogue is convincing, and the structure is virtually linear, but just jagged enough to give a little extra interest.  This series of understated touches, a refreshing change from the overloaded films of late, all comes together in what is an experience to truly treasure.  A floaty soundtrack by Air and beautifully etched characters draw us into the lives portrayed, and the feelings expressed.  The realism of the film is given a boost by the lack of any real moral or message - this comes across as a story about something that just happened.Undeniably this is a film much more about mood than plot - but what a mood!  The wistful voiceover evokes the air of painful nostalgia, whilst on several occasions, Sofia holds the camera just long enough so that for a split second, we assume the worst - given the title of the movie.So in an era of twists, clever-cleverness and blatancy comes a subtle, few-tricks film that really is a must-see.  It also puts Sofia Coppola on the map as a talent to watch as the new century unfolds. "},{"Title":"Memories of places I've never been","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a film that sticks with you. With its beautiful cinematography, the commendable performances from a strong and largely unknown cast, the ingenious touches of humor and flashes of wit, the haunting and brilliant score by the French band Air, this movie continues long after the credits, replaying and changing inside one's head like a memory half forgotten but always there.I must admit was not looking forward to seeing The Virgin Suicides. There have been quite a few films to deal with the 70's, with the suburban hell hidden behind white picket fences, with loss of innocence and realization of death, and enough stereotypical teen flicks to make any movie-goer weary. Even the good ones boarder on the clich and worn. And yet there is something very refreshing about Sofia Coppola's approach.This is the best representation of memory I've ever encountered, Coppola drifts through these unexplainable people's lives much the way P.T. Anderson does in Magnolia. However, Anderson's sense of tense immediacy in replaced with a dream-like recollection, a deliberate ode to loss. Instead of the omnipotent eye of Anderson's camera, we are offered the point of view of a neighbor boy. The viewer in fact becomes the main character. We watch, we view these girl lives, becoming one of the rarely seen boys whose adolescent sexual awakening manifests itself in these girls. A film not so much about the girls, as it is about the our own misunderstanding, obsession, love of these unflawed Odalisques, our own recollection of first love. Reality has no bearing on adolescence, events become mythical Greek tragedies and metaphors for existence. Time becomes timelessness, immortalized in the vacuum of memory. What strikes the deepest chord is the air of mystery. We, like the boys, don't really understand. Or do at a deeper subconscious level. The outcome of the film is stated in the beginning, the title no less, and yet we are helpless to stop it. This knowledge only makes that moment more powerful, we see only glimpses hidden in the shadows, but we know what happened. In the end we are left with incomplete facts and assumptions. Why? If the answer had been given, the parents being the easiest and most understandable target of attack, then the true sense of tragedy would've been ripped from the story, making everything up to that point useless. We, like the young boys, are left to speculate. "},{"Title":"A haunting film filled with beautiful imagery","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I know this movie may not be to all tastes but I liked it very much. A lot. If I didn't know any better I'd say it still WAS the 70s thanks to the unique atmosphere the movie creates.Cinematography was brilliant. There are many scenes warmly lit with orange sunlight and it is very pleasant on the eye. This made Kirsten Dunst seem even more beautiful than she is. Which is very beautiful indeed.Another thing about this movie is that the teen males are mature and behave in a dignified and respectful way. Not like most other teen movie these days when all they do is party, joke about diarrhoea and make love to pastries. That quality in The Virgin Suicides was new and refreshing to me.I know this film doesn't have a wide release so see it whenever you get the chance and you'll end up wishing that more films were made this way. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cinematography, soundtrack, acting, costume design and plot of this movie are all excellent. We are taken along on a journey exploring the lives of 5 young sisters, their family,  and the community they live in. As the story unfolds we are given a new (and beautiful) perspective on what is mostly a common American adolescence. There is nothing outside of the story and the film title that should surprise anyone, yet we are able to take a profound look at the coming of age experience that many of us are so familiar with. Audiences of all ages should come away with the message to live life. To do any less would be suicide. "},{"Title":"Beautifully made exploration of nostalgia and adolescence","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Numerous people seem to complain that THE VIRGIN SUICIDES fails because the reasons for the suicides are never explained. I don't know if they think this was merely an oversight on the part of the film-makers, but I would have thought it was obvious that the lack of explanation is absolutely pivotal to the thrust of the whole movie. The film is about the mystery and seductive power of beauty, and about how we are left helpless and grasping for reason when beauty dies (a theme further explored with the ruthless destruction of the tree on the Lisbons' lawn). It's about growing up and trying to reconcile love and sexuality with a world full of tragedy and injustice. It's about looking back to our childhood, when life was full of warmth and magic and mystery, and thankfully bereft of the kind of cold and logical explanation that we demand as adults. We never get inside the heads of the Lisbon girls because we aren't supposed to; the film is told entirely from the point of view of the local teenage boys, who are fascinated to the point of obsession with these fantastically beautiful girls who live down the street. Although set in the 1970s, the nostalgia for the period here is refreshingly gentle and beguiling. Shot with poise and grace, this film looks fantastic (and why shouldn't Sofia Coppola borrow actors and techniques from her dad - wouldn't you?) The entire cast are magnificent - for me, James Woods has never been better - and the soundtrack (a mixture of Air and '70s classics) is perfect. This is a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"A Very Good First Effort, BUT...","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Directing a movie is far from an easy task, I'm sure, so it's almost ungrateful to have complaints, especially about a first film, but *what is the point of this movie?*I've heard people say its theme is suicide is pointless.First of all, suicide is NOT pointless. THESE suicides were pointless.When monks burned themselves alive to protest the American presence in Vietnam, those suicides actually contributed to the end of the war. Americans thought, Why are we fighting to defend a country where some people don't want us there so much they'll barbecue themselves alive in order to protest our presence?(stop reading here if you haven't seen the movie)The first of the suicides is the youngest daughter, Cecilia. Maybe I slept through it, but if there was a reason why this particular daughter committed suicide, I missed it.The rest of the suicides were apparently to protest strict parents and boys. (You can't see it, but I'm rolling my eyes.) Girls Boys want to get in your pants. They will say anything to get into your pants, and they won't mean a word of what they say until they are well into their 40's, if then. Teens It's your parents' job to be oppressive just as it's your job to rebel. Once you understand these fundamental truths, you'll see it's all a cosmic game. Suicide won't change a thing.So, of course this sort of suicide is pointless, because once you do it, it's the job of the survivors to put your death behind them and get on with their lives.Of course, as in all of these teen angst movies, the parents are depicted as mentally defective. Unlike most of these movies, the father is not the bad guy. In this case, an overly protective mother dominates the family. An unexpectedly chubby Kathleen Turner plays the heavy here. The consummate bad guy, James Woods, here plays a week-kneed father. Both parents' attentions are good, however. There was one scene where Woods gave one of the daughters a strange smile, and I thought perhaps we had a subtext of father/daughter incest going, but that proved a red herring. By late in the film, after his attempt to give his daughters some freedom blows up in his face, mainly due to the selfish recklessness of his daughter Lux (played to the hilt by the incredibly beautiful and gifted Kirsten Dunst), he is reduced to talking to potted plants.The parents are only being parents. Far from the worst parents a girl could have. A bit eccentric, but who worth knowing isn't?So, this slow-moving movie, in the end, is hard to recommend, because it really tells a lie. As I said earlier, suicide is far from pointless, but these suicides certainly are. That is nothing upon which to build a film.The music deserves special mention. Not just the songs from the 70's, but the mood music by Air. If I were directing a movie, I'd certainly let Sophia Coppola select the music.  "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was plesently surprised that Sofia could pull it off...having read the book years ago and having recommended it to many a friend, I was less than optimistic that a movie rendition would be good enough to please mr. eugenides.  But alas, I was proved wrong from the moment the film started with the very creative use of high-school-type fonts for the title.  The actresses were beautiful, but James Wood stole the movie for me.  His whipped father portrayal was brilliant and you could see why he is such a versitile actor.  I recommend this movie to all - young and old. "}{"Title":"This is a genuine Dream Life of Angels. (possible spoiler, but so's the title)","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most beautiful films I have ever seen.  I don't know what it's about, and I don't want to, but I do now that as the credits rolled I hugged my wife so hard she couldn't breathe.  Even in independent and world cinema circles, there has been of late a refusal of enigma, obfuscation, the mystery of life - plot must be asserted, everything explained, loose ends tied up.  Coppola gets rid of all that fraudulence with stunning economy - she gives away the plot in the very title.  If, finally, she doesn't quite reach the mysterious power of her film's most repeated comparison, PICNIC AT HANGING ROCK, than maybe, creditably, it's because her characterisations are too strong.Inevitably, patronisingly, people have been comparing this film to the director's father's work, noting the same destructive families of THE GODFATHER, the teen melodramas of THE OUTSIDERS and RUMBLEFISH, the auburn nostalgia of PEGGY SUE GOT MARRIED.  If we must find a link, than surely this is her APOCALYPSE NOW - a man (or a group of men) try to solve a mysterious riddle and only find a heart of darkness, paralysing him forever.There is no explanation.  What we see is a Benjaminian act of retrieval, a scrapbook of observed reminiscences, rescued trash and journal entries. The sense of a past remembered will always be distorted, evaded, added to, mistaken, misinterpreted, but what hope is there for someone else's reality, people you barely ever saw, parties to widespread, misinformed rumours.The film's sense of magic, the faraway world of evening sun, the quiet leafy suburbs, the evocation of a timeless, indolent, magical world in decay (like SLEEPING BEAUTY where no Prince comes), of glitter, and clouds, and doodles, and colour, might have its basis in the productions of the girls, their outlets - records, letters, diaries, poems etc. - through which they expressed their pain and isolation, but they are ultimately male - mediated, gathered, interpreted, expressed by men.After all, on one level, there is no mystery - one girl killed herself because she loved an uninterested neighbour; the other four were locked up in their house, deprived of life, air (a running motif throughout the film, right down to the soundtrack's composers), flowers left to wither and die. Anyone, in the latter situation anyway, might want to end it all.  It is a typically male idea to make women mysterious, unfathomable, a black hole, a Sphinx.It is Coppola's great achievement to take them out of this dead-end abyss, to restore them to life, to celebrate their creativity, their smiles, their mocking, their desires; especially in the case of Lux, their bodies.  They are only a mystery because nobody has cared to ask.  There is no allegory here, the family are not Everyman enough - while everyone else in the real world is burning bras and hairshaking to soft rock, they are wilting, alone, petrified, ghosts in their own home, they are dead even before the film starts.How did Coppola, then, make a film of such life, of such winning wit?  On one level, the film is a great teen movie, full of recognisable youths, the footballer stud, shades-wearing, uncool buffoon, studious prizewinners; there is the archetypal homecoming dance.  The humour and insight into growing pains are instantly recognisable, and the sheer transcendence of certain scenes - the homecoming party especially - need not have any other overtones beyond the subjective self-dramatising of youths suddenly happening on the world, on life.The film here echoes DAZED AND CONFUSED, especially the climactic coupling on the sports field, but every 'normal' event cannot but take a tragic hue, shadowed by what we know, and as we see Trip Fontaine in some kind of rehab centre after the populist promise of his youth, we hear talk of the decline of the neighbourhood, the collapse of the motor industry, the descent into madness of Mr. Lisbon, the strange religious drive turning pagan that sees Virgins sacrificed, the light (lux) snuffed out, it's like the water has somehow been poisoned.  We cannot even derive satisfaction  from demonising the girls' parents  Kathleen Turner and, especially, surprisingly, joyfully James Woods, at their warmest and most sympathetic.  SUICIDES is a female counterpart to RUSHMORE.What is most sublime is Coppola's sense of colour, of uneasy compositions (where the focus of interest is often cut off, or drastically minimised on, the screen), her use of Air's heartstopping score, her VAGABONDE-like mixture of drama and 'documentary' witness, her insistence on epiphany throughout the potential gloom, her mastery of tone - the film is surely a tragicomedy (the first burial at the cemetary guarded by striking gravediggers is very funnysad).This is nothing so simple as a 'satire' on suburbia, currently fashionable in award-donating circles - as with MADE IN HONG KONG, there is something inexpressibly, perversely, horrifyingly wrong about characters barely out of pubescence with a death wish.  What makes SUICIDES stand out, though, from the likes of MA VIE SEXUELLE or THE DREAMLIFE OF ANGELS, is Coppola's willingness to take stylistic risks, visual effects (eg the repeated twinkling in Lux's eyes), that, if they had failed, could have been embarrassing, but, because they don't, are immeasurably poignant. "},{"Title":"I Really Liked It.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was an experience rather than just entertainment.  Watching the movie, I realized how important it is for some people to just want to be normal.  I mean you can perceive people you know and interact with as normal, but you really don't know what goes on behind closed doors.  But enough on the gloomy side, the sound track to this film was phenomenal.  I mean just mesmerizing.  It really captured the mood the scene wanted to portray.  I really thought the movie was genuine and unique.  I'm looking forward to another Sophia Copolla project in the future.  Go See This Movie!!! "},{"Title":"Styx, The Bee Gees, and not one, but two Heart songs!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie because my wife read the book and it was long past her turn to pick the flick. She made a great choice. The Virgin Suicides is a very good film. Because it makes no secret of its pending doom, it never allows you to watch in comfort. Even so, you still get caught up in the frenzy of the high school homecoming dance and you can't help but revisit your adolescence no matter when you actually lived it.At the same time, you watch with a knot in your stomach and you almost resent the innocence playing out before you. At points, it is brilliant movie making with a wonderful soundtrack that is often diegetic (like in Rear Window, which this film clearly nods to). As far as the screenplay, my wife said Sophia Coppola's writing credit is laughable, since she lifted all but maybe five lines straight from the novel. No matter. The wonderful performances by so many young and green actors suggests that Coppola had to have done some pretty good directing. (Better than that death scene in Godfather III, no doubt.) Given the timing of its release, I doubt this will happen. But James Woods might deserve a Best Supporting Actor nomination for the job he does as the virgins father. "},{"Title":"An incredibly subtle and deft cinematic exploration!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have not seen a better film this year, or a better work set in the 1970s. Unlike recent attempts, the near-melodramatic, horror story, The Ice Storm, or the cartoonish (though well-acted) Boogie Nights, The Virgin Suicides deftly explores important and certainly more human issues faced in that era.  Instead, of cheaply using pop imagery and music which could have reduced itself to a, wasn't the 70's just a fun and psychadelic period, Suicides opts for a deeper exploration of the interior dialogues of an often misunderstood American time. The film exploits cinematic techniques from the 70's to contextualize the challenges faced by upper-middle class white society in 70s America, by focusing on a group of teenage sisters, hence the virgins in the aforementioned title.  In contrast to her recent work Dick, which ironically could have occurred in or around the same time period as Suicides, Kristen Dunst offers a more plausible image of a young woman living through conflicting messages.  She, along with her sisters are forced into externally placed, conflicted filters. There are neighborhood boys and classmates who eroticize and exoticize them, artificial neighbors who gossip incessantly, a news reporter who comodifies the sisters' stories, a mother who is deeply religious, a distant father who is unable to relate to anyone.  Then there are the confusing media images by way of fashion magazines, and travel brochures; on one hand serve as connections to a world outside of their household, but also further alienates them from reality - fantasy, escape.  Unlike other films, which have added soundtracks to decorate a film, Suicides seems to collaborate with music, making music integral, heightening these conflicts in very specific scenes.Throughout the film issues of the time are introduced in subtle ways and are dead-on without being didactic.  During one scene a sister responds to a doctor's Rorschach Test by saying one of the blots looks like an afro; the only (semi-)mention of race in the film is somehow infused with an incredible weight, perhaps because afros lay in stark contrast to the film's setting.  There's an interwoven theme of environmentalism, beautiful trees killed and torn out of their suburban environments because of disease, not unlike the beautiful sisters. There are brilliant links between trees in the film, one, made by the reporter of how one of the sisters loved the tree in front of her family's lawn, and an image of the sister lounging, naturally, cat-like in its branches.  The sisters appear beautiful, but are internally dying by dis-ease, like the trees, like the seemingly beautiful suburbia they inhabit.  Above all, the sisters run counter to the burgeoning feminism of the time.  Here are five young women who at once wield incredible power in their position within their community, but at the same time, are powerless because of the realities under which they live.  Feminism, perhaps, is another construct the sisters are conflicted by.  It's likely they were aware of the seeds of feminism, but were they able to nurture them within their realities?  The trees, as beautiful as they were, the trees, much like the sisters, were unable to control or choose their fate.  In the end, like trees, they shadow the community in which they lived. "},{"Title":"John Waters and Ingmar Bergman Collaborate","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely the best thing I've seen in a some time. Directed and written by Sofia Coppolla this is a tragicomedy about the ways we let each other down and the way we sometimes let ourselves down. Suicide really is letting yourself down in the most final way, no? Anyhow this quirky little art film does a deft job of exploring teen angst, despair, the failure of love and, of course, death and making you laugh at it all. To me this film is remarkable for the way it segues from the tragic to the comic and off to the mundane. James Woods and Kathleen Turner are the parents of five ill-fated daughters, Kirsten Dunst takes a graceful turn as stunning Lux. And though the beautiful young girls do die, the film is so allegorical, abstract and absurd that you're not devastated by their deaths. I keep wanting to say John Waters collaborates with Ingmar Bergman. Those of you who like original artful movies will enjoy The Virgin Suicides, and someone send me a copy of the soundtrack please.... "},{"Title":"Crying to break free.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"       Countless people criticize Sofia Coppola's acting in her father's final chapter in the GODFATHER trilogy.  But maybe acting isn't her specialty, instead she rubbed off her father's shoulders and directing seems to be a better forte for Sofia. In Sofia's directoral debut, VIRGIN SUICIDES displays the look and feel of the suburbs of 1975, where young boys who are coming of age discover the opposite sex with the beautiful Lisbon sisters who live in the neighborhood.      The Lisbon's appear to be a typical American family in 1970's Grosse Pointe, Michigan.  Mr. Lisbon (James Woods) is a Math teacher who believes in family values, as long as his wife seems to approve.  Mrs. Lisbon (Kathleen Turner) is the one who controls the family with strict Christian beliefs and guidelines. Such as not allowing their five daughters to go to parties, dances, or ride in a car with a boy.  The daughters are considered to be the sirens in both the school and neighborhood. The outspoken and leader of the girls is Lux (Kirsten Dunst), who is also the one to break the family rules and traditions. It isn't until Cecilia Lisbon (Hanna R. Hall) suicide that the father is losing his contact with his daughters, the mother is becoming more protective, and the daughters are crying for more freedom.      Sofia Coppola does a great job with the film and the adaptation of the novel.  She does capture the look and sounds of the 70's, from the ELO and Heart music, to modern music performed by Air which has a 70's feel.  Her visuals are amazing and do stick in one's mind for a while.  And when one thinks that things are calm or at ease, something horrifying or shocking appears that stick in ones mind.      VIRGIN SUICIDES is sort of like AMERICAN BEAUTY, instead of looking deep into a family disfunction, it looks at a family disfunctions from the outside world and neighbors.  One of the boys who lived next to the Lisbon girls narrates the story as they gawk and stare in awe of the girls.  They also admire TripFontaine (Josh Hartnett), the most popular and adored man in school.  The boys admire Trip since he was to first to have enough courage to ask Lux out on a date.      The acting in this film is very well done.  I'm glad to see James Woods take a back seat for a change and play a modest character and a modest role.  Kathleen Turner is the one who takes all of the scenes by playing the strict and Christian devoted mother.  And Kirsten Dunst is both wonderful and beautiful as the free-spirted Lux.      So now people shouldn't knock down the talent that Sofia Coppola has.  People might say bad things about her acting and she is not going to change that.  But people will praise herdirecting, and this film shows it.  I can see why Sofia is such a good director, she has two good influences, her father (Francis) and her husband (Spike Jonze).  This is one unforgettable film.  ****1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"Art movie fails to make point","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I could have seen this movie being a dark comedy, or a commentary on teenage girls that uses suicide as a back drop.  Somehow I get the feeling it tried to do both, and it failed doing either.  The few chuckles in the movie didn't take the sting out of the suicides, and neither were what few insights into teenagers' psyches worth sitting through the movie.  And *four* suicides capping the climax of the movie?!!! What is this, a Roman spectacle?The movie was only 90+ minutes long, but seemed to drag a lot. 5/10 only because I'm giving the writer and director the benefit of the doubt that the script looked better on paper than on the screen.  It wasn't God awful, but it wasn't God good. "},{"Title":"What a stunning movie","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I confess, I was skeptical when I was in the theater and the lights dimmed. I thought that Kirsten Dunst wouldn't be able to save this movie and that I was a fool to come see it.  I was wrong on both counts.  Dunst could have saved the movie, and she didn't need to.  Yes, the movie says suicide is pointless, but I think it is also a commentary on how sometimes organized religion (dare I point out, Catholicism) frequently gets amplified and points adolescent girls in the wrong direction.  Turner did a great job (Woods did too) of portraying the mother that is more strict and overprotective and myopic than any parent should be.  I loved the writing; I loved the directing; I loved the quality of the story.  It was a sad but moving film.  And Giovanni Ribisi continues to show up in quality flicks. What a great movie.And Kirsten Dunst is just, well, a stone fox. "},{"Title":"Where the hungry go to die......","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is not just about general suicide, but the events that lead up to it. There are reasons for suicide. It's just that we will never find out what they really are. Sofia Coppola did an excellent job on her first major project. Jeffery Eugenides wrote an incredible book. I read the thing twice in two weeks. I believe Sofia was purely inspired by Jeffery's astounding piece of work.Even though more than half the cast did not really have any acting experience, they pulled through with help from Sofia. Even the single-shot scenes worked effectively with the darkness of the movie.You can't get this anywhere else because it is PURE INDEPENDENT FILM.......and we will never find the pieces to put them back together. "},{"Title":"I loved it...","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked the film. It was done well and followed the book pretty well. I won sneak preview passes. I think it was very good and had a dreamy appeal to it. There were some funny parts to it and they didn't over do the 70's theme to it. I encourage people to go see it! "}{"Title":"A refreshingly understated dark art-school film.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sofia Coppola's writing/directorial debut is, as one might expect from such an illustrious family, a quality dark, art-school, film. I was expecting what is now a commonplace high school dark comedy, but was pleasantly surprised by the new richness of Coppola's first movie. She manages to write the teenage suicide story without the usual, and overly trite, I'm a beautiful teenager, no one understands me catch-all. On a kodachrome style of 70s backdrop, the movie showcases wonderfully understated performances by James Woods, Kathleen Turner, and Kirsten Dunst in particular. "},{"Title":"Pretty but Shallow and Sophomoric Exercise","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The irony in watching this movie is that it eerily resembles a scene early in the movie, of readings out of the youngest sister's diary. The movie is of similar grade but tries to pass off as an adult inspiration. Movie grants some pretty images, pretty girls and boys, good performances, good soundtrack, and even provides a hint of touching something genuine, once in a while, in this tale of tragic consequence of having yearning youth embalmed in antiseptic suburbia... at least it seems this is the theme the movie is trying hard to develop. However, all of the characters are paper thin, their actions just presented without a hint of background, depth, or justification. At some frustrating point in the middle, I felt angry at this movie's wanton killing off of its youthful heroines without an iota of justification. A sort of grade school comic book stab at the Sorrows of Young Werther. movie is trying hard to  "},{"Title":"Quite a trip","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sitting in the late show, quite tired, I felt as if I was in a trance watching this brilliant film.   Tthe combination of the hazy visuals, Air's haunting score, and the seminal songs from the 70's did it.  Sofia Coppola, along with husband Spike Jonze, is one to watch for sure.  Josh Hartnett is a stone fox, to borrow his line from the film.  The whole cast was great, especially the girl playing Celicia.  It was kinda depressing, but you have to expect that from the title.  But that's okay.  It contained my favorite inematic themes the 70's, obsession, sex, and death.  and Josh Hartnett ) "},{"Title":"quite a trip","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  sitting in the late show, quite tired, i felt as if i was in a trance watching this brilliant film.  the combination of the hazy visuals, Air's haunting score, and the seminal songs from the 70's did it.  Sofia Coppola, along with husband Spike Jonze, is one to watch for sure.  Josh Hartnett is a stone fox, to borrow his line from the film.  the whole cast was great, especially the girl playing Celicia.  it was kinda depressing, but you have to expect that from the title.  but that's okay.  it contained my favorite cinematic themes the 70's, obsession, sex, and death.  and Josh Hartnett ) "},{"Title":"Like a well-remembered dream.","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this film I felt fairly unsatisfied by theseeming lack of emotional content.  The whole affair was sowispy and seemingly unmotivated that I could barely feel anyconcern as one sister and then all the others committed suicide. It was like, oh, she threw herself on the fence?  Oh well.  Butthen a strange thing occurred.  I began brooding on the film asif it were pieces of a dream I was struggling to connect, ifonly because they seemed to harbor some great meaning.  Icouldn't get the film out of my head as I tried to solve themystery of why the girls had killed themselves.  After about aweek of this process, which was greatly facilitated by repeatedlistenings to the Air soundtrack, I came to some measure ofcomprehension without removing the least bit of fascination forthe Lisbon ladies.  This  unironically, put me in the samerhetorical position as the boys and gave me greater insight intowhy Trip Fontaine left Lux all alone "},{"Title":"Hauntingly beautiful","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sofia Coppola has made quite a splash with her directorial debut. A feel-good movie this is not, but the emotions are real here, perfectly capturing what can go on in the minds of our youth in those hectic years known as adolescence. The film is very faithful to the book and brings all of it's vivid description to life on the screen, in a hazy almost surreal light, and is perfectly complemented by a haunting score from Air. The casting is dead-on and exceptional, allowing us to feel the pain and longing of the girls and their plight, and the boys who are infatuated with these mysterious girls. The scenes between Lux (Dunst) and Trip (Hartnett) are pretty powerful (the car scene especially!) as was the homecoming dance scene. Coppola uses quick fantasy cuts that are well placed (especially the one at the end of the movie, where the boys finally rescue the girls, which brings us a quick glimpse of what could've been and the horrifying truth that shatters their dream). This is a film that you will be thinking about long after you've left the theater. "},{"Title":"Triumph in mood and setting","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this, and although it wasn't great, some of it was very well done.  It is probably the most believable period setting (of 1975) I have ever seen; the clothes, hair styles, automobiles, and environment are just right--they work because they are subtle, the characters look like they are living in the 70's, not like they are on their way to a 70's theme party, a problem that many other period-setting films have had.  It is also shot in a way that captures that setting well; the director shoots the film in a way that reminds us of pictures from that era; the poster from the film on this page is a good example.  She also has a good eye for shooting females, giving us lots of sexy images, while enforcing a mood of sexual tension and repression between characters.SPOILER ALERTThe movie tells us the story of a mother and father who shield their children from the outside world and drive them to grim fates.  We don't see that much of this.  Coppola wanted to imply more than rely on overbearing cliches.  This hauntingly left too much mystery for me.  There was serious tension in this film, but I didn't see enough reason to drive these girls to commit the actions that they did.  Grade; B-    "},{"Title":"The Title Better Than the Film","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The title obviously reeks of scandal, invites visions of blood bath, orgy, and sin, violations of pucelage of the most devilish sort. The movie, however, belongs to that ever-growing list of half-hearted American self-examinations, domestic soul searchings, tepid half measures as flawed as their subject matter, e.g., American Beauty, Judy Berlin e.g., The Swimmer, e.g., The Graduate, e.g., Citizen Kane, ad nauseum. Yes, aren't we Americans vacuous and corrupt beneath all our wealth, lost amid all those belongings. Yes, aren't we fascinating in our corruption and lovelessness. Yes, isn't our affluent landscape a barren wasteland. (There's only one thing worse Hollywood films about the corruption of Hollywood films, e.g. Sunset Boulevard.)The dialogue consists entirely of platitude and clich, which might have been an accomplishment, a stroke of theater-of-the-absurd satire, except, sadly, that's the best it could do, all that it means to say. Likewise, this satire of American middle-class sexual repression, inhibition, and alienation is half-formed, half-baked, falsely exaggerated, and completely unoriginal. The characters are stiff, uninteresting, shallow. No one really suffers. There is no true loss, nothing's really at stake. This is standard West Coast commercial pseudo-indie film-festival film-establishment superficiality and hokum, only transplanted to the Midwest to lend it that heartland credibility--there's absolutely nothing Midwestern about the movie except the license plates. (It probably would have had more authenticity, rang truer with detail, had it been shot in the Napa Valley, Sofia Coppola's home, home of yuppie rednecks in pickup trucks, a town with a handful of good restaurants but not one decent bookstore.)Even the suicides are external, forced, never given a context or meaning, instead, are just there, exploited for melodramatic, pseudo-tragic effect--everyone likes to see a nice clean virgin bite it once in a while, don't they? Hell, we all need to sacrifice a virgin or two to the gods every so often.There might be mystery and tragedy, a dreamy self-destructiveness, about adolescence--it's no accident Shakespeare made Romeo and Juliet barely into their teens, no accident teen suicide is a statistical fact--but this dreary, lackluster affair doesn't even come close to penetrating or recreating that mystery. I remember a young teen, my coeval, son of our family doctor, who went to the basement, turned on a power saw, and cut his neck; I remember the gloomy fascination with which I obsessed over this. The only authority this movie might have had would have been if it was based on such fact, if the group suicide had actually happened, because, otherwise, as it is, it's totally implausible and contrived.Everything is too too simple Females are unrealistically idealized in the boys' eyes through which the story is told. This, too, is a fabrication, only one side of the coin. Boy's fascination with girls may have elements of idealized romanticism, but is at heart a physical phenomenon, the working of hormones, not philosophy or poetry.The mother is a black and white caricature, a battleaxe who tyrannizes her family in the name of respectability (quite a reversal for Kathleen Turner, vamp extraodinaire, vide, Body Heat ), to whom her husband (James Woods) is the equally too extreme alter ego, as docile as she is ferocious, in fact simply a whimpering wimp who builds model airplanes and talks to plants.Then there's the matter of the voice-over narration, a device which should be used sparingly, if ever. It's uncinematic, anti-cinematic, literary, and hardly ever adds as much as it subtracts. It's a corner cut, a didactic, intrusive way of conveying that which should be told visually, cinematically, dramatically, that which should be conveyed in the language inherent to cinema, not the printed page. It's as superfluous here as it is in Ghost Dog.Like inbred bluebloods, the sons and daughters of film personalities are taking the reigns. There are Drew Barrymore, Michael Douglas, Gwen Paltrow, etc. Instead of making it on the basis of their own merit, these are people who were born with a silver spoon you know where. Sofia Coppola would never have made this film, had big name actors in it, had this amount of publicity or money to spend, if her father wasn't such a fat cat in the film biz (despite what the reviewers may be saying to the contrary, which they are doing merely to appease the powers that be).A very boring 97 minutes. No plot, no character, no dialogue, no vision. The title is better than the film. "},{"Title":"Power in its ambiguousness...","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"       From my point of view, the main themes of this film are unrequited love and the allure of physical beauty. I am sure there will be no strong consensus what the theme of this film is, especially since individual perception plays a crucial role on two levels. First, the boys try to interpret the enigma of the Lisbon sisters. Second, the viewer must also try to understand the Lisbon girls, plus interpret the boys' fascination with them.   	While there are few truths in this film, and as uneven as I felt walking out of the theater, I truly enjoyed the experience. What made the film exceptional from what could have been just a decent film was the direction and cinematography. While retro-stylish, Ms. Coppola's portrait of the 70s spared the clichs,  much like the film adaptation of Rick Moody's The Ice Storm was able to effectively convey.	The Virgin Suicides is dreamy, pensive, melancholic, dark, moody, humorous, equivocal, mystical and depressing. The range of emotions seem to flutter at random, unexpected intervals. I am extremely curious as to how the mainstream audience will perceive this film. Whereas last year's American Beauty asked the audience to look closer, trying to dissect this film seems futile. True enjoyment of this film seems to come from letting the mystery be. Of course, this is only my perception. "},{"Title":"good first attempt","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed the mood and tone of the film, and it was definitely a good start for Sophia, but overall, the film was a bit lacking.  It relied too heavily on the narration, which isn't all that uncommon today, and I don't think the relationship (or lack there of) between the boy neighbors with the sisters was developed as well as it could have been.  Maybe it was just their presence in general.  The movie reminded me a lot of Sophia's short film as well.   "}{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Terrific acting.  None of the actors was over the top in their performances. Kirsten Dunst shows some range  she (along with all of the girls) acts subtly, using her facial expressions and her body language.  Had a dreamy feel to it, enhanced by the sort-of greenish, fuzzy tint to everything on the screen.  Everything felt very picturesque, and the music was just as dreamy.  Quite funny and smart.  Highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"wake up now...the dream's over...","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i staggered out the screening, the stench of love's baby soft and carbon monoxide still lingering in my nostrils...shook my head to break up the dream, but it was no use.  believe the hype this time around - a beautiful, haunting, sharp movie from beginning to end.  i don't care WHO her dad is...sofia's got it and it shows.  from the atmosphere (surreal, creepy and sweet all at once) to the perfect soundtrack by AIR to the excellent cast, 'the 'virgin suicides' is one of the more assured and accomplished debuts i've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie itself is wonderful, but Sofia Coppola deserves most of the credit. The atmosphere that she has created is simply wonderful. The camerawork in the dance scene (when Come Sail Away was being played) gave me goosebumps; it was simply beautiful. I cannot wait to see what her next project will be.However, everything else about the movie is also worth praise, particularly Kirsten Dunst. I found myself getting very involved in the story, and a few moments got quite a reaction out of me. The effects the film had on me were perfect. This one is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Emotionally charged, coming of age, comedy drama.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd like to say a tour de force of emotion, but no single cliche can sum up how good this movie is. For a writing and directorial debut, Sofia Coppola deserves all the credit under the sun. Superbly acted by a cast deserving of a script like this, the emotion is real. Nothing else released this year will take its audience on such a ride from laugh out loud comedy, to heart felt affection, to, in possibly the best scene I have ever seen, shock and amazement at the brutality of the moment. (This scene which occurs very near the end is the only time I have ever heard the entire audience gasp out loud.) If this is what Sofia Coppola is capable of, give her the oppurtunity to make more films. "},{"Title":"A Superb, Atmospheric Film.","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Most moviegoers are aware of the talented and legendary Francis Ford Coppola, and this film brought his daughter, Sofia, to attention. With her directorial debut, Sofia Coppola manages to bring a beloved novel to the big screen. Although I have yet to read the novel by Eugenides, the film transports the viewer back to the early seventies. The Lux sisters are intriguing to their male neighbors. This film tells the dark story of the lives of these young girls, but the film is dreamy and filled with wonderful music of the French duo Air, as well as hit radio songs from the early seventies. A beautiful film and an incredible debut from Ms. Coppola, who shows that she has the same amazing directing chops as her father. "},{"Title":"The Lisbon sisters will forever stay in my mind...","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am usually able to write decent reviews, especially for films in which I'd immensely enjoyed... but I seem to be having trouble with this particular film.I have become a part of the narrator. I have become one of the boys who were obsessed and loved and forever haunted by the Libson sisters. I can imagine myself a few weeks after seeing this movie still trying to figure out the pieces. Still trying to put together the sequence of events, the why of it all.Another reviewer said in their summary that the film kept me quite still and I could not agree more. I wasn't just sitting back in my chair to be entertained by a fictional story, like I said before, I had become a part of the characters. Never once had a movie made me forget myself like that. Blahh. Enough of this. Great film. Highly recommended for those of us who too prefer to live in our fantasies than reality. "},{"Title":"And Lux was the last to go...","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From my European point of view,Obviously, Doctor, you've never been a 13-year-old girl., says Cecilia To Danny DeVito's Dr. E.M. Hornikerrom character, who seems totally distraught, focus in a concise way the subject of this movie.My first 14 years old's vision, in 2003, made me smothering, I remember the atypical Television and the Taped Cassette of bad quality. Since my childhood, I fancy the American way of Life of the 70's,The Doors,the Beatnik Movement...the First thing I've noticed was the Photo's Grain which, by the 35 mm Camera, brings me back to this other frigid and airtight America, Obscure as Hell, with the munificence of the Edward Lachman's cinematography. Secondly, Every word, simple, deep and full of life, used by the Narrator, aka Ribisi, flows to my ears like a poem, it runs through my head, my veins..like the poison. Sofia Coppola by depicting in a realistic and haunting way the life and death of these five teen girls, from a conservative and puritan married couple( nice played by Woods and Turner), blew away my eye on girls for the rest of my life. Gradually I was looking the movie, I felt more and more touch, and it gave me the impression of being beside they. The music composed notably by the French Band Air ( yeah !! ) which is dreamy, subtle and slight, leads this smart work to dreamlike Lands ( as the Boys ' Lux Dream, i cried when she died). The casting is awesome, notably Hartnett who makes an nice effort since H20.Moreover, when my eye came to rest on Kirsten Dunst, it was the love at first sight, Lux represents all the stake of the film, the inherent conflict which seems to animate every girl. Then I remember me when i was watching Spiderman in the theater, asking my self who's that beautiful red hair girl? She's a stone fox ! it's her !, Since this date, I idolize her, she's my favorite actress and to my mind it's her best performance.In my feel, by transposing the Eugenides's epic fresco, this first trial shot by Sofia Coppola is a master stroke, this movie is full of grace and enigmas like his creatures. We can catch sight of the beginning of Sofia's Fluo universe which is also full of humanity. At the end of her masterpiece, I was saying to my self  I'll give anything to be one of these boys just to touch them, to have this romantic memory. Since 2003, I've saw it 2 times and i can't get enough. I'm carried away with delight and pain, I wan't it to never ending like Sean Penn's Into the Wild, another great book's adaptation. It's my favorite movie, and i'm a little bit ashamed of that.However, I can truly understand that some people find it boring, creepy as a clich film. To me, you must be in peculiar context in order to appreciate it, loveless or sad maybe... "},{"Title":"Some parts are good, but it's not a completely convincing movie","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't really know very well what to say about this film. The acting was good, the music by Air generally too and the cinematography sometimes too. But one way or another, this film didn't completely appeal to me. Director Sofia Coppola has talent I think, because some scenes in her movie were beautiful. But this is her first film, so it's quite normal that this film isn't entirely convincing. The main problem with this movie -I think- is that the story wasn't developed well enough. The basic story seems interesting, but it simply should have been developed more. In general the acting was OK, especially Kirsten Dunst (from whom I think is a very good actress) did a good job. If you don't have too high expectations, you could perhaps enjoy it, but for me, it's a bit disappointing. "},{"Title":"Deeply Disturbing!","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have wanted to see this film for a long time. I have read the book a few years ago. I was mesmerized by the plot of five teen age girls, the Lisbons, who end up as suicide victims hence the title. The Lisbon Sisters include Lux played by Kirsten Dunst who steals the movie from the other actresses. She is a middle child. There is Mary, Bonnie, Cecilia, Lux, and I forget. Cecilia attempts suicide early in the film and the parents are trying to correct the situation. Since the story takes place in the 1970s, one can only assume that there was little knowledge of depression or understanding how depression is the major cause of suicides. I was saddened that I never got to the other girls because I taped it in the middle of the night and the tape ran out so I only got up to the homecoming dance. I have to say that James Woods is wonderful as the father and Kathleen Turner who I never liked personally is very good at playing their mother. We never really get to know what caused the tragedy of why such beautiful girls never lived such a life. By the way, Sofia Coppola has truly found a calling in directing rather than acting. This film is quite controversial because of the film's nature. She did a terrific job bringing this novel to celluloid. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful, dreamy, full of air, no substance","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I read the book, so my reactions to the film would not have been from someone who had no idea what would happen. But, it's pretty obvious from the title what goes on here.Themes dealt with include repression, small-town life and how it suffocates, the loss of innocence and the corruptive power of sex on teenage minds as represented by stale authoritarian figures. There are no car-chases or explosions. There is a sub-plot about a tree that might get cut down.Now, the acting. Here's my problem. The direction consists of stand around and look arty. And that's what happens, Josh Hartnett is particularly guilty of wanting to make love to himself so badly it ruins his character. Trip Fontaine in the book never came off as such an arrogant moron, yes he is arrogant and yes he is a bit of a moron, but Hartnett seems wooden to the point you think he's more of a model than an actor.It's a good story, there are some subtle, funny lines (mostly taken from the book), and the music gives the whole thing a dreamy, floating on air, this-is-not-really-happening feel. I think my problem, like with Lost in Translation is that people see these films and automatically think they are art because they don't fully understand what is going on, not because it's genuinely hard to fathom what we're supposed to get out of it. Open to interpretation is the big cop-out when it comes to explaining or defending something and thats the best thing I could say about this film. For people who think normal multiplex fare is beneath them. "}{"Title":"Superb approach about a delicate occidental crisis","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first, and literally the main, good thing from this movie is the subject and the way the story brings it. Few movies achieve to righteously express the disturbing inner affective, sexual and emotional trouble of teenage, and the way parents successfully worsen it. For a period, it even has somehow been a sort taboo subject. I mean, it's a phenomenon that always existed, and most peoples, in some way, went through this kind of rough and frustrating period. The extreme, though, is another story, and the Lisbon sisters life tells it with beauty, thanks to Jeffrey Eugenides, but especially to Sofia Coppola's superb adaptation.To place the story in the early 80's is a wise choice, sure, it visually uses well the kitch and brownish clean style of this period, but especially 'cause it both limits communication technology to reinforce sisters isolation, and successfully helps viewer to take a distant look, as this movie has been released in 1999. Still, we (well; I did) easily remember some sad and strange memories from our teenage, which give us this weird charm that keeps our attention.Otherwise, casting was excellent, even surprising, if you consider the usually dry performances of teens playing a period of their life which still isn't over yet. I may repeat myself but, teenage is a delicate and hardly well rendered subject, probably the worst age to deal with, but here... it was just flawless and natural! I'm pleased, really, 'cause usually I just hate and avoid any production mainly involving teens, but Coppola's daughter managed to produce a mature and professional job, thumbs up, really! Although, some actors were older than their characters, but nobody noticed, did you? Anyway, Wood is a pleasure to watch, while Turner isn't exactly as good, but definitely professional. Dunst is just as sweet as a female actress can be, anyway, since her early and so wonderful performance in Interview with a vampire, it would take a fool to deny such a talent.Great photography, superb soundtrack, constant and effective art direction, authentic reproduction of a deplorable phenomenon, perfect succession of events and great, although depressive ending. Definitely, the Coppola's legacy is here to stay! *I suggest anyone to show this production to any excessive parents this movie can remember you of. "},{"Title":"Enchanting, moving and haunting...","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't really know what to expect when i first watched this film. I'd had it recommended to me and had taken a look at it on IMDb, which I don't usually do, so I knew a it about the film before I watched it. And I was enthralled, enchanted and entertained by the film from it's opening line of Cecilia was the first to go .If this line seems a little too dark and discerning for your taste, don't watch this film. I think it is a bit of an acquired taste, but then again often the best films are. It is haunting, beautiful and the images presented are some of the most beautiful I've ever seen on film. The music is wonderful and it manages to be romantic, heartbreaking, funny, magical and truthful all at the same time.So sure, it's not really a good film to watch if you want to have a laugh with your friends go watch Legally Blonde instead of this, but if you want to be caught up in something really interesting to watch and think about long after the credits roll, watch this because it's just so beautiful in so many ways. "},{"Title":"Beautiful & Haunting.","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A stroke of genius. Sofia's ability to capture both the painful normality of these five girl's lives, with an edge of mystery, mystery that consumes the boys who lead the audience through the story.Wonderfully narrated, this film follows through the memories that neighbour boys still have (25 years later) of the Lisbon sisters. Sofia's camera work is beautiful, with a haunting soundtrack by Air. What touched me most - was the story of the first sister,Cecilia Lisbon,played by Hanna Hall.Cecilia, being the youngest of the sisters seems to see the world in a different light, a shocking opening, as she is found to be laying in a bathtub of blood-stained water. An early scene shows the girl's having their first (and only) party in the basement of their home. Sofia captures the awkwardness of teenage boys and girls alone in a room together, outside school - for the first time.It is in this scene that Cecilia commits suicide, creating somewhat of a chain-reaction through the girls - and leading the audience of a journey that shows the dangers of a strict up-bringing and misunderstood adolescence. Not to mention - the loss of beauty, and innocence, shown in Lux's downward spiral of sex and depression. "},{"Title":"True Facts?","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw the movie and I think it's one of the best movies I ever saw. Especially the music from Air within was very very beautiful. I like stories where in the end it's not really clear. So it stays a mystery. And it's very good to know that by this kind of movies there will be no second movie or anything. It's beautiful when it stays a mystery. I thought that to with Final Destination until there was made a second movie. It's a shame. I think Sofie Coppola did an excellent job with this movie. There's only one thing I really would like to know. Has the story been based on true facts or is it just fiction? I really would like to know that. "},{"Title":"nice...","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is great ... the actors are all of them great and the movie makers represented the 70's so amazing well!!There's not 1 moment were you don't realize the movie is in the 70's!! The story is really deep and still..very passionated and funny sometimes!! I love writing songs and when I talk about suicide in my songs I always try to nit make my song that dark but I always fail!!My point isThis movie represent a very very fragile subject(suicide) but still isn't dark!! The Way this movie is put together is absolutely amazing!!What I also like in this movie is that its not an happy ending!!Its not a love story about two peoples who at the end of the movie go together!! If you haven't seen this movie yet i really recommended you!!I'm 14 years old what means that this movie is also good for teenagers!! You don't have to like deep movies for this one because this movie is so touching!! Thanks for listening! "},{"Title":"Haunting, quirky and beautiful","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Being a massive Sofia Coppola fan, I was looking forward to seeing this film. When I finally got the chance, it wasn't what I expected - it was different, and perhaps, better than my interpretation.I think it was really the fact that there was dialogue than I'd have imagined and that it was restrained and passionate in equal amounts. Getting criticism out of the way first, I really hoped there'd be more focus on the sisters separately and less than on the boys, but perhaps that's what made it so special and poignant.It's an odd and difficult for some, story to swallow, but it's captured by Coppola's unique, eclectic style of script and direction and transformed into an absolutely beautiful, mesmerizing piece, camera-work reminiscent to that used in Heavenly Creatures and the teenage boys' points of view similar to Stand By Me. While the narration and views on the captivating Lisbon sisters is thoughtful and sensitive, what really makes the film arresting and irresistible is Coppola's vivid imagery Hartnett and Dunst entwined on the crisp playing field, the youngest daughter floating in the bath...these are images you don't forget in a hurry.If there were more focus, perhaps, on the Lisbon family, then more could've been done with it, but the actors make the most of what they have Woods is typically brilliant as the father, Turner heartbreakingly reserved as the mother, Hartnett cocky and charming and you can tell Coppola thinks Dunst's face is something special - it floats over every other shot like a beautiful angel, contrasted with her bad-girl Lux.The film may come as a surprise, but you won't want to switch it off from the opening scene to the end, it'll stay with you - and you'll want it to. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as the book...Almost.","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Before I was even finished reading the movie review (it hadn't come out yet), I found myself at the store buying the book. I read half of it in the store and finished the rest that afternoon. It was so good I couldn't peel myself away.The movie is just as captivating.I scoured theatres so I could see this film, which follows the book almost to the letter (kudos to first time director Sofia Coppola.) It's a spellbinding story of neighborhood boys smitten with the oddly alluring sisters across the street. Set in 1970's suburbia, this deeply moving look at adolescent obsession revolves around the Lisbon familythe over protective mother, the aloof and clueless father, and their five intriguing daughters. Forbidden to date, touched by tragedy, the girls are seen as an enigma by their classmates, until heart-breaker Trip Fontaine (Josh Hartnett) is bewitched by Lux Lisbon (Kirsten Dunst.) The unusual events that follow will leave you thinking about this film for days. Despite the main characters being high school aged, there's not an ounce of teen movie to be seen. Beautifully acted, a mesmerizing and poignant tale of desire, passion, and love. Be sure to read the book (by Jeffrey Euginides) as well. I should warn you that part of the ending is different, but both are equally engrossing. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Don't Read Unless You've Seen Virgin Suicides","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie, and as a teenager I could relate to some of the things that went on. One thing I didn't like was that it didn't really get into the girls lives that well. There isn't very much that goes on that makes you think wow their lives are really hard or made you even understand why they would want to kill themselves. I understand that their family was very protective, but I would have ran away before I would have killed myself if something like that was the problem. There just wasn't enough happening to make their actions seem realistic, yes they're teenagers and sometimes we get really depressed over nothing or we make bad decisions, but with this movie it didn't seem like that's what occurred. Was it part of the movie to wonder why they did it, like wonder if something else went on? I am just confused and was disappointed about that aspect of the movie. The music was really good though, and I absolutely love Kirsten Dunst. It's a movie worth watching I would say, but it's not great. "},{"Title":"Kirsten Dunst in a thriller!","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow! What can you say about this movie? It is really powerful! This was written and directed by Soffia Coppola who doesn't do that bad of a job. I like Kirsten Dunst in this movie. She really brought the viewer to an understanding of the movie! I wasn't sure of how the movie was going to play out, but I'm glad it did! Dunst stars as one of a group of sisters that lives with some strict parents. The parents really kind of sheltered their kids from the normal life. If you want to see a good drama, then this one's for you! I'm glad I got to see it when it came on cable. I wish had a copy for my own collection! Definitely a must-see movie! "},{"Title":"A rare gem of a movie","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophia Coppola's feature film debut in the director's chair is a unique accomplishment. The movie is extremely stylized both in look and subject matter. It follows the lives of several young sisters coming of age and a group of neighborhood boys who become fascinated with the enigmatic and youthful beauties living next door. The movie takes place in the 1970's and it's obvious a labor of love for Sophia Coppola as she paints the film along with Edward Lachman's gorgeous cinematography as a sort of dreamscape walk through a distant memory. It's an enchanting and surreal vision of the moment in time, which these sisters and their infatuated neighbor boys grew up in. Kirsten Dunst is remarkable playing one of the Lisbon sisters, who is the only of the bunch who dares to defy their wicked mother played by Kathleen Turner. Turner is good as the ridiculously strict mother who wants to keep her girls locked away and virginal for seemingly an eternity. James Woods plays the well to do hen-pecked father, who also happens to teach. Teaching is his only means of communicating. In any real conversation or situation he is extremely awkward and uncomfortable, as he is when trying to side with Josh Hartnett when he pleads his case to court Dunst. Woods is a highly versatile actor and shows how good he can be outside of his typecast tough guy roles. The Virgin Suicides showcases him at the top of his game. Oh and of course, the suicides. And this is where the movie does an excellent job. It shows the traumatic day-to-day struggles of what it might be like to be a teenage girl when your emotions and hormones are firing on all cylinders and each day is a monumental struggle just to keep your sanity. Kirsten Dunst is a revelation in her role as Lux Lisbon and recaptures the brilliance she showed at an early age in Interview With the Vampire. Dunst is a true combination of talent, instinct, and beauty. The surreal film is done with so much style and grace that it's breathtaking. It's beautiful movie to look at and has a way of speaking to the audience through the hazy mind state of dreams and memories as few films can. "}{"Title":"Almost Pure Beauty & Tragedy","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Until the maelstrom around Sofia Coppola's 2003 smash Lost in Translation, this early work had gone largely unnoticed; a great shame, as in many ways this is the finer work. From the film's opening moments to the closing montage and voice-over, it works as a stunning portrayal of the power of beauty and tragedy to transform people's lives.From the title and the opening credits, the viewer knows what is going to happen in the film, and what the plot is going to be, but the pleasure here lies in the steady unfolding of events. The family of beautiful girls, that no-one can believe is the offspring of the high school Math teacher (James Woods) and his conservative wife (Kathleen Turner) waft through the film like beauty personified, and so they serve the dual purpose of the representation of both of the important concepts of the film. The focus of them is Lux (Kirsten Dunst) and her transfixing beauty, as experienced by the neighbourhood boys who had just enough contact with her to make them long for more. Trip Fontaine (Josh Hartnett) is the only one who can get close enough to her, but their relationship can never be the same as the boys who long for the pieces to put (the girls) back together.The performances are simply stunning; Woods and Turner have been criticised for overshadowing the child actors in the film but to me the power and raw emotion that they bring to these most tragic of roles is stunning. Dunst has never been finer, and she has proved herself to be an actress to watch in more recent times, and even Hartnett who has mellowed and become a much more wooden actor is powerful as the boy who ran away. Giovanni Ribisi achieves perfect balance as the narrator. So the combination of these powerhouse performances with the sheer beauty of Ed Lachman's cinematography make for an impressive film.And that is before you even consider the input of director Coppola - her trademark shot of the sunlight through leaves and other tracking shots of the neighbourhood; shots of the football pitch at night; and the stunning set-piece of the disco and balloons for the homecoming ball are all powerful images that strike at the heart of the nature of beauty in the world. For me, this film deals with the essential concepts of life, death, regeneration and everything that makes human life so special, and so fragile with its breathtaking combination of cinematography, direction, voice-over, soundtrack and acting it becomes one of the few great films ever made, and should be compulsory viewing for all young adults.10/10. "},{"Title":"a brilliant and haunting story of love life and death","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" the virgin suicides is one of the most underrated films i have come across. surely the genius of Sofia Coppola would not have gone too overlooked, but I'm afraid it deserves much more credit than it already has. this beautiful and mysterious tragedy focuses on the Lisbon sisters, who are severely sheltered by their overprotective mother(their father was a nice but odd man). this story is told by the neighborhood boys who greatly admire the sisters, and are fascinated by the mystery of their beauty. not to mention their dark ends. Lux Lisbon was sort of the icon of the sisters. mischievous, rebellious, and seductive, she was by far the most mysterious and beautiful. Kirsten Dunst played Lux Lisbon wonderfully! this film shows the talent that Kirsten possesses. i believe her to be one of the best actresses of her time despite my admiration of her. I'm an avid Kirsten fan. but even if you aren't, I'm sure you will be after seeing The Virgin Suicides. all in all this depressing movie is bound to get the credit it deserves, even if it takes a while. i will say though, I'm a stable dude and still i recommend to all that this movie be watched alone. it's almost impossible for anyone to not cry after that movie. whoever doesn't is pure evil. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, but depressing","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie, but only watched it because of a class assignment. I am very glad that I did because this was a wonderful film. It was however rather depressing and i didn't much like the ending, although it fit for the theme of the movie. I would have liked to have seen more of how it affected other people, but overall excellent film. The events in these girls lives were like nothing that I have seen before. I simply do not understand how the parents can treat their children like prisoners and not think that it was their fault that their children are depressed. They should have been more aware of the problems at hand. Then they go about their lives as if nothing has happened and the children are now dead because of them. If you would like to see what depression does to people, watch this film. "},{"Title":"Quite Liked With Reservations","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was a very well-acted and beautifully directed film, and completely worth  seeing, but there was an arm's length feeling about it that I can't shake. I felt little  empathy towards the sisters from the director, as if they were as much a mystery to her  as they were to the boys, audience, and parents of the girls. The problem with this is  that when the girls commit suicide, the reasoning behind it is a bit of a mystery, since  they really don't give any indication of anything that extreme prior in the film. They  seem passive and mysterious, more like mermaids lounging on sunny rocks. Suicide is  such a proactive thing to do that it almost seemed out of character and I think that  Coppola needed to infuse a little more to make that event feel like it was a logical leap  in the story. "},{"Title":"a masterful film and directorial debut....","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The acclaimed novel by Jeffrey Eugenides is vividly brought to life in this remarkable debut film from Sofia Coppola. The subject matter is dark by definition - and people who've been turned on to her work from seeing Lost in Translation may shy away- but the overall effect of this film is not as depressing as many have inferred.The script by Sofia gives a deeper perspective than the book by fleshing out the characters of Mr. Lisbon (played by James Woods) and over-bearing mother (Kathleen Turner) as well as the pivotal, crucial role of Lux Lisbon (Kirsten Dunst). All give excellent performances in a story where subtlety and mood are more important than plot line and action. The focus is squarely on the Lisbon sisters and great attention to detail is given to the nuances of their highly idealized images. There is a magical quality to the photography that recalls the beauty of Picnic at Hanging Rock by Peter Weir.You get the feeling of the Lisbon sisters yearning to escape from their sheltered lives but unable to under an oppressive & over-protective mother. The voice - over narration (Giovanni Ribisi) is faithful to the book - but it's just one part of a larger tapestry that is the film. Sofia also shows a keen eye and ear for 1970s music as well as midwest suburbia that echoes the malaise of the '70s upper-middle class in The Ice Storm by Ang Lee.This is an excellent film that should not get overlooked despite being slightly less accessible than the lighter, funnier Lost in Translation. The performances were good and it is even more gratifying after multiple viewings than her 2nd film.  "},{"Title":"Bravo Sofia","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've just finished to watch this Virgin Suicides, and I must say that is deep, dense and lovely beauty.It doesn't need any comments. It's everything there. In every word, in every moment, in every song.Surely not a film to everyone, but everyone should see it anyway. But don't be fooled, this movie is really sad but amazing.Are we just loosing something, that we're given ?! Or is it that being an adolescent is just the best thing since ever.If I had to rate it I'll give it 10/10, in every aspect.Bravo Sofia.jorge  "},{"Title":"The suburban aesthetic defined...","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Post-modernism has a smell and this movie reeks of it. The story itself is not radically complicated--5 beautiful sisters who live, really, a fine, safe suburban life but inexplicably all commit suicide--but the tone of the movie is really one of smarmy superiority.  It is an unsubtle assault of the intellectually superior aesthetes (such as Copolla whom there is little doubt was raised in such a household) on the suburban cattle; those who see gray vs. those who see it black-and-white. It is both an indictment of the suburban lifestyle--that living that cookie-cutter existence inevitably leads to a sense of hopelessness and disarray--and of the American way of life, which arguably centers around our collective hope of, well, the American way of life.  That hope is, in the interpretation of this movie and many others, an essentially bankrupt perspective.Hopelessness is the raison d'etre of all post-modernism.  It is all that they strive for--to unravel the hopelessness, aimlessness, and meaninglessness in life and create visually, spiritually, and intellectually numbing and vacant books, films, music, and all other media.  A sure post-modern trump card is the simultaneous playing-up and marginalization of religion; e.g., the ineffectuality of the priest and the supposed cloying and suffocating effects of religion when applied to the girls.  Religion not only has no answers in the landscape of American suburbia, but it is often the source of various repressed behaviors that present day society now in full post-modern swing accepts as a kind of sickening gospel of total tolerance.  This film's interpretation seems to accept that the girls killed themselves because of the mindless repression of their parents, namely the mother who lives under the classic spectre of Catholic guilt. Copolla scores several points on technical merit--certainly many gifts are on display for a first-time director.  On acting, the three leads are really only Woods, Turner, and Dunst, who do some particularly fulfilling turns in their roles.  Hartnett is ideal for his role as Trip Fontaine (how perfect is that name for a '70s-era high school hunk?  Give Eugenides some points for that).While there are some fine visual and atmospheric qualities to this movie, it seems to me to suffocate under the weight of its pretensions.  The message is that there is no message, only death and the dead and that is the circumstance that these characters reckon with.  "},{"Title":"not good enough","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film attempted several things, both in narrative and theme, that in the end did not do justice to the story being told. First of all, when you have a 1 1/2 hour long movie, putting in 20 min of voice over led me to wonder why I didn't just read the book. In a story that features as it's main dynamic an extraordinary situation (produced by the strict parents) you have to throw the viewer a bone as to what is going on. We see heavy religious visuals, but no mention of religion by any characters.  (with the exception of a particularly conspicuous VO that explains a scene that would otherwise been totally cryptic) We are TOLD that the parents are strict many times SHOWN they are strict once or twice, and NEVER discover enough of the parents characters to understand even the nature of this supposedly oppressive existence in which the girls lived. Our protagonists, either the girls or the boys who watch them, are not described much at all, presumably in persuit of the theme of  the mystery of adolescent girls, and the boys who love them.  Unfortunately even this theme has no backbone, since witnessing whatever dynamic experience our narrator had in terms of learning what it meant to be a girl must start out with understanding the intial point of reference of that male character. Any high school playwright can tell you that. Otherwise, I don't care if the boy fell in love with a girl by learning the details of her life second hand (none of which the viewer actually sees, we just get lead-ins to these instances) A good example is the diary they obtain.  What the viewer hears of the dairy is mundane, and the male characters do not appear affected by it. Then a handy-dandy Voice over swoops in and tells us that, in fact, this diary gave brilliant insight into the girls' world. It simply could be done better. "},{"Title":"Opinions by Sex","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've noticed that most coments here complaining about this film being superficial and about not going into much depth in character, or about how things are not tied up together at the end, are comments written by men.This I say cause there are a few women out there who have told me, and I quote This movie is exactly how it feels to be a teenage girl.I think that's why Soffia Coppola, a girl, is the perfect screenwriter and director for this movie. Me? Personally, I loved every minute of it. I felt like one of those boys, trying to get it all together. Other thing that bugs me is people complaining this boys were just following their hormones on their obssesion with the Lisbone girls. That's wrong, in my opinion. I think that as a teenage boy, you certainly have this hormonal stuff going on, but this kind of devotion is more of a silent crush than anything else. They are actually in love with this mysterious girls (all girls are mysterious when you're a teen, specially pretty girls...and they pretty much remain mysterious for the rest of our lives, so...), they have a romanticized vision of them, even when one of them starts to have sex with random guys on the roof of her house.The visuals are astounding. Coppola shows some real style here, but specially what is shown is a very rooted love for cinema, the way this movie visually develops. The use of the soundtrack is perfect. Air's original score is one of the most atmospheric pieces of electronic music I've listened. Is the dark underneath the pretty cinematography. When Trip Fontaine and Lux are watching the hurricane movie at school, the combination of acting, lighting and ouse fo music it's a perfect example of the way this film has subtle layers one of top of the other.All the girls are great, and the supporting cast all do their jobs properly. Of course, Kathleen Turner steals the show as the intoxicating and overprotective mother. However, the big surprise here is James Wood's unusually restraint performance. The pain in this character is visible only through motion and looks, not one line of dialogue.So, like the tagline says, It's just like life. Life not always makes sense, cause most of the time, we don't know the whole story. Sometimes we get closer to understand it, but I don't think we ever understand any lifes except, if we are lucky, our own. And sometimes, those stories we don't get helps us understand our own. You just pick up the pieces and keep trying. Just like life.    "},{"Title":"Strange story, strange movie, fantastic cast","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a strange little movie with a strange story, but with a fantastic cast. James Woods and Kathleen Turner (why didn't she get more roles??) were fantastic as the uptight and old fashioned parents of the 5 virgins. Also a fine turn with a bad wig from Josh Hartnett as Trip, who has only one thing in mind. And another surprising role for Kirsten Dunst. I still don't know if I like this movie (I gave it a 5), but certainly it holds my attention until the end. With lesser actors I'm pretty sure that this could have been a misfire, but with this cast it is an impressive debut for writer/director Sofia Coppola (who I hated in her role in Godfather III).  "}{"Title":"wow. Goes deeper than the first glimpse let you think...","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Virgin Suicides by Sofia Coppola.Cant understand why it took me so long to find this movie...We felt the imprisonment of being a girl. The way it made your mind active and dreamy, and how you ended up knowing what colours went together. We knew that the girls were really women in disguise; that they understood love and even death, and that our job was merely to create the noise that seemed to fascinate them. We knew that they knew everything about us, and that we couldn't fathom them at all.Wow. This was said by the narrator in the movie, a guy who in his youth was one of the boys admiring the Lisbon girls. I think this was not only a fairytale-like movie about a tragic, though fictional, event in the 70's, no, this was also a statement... or three1. effects of bad parenting and the people around these children failing to take proper actions, though clear indications was shown that help was needed. A sad flaw in our society...2. the difficulties of being a teenager (A doctor said this to Cecilia after her suicide attempt What are you doing here honey? You're not even old enough to know how bad life gets. reply Obviously Doctor, you have never been a thirteen year old girl.)3. though an exaggeration of it (perhaps necessary to catch it in the movie), it says alot about how girls, and women, are perceived by men in our society. Boys/men dont really understand girls/women. Our society is at large built on the way men perceive the world. It's the standard and correct way, though sometimes not the best way...hint hint...to understand and act in our world. Some women therefore yield, and fall into or pretend to fall into their given roll and become menadapted and menpleasing beings (note like the reporter checking her boobs before ringing the doorbell!). It's getting better though. More and more women today keep and develop their independant thinking, breaking their given roll. The prewritten roles that women, and men, have are stereotype and are holding us all back. I think we are different from eachother. Men and women. Certainly biologically but perhaps even psychologically, and even though we sometimes don't really understand the other gender, we sure need and continue to amaze eachother!!Now back to the movie. The five boys awareness of the biological difference between boys and girls is just waking up, and they are totally obsessed with the girls sexual appeal and the almost magical/mysterious aura around them. This happens all the time in real life too. Also the opposite. Although magical/mysterious is sometimes the wrong way to describe how girls sees boys. Exciting and fascinating are probably better words.This is a lovely movie. Though tragic. I could write a lot more about Sofia Coppolas first movie (the acting, cinematography, character description, the great soundtrack and so on), but I think I'll just stick to what I have already written.See it and make up your own mind about it!9/10 "},{"Title":"THE VIRGIN SUICIDES an elegant directing debut.","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  On my first viewing of Sofia Coppola's directing debut I did not really know what was in store. I never expected it to be much more than the average American teen movie full of the same faces. Not with this one I'm afraid. I was wrong and very pleasantly surprised luckily.The plot outline of this film, `The Virgin Suicides' is pretty straightforward and basic, no real twists or exciting turns. Nothing but death and sadness in this story based on Jeffery Eugenides novel of the same title. It is told in a true story way, which makes the film work so strong. Although simple it maybe but effective it is too. It's the fictional tale of five young sisters living in Michigan in the seventies. They become confined to their house when the rebellious sister, Lux breaks her parents curfew shortly after the suicide of the youngest sister Cecilia.As this is going on the blonde Lisbon girls have some local boys who admire them a great deal. The boys watch their every move nearly and eventually try to help them, but it turns out they are a little too late.All of the cast in `The Virgin Suicides' play the unique characters perfectly fine. The appeal in this movie is the two young stars Kirsten Dunst and/or Josh Hartnett I think. Who infact on full form in this poignant film.  This is undoubtedly Miss Dunst's better kind of role. Dunst shows that she can act as good as any older actress around today. Josh Hartnett is also instantly watchable as the character, Trip Fontaine &#150; the super cool weed smokin' guy. The other actors and actresses make the characters their own as well. Kathleen Turner is particularly outstanding acting as the over the top, over bearing, religious strict mother.The way in which `The Virgin Suicides' is filmed is just totally beautiful. Sofia Coppola absolutely has an eye for capturing the moment with light and sound. The chosen songs featured on this film make it worthwhile. The soundtrack and score are done well by artists like The Bee Gees, 10CC and Air. They add to the melancholy that `The Virgin Suicides' includes.Overall, `The Virgin Suicides' would probably fail if it was trying hard to make a statement about anything. But I don't reckon it is. However it is bringing a touching true to life story to light. It sure isn't a cheerful feel good family picture but hey it is unforgettable so you can not complain. In three words Sad, Simple, Stylish. "},{"Title":"what's a virgin to do?","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those films that is well directed, has interesting cinematography, good castng, but is out of touch with the period (25 yrs. ago) and the place, (affluent Detroit suburb). The teenagers, especially the boys, are more indicative of the 50's, the school that they attend reflects the environment of the 40's, the teenaged girls represent the 60's, and the writer hasn't a clue that a science teacher with a housewife spouse would ever be able to afford the house and furniture, let alone the acceptance of his neighbors. Well, you get the picture. The story, pure fiction, cannot bridge the gap between the improbable and the ridiculous. That is disappointing, because the acting is very well done, considering the hurdles that the actors have to jump.  Do we end up caring about what happens to the characters?  I wasn't. I just wanted it to be over; not a gasp too soon.  "},{"Title":"So-So Cide","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Those who think that `The Virgin Suicides' is one of the best and feel-good movies of the year definitely have to get off the Prozac. The film did have its lively moments. However, I felt it was filled with too many scenes overdosed with boredom. This one is about four sisters who want to discover their youth even though they are under the strict regime of their parents. The acting by Kirstin Dunst, Josh Harnett, James Brooks, and Kathleen Turner were pretty good. However, I would not pull the trigger and say that any of these are of Oscar-caliber. All in all, the film was satisfactory. However, I recommend for you to hang around and wait &#145;til it comes out on video. *** Average  "},{"Title":"not a bad debut for Sofia","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie kept me interested yet it fell flat in several areas.  The direction was above average (& I'm sure she'll only get better) but the storyline was average at best.  I liked the originality and concept, but for me lacked something to make me rate it higher.  I give it a 6.  "},{"Title":"Original, affecting","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I felt emotionally beat up after seeing this movie, which, by the way, is very original and has some important things to say.  This is a very impressive debut by Sophia Coppola.  The cinematography is great and the score by Air is, for lack of a better word, fantastic.I recommend this to anyone who wants to see something intelligent and different, as cliche as that sounds. "},{"Title":"Unrealized potential","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When the debut of a director is bigger news than the film itself, you need to prepare yourself for a disappointment.  Sophia Coppola directs this slow moving film that is a cross between `The Wonder Years' and `Inventing the Abbots' only with a tragic twist.It is the story about five attractive teenage sisters with an oppressive mother (Kathleen Turner), whose over protectiveness drives them all to tragic ends.  Along the way, we have a typical coming of age story with awkward teenagers obsessing over members of the opposite sex despite their parents' misgivings.Though charming at times, the story really doesn't offer a fresh perspective on anything but the suicide angle, and that lacks basis.  Coppola, who also wrote the screenplay based on a novel by Jeffrey Eugenides, is so focused on the coming of age aspect that she completely neglects the motivational foundation for the suicides.  Other than Lux (Kirsten Dunst), we get zero character development of the rest of the sisters.  They all seem to be normal, well-adjusted teens, and then one day they self-destruct.Perhaps the message is supposed to be that suicide can happen to anyone without warning, but that is not how it really happens.  Usually, there are warning signs that are being ignored.  We should have seen hints of such problems with each of the girls.  Instead, we see four of the sisters whose characters are totally undeveloped and who, in the end, turn out to be little more than anonymous body count. In this regard, the film lacks subtlety and depth.To Coppola's credit, the photography was beautifully done and the seventies were well captured.  The teen scenes were done sensitively and realistically, with coy enticements by the girls and false bravado by the boys.  However, the pace was wormlike.  When the film was finished, I was sure it was over two hours, when in fact it was just 90 minutes.The acting was generally good by the teens.  Kirsten Dunst was marvelous as Lux, the coquettish daughter who routinely invites boys for sexual adventures on the roof of her house.  Josh Hartnett also gives a terrific performance as Lux's first love interest.  Kathleen Turner's character was more a looming presence than a dynamic force, but she portrayed the character well.  James Woods was terrific as her obsequious husband, the nerdy math professor who tried to convince his wife to let the girls have a little fun.This film had much greater potential than was realized.  I can't agree with all the rave reviews.  Sophia Coppola did a good job for a directorial debut, especially with the photography, but made some rookie mistakes in pacing and foundation that diminished the film.  I rated it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Triumph of tone is not always a good thing ...","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this case, Sofia Coppola has achieved a richly atmospheric film, both in look and feel, but it unfortunately works to the exclusion of everything else in the film.  The film's dreamlike mood is impressive, but it never wakes up -- kudos to the cinematography (especially the gas-mask debutante party), the score by Air, and the 70s tracks on the soundtrack, but the film screamed for even the tiniest bit of urgency; as it is, it feels like the cast is sleepwalking through significant portions of the movie.Additionally, the film suffers by being told from the point of view of the boys across the street -- again, we are distanced what should be allowed to lead the way in the film.  But at the same time, the boys are central to the story, and I can't imagine another way to capture their importance; perhaps this suggests a deeper unresolved flaw in the film.  We could also use some additional focus on the other sisters -- Kirsten Dunst gives a great performance, and is clearly the dominant sisters, but none of the others ever develop much personality or character of their own.In sum, a sometimes interesting film, but not a good one.  I can't recommend it, but if you were intrigued by the film's trailer, as I was, it may be worth a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"A unique and poetic film","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this film in a test screening and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  It's really a film unlike any I'd seen before because it is about memories.  Not even individual memories, but a sort of collective recollection of the lives of five girls as seen through the eyes of the neighborhood boys.  The movie is deliberately vague and stylistic, and it left me with the impression that I was not watching events as they occurred, but as they were remembered. This is not a film about causes or resolutions, but about the feelings and impressions we take with us as we grow.  Although I was of the minority opinion in the theater, I thought this was a very good film. "},{"Title":"Totally brilliant","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Incredibly brilliant, touching, never conventional picture about suicide and coming-of-age. I strongly recommend it to anybody, especially young women. Great performances by all the cast, with a few impressive cameos (Scott Glenn as a priest). Good screenplay, very good direction work. Ultra-cool 70's-like soundtrack by Air. A must see for this season.  "}{"Title":"I grew up there, and it's too true for comfort, and yet completely bizarrely false!","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Virgin Suicides (1999)Is cinematic genius inherited? How could Sofia Coppola be such a good director unless by some kind of genetics, or osmosis? I mean, she has as many bad films as her father, but she has three good ones (one of them the brilliant Lost in Translation) This one, The Virgin Suicides is based on a book by Jeffrey Eugenides, who has a detailed and somewhat superficial style that depends more on a sequence of events than on depth of character. And that carries over to this movie. It may not be a brilliant affair in the end, but it's inventive, it has a unique glow to it (both from the camera and from the pacing, the odd aura of the movies plot), and it's quirky, unafraid to takes some important little chances.The basis for everything is an absurd situation if you look at it straight--a tightly buttoned up family with five gorgeous girls in high school that all the boys are interested in. Pressures build inside and out and the eventual suicide or two or more take place. The nostalgic voice-over removes the emotional devastation these events would normally demand, but even the filming, with its artificial construction and even occasional liberties (showing time passing or seeing through a dress to some writing on a girl's panties) make everything a faraway experience. We are only to watch, with wry appreciation, not get sucked in and ruined.You could easily critique this film hard, and point out its inability to talk about family dysfunction, or to explore high school angst and social structure, or even to get into the head of one of the five girls (Kirsten Dunst, most likely, since she has the largest role). But Coppola isn't interested in true depth. She's making a glossy, affected entertainment, a clever and surprising one, a surprisingly original one. The feel to a lot of this seems to echo her father's failed Peggy Sue Got Married from a decade earlier, with slightly different nostalgic roots, but with a similar feeling of detachment and shiny surface feel. And in both cases with a determination to have slightly silly fun.Of course, if there was a hint of reality here the fun would be too macabre for even bad taste. And that's where the movie works. It creates a zone of humor, of insight into an era (the 1970s) that must have been the first generation X after the meaningful 60s. The acting is spot on, both among the kids, including the wry sly Dunst and several of the boys, all terrifically awkward except for suave Josh Hartnett, and among the two main adults, the parents played by Kathleen Turner and a perfect James Woods. The stereotypes are played just hard enough to seem false, which is fine for this kind of movie, but the religious zealousness of the mother might strike some people as just too much. I have to say though, I knew a girl whose mother did exactly that and worse to her, and she wasn't a religious nut at all. Records of rock music in the 1970s were often labelled as such bad influences they had to be destroyed.Let go your expectations and give this a look for what it is, which is pretty unique and filled with odd richness and disturbing and intentional irrelevance. Rather too often brilliant to brush off. "},{"Title":"How can it be possible that such a lovely girls kill themselves?","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Virgen Suicides (Sofia Copola, 1999). Rafael J. Salin-Pascual MDThe beautiful girls that look very normal to everyone had a teenager disease, and some of them already kill themselves, without to be depressed. The question that hooks most of the people first, when reading the novel (By Jeffey Eugenides, The Virgin Suicides, 1993), and later to watch the film with suspense is How can it be possible that such a lovely girls kill themselves?The cascade of hormones that circulate in their bodies can be hold for any longer, but cultural, moral, an religious all are plotting against that girls, and as always happens in any family, one member became the amplifier of all the members conflicts, and even without knowing what happens open one door to death an keep it open. Sofia Coppola, as a young woman, was the right filmmaker to look into the feminine way in which ex-girls live their lives. Emotions, nostalgia, mixed with deep thoughts, those girls looks very matures, but at the same time naives, savants specially in the perceptions of other people feelings. That is way Lux Lisbon (Kisten Dunst), was able to deal with Paul Baldino (Robert Schwartzman), the heartbreak boy in the high school. The reminiscence to other filmmakers as David Lynch's Blue Velvet and Peter Weirs's Picnic in the Hanging Rock (Australia, 1975), are very noticeable along several scenes (Watering gardens in a nice looking suburbs or the fragrance and innocence of the five Lisbone's girls). Of course the other parts of this story are the boys of around, that became in love in a platonic way with the Lisbone girls, and at the same time, they became the only contact with the external world. This is a very touching part for the audience, because lunch a target into everybody memories of the girl next door that you never talk with her, and only for that she became an icon. Because these girls that were brutally kidnapped for their own mother. Mrs. Lisbon (Kathleen Turner), is the intolerant element, selfish, and with a black and white vision of the world, that remember me about one some them of Nostalgia (Andrei Tarkovsky, 1983), where Domenico the mad man of the Italian town also kept all his family secluded and the Mexican film of Arturo Ripstein El Castillo de la pureza (1973), story that by the way was true. Mrs. Lisbone, she is the one who had that estrange reaction, when one of the girls (Lux) just arrive very late, the next day after a party. The mother seclude all the other girls at home, while Mr Lisbone (James Wood), extreme his state of dissociation, talking with plants and mumble. He is a guy that always has a great capability for denial, of course he can't face his wife, an there is a shocking scene in which the priest arrive ate his home after the first suicide and he is keeping watching the baseball and drinking a bear, without paying to much attention about the counseling that the priest is proposing. Because the title of the film some element of intrigue and suspense are involved, as spectator, people are waiting that something very heavy was about to show up, but Sofia Coppola made a wise choice, this is not a horror film, is a movie about the inexplicable aspects of human soul, and specially about teenagers that have to confront with life almost bare hands, and with a body full of love.rafasalin@yahoo.com "},{"Title":"The Virgin Suicides","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought that The Virgin Suicides was an excellent movie and I would recommend it to any of my friends. Kirsten Dunst was amazing as Lux and I thought that she really got into character. She portrayed the girl who is willing to do anything just to get out of the house while her sisters souls just rotted away. I wish that the parents weren't so strict on the girls after one of the 5 committed suicide. It surprised me how much the movie was like the book and that only the ending was slightly different. I found it quite depressing to see the ending and that I thought about the movie constantly for the next week after I saw it. It kind of haunted me, it was all I could think about and it gave me some scary thoughts. "},{"Title":"Freaky, but it makes you think....and think, and think.....","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a terrific, compelling movie. It's shocking, and on occasion. This makes no sense, I know, but THE VIRGIN SUICIDES offers more than confusion. It illuminates the pain of loss and the crazy things you do after it. Plus, Hayden Christensen is in this( in a minor role). D The actresses that play the Lisbon sisters, including A.J. Cook, Kirsten Dunst, Hanna Hall, Leslie Hayman, and Chelse Swain fit into their characters well, yet don't overdo it. They are utterly convincing as sisters, as well as friends. Anyone who enjoys mystery or anyone who just wants to think will enjoy this movie. I know I did, and I only watched it out of curiosity to begin with. "},{"Title":"am I the only one who has noticed this?","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Perhaps I am the only one on this site who has noticed, or perhaps I am the only one who reads. The classic play La Casa de Bernarda Alba by Federico Garcia Lorca, which was written long before the novel, is almost the same. I feel that Mr. Lorca should receive some posthumous credit for outlining the plot for this movie. Although originally in Spanish, this daunting story of female oppression has already been produced for the stage, and not the camera. It is an outrage that no one has bothered to credit Mr. Lorca for the original idea for The Virgin Suicides. I am appalled that Mr. Euginides' novel has been received by the public as an original work. "},{"Title":"Good but not great first effort","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've heard a lot about this film and finally got around to watching it tonight. I have to say that most of the praise I had heard was well deserved. This is a great debut film for Coppola.The Lisbon family is your typical suburban household. There's Mom and Dad and their five daughters, aged 13 through 17. All the girls are beautiful, but beyond the reach of any of the boys at school. After the youngest daughter, Cecelia, commits suicide, and another event that I won't spoil, the girls are kept in virtual isolation by their religiously strict parents. This starts them all on a slow downward spiral of self-destruction.This movie is a lot funnier than you would think from the synopsis, but there really is a lot of humor throughout. The cinematography is great, with excellent use of light and color, and the performances are all good, especially from Kathleen Turner and James Woods who are both brilliant as the well-meaning but clueless parents. But there's something missing here. Parts were funny, and parts were charming, but I never really cared about any of the girls the way I thought I should. I never came close to shedding a tear in what should have been a heart-wrenching story.The Virgin Suicides is very well done, beautiful, funny, and gives you plenty to think about afterwards, but....I dunno...it seemed a tad shallow. Funny, these are almost the exact same comments I made about Lost In Translation. I guess I just don't get Sofia Coppola. I liked this one much better than LiT, though, and it gets my recommendation (for whatever that's worth).Can I give a film a 7 1/2 rating? If so, this one gets it. Better than a 7, but not quite up to an 8. "},{"Title":"Strong Catholic subtext","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Was this movie really about lost innocence, and if so, what kind of innocence was lost? Despite having committed suicide, the five girls seem to have achieve some kind of bizarre martyrdom - almost like something their strict Catholic mother might have read to them about in some Lives of the Saints. Lots of kids I knew were fascinated by stories of kids their age who were sanctified in some kind of way and had destinies that were different from ours, and the movie captures this quite well What was so fascinating about the Lisbon sisters? It's hard to say. They were attractive, but not necessarily more than any other girls. They were just sort of unapproachable and different. They seemed to know something nobody else did, that's all.I don't agree with another reviewer that the movie was told more from the girls' point of view than the boys'. I think it's firmly from the boys' POV - otherwise, why the incredibly callow-sounding narrator? Which is as it should be - the movie is about a group of boys' first encounter with something truly unknowable. I would have liked to see something more about the impact of the girls' deaths on the parents -obviously they tended to look down on the family, who didn't have the money the rest of them did, and obviously the suicides cast a pall over this prosperous white-bread haven, but why is not clear - I understand why the boys are affected the way they are, but not the parents. That's the one dimension missing from an otherwise finely made film. "},{"Title":"Arty, but lacking","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was not impressed with this movie.Artistically it was great.  She took a nothing script, bland characters, and no plot and turned it into something watchable (with the help of some good actors).  You can get caught up in the poetry of it all. But when the end credits roll I was left wanting for a plot that never was.  Simplification version the girls parents were insane and eventually the girls killed themselves to be free. Okay.  But that was one sentence.  2 hours built around 1 sentence? And where was the believability?  Do you know the paperwork to take your kids out of school?  You can't just decide that they aren't going and then no one ever shows up again.  A little thing called social services existed even in the 70s.  The neighbors or other children never intervened?  One kid was already dead and the whole community went - that's cruel, la la la? I tried finding some sort of moral, parable, or warning in the story but also found that lacking.  Don't trust men - they'll get you into trouble when you open yourself to them?  Kind of cliched and generalized.  Losing innocence = death?  Kind of makes insane moms point for her. Don't enjoy life, it'll kill ya! Don't be insane to your kids?  As if that was a rational choice that we could learn to avoid by watching movies.  (Prozac is so passe - just start running Clockwork Orange, Cuckoos Nest, etc and eventually people will learn to not be insane.  Trendy but effectual.) Lacking morals, lacking plot, lacking a cohesive end, it becomes a pretty art film done for the sake of art alone.  Go into it that way and one might enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"What the $@%# was that?","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i sat by my pool this weekend reading the virgin suicides--a plot-driven, somewhat poorly written novel that i could not tear myself away from.  as someone who was, at one point, a young girl i was completely immersed in the saga of these sisters...on paper.  after renting the movie i have once again affirmed what i already knew read the book, forget the movie.  the movie lacked so much of what attracting me to characters, namely depth. although much of the dialogue is directly from the text, this movie fails to deliver the sadness and demise of the book.  whole chapters are told in mere seconds, leaving the on-screen characters more than flat--they are almost comical.if anyone were planning to see this movie i would recommend veering away from the video store and heading straight for your local book vendor. you will get so much more and the whole novel takes less than an afternoon to digest. "},{"Title":"Fascinating Film, which Almost Works the Impossible","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A most unusual film, based on the highly praised novel by Eugenides (which I have not read).  I suspect that the novel is somewhat cerebral, which makes it hard to translate into film.  This is a fascinating attempt at capturing the psychological causes and effects of the terrible denouement.  I suspect that it is impossible to capture the spirit of the book, but this film almost works the impossible.Good performances by a cast of youngsters, bolstered by one or two big names, such as Kathleen Turner as the mother and a blink and you might miss it length role for Danny De Vito.  (Or perhaps I should describe Danny De Vito's role as De Vito-sized).It's strangely compelling and worth seeing in my view, but probably not everyone's cup of non-alcoholic punch. "}{"Title":"Not too impressed","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let me start by saying I heard excellent things about this movie...it was so deep, and so meaningful, and so clever, and it really made you think, all those things. And so I saw it, and I can't remember the last time I was so disappointed by a movie. I have never seen such a pretentious movie before. The plot didn't make a whole lot of sense, and there were wholes. I am extremely anylitical, and when I couldn't figure it out, I decided to read the book. My questions were answered, but my contempt for the movie grew.This was one of the poorest adaptions from novel to movie I have ever seen. I don't know if the author of the novel approved of the adaption or not, but if I were him I wouldn't have. The screenwriter takes roughly about the first 100 pages of the novel and transfers them word for word to the script...and then takes the last 30 pages of the novel and transfers them word for word to build a conclusion. The hundred or so pages in the middle are completely ignored, which is why the movie doesn't flow very well and leaves many unanswered questions.Secondly, I don't know what the deal was with Sofia Coppolla's obsession with Kirsten Dunst was (where pretty much every scene was focused on her, and the other three sisters faded into the background), but in the book, Lux was not the focal point. This movie invests a lot of time trying to convey to the audience what kind of girl Lux is, but you know virtually nothing about Therese, Bonnie, Cecilia, or Mary except how old they are. The narrator in the book spends time talking about each sister individually, or talking about the girls as a group, but in the movie, only Lux is ever talked about...and the movie gives the impression that when the boys are fantisizing about the sisters, there only thinking about Lux(she is the only one they show running through the fields and trying on lipstick in the boys' fantasies).The conclusion is much sketchier as well. It would surprise me if someone enjoyed both the book and the movie; the movie deviates so much from the book.This is not the worst movie I've ever seen, but definitely the most disappointing. After such rave reviews, I expected better. "},{"Title":"Not as clever as it thinks it is","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen this film I am left with the impression that the people involved really thought they were doing something new and clever. Well I hate to disappoint them, but they failed miserably. The film says nothing about teenage life that hasn't been said, in just the same stereotyped way, dozens if not hundreds of times before in other movies. Add to that the fact that the characters are barely even one-dimensional, and you have a pretty poor film. The photography is occasionally inspired, and the acting solid, but overall this film should be avoided if possible. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully hypnotic film","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After showing that maybe acting isn't quite her bag, Sofia Coppola turns her attention to directing, and what attention she shows.  The Virgin Suicides is a moody, hypnotic film focusing on five sisters in the early 1970's who are raised in a very strict religious house.  After a difficult stretch for the family beginning with the youngest daughter ending her life at a party, and a broken curview on a specially sanctioned school event, the parents (masterfully played by James Woods and in particular by Kathleen Turner) begin a vicious crackdown on the girls to influence positive behavior.  The girls begin to communicate through records and notes with a group of neighborhood boys who have become obsessed with knowing more about the girls and become the eventual discoverers of the tragic events yet to unfold.Ms. Coppola has created a visual wonder, using brilliant cinematography to tell this story.  The film is very moody and atmospheric, which fits in well with it's subject matter.  Wonderfully done and it succeeds well in drawing you into the film.  If I had to complain about something though, its that the film suffers a bit from it's own pacing, there are times when it's too hypnotic, and comes off as a bit slow.Kirsten Dunst is the big name draw for this film, and as usual delivers a stellar performance as Lux Lisbon, the middle child of the doomed Lisbon sisters.  Lux is a bit wild natured, and after breaking curview from a school dance after a tryst with her date (nicely played by Josh Hartnett Halloween H20) rebels from her parents rules with a further series of sexual encounters on the roof of the family home.  Ms. Dunst is becoming one of the major lead actresses of her generation and only solidifies her career with this role.  Excellent.James Woods and Kathleen Turner return from what seems to have been a longterm disappearance with their roles as Mr. and Mrs. Lisbon.  Devoutly religious and determined to keep their daughters from harm, they fail to realize what their failure to allow the girls to gain life experience is doing until it's too late.  Once the unthinkable happens, Mrs. Lisbon cracks down harder, basically isolating the girls in the house and unintentionally destroying the family.  Well written and brilliantly acted, these two performances may be the benchmarks in the film.Other roles are well written if not small in nature, Danny DeVito as the psychologist the youngest sister turns to after her first suicide attempt, Scott Glenn (another face from the past) as the family Priest, Michael Pare' as the adult version of Mr. Hartnett's character.  All vital to the story and well done.The remainder of the Lisbon sisters, A.J. Cook as Mary; Hanna R. Hall as Cecilia, Leslie Hayman as Therese and Chelse Swain (Dominique's sister) as youngest sister Bonnie.  All these young ladies do an exceptional job telling this tragic story, with Chelse leading the pack.  As Bonnie she becomes the focal point for the tragedies still to come and the rallying point for the family at first. The Virgin Suicides is a visually masterful film and is scripted to deal with not only the suicides but the feelings, emotions and reactions in a more accurate manner than any movie of the week ever could. 4 1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Good story, but even more amazing directing","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first watched this movie, it was in an art house cinema. And that is where this movie really belongs. The directing is really superb ! What an eye for small details; i.e. the squeeking right shoe of the priest. Those small details sure make it worth watching some more times. Also the soundtrack fits very well in the mood the story projects upon your retina. But when the movie ended I was left with an strange feeling that something still was missing. I wondered about it the whole night but I think a feature length movie is not the perfect way to bring this story to life. I think it'd be better if this was a mini-series, with more background information on each sister. The story now mainly puts focus on Cecilia and Lux. But what about the other sisters ? And this is what I think I missed something; the movie lets one assume the girls all acted as a group, like all the shots of the sisters together in their room, but they were all strong individual minds, all with their own strange behavior and emotions. And they could have elaborated that a bit more in the movie.But this does not make it a terrible movie; it's a good movie, but they could have made it even better. I sure hope the mini-series will once make it to the cinemas. "},{"Title":"There is some good here, but the story is absurd.","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides is, obviously, about some girls who commit suicide.  Why would they do such a thing?  So as to not give anything away, I'll just say that I have no idea.  I was not convinced nor do I see how anyone could be convinced of the reason, and that makes this story absurd.  Heathers was a similarly themed movie (how society reacts to teen suicide), but an obvious parody that didn't take itself seriously.  A movie about teenage suicide should either be totally serious and realistic or should be a ridiculous parody statement.  I don't believe there's a middle ground, and this book/movie tries unsuccessfully to walk it.  I understand that Sofia Coppola more or less wrote the script directly from the book, not changing much dialogue or action.  This is painfully evident at times.  The movie moves very slowly overall, especially in the beginning.  A lot of the dialogue doesn't sound right on screen, and several scenes seem to have no importance whatsoever.  Criticisms aside, there are some good things about The Virgin Suicides.  It's hard to call a movie shot in such a simple fashion stylish, but this one is.  As a friend pointed out, Sofia has a talent for shooting the female body.  Skin, hair, mouth, hands, they all, in a simple way, look sultry and seductive in this film.  It is a visual pleasure to watch these girls in this film.  James Woods is good as the girls father, but Kathleen Turner gives quietly over-the-top performance.  Josh Hartnett really gives the film some life at a time when it needs it as a high school loverboy who can have any girl he wants (almost).Bottom line  The Virgin Suicides was watchable and gives me plenty to contemplate afterwards, but mostly I was contemplating how mediocre it was.   C- "},{"Title":"They say blondes have more fun ...","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps, but not in this movie. Rather the lovely, light-haired Lisbon sisters suffer from bad parenting, bad boyfriends, bad boulevard trees, bad writing and, above all, bad direction, resulting in terminal ennui for both the young ladies and the audience.In more capable hands this material might have produced an interesting, original film instead of another entry in the seemingly endless &#145;losing virginity genre' currently so popular in American cinema.  "},{"Title":"The Audience Suicides","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Everything about Sophia Coppola's debut film here tries to scream small, or maybe that should be whimper loud because Coppola's everything-but-subtle direction pretty much drives the film's shallow meaning into you, while she then proceeds to back up her empty dump truck over you repeatedly. Awful analogy, I know, but so is this portentous moral lesson in self-congratulation. This probably can't be helped,and it really isn't all Coppola's fault. After all, the book the film is based on is by none other than that moral relativist Jeffrey Eugenides, a writer the LA Times has described as a great American writer that we all suspected of being. I didn't get the memo, but what do I know? The Virgin Suicides is about a group of strange sisters, led by the extremely effervescent, or ditzy, Kirsten Dunst, who are held to scrupulous moral standards by their oppressive and conservative parents (played by an ancient-looking Kathleen Turner and a tranquilized James Woods). Dunst is met with stagnation when she wants to go to a dance, or date boys, or fawn over Josh Hartnett, who here dons a long, Kurt Cobain-like hairdo in an attempt to give him more bad-boy gravitas, but the result is just a girlier-looking version of Hartnett himself. Long story short, the girls end up committing suicide by the end of film because of the stymieing influence of their overly conservative parents. Don't worry, I'm not ruining anything; they say this much in the beginning of the movie. You see this easy plot conclusion coming after the first 20 minutes. And it's also the title.This movie isn't the thinker everyone has made it out to be. For one, it's a movie ENTIRELY about Kirsten Dunst. Her fellow sisters might have been developed more in Eugenides' novel, but here I challenge a person to find any distinction between the other morose, sad-sack sisters. Think I'm kidding? Count the close-ups of Kirsten, count the number of times there are slow-motion shots of Kirsten running or jumping or some other physical activity, and then include the number of lines Kirsten gets over anyone else in the film. I would say it's about the same number as the film's running time 96 minutes that stretch. Dunst has a fantastic body and some charisma I admit, but I still contend she's just too homely to keep carrying these goddess-whom-all-the-boys-drool-over roles (see Spiderman, The Cat's Meow). She has a lazy eye, for one, and her razor-thin lips have a pursed, sneering granny look to it. I'm sorry, but there it is. Here, she is the oldest looking 14-year old you will ever see.While the film is also tauted as being indie, the designation isn't quite appropriate when the acting relies on the young star-power of Hartnett and Dunst. Now concentrating on one character itself isn't necessarily a fault, but when the story is so small and trivial you kind of need some more substance to the film. Critics have stated the film is challenging, and I suppose it is to some backwards dweller in a mythological hick town. In the real world, there is no conflict of views here because the sisters are the rebellious, sympathetic martyrs and the parents are the oppressive, empty tyrants. We, on the other hand, are the obviously more educated and tolerant beings observing on the outside while smirking to and nudging our fellow enlightened ones, right? It's Cuckoo's Nest minus the great acting and pacing. Or even a rehash of that other movie that solves its moral problems for you, Dead Poet's Society. And that's all there is, save for the Wes Anderson-like random bits of welcome quirkiness that save the movie from complete oblivion. Those who've criticized the boys' ogling over the mysterious girls might have missed the one clever idea Coppola has extracted from the story; boys who innocently know nothing can ergo fantasize over what they know nothing about.But in the end, the film could've used some of that brilliant subtext that could be found in Lost in Translation. Coppola wants to make the message and moods of her films painfully clear. In this film, there is no more evidence of this fact when you hear Dunst complaining to her mother that she can't breathe from being trapped in her house. Yes, we get it, thanks for reminding us, being stuck in a house with James Woods is tough stuff. So is, I suppose, a review so needlessly long for a movie so short on ideas. "},{"Title":"Something you must understand,","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   **SPOILER ALERT** *SPOILER ALERT* You have to understand, and it's very hard unless you've lived through adolescence as a girl, is that the Lisbon girls wanted to have their life, but with the starched and press parents portrayed by Turner and Woods that would be impossible. Most kids learn by adolescence how to rebel, and although we don't know about their early youth, you can clearly see that all their lives they had no cause to really rebel so they didn't know how. The other part of that is looking at how harsh the Lisbon parents are. It's definitely not always an outright thing, but very clearly a mild, below the radar, yet tangible thing.  Now, I saw some comments and some people commented on how there isn't a good continuity in the actions of the characters, that is partially true. Along with the inability to rebel I think the Lisbon girls have wisdom, knowledge and skills of many things they should not normally have. Part of this might be because they are stifled so they have to branch out and observe different things, thereby gaining the knowledge or it just may be that they were silent rebels, smoking in the bathroom, getting people to do things for them, etc.  Now another thing I saw was people commenting on lack of feeling at points on the part of the character development/actors. Honestly I have to say that may be part of the whole under the radar abusiveness. The constant tension and mild anger exuded from the Lisbon parents is the kind of thing that makes people become numb to feeling and emotions, even the expression of them. Anyway that was my take, disagree or agree I could care less. Just watch the movie if you want to see a good film that will give you chills of a kind you didn't know existed. "},{"Title":"Plodding; aims for 'wistful' but hits its neighbor, 'forgettable'","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  We rented this one for two reasons The Coppola name, and the strength of the cast. Unfortunately, this is a case of too much talent and not enough done with it.We waited, and waited, for something to happen; for more insight into Kathleen Turner's character For a chipping away of the veneer that the mother hid behind. It only showed in specks here and there. The girls had to have sensed their father's weakness and/or his disagreement with the mother's tyrannical rule; in a slightly more realistic world, I think these teenage girls would have used that, as well as their sheer number, as their strength against her, and we would have seen more rebellion than we did.But nothing came.Yes, I'm aware it's 'critically acclaimed.' Yes, I'm aware the Muse Productions, who owned the rights to the book, was so impressed with her script that they shelved their own version. I assume she learned loads from her father, Francis. But by golly, didn't he teach her something about pacing - specifically, it's good to have one?Danny DeVito and Scott Glenn's few screen minutes seem to have been added as filler for a movie that doesn't need filler - it needs caffeine.  "},{"Title":"the most boring story ever...***possible SPOILERS****","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There used to be a time when the name Coppola was a synonym of excellent, captivating and powerful film-making, well that's when it meant FRANCIS Coppola. His daughter, Sofia, in my opinion is highly overrated because of the hoopla her last name allows her to bring in terms of clout and hype, but she fails to deliver. Frankly speaking, this movie is garbage. the story is pointless! so this middle class in suburban America decides to be ridiculously uptight and severe with their daughters, who in turn kill themselves! so what? big deal, i don't care ! give me substance, give me a story that matters and that i can relate to. James Woods should be flogged for appearing in this piece of crap. the only performance worth mentioning is Kathleen Turner's, well she'd been out of work for a while and this was good for her. Sofia Coppola should be checked into rehab for putting this crap out!she seems to be only interested i stories no one cares about or can ever relate to. sad. just sad, that this gets rave reviews ! "}{"Title":"This movie is the epitome of pretentious filmaking","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  sophia coppola's debut is a wretched display of hazy storytelling and uninteresting imagery.  This movie is boring and the character development is probably the worst i've ever seen. This movie is just a total disaster, I have not read the book, but im sure Coppola has done a disgrace to the author and even the producers who had the faith to put her in control of this trainwreck of a movie.  What the heck was this movie about anyway? how it has a ranking of 7.3 is perhaps the most disturbing of all. What are you people thinking? the movie stunk, case closed.  If you are looking for a real movie, with a good story and interesting characters to boot try Sophia's daddy Francis Ford, who is a genius in his own right.  It's safe to say his talent does not run in the family, at least as far as her debut is concerned.  So this is Hubbs Ahn signing off saying DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"If you thought Sophia Copolla sucked in Godfather III wait till you see her direct!","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh DEAR!  This film is SUCH a vanity project.  Sorry, I know some people like this film (there are always people on IMDB who enjoy any film, no matter how poor, what a sweet place this is) but I was BORED!Where are the characters for me to care about?How anyone can make a film about suicide that fails to touch so badly is beyond my comprehension?  Sophia Copolla must count herself lucky that her father can muscle the money for such cack.  Were those her friends that she put in this film?  Was she paying them?  Did they have fun, because they didn't exactly go through their paces?I don't really know what to say.  I can think of few movies that have had less of an impression on me.  I forgot I was watching a movie it was so dull.  I have to give at least one star to this movie, and that star is entirely for the original soundtrack by AIR.  However, the subtly music they put together is lost in the film's clumsy sound.Pretentious, a pretence at direction and story telling.  Don't waste your time.  There is a whole world of better movies out there that will enhance your life. "},{"Title":"Void of Feeling","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the subject matter of this film was intriguing, the story was told in a way that was void of any feeling or narrative clarity. It left me feeling empty and indifferent to the characters and what they were going through. The secondary characters were not introduced or developed. But most of all you never get a feeling for what the girls are going through from their perspective. This film could have had a lot of emotional impact but instead it was a lifeless story told very amateurishly.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Looking Mystery Gets Inside Teen Heads","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Virgin Suicides is an adolescent Men are From Mars, Women are From Venus as teen boys try to figure out the beautiful sisters in their midst. It's encapsulated when the first suicide attemptee faces Danny Devito as her therapist who says she has nothing to kill herself over That's because you've never been a 13-year-old girl. While Josh Hartnett's period wig isn't very good, his first serious acting effort is quite good and he almost keeps up with the excellent young women.Perhaps it's a result of a woman writer/director adapting a male-written book (which I haven't read yet), but it really get inside teen heads. We get only a little sense, however, of the adults the guys become even as one narrates Wonder Years style so why is this story even important to him. And the one guy we do see as an adult is not much more revelatory. It's all a mystery, very much like Picnic At Hanging Rock.It's a beautiful looking film with a dreamy musical score.(originally written 5/14/2000) "},{"Title":"A horrible tragedy story to look out!","Date":"19 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is such a tearjerker and gives you a whole amount of fear for these girls because their parents were such religious control freaks. It was really awful to see the sisters die one by one especially Kirsten Dunst's character Lux Lisbon.Now at the beginning, I thought the parents were just ordinary folk wanting for the daughters to do well in school. However as the movie goes on, you would really be more scared for the girls sake. I say the father and mother beat them up too as well as burning some of their stuff.Lets just say, I'm glad this is a fiction movie! "},{"Title":"Vapid  Emo Slop","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hey! Why not show the actual suicidal acts of these young girls, with all the physical effects of their deaths? Purple-blue faces and tongues hanging out Blood Etc., etc.Why? Because we as the audience had to believe what WE saw in the fleeting moments of their deaths was a little bit cool-movie scary AND glamorous. And titillating shocking!!!!!!!How else could we watch these moronic boys standing across the house where these young girls killed themselves and not smile with a wee tear ourselves? Just a male teen memory of years gone by...Lordy. "},{"Title":"The Virgin Suicides &#x97; Drama can come from the best of intentions and the worst","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Virgin Suicides is the first film by Sofia Coppola, and what a debut. Low key, yet very poignant.The good. Excellent acting, nothing over dramatic, but you can feel the depth of the trauma. Great score that accompany the mood to put us right there with them. The editing, the pacing, and the introduction meld us into the story. A scenario that rivets our interest even though very little happens.The actors. This movie has put Kirsten Dunst on everybody's map, as she shows her talent. The parents played by James Woods and Kathleen Turner are incredibly well interpreted. Josh Hartnett is spot on as the hot stuff of the school. And Danny DeVito is perfect in his small cameo as a psychiatrist.The bad. Not suited to everyone, because it is low key and very sad.The ugly. Nothing.The result. A must see if you're not repelled by life's drama. "},{"Title":"Who can explain teenage girls?","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sofia Coppola Struck a dynamic chord with her cinema rendition of high schoolers' mystery and enchantment. While society and the Lisbon family itself avoid the reality of teenage suicide, neighborhood boys due their best to try and understand their beautiful neighbors in captivity. The mood and texture of the film works very well and captures the hopelessness of self obsession. The editing takes center stage while the film centers on Kirsten Dunst and Josh Hartnett who deliver the awkward high school experience that the girls' parents, deftly played by Kathleen Turner as the Matriach protector and James Woods, the apologetic father are ever attempting to shield their girls from. The most telling scenes were the statements surrounding the suicides without saying much, despite neighbor rumor mill and general uncomfortably regarding the subject. Wisely averting the attempt to justify, Coppola pulls that ever prominent decade feel from the events allowing viewers to reason all within the 1970's period of love sick music and uncontrollable teenage desire. The young boy neighbors never understood these girls and still are trying to figure it out. The debut movie that asks their question of why and smartly doesn't even pretend to answer. "},{"Title":"The virgin suicides","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sofia Coppola is undoubtedly one of the most sensational director of the last years. Her films deals with inner loneliness in spite of a pressing world around you populated with people who can't or doesn't want communicate with you. In this delicate situation, the protagonist reacts by creating a private world for himself. In Lost in translation Bob and Charlotte establish a close bond to survive in a foreign country and to a delusional marriage. On the contrary, in Marie Antoinette the young foreign bride and future queen of France reacts to a sexless and affection less marriage and a hostile court of Versailles by living a luxurious life and in doing so cementing her bad reputation. In The virgin suicides the oppressive parents(James Woods and Kathleen Turner) force their five beautiful young daughters to live a life a part from their peers. Lux(Kirsten Dunst)in turn indulges at first in innocent flirts and then in anonymous sex with strangers after the fatal decisions of her parents of retiring their daughters from school due to a late return home after their only school party in life. The tragic end of the five sisters is witnessed by five infatuated boys who won't be able to forget them. The film perceptively stimulates many important themes such as alienation, the difficulty to draw the lines between imaginary drama and actual life, the immediate necessity for the parents to provide an effective help for their troubled offspring. Technically, the film is outstanding. The adaptation of the Jeffrey Eugenides novel is well done. The script is original in every way. The direction is fine and absorbing. Even the light conjures to express the characters' feelings and obsessions. The music is also a key factor and adds to the general beauty of the film. The acting is at the top with James Woods, Kathleen Turner and Kirsten Dunst delivering riveting performances. The latter truly shines in her complex role and is able to convey every emotion despite an almost silent performance. My vote is 8/10. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Virgin Suicides is a film that will definitely stay with you. I don't know how much general audiences will know about it, but this is a film that handles several things with a beautiful subtlety and delicacy that is surprising for a film like this. Or so you think. There's definite humor and angst in this, but the overall effect is a punch to the gut. The screenplay is fantastic, but more notable is Coppola's touch. It's quite difficult to handle a film like this because the tones could vary so much and the end result could easily be a failure, but again, she ultimately makes this be a melancholic, effective but never heavy handed or over the top exercise, one that stands as far more effective than almost any teenage film existing. "}{"Title":"Horrible Parents Cause Disaster","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know why this is called as Virgin Suicides cuz I didn't see enough virginity; however that's not the point I try to make. The movie tells us a good(!) parenting story Parents who are extra-careful about their children even if they're close to 18. And this leads to a disaster of course.I didn't read the book, some says it's better than movie but the story is OK. But, the film is BORING, trust me. You ain't gonna love it if you're not in a very very patient mood.Also, some absurd things happen in the film like maximum security and panicked parents wait till morning for Lux(one of the girls) to come home, at HOME. They do not search call cops or anything, just wait HOME. I wouldn't imagine even myself to wait for my girl at home.Anyway, the name appeals but do not wait for much. "},{"Title":"A striking debut by Sofia Coppola","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sofia Coppola took a real critical and audience bashing after her dire performance in The Godfather Part III. She quickly left acting behind and did not have many acting gigs afterwards. Luckily she has found her calling as a director-writer, starting with her adaptation of Jeffrey Eugenides' debut novel.In a wealthy suburb in 1970s Michigan there are five sisters, Therese (Leslie Hayman), Mary (A.J. Cook), Bonnie (Chelse Swain), Lux (Kirsten Dunst) and Cecilia (Hanna R. Hall) who live with their authoritarian, religious parents (James Woods and Kathleen Turner). But tragedy strikes when 13-year-old Cecila kills herself. Watching them from a far are a group of neighbourhood boys as the tragedy unfolds and watches as Lux falls for local heartthrob Trip (Josh Hartnett) and the boys try to put the pieces of the puzzle of what happened to the girls.The Virgin Suicides is a tackles a dark subject and Coppola juxtaposes it with a bright, dreamy visual with a golden filter, sun dearth landscapes and dreamy editing and she keeps the girls at a distance. We do know much of the girls or why they did what they do. Admittedly I would have wanted to see the girls given more personality and be recognisable; it is only Lux we get to see or know. But I will give Coppola credit that despite not seeing the details we see the boys seeing Lux really descent down a dark path. This is a film about not knowing what happens behind closed doors, about restricting girls' social outlets and trying to dominate their lives just makes a pressured situation that is ready to go off and the ever changing nature of what it is like to be a teenager. It is particularly dark because one of the first scenes is a 13-year-old lying in a blood filled bath and it makes you wonder what would drive someone that young into doing something that extreme.The Virgin Suicides is a very well acted film and Coppola does get a really good cast. The actors were natural and the film did feel like it was set in a real American suburb with all the darkness under the surface, what teenagers get up to and the talking behind someone's back when something tragic happens. Turner played the true villain of the piece as the strict, controlling woman who does not allow her daughters to have any freedoms. Wood is a more sympathetic character if the clichd man who keeps his feelings to himself. Dunst too was very strong as a teen with obvious problems as she slow enters in promiscuity at her young age.The Virgin Suicides is a very compelling drama and a great debut by Coppola. She keeps the mystery going as we see pretty the same things as the main characters. This is a engaging and interesting film and type a film a first time director should make, a visually striking that is story and character focus and low budget. "},{"Title":"A Well-Told Story!","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'The Virgin Suicides' is A Well-Told Story. Writer-Director Sofia Coppola delivers a film, that has depth. Sure, it's depressing & slightly longer than it should have been, but, it still leaves an impact on it's viewer.Based on the novel of the same name by Jeffrey Eugenides, the film tells of the events surrounding the suicides of five sisters in an upper- middle class suburb of Detroit during the 1970s. After the youngest sister attempts suicide, the sisters are put under great scrutiny from their parents as well as from their community.'The Virgin Suicides' is unsettling, depressing & unspoken. Coppola's Screenplay, is progressive, tight-lipped & also has depth. The legend of the Lisbon sisters, comes alive on screen, with the impact, it's suppose to leave on you. But, I felt, the film needed some trimming. It's slightly longer than it should have been. Coppola's Direction, on the other-hand, is atmospheric. Cinematography is appropriate. Editing is good. Art & Costume Design, are impressive.Performance-Wise James Woods is excellent, as always. Kathleen Turner is equally competent. Kirsten Dunst does exceedingly well & looks the part. Josh Hartnett is nice. A.J. Cook, Hanna R. Hall & Leslie Hayman, are natural to the core. Michael Par is fair.On the whole, 'The Virgin Suicides' is a film to watch. "},{"Title":"Everything you could want in a movie","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Thoughtful, beautiful, subtle humor, visually stunning, heartbreaking- it is one of the best films I've ever seen! The whole movie I was in a trance... everything is so specific, so many little details, so many beautiful scenes - I could screen cap this entire movie! In a word stunning. I loved all the sisters in different ways - especially Therese. I loved the part at homecoming where she simply said, I'm having the best time. And even their clothing was great, delicate and innocent. The only reason I wouldn't give this movie a complete ten out of ten is because I was slightly annoyed by all the emphasis put on Lux Lisbon - but besides that, everything about this movie was absolutely perfect in every way. "},{"Title":"A cautionary case study of tragedy and how we cope with it","Date":"4 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sofia Coppola chose quite the challenge for her debut as a writer and director, a film based on the novel The Virgin Suicides by Jeffrey Eugenides. A portrait of suburban life in the '70s, Virgin Suicides tells (among other things) of the ripple effect that one suicide can have on a small town and a family ill-equipped to deal with it.The film focuses on the five Lisbon sisters who lead a very sheltered life thanks to their parents (Kathleen Turner and James Woods), but it's told from the perspective of the high school boys who were enchanted by these five blond-haired angels. Coppola does a superb job mimicking that effect for the viewer; we constantly feel on the outside looking in when it comes to these ladies, obsessing over them in a way or at least fascinated.For the most part, Virgin Suicides is a coming-of-age film, but one that makes its sad ending very clear, which casts a sort of shadow over the nostalgic feelings and cuteness that suburban America period films are known for. Coppola creates a contrast in tones in that much of the film centers on these gooey moments (such as the homecoming dance) yet there's an undeniably tragic undercurrent. It draws a clear connection to the fact that teenage depression was largely ignored or at the least misunderstood at this point in time with the false hope that the sparkling naivety of the '50s and '60s would continue to last. At the same time, the film doesn't speak only to a specific period of time. The goal is not just to serve as a cautionary tale that shames the parents of that generation for not getting it and warns current parents to be less overbearing. The more universal parallel is how we as outsiders react to a tragic situation like the Lisbons and handle ourselves as a society and as individuals when a shocking occurrence tries to shake us from the complacency of our lives. These are times when It'll never happen to me/us takes much more drastic convincing.The portrayal of Mr. and Mrs. Lisbon, both in the script and in the performances of Turner and Woods, does provide some cautionary examples of how not to parent, but specifically shows how out of touch parents can become. When the youngest commits suicide and sets the whole film in motion, she jumps from the second story window and strikes a pointed fence. The first response of the parents is to remove the fence.However, the film does not show the grieving process of the Lisbons and keeps us on the periphery of their situation from an emotional standpoint. We know about as much as the boys spying on them narrating this story from the present day, which despite depriving us of a deeply emotional experience, does make the point that the real focus is on the reaction of others to this tale of woe. Virgin Suicides serves as a tough reminder about how we distance ourselves from tragedy regardless of how connected we are to those involved. The level of our ignorance to such issues has improved vastly, but in the history of humankind, coping has never been easy.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"The Virgin Suicides MOVIE Review.","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Since there are so many reviews about this film, most of them mixed saying this movie was an exhilarating and tauntingly lustful watch, to others saying the film completely flopped, was superficial and lacked any real meaning what so ever. I also found a common theme among bad reviews, most of them comparing this movie to the novel it derived from saying it didn't transcend the emotion and detail that the novel had brought them. Comparing a movie to a novel to which it is based is completely irrelevant on so many levels, one because nothing is as pure and complex as the human imagination that brings a story to life off the pages, turning words into action as if it were a repressed memory we had long forgotten until someone reminded us and wrote it all out on paper. Also, the novel The Virgin Suicides received great reviews, some calling it an instant classic among American contemporary work, which was the foundation upon which inspired Coppola to write and direct this movie. That said, I want to let people know what I personally thought about this movie, not comparing it to the book (which I haven't read) which, like I said, is really apples and oranges, it's just not fair to compare the two. So, from a movie-goers perspective and regular film enthusiast, this is what I thought of the film. I first saw this movie late one night on cable television back in the early 2000's. I remembered thinking at the time that it looked like an 'indie' film by the way it was shot, the script and all, but with headline actors playing the major roles. I was younger then and didn't fully appreciate the certain aspects of what made this movie so captivating to me the first time I saw it, entranced by the beautiful shot work of the film that gave it such a mystical dreamlike feel. It seems like every scene took place at the summertime dusk, bringing to life these emotions in myself that were triggered visually, along with an amazing soundtrack that assisted my eyes, keeping me glued to my television. As a teenager at the time, I was truly entranced by this film as it opened my eyes to a world I had never seen before. (Off topic) I was recently doing research on what movies I wanted to add to my collection when I stumbled upon The Virgin Suicides, and upon seeing the cast and plot I immediately knew I had seen this movie before. Easily 8-10 years have gone by and I remembered this film and the impression it made on me. I picked up the movie at a local used DVD store a couple of days ago and watched it again, the second time, years later, now as an adult in true appreciation. I can't explain in words how well this movie flows, music hitting right in stride, relating with the characters and as I'm watching, remembering why I feel in love with this movie the first time. Giovanni Ribisi narrates throughout the film as the story unfolds, his voice so eerily familiar and smooth. James Woods gives an excellent performance as does Kirsten Dunst, who's more likely to be remembered playing the role of a bubbly cheerleader in the teen movie Bring It On, is so easily and rightfully forgotten as she brings to life a character that is nothing less than spellbinding. Josh Hartnett, in probably one of his first roles, embodies the essence of what it is to be cool and the staggering infatuation his character develops in the film. I would advise viewers to be wary when watching this film not to confuse what seems to be a lack of an established meaning with a lack-luster film, which is certainly not the case. I feel that other reviews have trashed and tarnished this movie in whole because they didn't understand or get any point to the movie, or, they just couldn't grasp any major theme. To me, that's exactly the point! In relation to the characters of this movie (specifically the attention of the young boys' lustful obsession), not being able to put together the pieces (what,when,why,where and how) sometimes gives an illusion of poor film making but, in reality, is exactly (in my opinion) what Sofia Coppola intended. Being able to immerse yourself in the emotional value and confusion of the characters in this movie is what makes it so good. I won't call this movie great, because it does have it's flaws in such ways that it changes pace about 2/3 of the way through with such haste that it leaves me feeling unfulfilled and that it needed more substance where it probably could have made for a truly great film. This movie will pull you in the direction of romanticism and obsession, back to another of a heartfelt sickness that begs to be tended to that never seems to come to fruition. Probably not every movie-goers dream, but I feel like this movie was a significant accomplishment by small time director with a big time (last) name. I'll stick this movie in my collection of over 150 movies that I have meticulously hand picked and will remember what a gem of a movie that I have resting on my shelf that will later beckon me back for another go 'round. "},{"Title":"quite devastating, but truly worth seeing","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I decided to watch this movie after I found out it had been written and directed by Sofia Coppola. Since I had appreciated Marie Antoinette so much, I got interested in it, although the title didn't promise anything comforting or soothing.In very different contexts, and so distant historical periods, in both movies attention is focused on the difficulty of being an adolescent, in two extreme conditions, where the common element is the tragedy of feeling entrapped in the family environment the house, being the royal palace of Versailles or an anonymous house of America, becomes a prison, full of despair, anguish, grief, death.What really struck me in the Virgin Suicides is the contrast between the formal external control dominating situations and dialogues, and the sense of devastating anxiety and despair hiding behind that exterior stillness. The gentle light pervading the oneiric moments, the soft tenderness of these young refined and beautiful girls make everything appear too calm, with a strange premonitory sense that something tragic will have to happen and make this surreal atmosphere explode.Really outstanding the whole cast, I would underline the high-range performances offered by the young actors, truly capable of conveying the uneasiness, the difficulty of living when nobody understands you, when even a mother with five daughters having committed suicide, doesn't make out what lacked in her family-prison. Kirsten Dunst, with her distinguishing captivating and at the same time mysterious depth hits the mark.The movie is really worth seeing between social drama and oneiric vision, it leaves the viewer with a sense of emptiness, of sad regret for those unjustly broken lives, and with deep unresolved questions to be sorted out. "},{"Title":"Hypnotic and moody","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" *** Good Sofia Coppola's directorial debut feature film packs a lot of mood and sense of a particular time and place, largely via cinematography and soundtrack. Sofia Coppola wrote the screenplay based on a relatively unknown bestselling novel from the 90's. Set in Michigan about 1975, we follow the story of five suburban adolescent girls and some neighborhood boys who were captivated by them. The film has an unusual haunting and dreamlike quality to it. James Woods and Kathleen Turner play the parents of these five girls. Kirsten Dunst is especially effective as the 2nd youngest of the girls. The film is about lost adolescent memories and trying to understand them later in adult life. Ms. Coppola's take on the novel focuses more on the characters of the girls as opposed to the book, which highlights the narration. The film uses a voice over by Giovanni Ribisi to narrate the story. Overall, a good, solid debut from director-writer Sofia Coppola. "},{"Title":"Love it","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just love it. There is something, I don't even know exactly what it is, that makes this movie so special. The atmosphere in this movie is so different than in any other movie I've ever saw. I really respect the work that Sofia Coppola has done by making this movie. One of the best movies ever made! Kirsten Dunst's and Josh Hartnett's characters make such a lovely couple in the movie that you just have to keep on watching the movie because they look so great together! Trip Fontaine is definitely one of the finest(and hottest) male-characters in history! Of course a big part of why this movie is so brilliant belongs to the writer of the great novel of Jeffrey Eugenides that the movie is based on. I read the novel after seeing the movie and it was just as excellent as the movie. "},{"Title":"Sofia finally makes a positive contribution to film!","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kirsten Dunst is basically the star of The Virgin Suicides, director Sofia Coppola's (Lost in Translation) first feature length film. Based on the novel by Jeffrey Euginides, a family containing five pretty, blonde daughters live in a quaint neighborhood in the mid-70's. Cecilia Lisbon, the youngest daughter at 13 (and young Jenny from Forrest Gump!), becomes suicidal. When Cecilia tragically finds the chance to do herself in, town speculation starts to surround the overprotective parents (James Woods and Kathleen Turner) and the future of the remaining daughters. The new youngest daughter Lux (Dunst) falls for the high school heartthrob Trip Fontaine (Josh Hartnett), who manages to talk Mr. Lisbon into allowing the daughters (importantly Lux) to go to the homecoming dance. When Lux stays out too late, only to be left alone on a football field, the Lisbons get more strict with the daughters, putting their fate more into question than ever before. I don't think any scene in this film is meant to be favored, but my favorite scene is when the daughters make a rare outdoor appearance to protect the tree Cecilia loved from being removed by the government. The Virgin Suicides is in many ways like an after-school special, but through strong performances (especially from Woods), some of the best narration I've heard in film from Giovanni Ribisi, and foreshadowing that doesn't remotely feel like foreshadowing (the picture Mr. Lisbon takes of the daughters before the dance), it's good to see Coppola is a good filmmaker... because if you've ever seen The Godfather Part III, you know acting just ain't her thing. "}{"Title":"If you think you might have missed the point (or there is no point) of the film...","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... than you may care to read this. Be wary, this is only after you've seen the movie and is simply an account of the thematic elements, not a complete review of the film... there are spoilers.One of the most notable themes/messages from the movie is how a parent's totalitarian, overprotective ways can suffocate children and cause them to lash out in numerous ways. Of course, ultimately the parents suffocation of the girls leads them to kill themselves, as well as a string of things prior to that, all throughout the film... most notable is Lux's various acts of rebelliousness. Ex running out to the car to make out with Trip, making love to seemingly random guys on the rooftop, smoking, drinking, breaking curfew, doing several of these things simultaneously...) This theme can be examined, expanded upon and applied to parents, their parental strategies and their mistakes all over the world, everywhere, everyday to varying degrees. I hardly think the parents of this film would ever admit, acknowledge or even realize they are the primary cause for their children's suicides. They had love for their children, but solely because they had total control over their every action. Whenever a child (like Lux) disobeyed them or broke one of their overbearing rules, the love seems to be pushed to the background and replaced with strict discipline in the most relentless ways.Another strong element is the message of how the death of someone, in this case a suicide of several people, can affect many people, even people that you might not think would be so affected. And, it can affect and shake people on many different levels. (The aftermath shows glimpses of the parents, the boys, the boys' parents and the reporters, all affected, at different levels.) Personally, though, I find the Trip Fontaine/Lux relationship the most compelling part of the film... most notably the climax of it, and the aftermath. Lux is clearly the most dominant sister of the film... and the scene of her waking up in the field, alone with her dance crown, slipping her shoes on before she sits in the back seat of the taxi, driving home in the morning, knowing the punishment she's about to endure.. It is the most poignant sequence of the movie in my eyes.The reason that part, I think, is the most powerful (at least to me) is that Lux is seemingly untouchable throughout a major portion of the film. She appeared to be the most mysterious, even as other guys claimed to have talked to her and done things with her, she seemed rather untouchable, the most majestic of the girls. Finally, she opened up to a guy that worked hard to win her over, Trip... his name on her underwear. Finally she's opened up to a guy, only to wake up in a field alone... hours after her curfew, no way home.Fast forward to the snapshot of Trip in the present. He recalls the relationship as a bittersweet nostalgia for him... claiming it was just different for him when he woke up in the field next to her. He had conquered her, and to him he had unraveled the mystery that was Lux by getting into her pants, though he didn't really unveil who she really was. The older trip remains ignorant of the effect his actions that night had on her, the pain that he caused her, just how wrong what he did was to her. It's a stronger expression of a statement many other TV shows and other films have tried to depict of the teenage male dominance mindset that some, not all, males have... as soon as they have sex with the girl there's less mystique to them, and rather there's nothing left for them to do but move on.Then there are the boys... so deeply enthralled by the girls even after their deaths, for years, according to the narrations. One has to wonder at the close of the film, would the boys still be putting together the pieces of the girls' lives together to figure out just who they were if they had the same experience that Trip had in the field? Might they have lost interest and let the girls fade from their lives and memories once they thought they discovered who they really were by seeing their name on their underwear. Would they have lost interest once they thought the veil was pulled... or perhaps did the girls really just lose, within minutes or hours, their chance of encountering a love that just might have saved their lives from boys who were as dedicated more than anyone, even their parents, to finding out who those five girls were and what made them feel the way they did? All in all, the film has a lot of thematic elements that can be pondered for hours into the night. I have encountered many other films that are more keen to discussion than this, but there is definitely bait for intelligent and thoughtful conversation if you give it some thought and some time. "},{"Title":"soundtrack","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this movie a few days ago and I loved it. Especially the soundtrack was just amazing.... but I don't know the name of the song at the end of the trailer?! I've tried to look it up on the internet but I didn't get anything......can anyone tell me the name of this song?And my second question is why Lux is 14 years old in the movie, because she looks much older than she really is, that doesn't fit somehow....... but that's not the main thing ) please help me with the soundtrack!thanks a lot "},{"Title":"Powerfully Emotional","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was one of the first movies that I had ever seen that truly kept my emotions moving through me throughout the entire film. From the very powerful opening sequence of shots, to the laughter of the boys trying to figure the girls out the very end aria, it was completely intriguing to me. The movie is set in the 1970's in suburban Michigan. Almost immediately you notice an almost morbidly seductive quality about every single one of the girls, not least of which Lux(Kirsten Dunst), the prettiest of the group. While many believe that this movie is about the girls, I disagree, the movie is really about the boys of the film in their search for the understanding of the girls that haunt them. The Protagonist of the film, I believe, is the narrator (Giovanni Ribisi) who we assume is one of the boys although it is never actually said. The antagonist(s), The girls, who slowly, seductively, and emotionally torture the boys. Great performances by James Woods who plays a seriously out-of-touch father, Kathleen Turner who plays a strict catholic mother afraid of letting life touch the girls, and Kirsten Dunst who plays one of the mysterious Lisbon girls she gives an absolutely amazing performance as a seductive and rebellious teenager. All-in-all a very well directed and powerful movie that you shouldn't miss. "},{"Title":"one word instant master piece","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to say 8 out of 10 movies I see I will honestly say i hate.But this movie is truly beautiful.I love the Libon sisters and the whole dark and mysterious storyline.The soundtrack composed of various 70's artist goes right along with the film and the original score by air is right on target.every scene of this movie I found interesting and beautiful.Unlike most I suppose who see this movie I became actually attached to this film and the sisters I wanted to know them, meet them, and i wanted to go to school with them and befriend them and just get hypnotized by their beauty.the book by Jeffree Eugenides is also a work of art and Sofia Coppola did an astonishing job bringing them film and its characters to life.anyone who is in the mood to see a classic film you will want to see over and over.watch the Vigin Suicides. "},{"Title":"beautiful movie","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Loved this movie. Also great about it is that it shows so much flaws in American society. example the neighbors thinking about how long these girls are going to be trapped in their house by the parents but not doing anything about it, like calling an institute for child abuse or talking with the parents about it. example the Christian strictness of the parents resulting in the suicides. (you can say that it is the Christian strictness of America that has made it the most violent country in the world, prayer in schools (brainwashing, because it rules out a lot of thinking kids should be doing about the world and society), having the flag of your country in the classrooms (nationalistic, it breeds respect for a country just for being that country while a country should gain respect by the way it handles it's internal and external problems and therefore what it stands for), the Christian\republican lobby that still holds a lot of power in a so-called democratic and progressive country (it's just like Europe in the middle-ages, church and state are not separated fully which leads to bad legislation and illegal differencing people for what they think) etc. i really think that is what drives people to their limits because who can cope to live with these things from even childhood and on, some will but most won't and they will rebel and resort to violence and\or crime or just simply go crazy because there's no normal way like talking to people to get rid of these things as there's always a powerful minority that will stop non-christian propositions like abortion and legal prostitution for example. Even though a rational thinking person can see these things are a solution for at least some of the major issues surrounding these situations\problems). "},{"Title":"Superb, haunting, and a wondrous!","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A movie by Sofia Coppola is brilliant and very tasteful, deserve a award for originality. The Virgin Suicides is a haunting and questionable story that would leave the viewer wondering, Why? Having strict parents would make live very difficult and their lives will change forever. The Libsons(James Woods & Kathleen Turner) are very religious who have 5 beautiful daughtersLux(Kirsten Dunst), Cecilia(Hanna Hall), Mary(AJ Cook), Therese(Leslie Hayman), and Bonnie(Chelse Swain). When Ceclia commits suicide, four boys take the opportunity to meet them after the homecoming dance resulted of Trip(Josh Hartnett) leaving Lux behind. The four girls were prisoners of their parents rules. They had to communicate the four boys with music. After that plan ended up escaping the easy way out, word spread to the neighborhood like peanut butter. I think Mr. Gibson should have left his wife in the first place, then maybe, the other four girls would have lived a lot longer. But then again, it's hard to say who's to blame. I don't blame the father one bit. And the four boys deciding to keep the Gibson girls' memories alive, go for it. Don't be like the other gossip group. This movie is great, I would change anything about it, great cast great plot, and it's a 10! 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A strange and original teen angst film","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was Sofia Coppola's first film, and it is an interesting one. Superficially it's a teen angst story featuring the usual dysfunctional parents, idiot school teachers, prom night hijinks, first love, and the inevitable loss of innocence. But on a deeper level this film is a variation on such films, done in an artistic manner and told from an unlikely point of view.Consider that the story focuses on five teenaged girls who committed suicide. Yet their story is seen from the point of view of the high school boys who adored the girls, boys who seem curiously younger than the girls (as in reality most boys are relative to girls of the same age). There is one exception and that is Trip Fontaine played by Josh Hartnett. He is big and handsome and worldly wise (for his age). He is charming and adored by just about everyone, especially by all the girls in the school. But his desire is directed toward Lux Lisbon, the oldest of the ill-fated Lisbon sisters. Initially she doesn't seem interested in him, but that only serves to whet his appetite, and then... Well, let's just say that players only love you when they're playing--or something like that.The tragedy seems a bit effete in the telling. The suicides seem excessive and monstrously headstrong. Mom and Dad, you WILL pay for this! There's the overbearing and dictatorial mother who cares only about appearances, played menacingly by Kathleen Turner. James Woods serves as both the father of the girls and as a somewhat spacey math teacher who seems to have no idea that he and his wife are suffocating their children. Kirsten Dunst is the enigmatic Lux who dies more from a broken heart than from the fumes of exhaust.In the end the boys are left wondering what happened and why and what they could have done differently. But life in the upper middle class suburban town goes on. An older Trip Fontaine is interviewed as in a documentary. He more or less shrugs his shoulders. TV reporters mouth clichs. Neighbors play golf and flirt and drink excessively. The boys grow older but no wiser. The elms are cut down, the house is sold, and again life goes on and on and yet there is no answer, no justification, no meaning to the tragedy of five girls who snuffed out their lives for...what? Bottom line interesting and original but strangely artificial as though the girls were Barbie dolls briefly brought to life and then put back into their boxes.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Peace and love appearances","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Recently I saw the movie, and I noticed three appearances of the sentence Peace and love.I plan to pay more attention on it next time I'll watch the movie. Maybe then I could understand the meaning of the repetitive presence of these words.(I take a look to the Trivia zone, but there is no information about Peace and love, yet).In another sort of things, the movie structure is brilliant. The editing is original and effective, the composition is original but not too obvious to result annoying. This is a great art job, a very elaborated piece. "},{"Title":"Should be retitled The Dumbass Suicides......","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, you read it right. The Virgin Suicides, although a decent movie, should be retitled The Dumbass Suicides, because that's exactly what it depicts Dumbasses who commit suicide because they're dumbasses.The movies about a group of sisters, five of them to be exact, who live in a pretty strict house. Not I'll beat-your-ass-if-you-don't-eat-that-food-at-a-sixty three-degree-angle strict, but pretty strict. The girls are kept in the house because the parents, namely the somewhat stupid mom, are paranoid of the forces outside the house, and by forces, I mean school, and other people. The husband played by James Woods doesn't seem that bad, but he just follows in the footsteps of his wife, most likely for fear of getting his ass beaten. Now, these parents aren't the best out there, but they lay down the damn law. They don't want the girls to go outside? Don't go outside. But nope, these girls are stupid.The first sister to attempt suicide, named Cecilia, tries to slit her wrists. When asked why she did it, she tells the doctor (played by Danny Devito) Obviously, you've never been a thirteen year old girl. When I heard this, I wished that Danny Devito would just give her a massive roundhouse kick to the mouth, because this character is just a complete dumbass. You've never been a thirteen year old girl? What's so harsh about being thirteen that would force yourself to cut your wrists? The house that you live in that you don't even pay for? All the food you can eat that you don't have to spend a dime on? A bed? A TV? What? What am I missing? Last time I checked, these were all good things, dumbass.Then after that, I'm not too sure what happens because I haven't seen this in months. But, the girls are invited to a school dance thing by a group of dudes who drool over them. The oldest sister, I don't know her name, stays out all night and gets porked on the football field while drinking. Then when she gets home, the parents force the girls to stay in the house no matter what. First, what did this dumbass expect when she came home after a night of drinking and screwing? I'm all for screwing, but please, don't expect your parents to go easy on you when they told you not to come home late.Eventually, these girls get a plane ticket to an island where death is inevitable. See what I did there with that wittiness? They selfishly kill themselves because they can't leave the house. Sure, that's a good way to go. Forget the pain you'll cause your parents, forget the fact that you have your whole life ahead of you, just kill yourself because your mom burnt your records that SHE paid for and because you can't go out and have sex with every person you see. I'm not saying this movie's bad, I'm just saying I hate the main characters because they're all stupid.I guarantee, someone's reading this and saying, How can you be so cold?! You don't know what these girls are going through, you don't know what could possibly bring on the desire for suicide! Yes, I do know what brings on the desire for suicide Idiocy, and weakness. There are better ways to cope with life's problems, taking a gun and putting it in your mouth isn't one of them.Aside from the stupid main characters, this movie was alright. I don't know if it asks you to feel sorry for them. I don't. I feel sorry for their parents for having such dumbass daughters. Obviously, the movie doesn't endorse suicide, but if it tries to create sympathy for these characters, it failed, with a capital F.The acting is pretty good too. I thought I should say that.Now, in one scene, the mom burns one of the daughter's records. I don't mind this scene, because the mom paid for the records and I'm not too much of a fan of the bands. But, if the mom had burnt a Gwar record, bruh, I would have probably felt sorry for that girl. But that's not the case.I expect to see the following above this review 0 out of 1000 people found this review helpful. Although, I could be wrong.Several people will read this and think I'm a cold, uncaring person. That's not true. I'm not a cold person, I'm just intolerant of idiots....and this movie's full of em'.Score 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Beautifully made - utterly bewildering.","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There's no question that this is a skillfully made and evocative film. It beautifully captures the teenaged-fledgling duality of wanting to leave the nest but being uncertain of their ability to master flight, although this was clearly not the film's message. In the preamble the narrator reveals that, years after the event, he still doesn't know why the Lisbon girls killed themselves - that makes two of us. There seems to be little attempt to explain it.We are presented with a slightly dysfunctional family going through some of the usual traumas of adolescents. The parents are more strict than most, but are not ogres; they display no violence or aggression; they show themselves willing to compromise and their love for their daughters is evident. They rather overreact when the sexually precocious Lux stays out all night with her boyfriend and the girls are kept at home - no locks or chains, just a very severe grounding. The girls become engaged in a bizarre musical dialogue with the local boys (why not just talk?) who ultimately arrange to visit, or perhaps rescue, them. It is at this, apparently hopeful, moment that the girls all kill themselves.So why? Despair? Punishment for their parents? Punishment for their would-be-rescuers? Teenaged petulance? How could we know? Lux is the only sister whose character gets any examination, and she seems about as deep as a puddle. I guess we are just being invited to share the bewilderment of the narrator and his friends. Not exactly a feel-good movie, but it's exactly what it says on the tin. "}{"Title":"sorry, did i miss something?","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" hmm...I'm not sure about this movie, i thinks its really very good and all and i like the idea of the five (or however many) sisters as it is a tres creepy story line, but was the real reason they all killed themselves because of their over protective mother? and also, had they planned for the boys to be the ones to see the dead bodies first? it certainly seemed like kirstin dunst knew that the others were committing suicide when the guys came to the house at the end. also, how did she die? did she overdose or something in the car? hmm..good though...worth seeing i think. oh yes, and why was the little room in the basement where they had had the party still all partyish? with the cups and tablecloth and balloons? thankee "},{"Title":"Virgin Suicides in 3 seconds","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Virgin Suicides was a good movie. Quick summary 5 girls in michigan during the 70s have these crazy uber religious parents who don't let them do anything. One by one they kill each other- the youngest first as a way to show their parents that overbearness isn't the way. The neighborhood boys are all obsessed with these beautiful blonde girls who are all young, and pure except Lex played by Kirsten Dunst who did lose her virginity in the movie. Josh Hartnett plays Trip the guy who takes her virginity and breaks her heart.I loved the idea of the daughters dying to show how they could rebellion against their parents. They're were many mistakes, I guess the director didn't do a good job of making sure she didn't put music from 1996 into the movie which took place in 1975 but whatever it still was amazing. "},{"Title":"A film definitely worth watching !","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was glued to the screen (which doesn't happen often). Kathleen Turner was a good enough reason to start watching the film in the first place, as well as James Woods. Kirsten Dunst is also superb here. Such a natural. I was pleasantly surprised to see a slightly different film for a change. Not OBVIOUS. There are so may films that you will see that you can practically guess half of the script. The photography of the girls was exquisite. May I just add that I cried my eyes out at the end. Totally unexpectedly too. And I've seen hundreds of movies. I myself am a mother of daughters, although they're not teenagers yet, I WAS one once, so I could relate oh so well to this movie. Beautifully done. Well done Miss Coppola !!! "},{"Title":"I fell in love with this movie...","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophia Coppola certainly does a brilliant job of portraying these five innocent girls, and the boys that chase after them trying to pick up the puzzle pieces, the girls had so daintily left behind. I loved every minute of it. The music was amazing, and the cinematography was excellent... This movie makes you think real hard, and by the end you'll be just as confused as the boys that chased after them. It's mixed with dark humor, love, innocent, light versus. dark, good versus evil. This movie deals with a topic that isn't always portrayed well in films; and that is the issue of suicide, itself. I loved every single bit of the movie, and I hope you do as well. This piece of work cannot be labeled as simply a movie, but in my mind, it should be labeled as a pure classic. Now stop reading and go watch! "},{"Title":"Beautful,wonderful and sensitive!","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film showed us that life can't be so easy.I think that this film deserves better grade than 7.2/10.Well,camera is great,acting is great,Sofia did a great job by writing and directing this movie.But there is just one thing that's missing,but I can't get to it.The Virgin suicides is a beautiful story about five sisters, and their mysterious existence, told in the words of the neighborhood boys who worshiped them and who come together 20 years later to try and solve the mystery of the Lisbon sisters. It is a solitary story of the girls isolation and the sleepy portrayal of how they watched powerless as their fragile lives disappeared.You just got to see this movie because it's great!!!! Watch it and enjoy watching it!!! "},{"Title":"very disturbing","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this movie to be quite disturbing. Although it was excellently acted and directed, it left me with the irritating feeling that something I had eaten was trying to climb back up my throat.I'm completely shocked by what transpired in the movie. From the thoughtlessness of Josh's character, to the simple act of parenting gone wrong. After all, had they been my children, I probably would have acted about the same way.The very worst moment in the entire film had to be the ending. Not the very end, where things were put to a rest after the suicides commenced, but during the suicides themselves. I watched in admiration as the girls called out to the boys for help through their imprisonment. I watched the boys do what any boy would do, and that is go over there to help them. I watched Kristen's character talk with them, lead them on. Then I watched in complete horror and disgust as the boys were left hanging as the girls killed themselves.Suicide is one thing, but to take the feelings of another, and throw them away after all they had done for them, that is just wrong. I still can't fathom the reasoning behind calling them over there and then committing suicide. The question why isn't enough when watching this movie. There has to be a better word out there, and if not, we need to create one.Other than my personal problems with the story, this was an excellent movie, but of course, I pretty much like any movie with Ms. Dunst in it. It's one thing to be beautiful, but quite another to take on so many different personalities in different situations. She always seems to make me believe that she is who she is playing, no matter what the movie is. "},{"Title":"The Virgin Suicides brings different joys to different viewers, despite a lack of character development.","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A person with much respect for Sofia Coppola after her untouchably perfect job on Lost in Translation would understandably have high hopes as he starts to watch The Virgin Suicides, Coppola's debut film as a director. With the startling opening scene of a 13 year-old girl in a bathtub full of bloody water, the viewer's excitement builds. It continues to rise with the nostalgic '70's setting, the voice of an adolescent boy as the intimate narrator, and the array of interesting characters (think oppressive parents, girls at the prime of their youthful beauty, and a gang of neighborhood boys on bikes).Unfortunately, The Virgin Suicies did not take full advantage of all this potential. It had all the makings of a memorable movie, and yet did not do much more than to wallow in its depressing glory. Perhaps there were just too many characters to develop fully, and so the writers settled for an idealistic aura of tragedy and beauty to surround the Lisbon girls. As the movie was narrated by one of the neighborhood boys who set out on an obsessive mission to understand the five sisters (four after Cecilia, the youngest, commits suicide within the first 30 minutes), this look from afar at the motives (or lack thereof) and conflicts of the girls is fitting to some degree. However, the sudden impact of the ending, with all remaining four girls committing suicide simultaneously, does leave one with the feeling that the writers were at a loss for a good way to finish off the story and decided to take the easy way out by killing the main characters (and thus fulfilling the movie's namesake). The fact that the suicides were presented in a montage did not help the viewer understand why he was seeing what he was seeing. One thing is for certain there were enough shots that screamed IRONY! of heartless, dolled-up suburban neighbors talking about the suicides at the Lisbon house while wearing tragic looks of utter pity on their faces to nearly silence the viewer's need for substantial character development&#133; but not quite. The Virgin Suicides did have its notable parts that made the movie worthwhile. The cinematography was exceptional, especially when the boys pore over Cecilia's diary and relive the entries in their imaginations. The smooth transitions between the reading of the diary and the sunny, home video-like memory are superb. Kirsten Dunst as Lux Lisbon makes the audience forget that she is acting. Her downward spiral throughout the movie seems genuine, and she truly assumes her character. The music that guides the movie along is seamless and original. The Virgin Suicides transforms the bluesy song Playground Love by Air into an ominous harbinger of bad news, never failing to accompany a dark scene. A cameo by Danny DeVito as a homely psychiatrist is a pleasant surprise. The Virgin Suicides brings different satisfaction to different viewers. It is not lacking in poignantly haunting scenes and certainly has much that the audience will be able to relate to. The movie has a timeless quality to it, similar to digging up an old record and finding that it still plays perfectly. At times, the timelessness gets to be a bit much for one looking for honest dialogues that explain characters' histories or motives. The movie jumps into the culmination of a fate that has long been coming, and the viewer is supposed to assume that the parents' oppressive nature is the underlying problem at hand. For the unsatisfied viewer looking to watch the movie a second time in an attempt to better understand the Lisbon girls, the prospect of hearing Playground Love yet again may prove a considerable adversary. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but promising directing and overall production","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing the two movies from Sophia Coppola I must say that her movies are starting to get this I bett it's a sophia copolla movie signature...As a director she is revealing to make quite impressive films visually. The Dark mood in The Virgin Suicides and the rather pop Feeling of Lost in translation some how are quite similar and gave me similar reactions....The virgin suicides it's a fair movie, nice and enjoyable but it's far away from being an astonishing movie... As I said in the review title this movie (along with lost in translation) tells us that we are in front of a very promising and talented director that can be one of the top directors in the future....Keep the good work sophia, you are in the right path...CheersMiguel Figueiredo  "},{"Title":"Slow but enjoyable (possible spoiler)","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Coppola seems to be into slowly developing storylines, although there isn't really much of a story line to develop here.I saw this one after seing her second movie (lost in translation) and here too, most of the film relies on the excellent cast and the skillfull cinematography to hold the viewer.The story itself is thin at best (sisters achieve -presumably- freedom through suicide, as seen from the POV of the infatuated boys next door). The film is however saved by the cast and crew.I'm not sure most viewers will really adhere to the characters as none really stick out or is really central to the story. It's more of a composite, made of the tales of many. This IMO makes the end product a bit lacking as it's a bit difficult to get involved.In the end it's not an unforgettable experience but definitely worth watching if you want to escape the usual hollywood production. "},{"Title":"A Stunning, Heartfelt Debut By Sofia Coppola","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sofia Coppola directs her first film The Virgin Suicides based on the novel by Jeffrey Eugenides. The film is a stunning, heartfelt debut about a group of teenage girls with odd, strict parents and the boys that admire them, yet can't understand them or what happens in their family. Very few films evoke the charm, innocence, and inquisitiveness of adolescence with such accurate sensitivity. Coppola builds mood effectively as one of the boys narrates as an adult, looking back at this time. The film creates a haunting portrait of a time when sexual mores loosened more than in any other period perhaps. This was due to increasing wide spread use of the pill, approved for use in the 60's, the passage of the abortion law in 1973, and the upswing of divorce. Yet the film is not about loss of virginity. It's about loss of innocence and lack of experience. I'm not talking about sexual experience, but life experience; therefore, the inability to obtain an understanding about life through experiences. There comes a time in every teenager's life when that loss of innocence either turns into experience and understanding, or bewilderment as a result of staying emotionally insulated from events surrounding him/her.Several scenes stand out as wonderful illustrations of teenage awkwardness, idealization, first love, strong feelings, etc. There is an absolutely wonderful scene of the kids playing records back and forth in alternating phone calls between the boys and girls that perfectly encapsulates the strong emotional connection teenagers had, still have, and probably always will have between music and their feelings. The cinematography is marvelous and the soundtrack is simply wonderful with very scene appropriate music either from the period or sounding from the period, although a few songs are out of the realm of possibility for the actual time. James Woods and a weathered Kathleen Turner play the girls' helpless parents to perfection. The young actors portraying the girls and boys are all fine, particularly Josh Hartnett as Trip and Kirsten Dunst as Lux. Hartnett embodies the misdirected, bad boy type perfectly and Dunst is a wonder as the teenage girl, simultaneously yearning to be free, yet dutifully obedient. The idealized illustration of the girls by the adult Trip demonstrates how, as teenagers, we want to think of things as they affect us only, instead of what the events were apart of in a larger context. The adult Trip is forever bewildered about a group of teenage girls. ***1/2 of 4 stars. "}{"Title":"A weird film","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is such an unsettling film but I love the way the girls are observed by the neighboring boys. They are distant witnesses to a tragedy they dont really understand or predict. It shows Sophia Coppola as a truly great director "},{"Title":"James Woods - the Norman Fell of our generation","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Twenty years from now, I expect to be viewing some late 20th century movie on the late show and seeing James Woods in (yet another) small bit part. Wait! Wait! Hold it!  He's...he's....  Oh, what's the name of that character actor?Thank god for IMDB.  "},{"Title":"Spoiler alert and questions about historical accuracy.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't read this if you haven't seen the movie.The girls completly overreacted.  I have no sympathy for them.  Their parents weren't beating them or abususing them.  Many people live through much worse.  It's ironic that the girls are reading about all of these far off places were there is lots of poverty, starvation, and kids are sold into prostitution or forced to fight in wars.  But moms burning records and Dads a nerd.  However, it was a compelling, entertaining, and funny movie. Maybe the suicides are an allegory.Anyway, I noticed that the boys used binaca blast when they picked up the girls.  Was that product available in the 70's.  I thought it came out in the early eighties.  Also, the flowers were in those clear plastic clamshell packaging.  Again, I don't think that is accurate.  They probably were in paper boxes.  The movie seemed very detail oriented and I could see the deliberate use of binaca for comidic effect.  gum just wouldn't be as funny. And maybe the plastic clamshell was noisier and more awkward then a paper box. "},{"Title":"Beautifully told story of what isolation will do to a girl","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some may call this story depressing and I agree it was.  This movie showed a very dark side to the teenage girl, a complex and real side to what life is really like for us.  Sofia Coppola is an amazingly talented director and I think we will be seeing a lot of great things from her. She told this story in a very whimsical way without making it look cheerful.  Led by an amazing cast The Virgin Suicides leads you back to the seventies in the Lisbon girls' bedroom living their last days with them.I suggest this movie to any mature woman and that it be followed by a comedy to lighten things up*Alex "},{"Title":"sad.. but true","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This story was sad, but it's all true, and told in a beautiful way.The title really suits this story, virgin suicides, i think the words virgins did not really refer to someone that had never had sexual experiences, but rather, it refers to just experiences as in life.  The girls were trapped in the house all the while the only stuff they had with the outside world was the pamphlets and advertiments they received in their mail boxes.  They had dreams of goin out and living the lives they wanted to but couldn't becos of their strict parents locking them up.  committing suicide at a young age with not much experiences to live with so they are called virgins, including Lux. "},{"Title":"This movie was a beautiful!","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow, what a beautiful movie! The visual effects, the lighting, the silence of the movie, everything. Great movie. Very haunting, but also very entertaining. I recommend only watching this if you have a very big imagination, though. Can be confusing if you don't listen.  "},{"Title":"Waste of........","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie is a waste of your time and a waste of the actors talents. i cannot understand why this movie is ranking so high, because it has a simple story and no surprises at all. the title of the movie alone, makes the forthcoming plot obvious and hangs over the whole story like damocles sword. i could write more about it, but by adding more text it would be another waste of time for me. "},{"Title":"One of the most honest and thoughtful films I've seen","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find it kind of funny, I find it kind of sad, that the dreams in which I'm dying are the best I've ever had- Mad World from Donnie DarkoEach year in the U.S., thousands of teenagers commit suicide. Suicide is the third leading cause of death for 15-to-24-year-olds, and the sixth leading cause of death for 5-to-14-year-olds. Many young people feel isolated from friends and family and at odds with the prevailing values in their community. If they also cannot communicate with their parents, their lives may be in jeopardy. The Virgin Suicides by Sofia Coppola is a compelling film about the suicides of five sisters, ages 13 to 17, in suburban Michigan during the 1970s and the investigation by four teenage boys who loved them. Based upon Jeffrey Eugenides' novel, The Virgin Suicides is told from the boys' collective point of view. After the passage of many years, they still cannot come to grips with the tragedy. The movie has a strange dreamlike quality, reminiscent of another film about teenage girls, Picnic at Hanging Rock and is one of the most honest and thoughtful films I've seen about the desperate struggle of adolescents for acceptance.Coppola creates a memorable picture of suburbia in the 70s with its frumpy dress, split-level homes, finely manicured lawns, and vapid middle class values. Though the exact reason for their suicide remains a mystery, it is clear from the outset that there is a failure of communication at home. The father (James Woods) is a passive high school teacher who always defers to the missus to make family decisions. The mother (Kathleen Turner) is an old-school disciplinarian who refuses to allow the girls to go out with boys, even to the school dance and makes Lux burn her rock albums when she stays out all night after the Homecoming dance. As further punishment, they are taken out of school and sequestered in their rooms where they become starved for human contact and affection. Mrs. Lisbon never tries to make any kind of genuine connection with her daughters or to understand their growing isolation. The girls 13-year-old Cecilia (Hanna Hall), 14-year old Lux (Kirsten Dunst), 15-year-old Bonnie (Chelsea Swain), 16-year-old Mary (A.J. Cook), and 17-year-old Therese (Leslie Hayman) are all blond and attractive, reflecting the beauty the boys find fascinating but unattainable. Unable to know or understand the girls, they become more obsessed with their fantasies, watching the girls through a telescope from a room across the street. Sadly, like all unfulfilled fantasies, their relationship is always from a distance and they never get to know the girls as people. When the girls are gone, their innocence and childhood is lost forever. Years later they have only their memories.  "},{"Title":"Not so good...","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  CONTAINS SOME SPOILERS This movie could have been much better if directed and written differently. First there was a huge part in the middle which consisted of nothing more but few teen romance sequences... The beginning of the movie was interesting with the threat of accident hanging in the air; girls seemed to be okay but didn't talk much, Cecilia appearing to people in their mind and the strict parents unable to show their emotions etc. Then suddenly it turns into this STAR WARS Episode 2 kind of a teen romance movie! It takes a long time before something really relevant happens; Trip appearing to be nothing more than an insecure bachelor and the cruel enprisonment of the girls by their parents. At that point the movie started to bore me because I didn't care for the characters anymore. In the beginning it was different and interesting but then the story doesn't last anymore and the ending seems to have been done in a great hurry. The characters are left one dimensional and the beautiful looks of the film were not great enough contrast to the horrible scenes to wake any emotions. The movie was okay but nothing really unforgettable. My rate 5/10  "},{"Title":"Hurtfully beautiful with lasting impressions","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Lisbon sisters will live on forever in the memory of the neighborhood boys who narrate this tragically beautiful story.  The beauty of this movie is that while the Lisbon sisters were beautiful and interesting, they were also very ordinary.  The narration, music and style of the film are very unique as well as effective. For those of us with Catholic backgrounds, this movie also speaks to the old school Catholic mentality of solemnity, guilt and suffering.Kirsten Dunst is fabulous in her role as Lux Lisbon, the oldest of the four sisters.  Kathleen Turner and her husband, played by James Woods, portray detached parents who treat parenthood as if it were a cold, mechanical project. This leaves little room for tenderness or a saving connection with their children, resulting in a failure to emotionally thrive.  "}{"Title":"The lighter side of the dark side","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Breaking false stereotypes can be a good thing, but some stereotypes can be regrettably true.  For example, some fathers of attractive adolescent females do become domineering and irrationally controlling of their behaviors, while mom tries to be the appeaser.  Could those roles be reversed such that mom became the obsessive and overprotective father figure while dad became the thwarted reconciler?  Perhaps, but aside from the difficulties of making such a reversal seem palpable, what would be the point?  That's the first of the problems with this film, but hardly the last.A sensitive and inciteful treatment of the causes of teen suicides could be very useful and even therapeutic, if approached with maturity and depth.  Unfortunately, this film only gives us the Fast times at Ridgemont High version, from the perspective of immature boys trying to fathom the intricacies of human psychology, and motivated almost entirely by their prurient interests.  The suicide theme is therefore presented more as a gimmick to shock us, and is trivialized in the service of promoting male bonding rituals and locker room fantasies.  A serious treatment of the problem it therefore is not, and it turns out rather to be a trite and superficial burlesque of the problem.The characters are all stereotypes, and everything they do is painfully predictable.  So that we won't become too affected by the suicide contrivance, we are overwhelmed with five of them!  Why do they take their lives?  Well, because they have the mom from Carrie and the dad from Mrs. Doubtfire.  This of course drives one of them to become a nymphomaniac before taking her life, much to the vicarious titillation of the boys at the other end of the telescope, reporting the tragedy in flashback.  What they understand has all the breadth of a collection of baseball cards, and what they grasp is about as profound as a pile of soiled undergarments. "},{"Title":"A Mature First Movie","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie. It proves maturity, good taste and style and I am not certain if this is because of the genes, or maybe it announces a future great director. I do not know if the plot line is based on a real story, but it certainly is credible and moving. The story of five sisters, repressed by the religious environments of the parents, the story of teenage rebellion, of claustration and lack of understanding from the part of the parents, of the unappropriate tools used by the society to deal with the tean age problems, all this is told in a fast pace, painted with short but clear brushes. A mix of well known mature actors (James Woods - so close and so far from his typical reactionary CIA colonel roles, Katherine Turner playing the opposite of her 'hot' youth sex symbol roles)and young actors is led in quite sure and convincing manner.Overall this is not a great movie, but a convincing debut, and it keeps us waiting for the next one from the director. I just hope that the coming movies will not disappoint and let us know that it was daddy's help after all... "},{"Title":"Slightly disappointing, and not enough depth.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The theme was good. The acting was good. The directing was good. The music fitted the film well. So, why was I disappointed at this well made film? The problem was that the story centred around the five sisters who the film just didn't make much of an effort to get to know.The only main character we really get to know is Lux, a fourteen year old, played by Kirsten Dunst. It's easy to empathise with Lux, as most people understand strict parents and growing up problems. But, she's just not a very deep character, and we don't hear even her side of the story at all.The whole thing is narrated by one of five boys looking back at the mister of the suicides. Because he and his friends didn't know the sisters well enough to understand them and tell us the story, he cannot narrate it well enough for any real depth.I really don't understand why the parents felt the need to cage the sisters from the entire world in such a drastic way, but then again, I can't say it's unrealistic. This kind of story is definitely worth telling. Not worth overlooking, The Virgin Suicides is a warning of teen suicidal tendencies, one which is hard to put across any other way.Despite the fact that the film doesn't go into enough depth on the sisters, most people, especially strict parents, need to watch this film as one with a deeper meaning, a meaning that shouldn't be ignored. "},{"Title":"Offbeat suicide movie.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sofia Cappola brings us one of the most compelling films of the year with THE VIRGIN SUICIDES. James Woods, Josh Hartnett, Kirsten Dunst, Scott Glenn, and Danny DeVito (who is only in the film for about two minutes) are the stars of this intense drama set in a sleepy Michigan town in the 1970s.What most people don't understand is that this film is a message. There is a message hidden deep inside the images of sex and suicide. And that message is that you should live life to the fullest because death can come to you from so many angles. Even from yourself if you are not careful. These girls were sick. They were fed up with being treated like princesses because they were beautiful. They were desperate to be remembered for something else other that being beautiful, so in suicide, they made themselves remembered. They became legends. Note, Andy Warhol in 1969, In the future, everyone will be famous for fifteen minutes. Well, this is the future. The future is now. And let me also quote Ryan Gosling from MURDER BY NUMBERS- One can not live fully without first embracing suicide and death. And finally let me quote the great Marilyn Manson- Suicide is painless. So, there you have it, three people who also understood that same message that this film delivers. Could this be where it started? You decide. THE VIRGIN SUICIDES 5/5. "},{"Title":"Ethereal and moving","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  -may contain spoilers-The sad thing about most movies  which deal with suicide, there is  always an underlying reason of WHY?  But in reality, we rarely know why people  kill themselves, the need to take their  own last breath. This is what makes  The Virgin Suicides so amazing. We  get some idea why Lux eventually killed  herself, but why the others? Heartbreak  and rejection is one thing, but killing  yourself out the sanctity of your sister's  love is another. A great film with a solid  cast and one of the more intoxicating  musical scores I've ever listened to. If  flows so evenly with the cinematography,  I wonder how the two elements could  ever exist without each other. "},{"Title":"A study in a family's demise","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sofia Coppola makes up for her wooden, boring, and all-around unappealing performance in The Godfather III, by showing she has some very formidable talent elsewhere, namely behind the camera & at the keyboard.Coppola wrote and directed this very intriguing and chilling look into teenage alienation, and sexual exploration. Coppola does an excellent job in developing the characters.Kirsten Dunst puts in yet another great performance. She is really beginning to impress me with her wide array of characters she has portrayed.There is a very stoic and eerie tone to this move. Of course the subject matter commands that to some degree. At times, it can be downright spooky.Whatever you get from it, it will definately make you think. "},{"Title":"A Sad Movie.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"      The Virgin Suicides is a really sad movie and was sometimes depressing. The acting was really good, and James Woods, Kathleen Turner, Kirsten Dunst, Josh Hartnett, Danny DeVito, and Scott Glenn were all great. The movie is very unusual and was weird at sometimes, but was entertaining. It was a very good and touching movie. I give The Virgin Suicides a 7 out of 10.  ) "},{"Title":"Emotion","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good movies entertain you, the make you enjoy the time you watch them.They provide for some light conversation afterwards.Great movies move you, the break past your tough desensitized outer shell and reach that inner haven where emotions rule. They make you want to be part of the movie.Very few movies do this for me, the virgin suicides were one of them.  "},{"Title":"Spreading","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm curious, why was there a sick tree in this film?  why does it have to die and get cut off by men in uniforms?  why did the suicide spread through the sisters beginning with the youngest?  What was the disease that caused the tree's leaves to yellow and die slowly?  Why are people so insistent in cutting it down, why was it such a big threat to them?  Why did the sisters hug it together to protect it?  Let natural take its course, why did they talk about yet another extinct species early in the film?  Why did the sisters commit suicide?  Why are the boy's attractions to the girls so remote, with so much intimacy, yet disjoint?  How come the girls and boys seems to be living in parallel and disconnected worlds, this high school today?  Why were none of the parents seem awake?  How many trees were affected already?  What's the norm of being sick in this town?Just some stupid and pretentious questions from my late night's imdb dwellings. -Bill "},{"Title":"A Captivating Movie.","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides has been beautifully made by Sofia Coppola. The book is really good and the movie has been made just as well. The whole cast especially Josh Hartnett, Kirsten Dunst, Kathleen Turner and James Wood are all great. The film is quite different to many films out their, especially 'teen dramas.' I give The Virgin Suicides a 6-7/10.  "}{"Title":"no reason? that's the point","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Interpretation, spoilers (if it's possible given the title)A film taboo has been broken here, and the subject matter of the film makes this point all the stronger. An unwritten rule exists in cinema, it's basically a science-stripped law of causation. Behavior is to be indiscrete to start, and to build up and up in a progression so that the causes of the climax may be easily ascertained.Why must all movies follow this pattern? There is a need to avoid confusion because we don't want to make the movie-goer feel stupid, but with certain films such as this a breach is well called for. With the first suicide, attempts were made to explain it by calling a cry for help, an accident, the result of bad parenting... Yet no answer is ever sufficient, it seems that she JUST did it, for no apparent reason.What a horrible statement, the viewer reflects, but soon the viewer is put at ease when the lockdown occurs. Ooohhh, THAT explains it. The parents were cruel fascists and must have done something horrible to cause the first suicide, and the lockdown will cause of the remaining suicides.However, this feel-good solution is soon destroyed. In the end we realize that the girls could have escaped at any possible time, and that when one such opportunity arose, they choose suicide instead. Lockdown was not the cause. More so, depression was not the cause. Though contemplative at times, the girls were never shown to be sad (perhaps while burning the records, but it is later revealed that they have another stash). Actually, they were quite happy. So why'd they do it?A satisfactory answer is never given because that is the point. Not only are rules of movie-making broken, the breaking itself coupled with the subject matter synergistically adds strength to the main point movies are not made to placate your fragile need for happy films.  "},{"Title":"Auspicious Debut For Writer/Director Sofia Coppola","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  	This is a film about moments in life.  Some are so horrible you just want to forget them, but can't; others-- and they are rare-- are perfect, but they don't last.  First time director Sofia Coppola, who also wrote the screenplay, based on the novel by Jeffrey Eugenides, captures the essence of those moments in `The Virgin Suicides,' which is much more than `just' a film.  It's a poem.  And it's devastating.  The story is told from the collective point of view of four young men, friends since childhood, who twenty years later are still trying to put together the pieces of a puzzle and make some sense of what happened those many years ago.  All they know, even now, is that the five Lisbon girls were their friends, and then they were gone.  And as you watch the story unfold-- like those boys-now-men who can't forget-- you wonder how such a thing could happen, as well.	Coppola (daughter of Francis Ford Coppola) makes a strong case for the science of genetics, as her debut behind the camera as writer/director is nothing less than brilliant.  She does everything to perfection.  She knows her characters inside and out and how to best bring them to life.  And the film is so lyrically presented.  With her camera, she captures the beauty of nature, as well as the beauty that can be found in the mundane, everyday things that make up a life, using music and the juxtaposition of images to optimum effect.  Tragedy born of ugliness is one thing, but when tragic events are so poetically rendered, it's like an overwhelming darkness loosed upon the world from the abyss, which blots out the nurturing light of the Sun.  And that's what Coppola has done with this film.  She leads you through the beauty to find the beast; and though you know what's coming, the impact of it all is still staggering.	Central to the story is Lux, second youngest of the five teenagers, a character wonderfully realized by the talented Kirsten Dunst, whose angst is something to which everyone who has ever been a teenager will be able to relate.  Repressed and sheltered, she nevertheless manages to express that spark of life roiling just beneath the surface and begging to be freed.  Dunst plays her from deep within, with a richly textured performance that is right on the money.  And as Cecilia, the youngest of the sisters, Hanna R. Hall gives a notable performance that is poignant and introspective, which underscores the foreboding that establishes the underlying tone of the film.  	Excellent, also, as the other three sisters, are A.J. Cook (Mary), Chelse Swain (Bonnie) and Leslie Hayman (Therese).  Coppola exacts memorable performances from each of them, and the casting of this film was terrific.  Physically, it is easy to believe these five are sisters; and one especially-- Hayman-- bears a striking resemblance to Kathleen Turner, who plays Mrs. Lisbon.	As the mother of the doomed girls, Kathleen Turner turns in a performance fraught with subtle indications to the real key behind the mystery of the suicides  The ever present cross she wears around her neck, her actions following an especially spirited sermon at Mass one Sunday, and the religious icons present throughout the house, which combined with Mrs. Lisbon's attitudes are very telling in themselves.  She epitomizes the overprotective parent in her futile attempts to shelter her girls from the world.  That she loves them is never in question; the reasons behind her extreme position in their regard, however, is.  Are her actions really for `their own good,' or for hers?  Is her overprotection of them due to the fact that she doesn't want anything untoward to happen to them for their sake, or is it because she couldn't bear it herself?  In the end, who is she really protecting?  Looking beautiful, but rather matronly-- as befits the character-- Turner does an exemplary job of bring Mrs. Lisbon to life.  She is the pivotal character of the film, and she makes the most of it with an extremely credible performance.	As Mr. Lisbon, James Woods gives an affecting performance with his portrayal of a loving husband and father whose position is never quite certain; he acquiesces to Mrs. Lisbon on just about everything, but does have at least one moment when he is able to reason with his wife on the girls' behalf and prevail.  Ultimately, however, it becomes a pivotal moment that leads to tragic consequences.  But Woods plays it well, taking a rather middle-of-the-road stance with his character, who retreats into his work as a math teacher when life gets too close.  	The supporting cast includes Josh Hartnett (Trip), Michael Pare (Adult Trip), Scott Glenn (Father Moody), Danny DeVito (Dr. Horniker), Jonathan Tucker (Tim), Anthony DeSimone (Chase), Lee Kagan (David), Noah Shebib (Parkie) and Joe Dinicol (Dominic).  Coppola's film is a taste of what it must be like to be a young girl, growing up in a repressive environment and laden with the reasonless guilt of a self-serving mother who finds sin even in innocence.  `The Virgin Suicides' is a brilliant, thought provoking film that makes a profound statement about the artifice of love and the inability to recognize denial in oneself, especially in a parent who seeks to protect, perhaps, only to assuage personal fear.  A powerful, beautiful film, and without question one of the best of the year (2000).  I rate this one 10/10.  	     	 	       "},{"Title":"The charming but strange story.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw from one other readers comments that The Virgin Suicides is depressing,well let me put the record straight ,this film in no way is depressing. I would go as far as to say this is a happy film, which may sound strange considering the 5 girls the film revolves around all commit suicide. This movie is about the innocents of youth, no so much the girls but the boys who are fascinated by the sisters.  There are some critisism of this film , the main one is quite an important one and that is we never really find out why any of the girls take their own lives. At no stage do they look or act depressed in fact they seem like very happy sisters even though their mother and father are fairly strict in way they treat the girls. If you are after a good action movie then this isn't for you but if you like a film that makes you think the The Virgin Suicides is for you. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Why did the big names agree to do this?","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was rather boring. The only shocking or interesting part was at the end, so why did Kirsten Dunst, Kathleen Turner, etc. agree to do this movie? As a favor to Sofia Coppola? To get points with Francis Ford Coppola? It reminded me of Boxing Helena, another movie by the progeny of a famous director, and just as weird of a storyline. Don't bother, unless you're a guy and just want to look at blondes. "},{"Title":"Dreamy masterpeice","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK..I'm not a fan of Sofia Coppola, but this film is great. The acting was excellent (especially by Hanna Hall and Jonathan Tucker(oddly since he has a few moments too himself). The music was great, and the ending was sort of sad. I loved it. Josh Hartnett was a miscast, to me Trip was not at all like the way Hartnett portrayed him. Kristen Dunst was sweet and never looked better...but she is predictable. I loved Hall, she made me like the movie instantly after I saw her say the key line. I would recommend this to all movie fans. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Powerful, simple movie","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got so involved in this movie that James Woods and Kathleen Turner did not register with me as the stars, that is how good their performances were.  It was recommended to me in the video store, so still have not read any reviews. I gave it an 8 out of 10 for the great, mysterious script, the fabulous performances by all the young people (there is not a false note with any of them)and Woods and Turner who get so into their roles. Do not miss this one.  It is like something you have never seen before. There is tremendous empathy for both the girls and their parents and the obsession of the boys in the neighbourhood with their mystery and beauty.  The symbolism of the Dutch Elm Disease and the poisoning of the lake is wonderful also.  No 2 by 4's pounding every emotional point home here.  Brava to Sofia Coppolo (sp?)for a job well done with the direction.  "},{"Title":"Accomplished first film by Coppola","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is MINOR SPOILER in this comment, in fact, I don't think most of you even think of it as a spoiler, just thought I'd mention it.The Virgin Suicides is an accomplished directing debut by Sofia Coppola. I read the novel by Jeffrey Eugenides three or four months ago and I am surprised at how closely Coppola manages to stay to the dreamy tone of the novel. The film _does_ almost feel like a dream, there are some very beautiful scenes in the film, and the poetic language of the narrator adds to this dreamy feeling.The acting is great, I don't think there's one bad or not-so-good performance in the entire film. Kirsten Dunst and James Woods are the two stand-outs in this great cast, Dunst is very talented and Woods character in this film feels like the opposite of most typical Woods-characters. Woods really makes you feel with his character, who is really a sweet man, but you still can't see why he (the father) agrees to keep the girls at home. Josh Hartnett overcomes one of the worst haircuts known to mankind and delivers a nice and charming performance.Last, but certainly not least, Air's score is quite brilliant and suits the tone and mood of the film perfectly.While The Virgin Suicides is no masterpiece, and at times a little too slow-paced, it shows that Coppola has a talent for directing and writing scripts. Her adaptation of Eugenides novel is faithful, but sometimes the movie feels somewhat episodic. It's a good film, though, and the performances by the cast are great. (6/10) "},{"Title":"yay dunst!!!!","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  virgin suicides confirmed kirsten dunst as a fantastic actress.  you can't blame coppola for focusing on wonderful dunst/lux.  the rest of the cast's acting was strong as well.i also enjoyed the fresh, dreamy images under coppola's direction.  i give her much credit for the good photography and cinematography.the story and direction were passable (if underdeveloped).  the dialogue was okay.  i mean, the open-endedness or lack of easy explanations were owed to coppola's lack of auteurship/mastery  more than the strength of her artistic statement.ultimately, turning the sprinkler on in cecilia's death or having trip expressly end up at a rehab group were not just overdone and tacky but basely cruel.  these sort of little touches turned coppola's potentially effective shots/scenes to apathetic jokes.a briefer summary  virgin suicides is an amateurish effort (first film of first novel, and it shows) with some imaginative pictures and a super kirsten dunst; likable.  "},{"Title":"Teenagers are Real People","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The title might suggest a teen-flick lightweight movie but it is nothing of the sort. Francis Ford Coppola's daughter has followed in her director father's footsteps and produced a stylish and very accomplished film. The sisters who commit suicide are not driven to it by drink, drugs and stupidity - they are intelligent, aspiring youngsters who find suicide only too believably the only way out of their dilemmas. This movie doesn't patronize teenagers, which is one of its strengths. it raises questions about parenting that will haunt you long afterwards. "},{"Title":"Another American Dream as Nightmare","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  AMERICAN PIE gave us the comedic view of the American Dream as sex, romance, and apple pie. AMERICAN PSYCHO and  AMERICAN BEAUTY gave us two very different views of theAmerican Dream as nightmare. Now we have another as we are taken inside the suburban hell of five sisters who  outwardly have a happy life in a happy home but who  inwardly feel empty and alone.All around the stately mansions of upper middle class  suburbia, the dream is decaying -- trees are dying, theMichigan auto industry is faltering, industrial  pollution is killing the water, and people are committingsuicide. This is truly a sinister dark comedy.The cast is excellent in portraying the superficiality and the pain of this view of the American Dream as a nightmare in which people have everything they want except meaning  and purpose. "}{"Title":"Spike Jonze, don't quit your day job","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like the equally slight and overpraised RUSHMORE, Sofia Coppola's feature debut is autistically in love with early adolescence. The movie laps up bake-sale brownies and Tiger Beat spreads, Spiegel-catalogue sundresses and iron-on decals like a kid sniffing his fingers. Based on Jeffrey Eugenides' novel about a houseful of mythically doomed suburban girls, the movie is like a music video based on seventies Maxi-Pad commercials. Pastel girliness sends Coppola into a K-hole. The style swoops in and out at times it suggests P.T. Anderson on the verge of falling asleep; at others, it evokes Harmony Korine in a necktie greeting his in-laws. In an act of grandiloquence that suggests a genetic trait, Coppola leaves the narrator of the story--a local boy among a crowd of buddies who adore the suicidal virgins--a blank. She leaves all the boys blanks. And all the virgins, except the technically non-virginal Lux (Kirstin Dunst), are blanks too. Except for the name actors, everybody's like a bit player in a music video--they're Background Talent. The willfully puerile style of movies like RUSHMORE and SUICIDES creeps me out; Coppola is like a dizzy sorority chick claiming falling down and throwing up as a Situationist performance-art event. The movie fetishizes Seventeen-magazine vacuity, then tries to pretend it's an aesthetic movement.There are lovely moments, as when the boy team and the virgin team call each other up and communicate by playing pop songs into the phone. And James Woods, cast comically against type as a sputtering, ineffectual dad, gives the movie--what? Energy? A professionalism that feels like a creature from another world? But this gen-x googling over one's zitty unformed self has got to stop. Before we know it, some onetime Britney Spears fan is going to grow up and become as wisened and sobersided as Sidney Lumet.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointed","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I heard about this film I thought there's a good chance it could be well worth watching, with some good reviews and being the same director (Sofia Coppola) as for a film of which I did enjoy, Lost In Translation. However, when the film came to an end all I felt was disappointment.Before I go into what I didn't like, I'll get the positives out the way. I DID like the soundtrack, I thought it suited the mood of the film, and the acting was mostly acceptable (apart from a few scenes, such as Kathleen Turner's pathetic reaction to seeing her youngest daughter's suicide). The cinematography was fine.. and that's it.Now on to why I felt the film was such a let down. The biggest problem for me was that there was absolutely no way I could become emotionally connected to ANY of the characters on screen. None of the individuals were focused on in enough detail for me to care what happened to them. I couldn't feel sorry for any of the girls that ended their lives because, apart from the one played by Kirsten Dunst, we hardly saw any of them. They had very few lines and like all the other characters there was no development of who they were. Furthermore, when their youngest sister ended her life, none of them seemed to care. They just seemed to get on with their lives as if nothing had changed.I couldn't care less what happened to the boys either. By the boys I mean the one's that hardly ever spoke to the girls and yet seemed mystified and infatuated with them, not the one's who went on a date with them and then strangely lost interest forever.I didn't really understand why they had to try and 'put the pieces' together to explain the suicides of the girls, who were clearly just unhappy from obsessive and overly-strict parenting, although you would only be able to tell this from the actual suicides, as they show very little emotion throughout. It also seems strange that Kirsten Dunsts' character could sleep with multiple men on the roof without her mother realising, and yet she couldn't simply walk out the front door (the same door that these men surely entered through?). Although this doesn't make me feel sorry for her, because all I know is a name and a face, nothing more.I couldn't sympathise with the parents either. The mother seemed unrealistically strict, while the father's character, played by James Woods, was wasted. He was rarely shown and really didn't have much of a part to play in the film.The ending was extremely poor in my opinion as well. I was confused as to why the girls deemed it necessary to lure the boys - of whom they rarely ever spoke to - to their house, just as they all ended their lives. Following this, the neighbourhood doesn't really care what happens, which projects onto the audience. Why should we care when hardly any of the characters care about each other? And then as I explained above, there was no reason for the boys to be unable to explain why it happened. It's simple for all of us to see it, so why can't they? And that's all the 'mystery' blown out of the film. Besides, I thought that in the film the neighbours labelled this event as the start of negativity in the neighbourhood.. but apparently they didn't actually care.I didn't find The Virgin Suicides to be all that well written either, which is why I'm unable to share any memorable quotes.. because none of them are memorable. This film just generally has very little to offer. So eventually I was left asking myself why did I watch this? And the only reason I could come up with is that I hate not watching a film fully, because it's unfair. It's certainly not a film I'll ever voluntarily watch again though. "},{"Title":"Sometimes a cinematic dirge with some shallow characterisations, but ultimately chilling, thought-provoking and surprisingly easy to identify with","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Virgin Suicides is ultimately quite a fascinating cinematic piece, despite its faults. Why? Well, it provides a reminder of the damaging effects of suicide on families, neighbours, friends and so forth. Not only that, but the title itself is indicative of the mystique which surrounds the film - not all of the girls were literally 'virgins'. However, they were figuratively - the fact that the girls had barely experienced life and yet had given up on it so abjectly is harrowing, indeed. The fact that I can identify with this, having been through a similar experience myself, sends a chill down my spine. The movie isn't flawless; it can drag, the characterisations of some of the characters are surprisingly shallow and the background music only intermittently adds to the movie. I'm not sure whether the ploy of giving away the ending in the title worked, either, because it makes the movie somewhat predictable. Nevertheless, I still rate the movie highly, especially as the ending demonstrates the bewilderment and longing that can accompany the suicide of friends or acquaintances.The movie ultimately focuses on five mysterious, (variably) beautiful yet somewhat unstable young girls, with a religious nut and a metaphorically emasculated maths teacher as parents. The lives and perspectives of the neighbourhood boys who intently watch them, plus the high schoolers who get more intimate with them (like Trip) are also detailed. As the movie progresses, the youngest, Cecilla, finally kills herself after trying to do so before. Ironically, however, from here on in we get more of an insight into the lives of the Lisbons, through the eyes of Trip and his buddies, who take them to the prom. Trip predictably leaves Lux after doing it with her, leading to a parental lock-down and a final attempt by the boys to save them - which ends tragically.I've already mentioned how the girl's youth, yet indifference to life, was somewhat shocking, so I'll touch on the positives. The narrator really enhances the movie, recounting the events with total clarity, as if the suicides had happened yesterday, rather than 25 years ago.This, in itself, demonstrates the marked effect that suicide can have on the human psyche, even as you try mightily to forget about the disturbing events. You cannot, however, for you need to know the reason as to why the event occurred. This is arguably a commentary on life - although we sometimes deny it, if we cannot find a reason for an event occurring, we become mystified and try to drum up a reason for ourselves (witness the reactions to the Iraqi invasion, for instance). Try as they might, neither the narrator nor his chums could understand why the girls killed themselves - and it haunted them for the rest of the lives.The 'bad news is good news' mantra of the media also appears to be on full display, as the media outlets shamelessly take advantage of the suicides in order to gain ratings. Indeed, one of the reporters even comes to the Lisbon's door, before rightfully being told to leave. The narrator's delivery is superb - he reads his lines as if he's speaking at a funeral, which is ideal given the sombre context of the movie.The various insights into Trip's life and his retrospective admiration of Lux (even though he obviously descended further into drug abuse since the 1970's) are also interesting. Perhaps his drug use intensified as a result of Lux? I almost feel myself identifying with this - my suicidal feelings increased last year because I worshipped an older girl I knew was too good for me.Now there are some faults. As I've mentioned, the film can drag. The lead-up to the prom is not particularly interesting. Indeed, I often find myself skipping over this part. The characterisations of some of the characters also lack depth. Mystique can sometimes do a credible job of hiding this, but some of these characters resemble stereotypes. Mrs. Lisbon is just your stereotypical religious nut, like I said. You cannot sympathise with her character a great deal. Even though she didn't deserve what befell her, you cannot help but feel that she brought some of that grief upon herself, simply by ignoring her children's wishes. I'm not sure whether that's Kathleen Turner's fault, or the script's. James Woods' character is somewhat more likable, but there's little beyond the facade that he presents at school. Trip (as played by Josh Hartnett) generally just comes off as a lout, except during the aforementioned scenes. The neighbourhood boys, with their obsessions and their internal struggles, are more interesting, but the focus of the film is obviously on the five girls.So? Well, the characters of the girls are not always fully fleshed out. Only the narrator's embellishments stop them (with maybe the exception of the promiscuous, conflicted Lux) from resembling blank slates. As for Kirsten Dunst (who plays Lux) she would, IMO, never look better than what she does here. Her appearance has sadly disintegrated since.In the end, The Virgin Suicides is, despite some failings, a deeply intriguing film that serves as a great psychological terror.4.5/5 stars (although this rating may be a little generous) "},{"Title":"Terrific, but highly misunderstood","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Movies like this, including Lost in Translation and Marie Antoinette, are so highly misunderstood because viewers don't know how to watch them. The Virgin Suicies, and Coppola's other films, are not about plot or even character. Her concerns are more with era, beauty, youth, innocence, and a general pathos of longing that transcends the limits of our exterior identity and melds, like the noses in I Heart Huckabees, with our surroundings.To look for a plot with this movie in particular is to look for a reason for the girls' suicides. Some argue that the parents' strictness was to blame, others argue that they only wanted attention (a misguided idea picked up by the tone of the boys in the end of the book and movie). Really, the reason matches the entire mood of the movie. The girls were bored with mundane life in America, having nothing to look forward to, and The Virgin Suicides is a beautiful study in just that--mundaneness. Its simplicity and unpretentiousness are what most astound. "},{"Title":"Intertextuality, allusion and narratological context within film adaptation of","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Virgin Suicides is a fine example of a modern work wherein allusion and intertextuality play an important role. Written in the early nineties and set in the range of the late sixties to the early seventies, the novel constantly refers to pop culture, art, and even Classical texts. Through the use of excerpts and song lyrics Coppola places the narrative in its time and place and gives us the chance to peek into the emotional world of the featured main characters; namely, the young Lisbon girls who are lusted after by the boys their age.The Virgin Suicides as a title derives from a title song from the fictive rock group Cruel Crux, making the concept of combining fiction and reality both original and creative. (Virgin Prunes, The Sisters of Mercy, The Cruxshadows, are but an example of similar names of bands popular in the early nineties.) We see this combination further worked out with the 'Virgin Mary Calling Cards' in the film. This shows the new mentality and view on religion developing in the time setting of the film.Not only do we see a clash with the religious ways of thinking considering the older generation versus the younger. The rusty beliefs, ethics, morals and mores of the parental establishment (Mr. and Mrs. Lisbon) of the late sixties and early seventies represented in the narrative oppress those of the youth (the Lisbon girls and the boys).Juxtaposed to the easy-to-swallow readings and church music for the parents of that time are the heavily political, philosophical and spiritual influenced lyrics of the songs the Lisbon girls are attracted by. In the musical conversation between the neighborhood boys and the Girls, this idea takes a prominent place. Alone Again, You've Got a Friend, Where Do the Children play, Dear Prudence, Candle in the Wind, Wild Horses, At Seventeen, Time in a Bottle, So Far Away, Bridge over Troubled Water, do not only possess a certain melancholy in their lyrics and melody, especially the songs the girls play; also, they present an attempt to touching feelings and emotions instead of triggering dogmatic religious response and emphasizing apathetic daily grind. The musical preferences of the girls implicate their need to escape from the surrounding bars of their strict upbringing. Escapism is a term that states this attempt and functions as a Leit Motif throughout the narrative.The recurring concept of escapism continues within the film adaptation of the novel. In a critique, A.O. Scott states Edward Lachman, the director of photography, shoots the bright colors of the 1970's as if through a layer of gauze. His dimmed, fuzzy tones suggest the darkening shades of memory. Also, by constantly shifting from shots from below to shots from above and from sinister establishing shots to creeping close-ups, Coppola evokes a feeling of misplacement and captivity; the Girls need to get out.Movies that came out in the same period in which The Virgin Suicides takes place present a similar need to escape reality. In the midst of the Vietnam Conflict and the U.S. domestic racial war, films like 2001 A Space Odyssey (d. Kubrick, '68), Planet of the Apes (d. Schaffner, '68, and The Exorcist (d. Blattey '73) appear on the white screen, taking the audience to another world. The storyline of The Virgin Suicides, however, does not reflect the national and international turmoil of that period, but shows the domestic problems of an average suburban American nuclear family. This implicates that there is unrest everywhere in this turbulent time.Also the urge to protest and stand up for own ideals and values (common in the late sixties early seventies) is featured within the narrative. The girls literally embrace nature in order to save it. In 1970 the first Earth Day came to exist; the Environmental Protection Agency was created; and Nixon signs the Clean Air Act. These events all connote to the novel and its adaptation.The Virgin Suicides places the characters and settings in their time and place. Also, the narrative itself and all its connotations, allusions and intertextuality gives the reader a clear few of what is going on in the world, domestic as well as (inter)national, artistic and realistic. In this particular narrative a family with all its struggles, trials and tribulations, symbolizes a greater significance. On the battlefield are parents versus children instead of U.S. versus Vietnam. It's a micro war in which more than seventy percent of the population dies and in the end the battle is still undecided. We are left with one question Who won Mr. and Mrs. Lisbon, or the Girls? As Roger Ebert quoted and adjusted Tolstoy's statement in a review of the film adaptation of The Virgin Suicides All happy families are the same&#133;Yes, but he should have added, there are hardly any happy families. "},{"Title":"True art","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I rented this movie without any clue about the storyline - I simply assumed that Sofia Coppola's first film would be interesting after the glorious Lost in translation...Well, I was in for a ride because she sure does'nt assume the viewer is your typical popcorn munching -- blockbuster lovin -- action sapping -- brainless whopping -- culture bashing American. She DOES assume the viewer can THINK, and is willing to actually interpret what is going on on-screen. I know, I know, it can hurt... But it is ultimately 20 times worth it. And Virgin Suicides is not pure dipstick entertainment, it's visually stunning, musically mesmerizing, and the plight of the whole family grips you. Wow. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review (DVD) The Virgin Suicides (1999)","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was Sofia Coppola's feature film directorial debut, based upon the novel by Jeffrey Eugenides. It's actually a sad tale recounting the lives of five sisters, as perceived by a group of teenage boys who admire them from afar.The Lisbon sisters (from youngest to oldest, starting from 13 years and each a year apart) - Cecilia (Hanna Hall), Lux (the recognizable Kirsten Dunst), Bonnie (Chelse Swain), Mary (A.J. Cook) and Therese, live an extremely sheltered and protective life from their parents, played by James Woods and Katheleen Turner.The beginning is quite abrupt with the death (an apparent suicide) of youngest daughter Cecilia, impaled by the garden fence. The town is shocked, but somehow, as the boys observed, the other sisters seemed to take it in their stride. These boys serve as eyewitnesses to a tale of their own fantasy of befriending the sisters, as they dream of taking them out on road trips, to the outside world.However, one other boy did make contact and succeeded, with his own group of friends, to get the girls out to the Homecoming. Played by Josh Hartnett, the coolest guy in school, Trip Fontaine, however suave he might be, turns out to be a marijuana smoking jock who's only for a session of wham-bam-thank-you-ma'am. When Lux fails to return home together with her sisters (she was making out in the middle of a field), Mr and Mrs Lisbon go ballistic, and confined the girls in their home, like prisoners in their cells.As the younger boys engage in a series of voyeuristic observations, and eventually establishes contact with the Lisbon sisters, it's a case of too little, too late. They try to rationalize, account for, and piece together the events of that faithful night, but could not come to a satisfactory conclusion.And that's where some might find this film wanting, with some subplots never fully explained, or shown on screen. But that's the way the narrative is, from the flawed memories of young boys who never fully understood the events, nor are close to the girls enough to know their thoughts and dreams. They can only speculate, and fantasize, and that's about it.The visuals are kept simple, but made an impact nonetheless with the sisters' deaths (ok, with a title like that, you don't think they make it out alive, do you?). Plenty of soulful music make up the soundtrack, but none more meaningful that the haunting sounds of Playground LOve.While the film might have taken a pot shot at unreasonable and strict parental upbringing, it didn't evoke enough strength to see it through beyond mere suggestion. But for what it is, this movie is intriguing, though it poses quite a bit of questions on what could have happened.Code 1 DVD contains the theatrical trailer, a making of featurette, a photo gallery and a music video. "},{"Title":"Complete waste of time","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Award for most hyped and least deserving 'masterpiece' of the last few years must surely go to The Virgin Suicides, a film that LOOKS lovely and has a wonderful soundtrack, but has just about nothing else going for it. If you're looking for a thought provoking dissection of mid 70s suburban angst check out Ang Lee's The Ice Storm. If you want a cinematic puzzle with no solution go to Lynch's Lost Highway. If you want to see Cinema-as-poetry there's some Cocteau and Tarkovsky I can recommend. But otherwise steer clear of this bit of fluff. And no, I haven't read the book, which may well be wonderful. MESSAGE - if you need to read the novel to appreciate a movie the film makers have FAILED. Got it? "},{"Title":"Not my cup","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe I wasn't in the mood for this type of film, because it just didn't click for me.I realize that Coppola might have been working for the effect the film had, but it seemed so choppy and erratic.  Characters would come and go, with minimal development to any of them.  As an earlier posted comment stated, it wouldn't have mattered if everyone committed suicide,we never really know who anyone is.Best part of the film was the cinematography, especially the time-lapse with the front of the house.Depressing with no explanation for suicide, which is the case in life. For a better depressing movie, see Dancer in the Dark with Bjork. "},{"Title":"A very strange but fairly accurate look at the lives of high school kids in an unusual environment.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great film. The Virgin Suicides delivered a startlingly accurate portrayal of the awkwardness of adolescence. Sure, it's uncommon for five sisters all to commit suicide within a year, but the circumstances of the five girls lives in this film were extreme. The acting was excellent all around, and even the story held a bit of credibility, although not much.The first problem that arises with this film is that no one asked any questions when the girls were taken out of school. One person mentions it to the father once, but that is all. Second, it seems too much that all of the circumstances put upon the girls are meant specifically to drive them to suicide. This appears to be nothing more than a bit of a transparent plot, because it is unlikely that this is what was really supposed to be happening in the story. A confusing ending also takes away from the potential of this film. When the movie is over, it doesn't seem that anything has really been accomplished. The audience is left with the same questions that were presented at the beginning; it's like the movie went around in a circle and ended up in the same place where it started. However, it may have been going in a circle, but it was a very interesting and fascinating circle.  "}{"Title":"Rather disappointing, at best a poor Anne Tyler book.","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nearly 24 hours later I am still trying to work out what this film was about (apart from suicide!).  If it was a story, it wasn't a very good one, if it was about teenage angst, I missed the point it was trying to make.  If it was about suicide, it dodged the issue completely, and if it was about young boys coming to terms with the 'mystery' of young women, then it was about as subtle (and interesting) as a kick in the testicles.In fact the more I think about it, the more I think this film is a waste of time.  It could have done so much, but it failed to meet the challenge of any of the possibilities, even the characters weren't very well drawn.  I gave it a 4, but writing this makes me wonder if that was rather generous.But if you want to find out how the rich kids of America live their over-privileged lives (yet again!), and enjoy watching less than a tenth of the world's population consume half the world's wealth, then this film could be for you.  As long as you're not looking for a plot, an explanation, or even any believable characters, that is.  "},{"Title":"so-so","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film didn't impress me. Though Kirsten Dunst was very good, the rest of the characters, especially the parents, weren't developed enough. I wanted more insight as far as the sisters upbringings were concerned. Sophia is a better director than actress, but still think she should search for another avenue.   "},{"Title":"Sheltered beauty","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How to exemplify that privilege can be suffering while more covertly justifying the whole as a mystery that we want to unravel, this seems to be at the crux here. I'm not saying Sofia was a spoiled brat, maybe she was, maybe she wasn't, but it's telling that she selects material such as this for her debut. It's a wise choice, if only because she knows she can place herself at the center of this world and structure outwards in ways that would reach out of the screen to encompass an audience.That structure is borrowed directly from Rear Window and tweaked a little to be about ephemeral yearnings.So present as one part of the double perspective, opposite from us, on the stage, an American dream that gradually turns suburban nightmare the more we watch, preserve at the heart of the dream a kind of mystery about ineffable womanhood expressed with as much poetry at the heart of this woman that we are dreaming about, then assert the whole to be elusive, here on our side of the rear window, because it is arranged after the fact.So it is a self-centered project with the introspection decentered in a clever way; a film about a woman who reaches out to the world, who writes to be read, bares herself to be seen, plays music she wants to share, but with the intimacy only possible because we want to see and hear. Only possible because we came to see.Of course exactly because it's all seemingly coming from us, a chorus of fascinated eyes, we have to identify with the fascination if this is to work at all. We need to feel that we are romancing from afar. It's a slippery surface, but seems to have worked pretty well for most people. Where I am kept at a distance is the reach for some poetry, visual or otherwise, that seems to be coming from a life sheltered in pictures and other films.All her subsequent projects seem to unfold anxieties from a kind of privileged aimlessness, and for Lost in Translation she was equipped with Wong Kar Wai to express them, but it worked there against her because the film was meant to be about a kind of spontaneous discovery. It works here because it's a beauty flowing from that same sheltered life, because it comes from a stage in life that we are not yet seeing, but looking to see. "},{"Title":"Again, disappointed","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, on the recommendation of a friend, I read Middlesex by Jeffery Eugenides (sp??). I LOVED it. I loved it enough to go back and read Virgin Suicides since that was Eugenides first book. I was rather disappointed in the book, but since the movie got such great reviews, I figured I'd give it a try. This movie did NOT keep my attention. (I should throw it in that this was my vacation to catch up on movies that I haven't seen but always wanted to - Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? was the other film, and I turned that one off too. I always thought I could appreciate good cinema, but now I'm starting to worry!) The last movie that I saw that I actually finished was something about winning a date with Tad Hamilton. Seriously, I never thought I would stoop so low. No, I take that back - I did LOVE In America and Napoleon Dynamite. Besides those two, well, I'm bored. "},{"Title":"Too much talking, not enough suiciding.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Completely boring, average and plain piece of film work.  Not special.  Not influential.  The story is poorly adapted it is too all-inclusive and full.  Simplicity should have been the inspiration -- taking the girls and their darkly fascinating destiny into a bold, one-lined trip.  Instead, it was overwhelmed with details, with one thing rushed in so another could be included.  Perhaps with the subject matter, I was expecting something more controversial.  Instead the movie is a light-weight, polite, feel-good documentary trying too hard to respect everybody's memory and viewpoint.  Barely an extended episode of some WB Network, teenage, school-stagnant, monotonous consumerism/commercialism that needed the title Virgin Suicides which ends up being the most erotically interesting thing about the whole film to hook in viewers.You'll be snoring.  If Sofia didn't have that famous last name tacked on like some flashing red alarm, I doubt she'd even be worth mentioning.  Poor direction; poor movie.4 suicidal virginettes out of 10 (and I'm being generous). "},{"Title":"no focus","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  **SPOILERS**Child actors just cannot play the complex role demanded of them for something like this movie.  The attitudes of the eldest four sisters are completly incongruous throughout the movie.  Have I missed something by not reading the novel?Take for instance these facts parents essentially lock up their daughters in the house, and are quietly nutty about it.  This goes on for weeks.  All four manage to successfully kill themselves in four unique ways in the same evening--when, mind you, not ten minutes of screen time before this moment, they look serene and mostly bored just browsing their catalogues.  Totally misrepresented actions and character portrayal.Why are there no clues as to just how miserable they are at that Homecoming Dance--as excited as they might be about getting the heck out, wouldn't some of their psychosis have taken hold by then?  Wouldn't there be any clue that they're that miserable?  Or, whenever!  during their brave and off the wall protect-the-tree episode; they're all lucid, smiling, pretty, camera shy.Okay, fine.  They're repressing and denying and it won't show up in everyday interaction with kids at school--what about a breakdown when alone with their thoughts?  We can see Lux wake up alone, and her troubled looks at that point--why not with the others?  Why not when they start talking about it with each other.  Anything--ANYTHING--to make it seem possible that they're miserable enough to commit suicide.Even Lux's (actually thoguht the name would be horible, but it turned out great) increasing deception, with her rooftop forays with highschool boys, somehow doesn't mix with her unconcerned-slightly-devilish attitude she displays just as the boys enter the house, planning to wisk the girls away to freedom.  Since when did she learn how to play Mrs. Robinson?  From travel magazines and Beetles records?There's some really nice moments in this film.  The parallels drawn between a description of hurricane formation and Trip and Lux's flirtation in a movie theatre.  the girls' first and last party.  Kissing underneath the bleachers.  And I really liked that a few people saw the first daughter in the days after her suicide--heavy-handed and style-less, they were still nice.But it seems generally unstructured--especially for an audience who hasn't read Jeffrey Eugenides' debut novel.  The POV of the story shifts all over the place, from the girls, to the narrators, to that guy Trip, looking back as a 30-ish AA member.  The off-the-wall ending.Besides all of that, there's some heavy-handed scripting for some of the scenes that seem to come from nowhere.  The story jumped around.  Is it about the girls and their struggle with their stifling parents, or is it about these four boys and their search for sexuality, or is it about rebuilding a nostalgic teenage memory of five beautiful and tragic girls? I guess it tried to be all three, and didn't pluck the right chords in my head.But, hey, what the heck, Coppola's already accomplished more as a director than I have--so who am I to talk?! "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've seen in quite a while","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought the Virgin Suicides sounded interesting, and after seeing that it had received a reasonably high average vote on IMDB, I rented it.  Boy, am I glad I used my free rental instead of paying to see this horrible movie. People called it touching, and a cinematic work of art?  Have they ever seen a real movie?  The acting in this movie was completely sub-par, and the story line was muddled, not to mention the fact that it didn't flow evenly at all.  I liked Josh Hartnett, but that was about it.  Like I said, this is one of the most horrible movies I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Kathleen Turner and James Woods only reason to see this one","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Turner and Woods hand in excellent performances as mom (repressed catholic) and dad (teacher and possible molester).  The girls are all beautiful and young and lusted after by the neighborhood boys.I watched this movie waiting for some meaning much as the neighborhood boys waited for their turn with one of the sisters - nothing happens except for Lux (older sister) who manages to have sex fully dressed with numerous men on the roof of her house.  Quirky? - you bet. Waste of time - yes, unless you are a Woods or Turner fan.   "},{"Title":"A well crafted non-story. All sizzle, no steak.","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Virgin Suicides takes off and keeps moving like a Lava Lamp. Sporting an excellent cast this well cut and pasted piece of work wants for nothing save a story. Intended to be a wistful, plaintive, compassionate look into the teen female psyche narrated by male peers, this film is an excellent attempt at making something out of nothing and comes off like a weeper chick flick with sardonic overtones. Much overrated but obviously has no trouble finding an audience. "},{"Title":"Complete and utter nonsense.","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ***Spoilers (sorta. It's called virgin suicides for a reason) A movie about 5 sisters who are alienated from their society by an overprotective mother. Hell, almost sounds like a decent horror movie, but no. This is about the atrocities that follow the suicide of the youngest of five sisters. The remaining four girls find themselves in a situation that climaxes with a cult-like phenomenon of mass suicide. If you decide to watch this movie, do it for Kirsten Dunst. She is terrific and spares no minds (nor belts). The story is boring, although a few laughs here and there, it is mainly meant to be a sad, but powerful movie meant to, if not shock, at least make the viewer wonder What happened?.In this viewers opinion, it is a mundane, obvious movie with no plot twists nor turns. "}{"Title":"I really wanted to like this film, based on some reviews, but it didn't do much for me.","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  CAUTION -- MAY CONTAIN A SPOILER OR TWO --The Virgin Suicides, screenplay based on the book, written and directed by 27-yr-old Sophia Coppola. Set in 1975, 5 sisters 13 through 17, have a dufus dad (James Woods) and a nice but overly strict mom (Kathleen Turner).  Kirsten Dunst is the most famous of the 5 young actresses. The youngest, recovering from slit wrists, is despondent at her party, goes upstairs, jumps out the window, and is impaled by the metal bar fence below.  Whole family goes into a funk, the girls are basically kept home, but eventually they begin to go out again. Then, one fateful night, they invite the boys over and all 4 kill themselves.Now, maybe I'm just too obtuse for this sort of film, but I don't get it. Was it supposed to be the overbearing mom? Or did the crazy girls just decide to kill themselves? Is this supposed to be a commentary on the 1970s? I will admit that the script was good, the direction seemed appropriate, but when it was over my wife and I were not sure what the film was trying to say. If anything. So I rate it 6 of 10 for a good effort. To me, it is nowhere near the film of say Boys Don't Cry or Girl Interrupted, a couple of recent films that deal with problems growing up.My wife even commented that this kind of film can be dangerous, because it may give certain at risk teens the idea that suicide is an acceptable alternative for them.  Interestingly, the film itself broaches that subject, when it said some think it all started when the young man jumped, unhurt, from the second story of his home to show his love for a girl.I saw the DVD, which seemed to have a marginal sound track. The extras are spartan, but in one comment by the book's author, its intent was to show a period of growing up and sexual experience from the boys' points of view.  Copolla wrote the script to focus more on the girls. Perhaps it would have been a more interesting film to focus on the boys instead. Overall, I was disappointed.  "},{"Title":"I waited for something interesting to happen...","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I waited for this movie for a while; I waited for the video store to carry it; I waited in line once I found it; and then...I waited for something interesting to happen.This film is drek. Lackluster acting, James Woods is completely wasted here, lame script, pathetic plot, underwhelming cinema at its most sub-par.Anyone who liked this move must have watched something other than the crud I saw. I ask you, what was the point? Should we care a rat about these girls who decide that their lives are not worth living? Was there even the attempt at pathos? Did the actors, script, or situation even begin to move me (other than to leave)? Gibberish. Stay well away. "},{"Title":"Stylish, but misses mark...","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While this stylish film applies some of the engrossing, elegiac prose of the Jeffrey Eugenides novel of the same name, it misses the intended mark of the text and subsequently defuses the intense messages behind the story.  It's too bad because this book really could be conveyed to the big screen with these intense messages in tact.  Some aspects were handled competently in this version (narration, cast and initial mood).I've noticed in reading reviews and comments that most people had not read the book&#133;and some of those who had had not comprehended it well enough to acknowledge the defusing rendition offered in the Sofia Coppola screen-play. After applying useful filming techniques to appropriate the mood of the content, Coppola then candy-coated nearly everything tangible involving the plot line.  The violence was absent&#133;the depression was thrown out&#133;the severity of everything was lessened, and the point of the characters actions were lost. What could've been a really powerful movie turned into an MTV style seventies tragedy without reason or substantial mysticism.  Coppola hereby made the film more accessible to teenagers (two girls around the age of 13 sat in front of me without a guardian), and yet irresponsibly portrayed the actions of the Lisbon girls as a trendy little game.  This film is not for teenagers&#133;it gives those who actually are depressed no positive help, and makes those who are simply confused amidst their adolescence wild ideas of permanently liberating the suppression, insignificance, and microcosmic frustrations of conscious life.While both the book and the movie express that suicide is not the answer to one's anxiety and problems, only the captivation and intensity of the book give you grounds for believing it.  With the actions of the characters in the film being so ambiguously contrived, and tainted with a puddle-deep mystique, closing statements lose their punch amid the viewer's impressions of the first hour and a half.  An anti-suicide movie about pointless, candy-coated, bubble-gum suicide is pretty ineffectual&#133;if not counter-productive.  Good thing Coppola had enough fashionable sense to make an elongated Air (did the soundtrack) video out of it.  "},{"Title":"The cheeriest bunch of suicidal teenagers ever","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie had so much potential. If the director (Sophia Coppola) had developed her characters, namely the Lisbon girls, and allowed us to get to know them; had she helped us understand why the girls became suicidal; had she portrayed the parents as monsters as opposed as to just your average strict, conservative, fundamentalist Christians; and had she portrayed the girls as deeply morose, distraught, and desperate as opposed to simply bored and dejected.... then, maybe, just maybe, this movie would have been believable. I mean, c'mon, there have never been a cheerier bunch of suicidal teenagers! And the idea that all four girls would have the courage to take their lives------at the same time, no less-----you must be kidding! LOL! Much too unrealistic and phony to elicit any visceral emotions in me or to get me to adopt any deeper perspective/message Coppola may have wanted to impart. But, man, I still ponder the potential of this movie; it could easily have been a powerful, poignant film. Too bad. "},{"Title":"I should have listened...","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I once read a review on IMDb which described a film as the worst film of all time, although the Virgin Suicides gave it a run for its money. If only I had listened I would not be so annoyed at having rented this film. I will admit that I did not manage to stay the course. With two sisters down, and one just about to do the deed, I hit the eject button. Like Dan Grant (review here) I was angry for having wasted time, money and brain cells on this most undeserving of films. There is no point in elaborating further, as Dan's most accurate review has covered all of the salient points. However, I will say this is one of the best modern day examples of the Emperor's New Clothes that I have encountered.Its been two weeks since I watched (half of) this film. I am thankful to say I no longer feel duty bound to warn every person I meet of how truly dreadful it is. "},{"Title":"Acting and direction save it","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Storywise, this movie is pretty bad. It's heavy-handed, characters and motivations are never explained or explored and it's depressing (of course).However, the acting is excellent. Kathleen Turner looks (and acts) like an overprotective mother, James Woods is incredibly passive as the father and Kirsten Dunst is all grown and still a good actress (and gorgeous). The direction by Soffia Coppola is superb. She knows how to use imagery and light/darkness to create moods. It's hard to explain how good it works, but it does. Also an excellent soundtrack of 1970s hits, but (for once) they're used to help mood and characters and not sell a soundtrack album. Worth seeing...just make allowances for the story. "},{"Title":"It seems to be good, however, it's not","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To start with, I was totally shocked in the end, because I couldn't imagine it will be so bad. Some people like this movie, and I think they like it because they haven't seen Dead Poets Society. These movies are same thematic strict parents, no freedom, no independence. The film begins with suicide of one of the 5 sisters. She was only 13. We should wonder why has she done it. Then it's shown what a strict mother those sisters have, what a week father they have. Finally, all alive-left sisters kill their selves after having no permission to left the house. There's not shown any depression, any bad mood or sadness. They're just lying on the bed, reading magazines, dreaming, being together, having telephone talks with boys next door. It's not shown they are stressed or can't stand anymore etc. In the end, they just kill their selves and the main idea of the film is that parents hadn't understand the reason of suicide and neighbors don't care about what had happened. Same thematic is the movie mentioned in the beginning. Dead Poets Society is about teenage boys, studying in a private school. One of them kills himself in the end, 'cause parents don't let him to do what he wants. It's a great movie about this problem with parents and to compare with Virgin Suicides, the last one is very poor-movie. It seems like Coppola wanted to make 'strange' movie, which would pay teenagers' attention. There are also starring today's young stars Josh Hartnett and Kirsten Dunst - Plot and stars are guarantee of the fortune. It's normal when teenagers think of suicide and they are interested of this movie because of stars and the suicide. In Another way this movie is zero. I recommend you to watch this movie after/before watching Dead Poets Society to compare with. "},{"Title":"Attractive looking, ultimately hollow, suicidal farce.","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I started off enjoying this movie with its stylish visuals and neat soundtrack, but half way through I began to dislike it and by the end I absolutely detested it. The first suicide almost made sense since the little girl seemed sad and was almost granted a personality by the director. Though she wasn't in it long enough to develop much she sympathises with the Downs syndrome kid while the rest are all needlessly cruel, good reason to top yourself, probably not but maybe a  kid of 13 *might* think so (I doubt it personally). The later suicides made no sense, they seemed to be added in as an afterthought. Why at all and why altogether? What kind of  three teenage sisters would be in agreement to end it all because mummy and daddy burnt their records and kept them all in away from boys? Particularly when they didn't seem to even be bothered by the youngest sisters demise? It all struck me as exploitative rubbish. Sick drivel that really has no place in a movie aimed at a teen audience. This was supposed to be a stylish movie, it was. It also had a good cast but the story was horribly lacking and the 'message' if there was one was pretty sick. The ghoulish male teenagers (overly geekish to a man or strutting around like John Travolta) were if anything more unsympathetic than the girls, stealing diaries and memorabilia and basically just not fitting in. These guys had some *real* issues. Why on earth phone up these girls and then just play pop records? Why be *so* obsessed with a bunch of stuck up bitchy blonde bimbo types (that was all they ever actually acted like) at all? As for the point of the film, what this movie seems to suggest is that if you are a teenager who commits suicide 1) It will be widely reported by the media who will all say how awful and what a shame it is 2) Everyone will remember you fondly for years, hell you'll be practically immortal! Both these scenarios are absolutely wrong. A) Your death will statistically go unnoticed by the media. B) Your friends will remember you as sad and pathetic if they ever remember you at all. Suicide is a tragic pointless waste. This film is the same. Avoid, avoid, avoid! - 2 out of 10 (Crap!) "},{"Title":"Thanks, Daddy","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's a philosophy that says that if you have to tell everyone you're cool -- then you're not really cool.  The Virgin Suicides is Sofia Coppola's way of saying -- hey everyone, watch me trying to be cool.  Sofia, you're so very contrived, but not so very cool.This was a five million dollar production design with a twenty dollar story. If plot, character arcs, and depth are important to you, then steer clear of this movie -- this movie had the depth of a baby pool.  Thanks to Air and some other classic self-loathing pop tunes of the 70s, the music was the strongest part of this film.  Outside of that, this was probably the least likeable film I've seen this year.Of all the things Francis could buy his daughter, he forget to buy her a strong sense of cinematic story-telling ability. "},{"Title":"Not so much a 'film' more a sequence of events","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There isn't much to be said about Virgin Suicides, yes, the performance from the cast was good, the sound track was good, and the cinematography had nice touches here and there but the rest of the film was poor.Although the cast give very good performances, you are unable to immerse yourself in any of the characters, this is because the entire life of the girls is portrayed by the boys so we don't get to really know the girls characters, and whilst the boys are so busy telling us about the girls we don't get to understand their characters either.  The film comes across as being more a 'sequence of events' or 'this is what happened' rather than a 'movie'.  Perhaps this is because of the way it has been lifted from the original novel, that said, I haven't read the book so is it just as bad?There have been certain criticisms from IMDB users aimed towards people who didn't seem to 'get it', there is nothing to get, try as you might to read into it more, there is no opening anywhere to read into it, no hidden meaning or message, no twist, nothing, it doesn't even really try to make a point.  I think that anyone who tries to claim there is more to it than what you just see and hear has probably read the book.3 out of 10, and that's only because of the casts' performance, soundtrack and slightly (only very slightly though) imaginative cinematography.  "}{"Title":"A Great Debut For Sofia Coppola","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Virgin Suicides is a film written and directed by Sofia Coppola and produced by her father Francis Ford Coppola.It features James Woods, Kathleen Turner, Kirsten Dunst, Josh Hartnett, and A. J. Cook. Based on the novel of the same name by Jeffrey Eugenides, it tells of the events surrounding the suicides of five sisters in an upper-middle class suburb of Detroit during the 1970's. After the youngest sister makes an initial attempt at suicide, the sisters are put under close scrutiny by their parents and the community, eventually being put into near-confinement, which leads to increasingly rebellious and self- destructive behavior.The Lisbons seem like an ordinary enough family; Father teaches math at a high school in Michigan, Mother has a strong religious faith, and they have five teenage daughters, ranging from 13-year-old Cecilia to 17- year-old Therese. However, the Lisbon family's sense of normalcy is shattered when Cecilia falls into a deep depression and attempts suicide. The family is shaken and Mother and Father seek the advice of psychiatrist Dr. Hornicker, who suggests the girls should be allowed to socialize more with boys. However, boys soon become a serious problem for Cecilia's sister Lux. Lux has attracted the eye of a high-school Romeo named Trip, who assures Father of his good intentions. But Cecilia finally makes good on her decision to kill herself, throwing the Lisbons into a panic; and after attending a school dance, Trip seduces and then abandons Lux. The Lisbons pull their daughters out of school, as an emotionally frayed Mother keeps close watch over them. Meanwhile, Lux continues to attract the attentions of the local boys, and she responds with a series of clandestine sexual episodes with random partners as often as she can sneak out of the house. Sofia Coppola tackles the issue of teenage suicide with an assured treatment in The Virgin Suicides, effectively employing a combination of a serious and comic tone.This shimmery, darkly comic adaptation of Jeffrey Eugenides' novel marks the assured, often inspired feature film debut of writer-director.Also,her compelling, ethereal fable about adolescent loss of innocence is claustrophobic and uncomfortable, but profoundly affecting and gently funny as it plays like a sweet, sad dream.Added to that,the exploration of a tough subject benefits from an original narrative and the fact that the appealing cast consists of actors who are the same age as the characters they play. "},{"Title":"A beautiful debut from Sofia Coppola","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having loved Lost in Translation, though I had mixed views on Marie Antoinette, I was interested in watching Coppola's debut film. And what a beautiful film it is. I do consider Lost in Translation a marginally better film, but The Virgin Suicides is extremely good.What did I love most about it? Firsly, the gorgeous visuals. The production design is splendid and very evocative and the cinematography captures it perfectly as well as the quiet symbolism. The music by Air has a really pleasant lilt to it and never does it feel out of place with the mood.Kirsten Dunst, in a performance that I feel has only been matched by her performance in Melancholia, is exceptional, and so is that of the cocky(in the film that is) and incredibly handsome Josh Hartnett. Great actors like James Woods, Kathaleen Turner and Danny DeVito also give noteworthy performances.Coppola deserves credit here. She may have been savaged by critics for her performance in Godfather Part III, and I am afraid I am one of those who didn't like it very much, but I love how she bounced back and won me over with a beautifully directed and thoughtfully written film.The Virgin Suicides may be thoughtful and melancholic in tone, but a lot of it is very poignant as well. The story is deliberately glacial in place which added actually to the film's beauty, and is very whimsical, maybe too much in places but overall it was effective.All in all, a beautiful and great film. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Why it's called Virgin Suicides. May contain spoilers!!!","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's called The Virgin Suicides because the girls who kill themselves are all virgins except Lux. Lux does it with the garbage man, Trip Fontaine, and random men on her house's roof after her mother puts her and her sisters on maximum lock down. This is after Lux fails to make curfew when a boy named Trip Fontaine takes her to the homecoming dance. Her sisters leave her and Trip at school when their dates take them home. After Lux and Trip have sex they both fall asleep, but in the middle of the night Trip wakes up and leaves Lux. Early in the morning Lux wakes up and takes a cab home. When she arrives home her father comes outside in concern while her mother is furious. That's when Mrs. Lisbon takes the girls out of school and doesn't let them have contact with other people. The girls then begin to communicate with the neighborhood boys. "},{"Title":"Behind closed doors","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When one of five teenage sisters attempts suicide, a group of boys becomes obsessed to what is going on in the house. They start collecting things from the girls and I know that sounds creepy but to me it was sad. They were curious about the girls and they wanted to help the girls but the title of the movie says it all. I like the fact that the boys had no idea what was going on in the house and that the movie didn't show it. I loved the mystery of that because I am still thinking about what could have driven all of them to suicide. It is a really sad movie too with a father who I think was going insane and a boyfriend who ends up in a psych ward when he grows up. I really good movie to just me think about what happened in that house. I will never know. "},{"Title":"A letter to Kirsten Dunst","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dear Kirsten I just want to tell you that i love your work (what original). No, really, how Lux, in the sad, touching and beautiful The virgin suicides you make a sensational work.I hope you don't misinterpret me. You are beautiful, and you makes the film comes to be poetic, warm and precious(without discrediting the director).The virgin suicides is a film which talks about the young people. The misery because the incomprehension. Is the story of girls and boys, which just want to be happy. But the incomprehension makes them unhappy.This movie about love and desire, is not perfect. But, that doesn't care... because is a beautiful message. Besides, all the performances are perfect and the soundtrack makes me happy.This movie is a poem... and you Kirsten, you makes true the reality of that little Lux. A little woman who close her eyes and she never opens them again.You are my muse.With my respect Criss Cross * sorry for bad words there "},{"Title":"No Parent Would Live A Normal Life If Their Kids Died Before Them.","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A tragic story about five girls Cecilia Lisbon (Hanna.R.Hall) , Lux Lisbon (Kirsten Dunst), Bonnie Lisbon (Chelse Swain), Mary Lisbon (A.J.Cook) and Therese Lisbon (Lesley Hayman) who all committed suicide due to their dominating mother (Kathleen Turner) and father (James Woods). The parents were so dominating, for example, the parents never allowed the girls to throw a party! And I believe that also refers to not having a birthday party. How strange! The parents were pretty paranoid about their children due to having so many! Good Lord! And that very evening when the girls had their very first party, Cecilia sure did kill herself that time by landing on the spiked fence in their front yard. Tragic! And then, Mr. Lisbon, the girls' friends Kevin Head (Joe Roncetti), Tim Weiner (Jonathan Tucker), Jo Hill Conley (Hayden Christensen), Chase Buell (Anthony DeSimone) and Paul Baldino (Robert Schwartzman) started seeing Cecilia's ghost. That suggested that your deceased loved ones will always be with you.It was very interesting during that period in America because, there were 80 suicides a day with children in America which made it 30 000 a year! And there was nothing wrong with parents cocooning their children from danger. But they shouldn't go over board. For example, when Lux rocked up at home from the Prom at the early hours of the morning, she then shut the house for maximum security in isolation. And the girls had a curfew daily when school ended.And finally, the creepiest moment in the film was when the girls communicated at midnight with the boys, and when they came over, they found Bonnie hanging from the roof in the basement, Mary with her head stuffed in the oven, Therese took an over dose of sleeping pills. And when morning came, the paramedics found Lux gassed to death by exhaust fumes in the garage! When the bodies where seen at midnight, the music which played gave the most uneasiest, eeriest feeling. Very sensational! And when Mr and Mrs. Lisbon moved away from the house, the dim atmosphere from inside the home was amazing as it stood in silence. And the music gave me that empty feeling. Wow! This was a brilliant movie and is definitely worth owning, renting and watching. "},{"Title":"Stunning directorial debut by Sofia Coppola; powerful adaptation","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" THE VIRGIN SUICIDES (2000) ***1/2 James Woods, Kathleen Turner, Kirsten Dunst, Hanna Hall, Chelse Swain, A.J. Cook, Leslie Hayman, Josh Hartnett, Scott Glenn, Michael Pare, Danny De Vito, Giovanni Ribisi (narrator). Neophyte filmmaker Sophia Coppola makes an auspicious directing debut in her adaptation of Jeffrey Eugenides' novel set in the 1970s suburbia recollecting the tragic account of the golden haired ethereal Lisbon sisters, whose eponymous acts, cause reflection and observation by a group of pubescent boys bewitched, beguiled and bewildered by their hypnotic captivity by their strict effectless parents. Dunst gives a star-making performance as the most prominent of the siblings with her cheery grin masking a hollow existence that best sums up the plight of the sullen girls forced by their folks to their eventual demise. Coppola uses her cinematographer Edward Lachman and production designer Jasna Stefanovic to the hilt in the diffused faded lighting suggesting an old Polaroid come to life with its dead on accurate period encapsulation. She fares less on the four young men however which should've been the strong point (as it was in the book) in why they become obsessed but her use of FM pop nuggets like Todd Rundgren's 'Hello, It's Me' in an inventive, heart-breaking interpretation of playing telephone is one for the film vault of great scenes. Woods and Turne &#150; both barely recognizable - are outstanding in deglamourized almost sponge-like interpretations as the clueless couple whose doom is sealed from the first life attempt on. Joins the pantheon of suburban rot cinema with 'Ordinary People', 'The Ice Storm' and 'American Beauty'. "},{"Title":"kinda a dreary movie","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoiler alert! kirsten dunst added the much needed pep to this movie. with the hot josh harnett only being there for maybe 15-20 min also helps, but the other sisters were dull and plain and boring. it seems that kirsten was the leader of the pack, with the fashions and the hair and even the music that they were allowed to listen to. ALL of the sisters had blank slates on their face and kirsten drew their emotions! if she wasnt the sister popular with the boys and leader of the sisters, i dont think the movie would have made it. i find it hard to believe that after having strict parents, that you go out and be the girl that was with all the guys on the roof!! with no one hearing you!! unbelievable to me. (**SPOILER**) i didnt see the need of having them all kill themselves, if they wanted to see the world and be away from those strict and enforcers of parents, why didnt they just take the car and drive away to where they arent know and start all over, with no attachments and worries.  but the movie has some interesting points that should be discovered on your own.     (B- C+) "},{"Title":"This could have been a really good movie","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story is so intriguing, five beautiful sisters that commit suicide. Automatically you are drawn to such an interesting and tragic concept. Why? How? That is why I saw the movie, I figured it would be surreal. However, I was rather disappointed. The movie does a very poor job of developing the characters, you really have no concept of what makes anybody in this movie tick. One sister seems to get all of the attention and even still, you are not sure what she is about either. Moreover, the film's story is so fragmented and all over the place. This is a classic case of a director trying to transfer a book to the big screen. Sometimes, you just cannot do it, unless you want to make a six hour film. You leave stuff out and the story just seems incomplete. It is hard not to bring some emotion from this film, the ending is just tragic and you cannot get it out of your mind. However, the poor job of developing all of the characters just leaves me wondering, just how much better this film could have been? How much more tragic? and how much more interesting? ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Serene beauty doesn't make up for vagueness","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found that the images in the movie beautiful.  They were awe inspiring, they almost made up for the fact that the content of the story lacked some. I felt that the director needed to make her points a little more clear.  I don't feel this would sacrifice the vague feeling I think she was going for.  "}{"Title":"Rather derivative painting by numbers","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rather derivative painting by numbers attempt at a coming of age/teenage angst film. I can only imagine that the folks rating this a ten are too young to have seen any of the better films on this territory. Try 'Heathers', 'If...', or 'Dead Poets Society'.  "},{"Title":"Good Debut","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Virgin Suicides, The (1999) *** (out of 4)Bizarre black comedy about several young boy's obsession with the Lisbon sisters and their lifelong attempt to figure out their lives. The five sisters become four after the youngest ones suicide, which is the start of the end of the family. This film has a lot going for it and Coppola, in her debut, does an impressive job juggling the various themes running throughout the movie. We have teenage suicide, obsession, sexual awakening and all of it is look at with a very skeptical eye and in the end the film comes off rather haunting if not a complete work of art. What Coppola does well is the entire mystery built around the suicides in the film. A lot of information is given out yet no answers are even attempted. Even when the boys are trying to come to terms with what happened, nothing. We get no answers and not many ideas as to what was going on with these girls that would push them so far over the edge. Their parents, perfectly played by James Woods and Kathleen Turner, are faceless monsters but not in a bad way but in a way that any kid would see their parents as villains. We have Kirsten Dunst giving one of her finest performances as the sexually advanced 14-year-old who ruins a fun night out for her sisters when she runs off with the town hunk (Josh Hartnett) instead of returning home on time. Even the parents are surrounded in mystery as is the Hartnett character who walks away from the girl he loved the most after having sex with her for the first time. While the film asks a lot of questions, at the same time I think it bites off more than it could chew because at times the film itself doesn't really know what it's trying to say. Perhaps that's a point and another reason for not answering any of the questions in that suicide itself is just a mysterious item that one can't get answers from the victim. It happens and no one really knows why except for the person it happens to and they aren't talking. The fine performances, great cinematography and overall great tone makes this a must see, although I'm not sure if one viewing will capture everything that's here. "},{"Title":"If you love her, let her go.","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sofia Coppola takes on conformity in a black comedy about a house of five young girls who are just trying to reach out and grow up in the world, if their parents would allow them. It is told through the watching, voyeuristic eyes of young boys who obsess over the girls mentally, emotionally, sexually, and even intellectually.It was pretty good, I enjoyed it. There really isn't much I feel there is to say about it, as it is a pretty self-contained little movie. Coppola satirizes the clean warmth of suburbia without the self-indulgence of most artists dealing with conformity. I'm surprised by the cover descriptions and synopses that talk about this film as if it's a mystery; it's about as mysterious as what drives Charles Kane. However the haunting lyricism and dark humor aspects are pretty correct.It's a pretty good film.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"suicide queens","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not quite sure how to review The Virgin Suicides. I found it pretty interesting, if warped. Focusing on some sisters kept isolated from society by their parents (James Woods and Kathleen Turner) in 1970s Michigan, the movie sort of makes you feel like your breath got cut off.I wouldn't necessarily call this a great movie, but I didn't consider it a bad movie at all. I'm still trying to figure out whether or not director Sofia Coppola was trying to make a point with it. At this point, we'd probably be more likely to review it in terms of Lost in Translation, but that wouldn't really be fair since this one came first. The cast all does quite well, namely Kirsten Dunst as the main sister (other cast members include Josh Hartnett, Michael Pare, Scott Glenn, Danny DeVito, and even a pre-Anakin Hayden Christensen; Giovanni Ribisi narrates). All in all, I recommend the movie, but be prepared to have your mind blown. "},{"Title":"Very profound and hard to take...","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film stayed with me for a while. It just makes you think, you know, it makes you wonder what if? It's the story of an overly religious woman (Played by Kathleen Turner) living in the suburbs with her husband and kids and the effects her overly religious ways has on the lives of her teenage daughters. John Hartnett played the love interest of the most popular Lisbon daughter (played stirringly by Kirsten Dunst) and his character's actions in the film send the girl down a destructive path with catastrophic results. Lux (Dunst) is able to influence her sisters into joining her in making the ultimate sacrifice at the end of the film, in order to be free of their mother forever. James Woods plays the father of the Lisbon girls and husband to Turner's Mrs. Lisbon with such subdued finesse, it's heartbreaking and Danny Devito rounds out the cast starring here as Dr. Horniker. "},{"Title":"Continual monologue had cleverness in tone but was anemic in substance.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There was much to work with in this movie. The basic plot provided a lot of potential. I felt the actors put on nice performances. However, for me the movie come off as the epitome of anemic. The continual narration which permeated the whole movie sounded quite nice - if you didn't actually listen to the words. I found very little cohesion of substance. In summary I was quite disappointed. "},{"Title":"Just didn't do it for me","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard great things about this film, but, I finally got around to renting the DVD and it just didn't do it for me. A huge pay-off was set up (by the title alone) but I must admit that at the end of the movie I didn't care that the girls killed themselves. I didn't feel that their characters had been developed enough to get me emotionally involved in THEM and I really was annoyed by that nebulous blob that was their male admirers. They had no character development at all.Maybe the people who loved it read the book. I can see that in a novel the characters may have been individually developed and so on. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe it is because I was never a teenage girl, but I found this movie completely predictable and unengaging.  I will say that it is extremely well acted by everyone involved, but the pacing and writing let it down. Things happen just as you expect they would and in the end the final message is something you know all along and figured out in the first reel. This is a movie that barely managed to hold my interest and did not surprise or move me in any way.  "},{"Title":"DRIVE YOU TO DESPAIR","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film strives to repeat the haunting 'Picnic At Hanging Rock', and at other moments is a pure teen movie. I was expecting something atmospheric and creepy. The film failed to do either, and seemed to be a muddled mess. As a 90 minute teen film it drags, and as an independent film it thinks it's cleverer than it really is. Stay at home and listen to your Air c.d. "},{"Title":"Oh, this film is so beautiful","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are the type of moviegoer who constantly has to pick apart the plot of the film you are watching, disliking anything in a film that is even modestly illogical, then stay away from this film. A film's plot should be low on the importance scale for film.There are a few small problems in a script (the big one being the narrator keeps asking Why? when the answer is extremely obvious). What The Virgin Suicides has in spades is mood. The arts of acting, photography, music and direction mixed together so well that the film absolutely swept me away in its beautiful mood. It is poetic and dreamlike and elegaic. I loved every second of it, only slightly aware of a couple of shortcomings in the script.I am lucky enough to have seen Sofia Coppola's short film debut a year or two ago on the Bravo cable network called _Lick the Stars_. It is very similar to The Virgin Suicides in its theme, girlhood trauma in high school. If anyone who has any influence over the DVD release of The Virgin Suicides reads this (yeah right, like any executives ever ask the fans what they want; they don't care as long as we give them our money, which we will always do), Lick the Stars should be included on The Virgin Suicides' DVD.I hope this film finds some sort of cult status in the years to come. After all, it is similar (and a whole lot better) than Heathers. It sure enough deserves to find a following.9/10  "}{"Title":"Tripe","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Seems as If Mr Coppola gave a few of his relatives a go at making a movie in the hope that they may follow in his or his nephews footsteps but unfortunately thats not the case. As well as Sofia there is another Coppola apart from Francis himself in the credits Purposefully boring with a couple of moments, The use of Hearts music gave this garbage even more reason to want to rip the DVD out of the drive and fling it like a Frisbee. Hearts' music is meant for radio and same can be said for such tunes from ELO and 10CC. There seemed to be no substance to this movie. If you hadn't read the book you would be wondering when something - anything was going to happen,. then the final scene where the girls committed suicide and that had no dramatic effect either. look at the scene from Girl Interrupted when that girl hung herself in her apartment... that was drama and heart wrenching. This was just Mogadon material. No wonder I picked it up at the bargain basement shop for $5.00. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Well that pretty much sucked","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I caught this on TV one night and was initially interested, but eventually found myself wanting to fast-forward through it. 1) Dull2) Meaningless3) Out-of-touch with realityThe cinematography was great. The actresses were pretty. But the premise and plot were just total crap. I had no sympathy for the girls, and the movie as a whole completely belittles suicide and what it does to people's lives.And why exactly do I need to leave a 10-line comment? This movie doesn't deserve ten lines of commentary.I'm amazed it has such a high rating. all I can guess is fans of Coppola or the original book are overrunning it with praise... "},{"Title":"All in all one of the worst films I've ever seen.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't get it. People seem to love this movie even though there is not much plot save for the fact that this a seriously messed up family. My girlfriend and I rented this and waited the whole movie for something to happen.....I'm STILL waiting.If you DID like this movie I also recommend Jawbreaker which equally sucked. "},{"Title":"worst film I've ever seen","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film contains no engaging plot, no character development, and seems to wander aimlessly for the majority of the time. It was impossible for me to care about any of the characters and, let's be honest, it's not too hard to guess what is going to happen based on the title alone. There is little beyond this to say, because the film provides so little. The acting is good, but without a story that is at least somewhat engaging, goes completely to waste. Also, when a film is already this bad, continuity errors (one is shamefully obvious) are simply not acceptable.I suspect that some people liked the film because it feels artsy and poignant, with its fuzzy, warm shots. It is well-packaged indeed; the cinematography and soundtrack are good, but never before have I watched a movie in which so little happens! It gave me a headache, quite literally. I do, however, now have a renewed appreciation for the basic elements of storytelling that are adhered to in even the most mass-market, fluffy Hollywood pieces of junk.If you want to see something artistic and meaningful, watch anything else. I can't describe how much I hate life right now for wasting part of it to watch this aimless waste of money and talent. "},{"Title":"Not a good film by any means","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Virgin Suicides tries to be a lot of things a haunting mystery, a coming of age tale, a character study and a story of the lengths that parents will go to protect their children. Although the film is all of these things; it doesn't do a single one of them well, and I therefore get the overall impression that whoever wrote the screenplay doesn't really know what they're doing. The fact that it was written by Sofia Coppola, makes a lot of sense. Many moments in the film are excruciating, either for being incredibly dull or just for being extremely corny. The parts that see the boys recount their 'relationship' with the girls is terrible; some of their lines are repulsive and I could do nothing but roll my eyes. This whole plot involving the boys came off as being undercooked all the way through; from what we saw of the two groups together, it would seem that they hardly knew each other. So why would a group of boys obsess over a group of girls that they hardly know? I don't care if Kirsten Dunst is one of them; just no.The Virgin Suicides is based on a book by Jeffrey Eugenides. I haven't read it, or even heard of it before seeing this movie but I'm sure that it's better than the film, because for a book to warrant a film adaptation, it has to be good; and that is something that this film isn't. The story follows that of four average looking blonde girls, and Kirsten Dunst; one of the most beautiful modern actresses. The five girls live with their overly religious parents (James Woods and Kathleen Turner) and their lives are turned upside down one day when the youngest of the five commits suicide. This leads the parents to be more cautious with the other girls - the spiky fence is taken away, they're not allowed to ride in cars unless absolutely necessary etc. However, this all changes one day when Trip Fontaine, a 'heart-throb' moves into town. He and three other boys take the girls to the dance, but after it, he leaves Kirsten Dunst on the football field; which 'forces' the parents to keep them locked in doors. Although this story may sound interesting, it really isn't. Sofia tries to make the story come across as being brooding and mysterious, mostly by showing images of Kirsten Dunst on an open backdrop, but all this film really is, is mundane. When a father granting a boy permission to take his daughter to the dance seems exciting, you can tell that you're watching the wrong movie.The entire cast of this movie is wasted. Kirsten Dunst has proved on many occasions that she has enough about her to carry a movie, in fact she's one of my main reasons for watching; but here she never really gets the chance to do anything. She is lost under a sea of blonde hair, and therefore never gets her chance to shine. Similarly, James Woods as the over-protective father is never really allowed to act. His performance is dozy, and to be quite honest he looks bored. I don't blame him. Kathleen Turner is the mother of the girls, and she doesn't really get to do anything either. The man that plays the heartthrob Trip Fontaine, Josh Harnett is the standout of the cast; and when you're watching a movie where Josh Harnett is the standout, you know you're in the wrong movie.Just like her massively over-acclaimed 2003 film, Lost in Translation; nothing about The Virgin Suicides really stands out. To it's credit, the film does look nice; but as shown by films like The Insider and Road to Perdition; good cinematography will get you nowhere if you don't have a film to back it up with. Sofia's direction is, like the rest of the film, dull. She doesn't have a style of her own, or anything to make her stand out from the rest of the have-a-go directors. Except for, of course, the fact that she is Francis Ford Coppola's daughter. Music for this film is provided by 'Air'. If you want to make a film mysterious, music is a big thing; it can make or break a film. As shown by Peter Weir with Picnic at Hanging Rock; you can make a heap of stone mysterious if you get the music right. However, Air don't seem to do mysterious at all. The music in The Virgin Suicides does have moments of mystery; the music played over the opening credits, for example; but mostly Air have seem to have opted for popular songs. These songs tend to have nothing to do with what's happening on the screen, and although a lot of them are good songs; they're just not right for the film, and their only purpose seems to be so that people can think oh, I like that song. And that isn't the way to a great score.Overall, you would be better of not wasting your time with The Virgin Suicides, or Lost in Translation for that matter. With any luck, Sofia Coppola will be dismissed as merely another passenger on the gravy train, but for the time being; please don't credit her where credit isn't deserved. There's many other more deserving directors that you could give that praise to instead. "},{"Title":"WOODS & TURNER SAVED THIS FILM!!!","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"                   James Woods as dad and Kathleen Turner as wife, was a great combination and their great acting talents made this film a picture worth watching.   It is quite possible that the daughters could not breath without having to say a prayer and feel guilty about just plain being alive and having any sort of sexual desires for the opposite SEX!   There was always a gloom and doom portrayed in this picture and it at times even effected the viewer, which means the actors were doing a great job of ACTING!  Suicide is mentioned in their High School, however, the sister's do not seem to grasp the full meaning of taking your own life.  The fact that suicide is something to take lightly, and also the fact that it is a self-centered act and is the coward's way out of life which is not any person's choice to take.   These daughters had everything to live for, no health problems, which makes this film very unrealistic to view, life is really NOT THAT WAY!! "},{"Title":"Don't expect a Francis Ford-Coppola film","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the director's last name is the same as that of the famous director, do not expect this movie to be up to Francis Ford-Coppola's standards.  I found the movie to be boring, without any depth or meaning. It's not funny and engaging as some of the reviews have pointed out, or does it provide any insights regarding suicide.  If anything, it criticizes overprotective parents and their blindness to accept they were wrong in the way they treat their children. "},{"Title":"Weak & Slow","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is very boring. I rented it expecting to be a touching drama about religion and teenagers issues that it may cause. The actors are decent, but my main problem with this film is the writer. How could him make a so interesting subject become a boring movie with no hard reflections about it.I don't recommend this, I'm only giving it 3 stars because I'm interested in the subject and it's good at showing that doesn't matter what you as parent do, your son/daughter will want to have sex and seek for it, independently of what you say or do. IMDb wants to me write 10 lines, so I may repeat that I didn't like The Virgin Suicides and I'll never see it again... "},{"Title":"Consumerism plus bigotry lead to suicide","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Five is a bad omen ? Five is a pentacle of the devil, a pentad of five girls who will all eventually stage their suicide in public in order to make it what it was supposed to be a successful show, a show completely fulfilled till the real end of their life, of their five lives. On the other side four boys and a fifth one who was an outsider. The latter was to become the deadly trigger of the last four suicides after the first one was successful though only on the second trial or attempt, an encore if you want. The film is well done because it creates the right atmosphere of these teenagers, daughters and sons of the babyboomers who got absolutely bored in their life that had become long tedious useless studies, postponed sexuality, nothing to desire anymore in this over-satisfied middle class consumer's society and the list of those evil goods or good evils could be very long. Our modern society took away simple sentiments like desiring and longing for and replaced them with over-satisfaction, overconsumption, consumerizing. Then since morality and ethics developed at the same pace, sex became forbidden, hence clandestine, hence rebellious, hence a door to the unknown that everyone around you will make guilty, dirty, worthless. What the heck if life is nothing but running after some forbidden dirt ! Sofia Cappola takes the problem from the point of view of these five sisters but through the eyes of the five, four + one, boys who become the voyeurs of the scene with binoculars, periscope, telescope, cameras, pictures, diaries read to remember the girls, etc. The voyeurs appear as naive and kind of simpleminded. It does not matter  they are only the eyes Sofia Coppola uses to make us see the five sisters. Hence it is superficial and trite and the parents, particularly the mother, appear to be ogre-like monsters. It's true that Trip, the outsider who triggers the final run of the second wave of four suicides, is a real monster. He loved the girl till he took her to the football field and made her woman. That is no love. That is luring a prey into a trap with music, good looks and alcohol. He had the grossness of leaving her in the middle of the night, asleep in the grass and telling twenty-five years later that it felt differently then. Sure, since she no longer was a virgin and he was only attracted by virgins and he was a virgin lady's man (the lady of course not the rogue boy), an insatiable hungry dog who considered his ladies as some food deluxe but that became soiled as soon as they were used once. The typical consumer who buys, eats and then rejects behind him. That does not excuse the Christian bigotry of the mother and the scientific aloofness of the father, but at times it takes very little to turn a disaster into a catastrophe, a storm into a hurricane.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Paris Dauphine & University of Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"death and the maidens","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For several years, there's a trendy cinematographic genre that is very successful all over the world. This is what we call the teen-movie. They're movies that involve obviously teenagers linked with topics that hypnotize them such as sex or drugs and these movies are told on a comedy tone. American Pie (1999) or 40 days, 40 nights (2002) are here to show it.You can consider the virgin suicides as a teen-movie since teenagers are the main characters of the present movie. But this teen-movie turns out to be different and original from the others because it tackles themas that most of teen-movies neglect the difficulties between parents and teenagers to communicate, death, suicide.This is Sofia Coppola, Francis' daughter that made this movie and like her father, she's very talented. I mean that her directing appears rigorous, precise and even poetic in dreamlike sequences. When you think that the directing of most of teen-movies is trite and mediocre.... Not only is the virgin suicides distinguishable from other teen-movies because of the serious topics but also because Coppola introduces an ounce of gruesome, by moments. Moreover, in order to give more strength to her movie and to sustain the interest, she prefers to suggest the gravity even the horror of a few sequences. As Alfred Hitchcock said horror is more atrocious when it's suggested. She leaves certain sequences high and dry too. Sometimes, you can even feel that her camera is distant. I think about the sequence when Kirsten Dunst is coming home after the night she spent with her boyfriend and she's got to face her parents' anger.As a conclusion, this movie is a fine success and it deserves to be watched. "}{"Title":"I want suicide myself...","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ....next time I'll fall in another mistake like be watching another movie like this.                                                  From return to me to what women want- From the next best thing to runaway bride I'm too often watching movies which are made for psycho handicapped people.                                        After have been watching the marvelous American Beauty I started to see this kind of sweet-bitter comedies and results are a real disaster.                                                               Daddy! I wanna be director...like you!                                  All you want daughty!                                           And we waste our time and money.                                 Maybe also Cheech and Chong get some daughter to recycle as director.  "},{"Title":"Hand me the knife too!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Because sitting through this load of self indulgent pap is almost making me want to do myself in too! I was one of the few who thought Sofia Coppola was wonderful as Mary in Godfather III - Stick to acting my dear! Somewhere along the way, this film forgot what it was actually trying to say, what story it was trying to tell. And no, it's not cinematic. Unless of course cinematic means pretty pictures. Even the score by French group Air didn't work.Everything about this should've worked, but it no had overall shape and no overall point. No sense whatsoever of whose story it was.The audience suicides. "},{"Title":"This viewers suicide.....","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A friend recommended this film to me and I have to say, it will be the last time I ever take her advice.I haven't read the book, so I am not concerned with adaptation, more that the film was so dull I nearly fell asleep. Twice.Coppola uses, what I presume she must think are 'poignant' shots and slow-motion sequences, in an effort to try and convince, we the viewers that this is not the most slow story ever told.After a vaguely interesting first ten minutes, it was all down hill from there. Left without any weight in the script after the theme of the film (which would be young girls, committing suicide) it fails to address anything which could be vaguely interesting.There is simply no 'gotta' in this film. I didn't pause the DVD, when going to the toilet, thinking; oh, I just gotta find out what happens next. For the first time in a while, I was watching the timer, wondering when the film would just end. There is no force, no driving edge.I do not blame the fact that this is supposedly a 'thinker,' plenty of films which are merely there to tell a story, I have enjoyed in the past. It is merely that Coppola presumed the strength of the book's fan-base could carry her amateurish directing 'skills' through the 97 minutes.The film is pretentious and dull. If you want to watch a film that deals with the issues of teenage suicide which is actually good, watch Heathers. "},{"Title":"Excellent. Entertaining. Blonde is beautiful.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Directing debut for Sofia Coppola. Set in the 1970s suburbia Michigan, five blonde sister's become the objects of obsession for a group of neighborhood boys. The lads cherish every moment spent with the girls, actual and imaginary. After the youngest sister takes her own life, the remaining sisters become more coveted.My favorite scene is where Kirsten Dunst, in her 'nightie', lip locks Josh Hartnett in the front seat of his car. The two were flawless throughout and help make this Drama/Comedy very easy to watch. James Woods and Kathleen Turner play straight arrow, over cautious parents. They are so un-hip it becomes annoying watching them. Great use of the soundtrack. I was impressed with the scene where the girls contact the boys and converse by playing records back and forth over the phone.The finale is very powerful and emotional. I could watch this movie another half dozen times before tiring of it. "},{"Title":"Silly story - what a bad example to show teenagers","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a stupid story that shouldn't have been made in to a movie. Glamorizing suicide for teenage girls is such an idiotic thing to do. It is a silly story that really one learn nothing from.5 pretty sisters commit suicide because of some minor teenage problems and a strict mom. The reasons for their actions are mind numbingly weak.Kathleen Turner hasn't got much choice in roles anymore so I understand why she took this. James Woods as well. Maybe a young Josh Hartnett had to do this movie while he was establishing a resume. Kristen Dunst shouldn't have had to take on such a role.Don't watch this or let your kids watch it. "},{"Title":"Kills Itself.","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Odd-ball directorial debut for Sofia Coppola focuses on a middle-class family in 1975 suburbia led by parents James Woods and Kathleen Turner who keep their five teenaged daughters (Kirsten Dunst most notably) under tight scrutiny. Mysterious happenings affect the five youngsters as they are the objects of affection of a group of sloppy boys (led by pot-smoker Josh Hartnett) who all have under-aged sex on the mind. Schizophrenic tone turns this into a very uncomfortable cinematic production. Dark comedy mixes with a would-be coming of age tale that still has that hated teen exploitation feel to it. Woods and Turner are just seen for the most part and cameos by Scott Glenn and Danny DeVito seem more like gimmicks than characters meant to advance the story. Coppola would rebound big time with Lost in Translation, but The Virgin Suicides is little more than a cheap and ill-conceived American Beauty-type rip-off. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Is this movie a joke?","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"10 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw some of this but I just had to turn it off. It was simply too boring and meaningless. Obviously this is some kind of attempt at a criticism of society similar to, say, American Psycho but in this movie it is just so pointless and boring. I'm pretty amazed by the positive review this movie has gotten. It is really stupid and boring. Why would we show any interest in the fate of these persons? They don't even seem like real characters at all. The whole thing is so amateurish and insignificant that I cannot believe it was released at all. Anyway, I did watch around 20 minutes of it and that was enough to judge it. I did understand what is about but that is really not a good enough premise to make a movie on. "},{"Title":"Pedophilic and stereotypical","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A cookie cut-out of sick, gossipy details into adolescence and social history with a glossy finish of pedophilic seduction and exploitation done in retro decor. There is nothing touching about any of that.  Poorly directed.  Unusual soundtrack. "},{"Title":"...","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is just the worst movie ever. i have never given a movie a rating of 1 before this movie. i actually wanted to commit suicide after watching this movie. If you are thinking of watching this movie then think about something else to watch. You will thank me. "},{"Title":"Sick, disturbing, disgusting. Sorry, suicide just doesn't give me entertainment, Sofia","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to say now, in my opinion, Sofia, you are the worst writer in cinema. This movie was horrible, how in the heck does this movie get a 7.1 rating?! It glorifies teenage suicide. Do people think this is a joke? That suicide is something cool and symbolic? It's not! It's horrible, self-centered, and leaves nothing but a path of destruction behind. I hated this film more than any other film I have ever seen. The plot? There is no plot! The acting? Was extremely awful. I would never ever recommend this movie. Ever! Sofia Coppola, stay away from Hollywood. You have a sick and twisted mind on subjects that you have no idea on what is going on! Anybody who likes this film, I have one question Why? 1/10-I wish I could give a lower rating. "}]