[{"Title":"This guy knows his stuff!","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"60 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was a croupier myself for the best part of 15 years and I expected to see the usual depiction of a casino. You know the scene - think of any Bond movie - the Roulette wheel spins so fast that you can't see the numbers, the dealers all have sticks and speak in French accents, the bets are all placed before the ball is spun and all straight up on the number.Not so this movie.  Anyone that has ever been inside a real casino wouldrecognise this place.  The urgency of every punter trying to get the last bet on before the ball drops, the cheats, the sad, sad losers that wait forever to place their last chips.This is the most realistic depiction of a casino I have ever seen.Clive Owen is perfect.  He has obviously had a lot of training - only one criticism of his technique - he looks in the wheel as the ball is dropping - a good dealer looks at the layout and watches for late bets, he should be the last person to know which number has come up - he must have eyes in the back of his head tospot a cheat the way he deals!For realism, you can't fault this film - every character, even the peripheral extras are real and believable - it's a tour de force of perfect character sketches - the plot is almost irrelevant - in fact, it is not quite up to the incredible atmosphere created - but it's good enough, the film is well worth your time.  Hell, it's worth watching 2 or 3 times just to catch all of the great little cameos that you might have missed the first time9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Croupier","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"52 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Croupier is a British neo-noir. It has a detached character (or even   better, two characters) who progressively get involved in a shadowy   world from an apparently safe beginning, it has voice-overs, lots of   artistic and original swearing, a depressing atmosphere and if you   don't feel like lighting a cigarette with a Zippo after the movie is   over, you're dead.    Clive Owen gives an amazing performance as the croupier of the title,   who is very conscious of his split personalities Jack, a gambler, the   writer who works in the casino to pay the bills, and Jake, a croupier,   a man who enjoys watching his customers losing all his money and who   makes sure he's always dealing the cards. In the end, Jack loses and   Jake wins. The message is delivered in the least subtle way possible,   Hell, the voice-over is practically an intellectual analysis on the   movie's meaning, but it works because Jack/Jake is an amazingly   engaging character and because the movie is so well directed. The crime   plot, although not surprising in the least, develops itself smoothly   and contains lots of unexpected sources of humor.    Croupier is a very stylish and criminally underrated neo-noir that   beats the living crap out of most of recent Hollywood releases   centering about a big robbery or con. It might be heavy-handed, but   it's conscious of where its strenghts lie, and Wilson is great. Why   it's so criminally underrated... I don't have the faintest about. "},{"Title":"Engrossing, high quality film-noir drama","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"39 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film-noir crime drama gets my vote for sleeper of the year.   It is an expertly written story that is subtly directed and superbly acted.  It makes up for the dozens of dreadful independent films one has to mine to find such a gem.  Jack Manfred (Clive Owen) is a struggling writer, who on the advice of his father takes a job as a croupier at a local casino, a job he previously held when he lived in South Africa.  He takes the job to make some extra money, but soon he realizes that it would be an excellent setting for a novel.  He becomes an impassive observer of the gambling culture on both sides of the table, taking mental notes that are later incorporated into his book.  However, as time goes on he is seduced from observer to participant, gradually breaking all his own rules and justifying his decadence by convincing himself that he has become the character in his book.  His feeling of control is delusional as he is being manipulated by unseen forces that are beyond his comprehension.There is a wonderful multi-layered texture to the story.  It examines the psychological aspects of the gambling casino from the inside out, allowing us to look at the trade from the casino's perspective.  It also weaves in love, sex, deceit and betrayal along with robbery and murder.  A few plot gaps leave the viewer with some unanswered questions, but they are minor.  The ingenious weave of plot elements culminating in a clever ending more than makes up for the flaws.  Director Mike Hodges did an outstanding job of creating realistic casino environment without a lush budget.  Hodges got the feeling just right as well, portraying various types of gamblers from the high rollers to the addicts.The acting was superlative.  Clive Owen emerges from the shadow of his television resume to deliver a complex and brilliant performance as the cunning but stolid croupier.  If anyone with clout ever sees this film, his agent will certainly be getting some calls.  Alex Kingston also does a fine job as the enigmatic Jani, who lures him into a nefarious scheme that sends his life spinning dangerously out of control.This intelligent film keeps the viewer engrossed throughout.  I rated it a 9/10.  It presents a fine alternative to mindless big budget films that are more form than substance.  "},{"Title":"Black Jack","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"40 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mike Hodges' film 'Croupier' tells the stark story of Jack Manfred, a writer who sells his soul to work in a casino.  As might be expected from the director of 'Get Carter', the acting is deadpan throughout, and the plot is likewise understated the point is less what happens than the fact that Jack can deal with it.  Yet this (short) film is oddly compelling although we actually get only a brief insight into the workings of the casino, there's something very addictive about the way it is presented, the film has the smack of authenticity and one watches transfixed, as if one was being shown it all for real.  Also effectively communicated is the mixture of alienation and exhilaration that comes to possess and drive an increasingly dehumanised Jack.  'Croupier' is not the best film ever made, but it never oversells itself and holds one's attention throughout.  A highly effective and distinctive thriller. "},{"Title":"Dark and quirky thriller","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A dense but rewarding film. It has a terrific performance from Owen, poised (in 1998) to become the international A-lister that he now is. He has to play three roles - two in shot, Jack and the emergent Jake, protagonist of the book Jack's writing - and a third, disembodied Jack in voice-over. The film follows his struggle with fatalism (or chance) and grand design. Whether as a writer, a croupier or an observer he likes to be in control, risk free.Making sure this isn't quite how it works is a pretty solid list of fine support actors. Alex Kingston turns up with an impressively rendered South African accent and more sex appeal than the distilled accumulation of all her work on ER. Potent stuff. Gina McKee plays a conventional love interest without simply being wallpaper; David Hamilton runs the Casino with an ambiguity that mirrors Jack's.Mike Hodges engineers tight, claustrophobic shots and choppy editing. Everything about the film is up close and suffocating shots in cars; Jack's tiny flat; stairwells and copulating couples in toilet cubicles. Owen's Jack is neither repelled by nor engages with this proximity. It only affects him if it foists itself upon him violently or he chooses to deal with it. Whether or not he actually has a choice is the point of this entertaining film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Owen delivers the goods in this nifty neo-noir flick","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" CROUPIER (2000) *** Clive Owen, Gina McKee, Alex Kingston, Kate Hardie, Nicholas Ball. British director Mike Hodges returns with his trademark hands-on film noir twisting with Owen &#150; part Connery/part Gibson &#150; as a contemptuous struggling novelist who takes a job as a casino croupier with much disdain for its clientele and the razor's edge trundling of enjoying the afterhours lifestyle while struggling to maintain his identity from his story's semi-autobiographical character. Smartly written by Paul Mayersberg with its pulp fiction heart and soul on display works well until its unfortunately false ending. Owen gives a silky smooth enhancing performance of a man at odds with his life and makes it all look effortless. "},{"Title":"Good Bet!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Come on deal with it! Independent films have a way of creating complex story lines that keep a viewer intrigued, and they also include some obscure characters that we tend to admire. You could surely bet that `The Croupier' falls in that winning category. I will throw the deck of this one at you- a struggling writer who gets a job as a croupier to entice his stalled imaginative mind. On the second hand- it also includes a mysterious subplot involving a possessive girlfriend, a sexy socialite card player, a distraught female croupier, and a watchful father. Clive Owen as the `jack of all trades' croupier executes an ace performance. For sure, one of the best acting performances of the year- Really! I am not being a joker! His suave style is reminiscent of James Bond. Yes that Bond, James Bond!  In fact, I will double down my bet and predict that Owen will be the next 007. Also, open up those snake eyes and ears and you will see and hear- an artistic screenplay, an intensive musical score, and exquisite cinematography. `The Croupier' does deserve a winning hand!***** Excellent  "},{"Title":"A Thrilling Journey in the Underworld of Gambling","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Croupier, Mike Hodges takes us in a thrilling journey in the underworld of gambling. We are introduced to Jack (Owen), an average guy who tries (unsuccessfully) to make a living as a writer. He lives a with his girlfriend Marion (McKee), an ex-cop who is deeply in love with him (while he is quite more reserved in his feelings). However, after his father arranges for him a job offer as a croupier in a casino, his life gets completely transformed His new world and the creatures that live in it begin to devour him, and his character gets gradually reshaped. He is faced with corruption, lust, and ultimately, crime, and Marion does not seem to have the ability to bring him back.Mike Hodges gives us an excellent account of Jack's world, with the characters being vividly and convincingly portrayed. A small plot twist in the end adds up to the overall excitement.Clive Owen is simply superb as the icy croupier, who although he tries to be detached, he simply cannot (and probably does not want to) escape from his downhill path. We also enjoy very good performances by all the other actors involved.8/10. "},{"Title":"Stylish and clever","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked some things in this movie.  One was that it was narrated in the 3rd person by the star (usually it's someone else who narrates in the third person), another is that I saw a world I didn't know about before.  Sure, I know about casinos and bosses and workers, but I didn't know how it worked in Britain.  In fact, I saw this as a British version of Casino (except without the mob and violence, though there is some violence).  Also, Clive Owen makes a great lead as Jack, who goes through changes in his careers as a writer and a croupier.  Possibly the best film to come from Britain this year (so far).   "},{"Title":"A good film but not as satisfying as I would have liked","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jack Manfield is a writer but an unpublished one thus far. With money running out he follows a connection from his father that earns him a job interview in a London casino. After a short time he finds he has rediscovered the croupier bug and is back in love with his new job. He also finds that his experiences useful in creating a new book, lead the lead character, Jake, as a croupier. As he drifts apart from his girlfriend he loses himself in the world and starts breaking the rules &#150; ultimately getting involved with a patron, Jani, who asks him for help in organising a heist at the casino.Quite often it'll be the UK, European or underground markets that expose an American film as a good film after the US market has ignored it, but with Croupier it worked the other way round. Hardly making any impact at all upon release in the UK, it was apparently good reviews and good figures from the US that helped make it better known. As such I came to it with mixed expectations &#150; I sort of half knew what to expect from it but I had also been led to believe that it would impress me a great deal. In some regards I enjoyed the film; it is intelligent, dark, thoughtful and has a reasonably enjoyable plot &#150; even if the plot does have equal billing with the atmosphere. However don't expect a great plot that piles twist on twist, because this isn't what the film is about. Rather the film relies very heavily on the observations of the croupier himself (both as Jack and Jake) to drive the film forward. I can't think of another film that I've seen that uses voice-over to such a degree (and makes it work), usually heavy voice-over use implies that the script and characters were not strong enough to hold the film up by themselves.The clever twisting of Jack/Jake is subtle but done to good effect and was a big part of the reason that this film engaged me. Outside of this I found the plot to be rather hard work &#150; there is no one real thrust to the film with only the main one involving Jani really coming out to the front in order to deliver an ending in the traditional manner. This is a weakness and it stops the film being as satisfying as it could have been, with Jack not being provided with enough of a plot to be set in. That said it still works due to his character and some great direction from Hodges who avoids being overly flashy as the gambling world setting often encourages directors to be.Owen is very good and convinces in his many scenes &#150; he is the heart of the film and it is to his credit that he manages to do it. Even in voice-over he delivers good character and direction for the film. Kingston is not as good. Aside from doing her whole nudity thing yet again she also is lumbered with an accent that doesn't suit her and one that she doesn't sound comfortable with (even if it isn't that bad). McKee is OK, as are Ball, Morton and Parnell albeit in smaller roles. But in a film that is more about the croupier than anything else, the film is Owen's and he rises to it and does well with the lead role. Overall this is an OK film and one that deserves better than it received upon first release in the UK. However plot-wise it is not as satisfying as I would have liked it to be, instead it relies heavily on the character of Jack &#150; an aspect that is both the film's making and it's weakness (in that the film doesn't give him a good enough plot to be developed against).  "}{"Title":"Good In Places . Bad In Places","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I vaguely remembered when CROUPIER was released in 1998 . It was a heist movie directed by Mike Hodges of GET CARTER fame and it`s a movie that brought Clive Owen to everyone`s notice , but it was a movie I never got round to seeing until a few nights ago when channel 4 broadcast it.Right away I was convinced that I was going to be watching something that was influenced by CASINO , Hodges directing style of this movie screamed at me Scorsese , Scorsese , Scorsese but after the first ten or so minutes that struck me the movie might not be going anywhere it finally finds its feet . CROUPIER might not be the most compelling movie I`ve seen all year but it is a very interesting drama as we follow Jack Manfred a wannabe writer who works in a casino . Two things I should point out though  First of all a lot of reviews I read when the movie was originally released is that they over stated the point about this being a  heist  movie when in fact it`s more of a drama . If you`re expecting something along the lines of OCEANS ELEVEN you`re going to be disappointed . Secondly if you have no interest whatsoever in what croupiers or  frustrated writers do for a living you`ll probably have little desire in watching this movie . Like I said this is mainly a drama than a crime film and I must say that Hodges has perfectly captured the rather impersonal , empty and lonely atmosphere of London very well , and seeing as Clive Owen seems really at home in a casino wearing a tuxedo he wins my nomination as the next Bond . James Bond I did start off this review by criticising the start of this movie so I`ll finish by criticising the ending . It`s not the worst ending I`ve ever seen in a movie but I can`t help feeling cheated by the last twenty minutes which sees an unlikely plot twist of Jack visiting a morgue along with some unlikely dialogue with a policeman . We`re also treated to Jack having a telephone conversation which does seem ridiculous almost as though the screenwriter didn`t know how to finish off the screenplay along with a faintly ridiculous final scene   "},{"Title":"A hypnotic character portrait","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Croupier is a film that shouldn't work. It doesn't have a conventional plot, doesn't seem to be about anything, (it's got gambling in it and is set inside a casino, but isn't really about gambling.) and the main character seems to have no clear desire for anything. I'm still wondering why I enjoyed it so much. Perhaps the absence of these motifs that you'd expect in any conventional film is what makes it special, I suspect that they add to it's originality, but what really makes the film work is how completely engaging the main character is made.Jack Manfred, from his chain smoking to his dry voice-over, is completely engaging as a character, without having to go through any obvious conventionalities that would force the audience into finding him endearing. This is surely a combination of Mike Hodges directorial skill, the script and Clive Owen's acting ability.The film is essentially a character study, with a front of a gambling film, that examines this character and his relationships with the people in his life, - his girlfriend, boss, father and colleagues, how he sees the world, and how he will cope when presented with certain situations.It is brought to the screen with quality that demands attention and a score that heightens the atmosphere the film creates and really sets the tone. "},{"Title":"Clive Owen is excellent in a very good film","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clive Owen has the type of face, body, and voice that the camera loves. He was nominated for an Oscar for this movie only to have it pulled back because the movie was more than 3 years old at the time. But he richly deserved this nomination for it his acting as Jack Manfred that carries this film.  If you have not heard of this guy, watch out. I believe that once he gets a more wide-spread release he will explode in Hollywood.There are rumors that Owen might be the next James Bond, which I'm sure he'd be great at. He has also received fame from the BMWFilms series the Hire, where he plays the title role.This film is a 10 Brilliant and Entertaining. Its good to see Mike Hodges get a little recognition. "},{"Title":"Great mood piece","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clive Owen looks like a cross between Dylan McDermott and Richard Burton.  His gaze is mesmerizing and I shudder to think of anyone else playing his role.  I read one of the reviews that said the best actors don't need dialogue and cited his performance as an example.  Right on...words don't always cut it in movies, and his face says more than words could anyway.  Great work by an actor I hope to see more of. I loved the movie as much as I loved Clive.  I loved the contradictions of him..he's not a gambler, yet he is a gambler.  Very interesting stuff, a real person in the real world is on the screen and that is much appreciated by the thinkers in the audience.I was slightly taken aback by the ending, which rung a little false.  Something about it was inconsistent with everything else so that was a disappointment, but did not ruin the rest of it by any means.  9/10.  "},{"Title":"A stylish, dark and close to depressing noir tale that delivers.","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Croupier' is a very dark, very bleak noir thriller about one man and his general struggle in life. This message is put across through his inability to get a good book going and general lack of being able to communicate and holding things together.This film just feels 'efficient'. It's never really that colourful, the characters voices never really get above a certain low decibel level and most people just seem to skulk around getting on with their business. But, what is it that makes this such entertaining viewing? Well, for one; the constant reference to the protagonist BY the protagonist is fascinating. We're well aware of his writers block by now and as he narrates everything he does, we get the feeling he's basically narrating his book. This means he's chopping and changing between 1st and 3rd person referencing, another thing to suggest he's disconnected. This connected very well with the story telling method the film got across.The fact that early on, his father calls to tell him he's supposedly moving into a new business is not in the slight bit interesting to Jack (Owen) and this also suggests a lack of interest and communication skills with people, most noticeably this time his family. Oddly enough, this little item comes back to bite him and the viewer and acts as the twist in the end. What's also interesting is the general things about this film. The script contains constant references to 'luck' and 'chance' as well as quips like 'what are the odds?' I found this knitted in nicely with the general dialogue and there wasn't too much of it, either. Other such things include the way we see a conflict towards the end at a gambling table, yet we don't cut away to the following situation in the office where the offender was taken to by the management, like we would've done in films such as 'The Cooler' (2003).There are very few disappointing things with Croupier but one I can't forgive is the scene that the final third of the film builds towards; the actual robbery. It was quick, chaotic and just plain bad. I had no clue as to what happened and had to wait for the characters to tell me if it had been a success or not as the images didn't tell the story at all. Oddly enough, the entire cast seem to be pretty fed up. In fact it's pretty dull, yet effective acting from all concerned and this added to the film and its atmosphere it had going on.With most of the good principals Croupier has and very few flaws, the film ends up being a stylish, dark and close to depressing noir tale that delivers. "},{"Title":"a brilliantly engaging film","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film at the Tyneside Cinema, Newcastle as part of a double feature with Get Carter - both films being directed by Mike Hodges. I wasn't sure what to expect. Hodges was behind 'Get Carter,' in my opinion the greatest most realistic gangster-flick of all time. He was also behind 'Flash Gordon'.Fortunately, Croupier fell in the category of being more like the former than the latter - a gritty, urban tale about very ordinary, mundane people just doing their job. Hodges turns on the magic, however, making the life of Jack Manfred, struggling writer and part-time Croupier as complex and as multidimensional as any character I've ever seen, as he is sucked into London's gaming underworld.This is a great film - I can't tell you too much or I'll spoil it, because this one twists and turns and doubles back on itself like a rattlesnake in a sack. Clive Owen is fantastic as the emotionless, stony faced Croupier, and the supporting cast is always believable.This is a low budget film, with minor stars and functional sets, but the quality of the writing, acting and directing shines through and I only loved this film more when I saw it again on cable pay-per-view. I now own it on video and it's one of those few films which holds my highest accolade - it's worth watching again, and again. If you enjoyed 'Get Carter' (1971), get this. "},{"Title":"The inner workings of the casino business","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Everything you ever wanted to know about the casino business and the people involved in it. And how it can bend and in some ways break an idealistic person like Jack Manfredi who just wants to be a writer. This film has a cool feel to it with Clive Owen's portraying Jack Manfredi as highly intelligent, not easily rattled, observant, but at the same time detached and emotionally cold man. Living with a girlfriend that admires him and supports him in his pursuit of becoming a writer Jack gets a job at a casino through his dad, an even more emotionally detached and cold man than himself. Having had prior experience working as a croupier in South Africa Jack quickly establishes himself as a valued member of the team. Originally looking at the job as something temporary to help support himself and appease his dad Jack finds himself having to make many ethical choices while being sucked in deeper and deeper into the shadowy world of casinos. The story is very believable and ties in nicely at the end while springing a few surprises along the way. It is one of those films that will leave you thinking about it for a little bit after putting the puzzle of events together in your head after finding out who, where, what and why. And like I said the film just has a cool feel to it noticeable in so many British films. I have really enjoyed watching it and would recommend it. "},{"Title":"An accurate portrayal of a Croup - and a fine film at that","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The appeal of this movie for me was the fact that I work as a croupier, and wondered how this movie would project my kind of workplace, plus I had heard it was good....this was proved right....Well first off, its quite accurate. Its to the bones. Its a clever movie with slight twists, yet it holds a darker side, the gambling side of which I see myself so much. There are accurate insights into the mentality of The Croupier (Clive Owen) in this film. Its an atmospheric film that draws you into mental workout through some stylish directing - firstly, you feel as if you are inside the casino with Owen, then one feels perched on his shoulder, he then draws you in with his views of those around him, then as the film progresses, you become a friend of his, and through a smooth direction in narative (which seems entirely plausible) you go beyond perching, and venture instead into Owens head - you feel like you are there rooting along side him, as if you are kindred spirits and are reading his mind.......Owen excels as the Croupier, his portrayal FORCES you into joining him, whether you want to or not.The plot is subtle, and I wont spoil the outcome. It revolves around addiction, be it gambling or otherwise. But its believeable, this is what I liked most, it suspended my disbelief.My brother ( a non-croupier enjoyed it, as did my girlfriend too) they found it very insightful, and creepy.See this if you like clever films such as The Game, and films with atmospere and dark undertones. But if you are a croupier ITS A MUST!(I did laugh at one piece of poor chip handling though - see if you can spot it?!) "},{"Title":"A Pure Gem","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Croupier is a pure gem of a film. Directed by Mike Hodges(Get Carter - 1971) and starring the actor from the BMW Films, Clive Owen, Croupier tells the tale of an aspiring novelist(played by Owen) who gets a job as a BlackJack dealer (The Croupier) at a London Casino where things aren't always what they appear to be. Through the film's splendid voice over narration, he uses his experience working at the Casino as material for a book.The best things about this film is how it details the job of the Croupier, and the atmosphere of the Casino itself. We really get an education on how things work there. Also, what's good is the film's performances, especially that of Clive Owen. His brooding eyes and observant manner is totally perfect for the character he plays.   "},{"Title":"Crime and duplicity with endless restraint--not bad!!","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Croupier (1998)Take a steady, steely very young Clive Owen and give him a mysterious past in the gambling dens of South Africa. Then have him need a job in London--at a casino. That's the movie, and all the almost inevitable pressures on him to eventually either cheat of get involved in a crime. But he gives the appearance of having been there and done that and he's cool as a cucumber. And very effective. This is one of this first really movie roles (after years of British t.v.) and you can see how he is a whole level above his peers. There isn't really a bad performance in the bunch, but lots of just serviceable stuff that lets him do his thing. The plot builds nicely, with some subtle twists and decent writing. The ending is a weirdly flat experience--meant to be shocking and open-ended no doubt--which makes you re-evaluate the climax right before that. Owes plays it all as if nothing mattered, though he does on the inside seem affected.The other twist here, almost unnecessary but it works, is that Owen is also writing a book about it all, and he sometimes (through voice-over narration) confuses and conflates the lead character in the book with himself. They are of course the same, sort of, but not too closely or he'd get caught.At doing whatever he is really doing. Never mind all the possible flaws in the plot, it clicks overall and it's intriguing. It also has a nice, if a bit brightly illuminated (t.v. style) filming. Solid, low budget stuff. And an entry into the life of a mega-actor to be. Oh, and I wouldn't call it a noir (or neo-noir) even with all the voiceovers and the alienated lead male--it lacks the other element of pure style, which this functional movie avoids too well. "}{"Title":"Belated praise.","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I recently watched this film for the sixth or seventh time. When referring to the IMDb file, I noticed that I had never voted or commented on it. I have given it an extremely rare (for me) 10 vote. Clive Owen is now big news, but his talent has never shown more brilliantly than in this film. His subtle use of gesture and eye movement is masterful. I find him riveting in this character. The rest of the cast is also evenly talented. I especially enjoy Kate Hardie as Bella. This is one of the moodiest films I have ever seen. It sucks you in and holds you. The beauty of it for me is that the arc of Jack's character is not in the least bit flat, despite the blunt darkness of the film. It is the closest thing in quality to Michael Caine's early angry-young-man flicks. Mike Hodges directed Caine in Get Carter, which was retooled by Hodges with Clive Owen as I'll Sleep When I'm Dead, another wonderfully moody film. Clive Owen has the potential to be one of the very few male superstars of our age. "},{"Title":"Ice cool playing with genres","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" At first I really didn't get the thing with Clive Owen. Sure, he was good in 'The Bourne Identity' and he carried the disastrous 'King Arthur' all by himself. Yeah, and he does have that kind of old fashioned movie star look, but I just never got it. Not until I saw 'Croupier', ironically made long before those two other movies.Here he plays the mysterious out-on-his-luck writer Jack, moonlighting at a shifty London casino while writing the confessions of a man of his trade. Things are good for Jack until a noir like femme fatale makes entry to his world.But 'Croupier' is not your ordinary thriller. Not even your ordinary noir-alike, but an astonishing performance of playing with genre conventions, fired up by the genuine British feeling (not far from 'Naked', in a sense). The story is not really what's the core of the movie it's the acting, the settings, the dialog and the presence of that certain something... Strange to say, but it is much thanks to the boor dome, and the feeling of standing still while moving that makes Hodges' dark Brit-com such a masterpiece of coolness. Not even the very twist of the story raises more than a brow on the main character - that's how cool it is.Of course, the whole movie, and everything in it, is very stylized. But that's, if not, not the point, the entire idea of it.And then again Thanks to Clive Owen! As written, he is, as Jack the croupier, beyond great, cooler than Eastwood, in his tuxedo, black hair and dark eyes, cynically looking up from under those brows. If you thought he was good in 'Closer', you ain't seen nothing yet. "},{"Title":"Solid and unusual British thriller","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Croupier's protagonist (Clive Owen, in a very interesting performance in his pre-fame days) is a taciturn, unsuccessful writer living in London, who at the instigation of his father accepts a job as a croupier in a casino. He takes the job in order to write a novel about it, in which he can watch this particular milieu from above, in a detached and superior position. In the casino he meets a number of people, including the troubled Bella (Kate Hardie, in my view, the movie's most compelling character). Other character, the gambler Jani (Alex Kingston) will eventually involve him in a plot to rob the place. This movie let us know more details about the gambling business that we may be interested to know, and the final twist doesn't really hold water, making the movie end in a somewhat disappointing note, but all in all this is a solid, unusual thriller. "},{"Title":"Pretty Entertaining","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Owen plays quite well the role of a disillusioned writer who, it appears, has a past as a croupier in South Africa. When he starts to get back to business, things get interesting. This was moreover a good movie. It gives a glance at the world of gambling, features news faces (to me at least), and the results is quite entertaining. You might read bad critics about the movie. First of all, Owen does play the character well. of course he seems unpassioned and it could feel like he's not putting much of himself into the role. That is so wrong, the guy is cool, in the first meaning his croupier job is to act it cool, to get impressed by nothing, and from there, he lives the same way. But sometimes, well sometimes he has to let it go, to gamble even if he never gambles. The action is not that quiet, the only thing is that this is not an Hollywood-style movie the twists in the action are not punctuated by thrilling music etc. The action is all left to the spectator's appreciation, it's up to him to fully enjoy what is happening. The croupier is an interesting character, you might even get attached to him and his fake non-challance. Watch this movie, you should like it. If not, you will have spent an interesting hour and a half.  "},{"Title":"pleasant surprise","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had read the excellent reviews of this flick when it came out in 1998 but never had a chance to catch it (it was an art house release) so was pleased to find it in the video store recently, and happy to relate that the reviews were right. I have no personal experience with gambling so I cannot vouch for the authenticity of the casino scenes, but I can say that they are very convincing, especially from the standpoint of the human dramas that unfold there. Clive Owen is just superb as the hard-edged and terminally cynical Jack Manfred. I, like another reviewer here, usually dislike voiceovers but in this case I find they are an effective and often humorous commentary to the proceedings. The surprising development at the end provides a nice twist to the effective story that has preceded it, and fits in well with the theme of the movie. As tough as he is, we can't help liking Jack. This movie was a welcome relief from the run-of-the-mill Hollywood product that is churned out by the mile nowadays.  "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film. Its not one to be watched for light entertainment, but if you're interested in getting inside the heads of others, you'll no doubt related to, and be interested in, the lead character, played by Clive Owen.The way the game (also know as the film) is played is exquisite. The narration points out seamlessly how the perception of others differs from Jack's own perception of himself.The setting is believable, as are the supporting characters, who aren't the most shining examples of humanity.I'm a sucker for a good closing sequence, and this has it. Well worth watching if you don't mind engaging your brain. "},{"Title":"Not what the advertisements would have you believe","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  All of the ads for this movie make it seem like a crime drama.  I have to disagree with that notion.  Yes, a major crime is committed in the movie but it seems like it was put in just to give the movie a good twist at the end.  I thought that the movie was more of a character study.  Clive Owen's Jake provides the narration in the form of the book that he is writing (a nice touch) and analyzes the people that work at and the ones that frequent a gambling casino.  His cold quick assumptions seem right on the mark.  This movie has no fat on it.  Characters that are introduced in the beginning are used to effect before the movie is over.  A very good thinking person's movie. "},{"Title":"Quality low-budget low-life film comes up trumps","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Croupier centres around Clive Owen and his character, Jack, a frustrated author who takes a job at a casino arranged by his father.  Jack slowly morphs into Jake, the central character in the book he is finally able to write based on his own experiences at the casino.Owen is in virtually every scene and carries the film well, showing he can make the jump from small screen to big screen.  His character is cold and detached, a perfect contrast to the players at the casino who show their emotions with every turn of the card and his romantic girlfriend Monica.You are left guessing at Jack's past and the plot develops nicely, each new chapter presenting itself with ease.  The pacing and script are efficient and the supporting roles, such as Alex Kingston's gambler with a motive (and yes, she does get her kit off), are fine.However, the film simply lacks the killer punch that differentiates between the good and the great.  The ending is pat and weak and does not deliver the crescendo the rest of the film demands. "},{"Title":"The best film I saw in 2000","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a terrific film.  The script is superb and original, the dialogue is smart, and the acting is sheer joy to watch.  And you have absolutely no idea how it's going to end.  You just can't ask for much more. Calling this a mystery or a thriller or a crime film would be selling it short, it's all of those but also a very insightful examination into the grey areas of morality and relationships (and of course gambling).   Clive Owen owns the screen every minute he's on it, and the amazing thing is he never breaks a sweat.  This guy is the real thing, he has more screen presence than 10 Hollywood wannabes put together.  This was hands down the best film I saw in 2000, I just can't believe it didn't get a wider release.  Do yourself a favor and rent it twice. "},{"Title":"Original Film.  Definitely not Hollywood 'copy something that already made money' style","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is original and very good.I have spent a fair amount of time at black jack tables in casinos. Inside, one is able to see a very good cross section of people.  Casinos really would be an excellent place for a novelist to observe.In this film, the main character is an aspiring novelist that takes a croupier position to pay the bills and to find new material.  His father is a long time croupier.  As result, Jack is no stranger to casinos.  He already knows the business.  This allows him to watch the people as much as he watches the games.  Really, you must watch both to keep the house from getting scammed.I enjoyed looking at the less than honorable desires and plans of those involved with the casino.  Generally, when I am in a casino, I am too focused on the game to observe the people.  This film shows me what I miss.Clive Owen is remarkably undemonstrative in stark contrast to many of the gamers and other croupiers that play before him.  Both inside and outside the casino, he tries to remain unaffected by the those that he encounters as a croupier.  However, he isn't immune to influence.Really, this film looks at some of the less than noble aspects of humanity. It does it convincingly and in a manner that is totally original.  The human element addressed is fundamental.  Everyone can relate. "}{"Title":"Cool flick","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie. The main character in this movie is named Jack Manfred(Clive Owen). Jack is a writer that is stumbling from a bit of writers block. So, he takes a job in a London casino in order to find material to write about. Jack is no stranger to the gambling world. We learn that his father, who lives in South Africa, is a big-time gambler, and that Jack has had previous training as a croupier in Sun City. It is Jack's father that gets him the job, and once he starts working in the casino we see the cool, detached Jack, as well as, the plot, come to life.  "},{"Title":"The Ineluctable Gamble of Life","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  `Croupier' is an inventive, amusing and thought-provoking film that is typical only of its national origin. That is to say, this is very much a British movie.  Like the better films of John Schlesinger and Joseph Losey (British `by default'), Mike Hodges' `Croupier' assumes an intelligent, adult audience. Watching the film, while an entirely cinematic experience, is like reading a well-written novel. It isn't possible to see every layer of nuance, or every fine point of structure with a single viewing. This is the kind of movie that assumes the viewer is watching and listening very closely, making subtle connections along the way. To enumerate the myriad felicities of `Croupier' would be pointless and would spoil their discovery. This is a marvelous case of what used to be called a `thinking man's picture'.In the title role is the brilliant, perfectly cast Clive Owen. If the film were not based on a novel, one could think it was written especially for this actor. Quick-witted, intellectual, and powerfully handsome, Owen gives his  realization of `Jack/Jake' a singularly seductive life of its own. The character is therefore not merely interesting, as a carrier of the story's themes, but is detailed in way that seduces the viewer into identification and complicity.This is a tale that uses gambling as a metaphor. It certainly isn't the first to do so, but the complex, provocative approach Croupier takes toward its subject is on a higher level than most. Living is a gamble, this film says, and even if you refuse to participate, you still end up playing for stakes.   "},{"Title":"Simple thoughts with complex results, what any film hopes to do","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After a great delay in his filmmaking, Mr. Hodges returns with a biting film of twists and turns, that will hold your attention, and (god forbid) have you interested.Clive Owen plays Jack - and Jake - when he so chooses.  Narrated in the third person, Croupier offers a different edge to Jack's commentary, as you almost start to believe his words are coming from someone else.A struggling writer, a troubled romance, a new job as Croupier at a London casino brings, thankfully unexplained, troubles.  A past punter enters in, a scheming group for quick and easy cash, affairs with the expressly forbidden staff and customer lot, lead Mr. Owen into a brilliant performance.  This is a film that asks the actor to carry it all on his shoulders, a job he lives up to beautifully.Whatever you think you know about this film, you're wrong.  Whereever you think the film is going, it isn't.  And if you're thinking about passing this film by, don't. "},{"Title":"OK Character Study","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A struggling writer takes a job as a croupier (card dealer) at a casino, using his experiences to write a book. It seems that there is a lot going on in this film but there isn't really much of a plot - just a lot of little episodes reflecting on the central character. Owen is always interesting to watch and he's the main attraction here in one of his earliest starring roles, providing an edginess and sense of mystery to his character. Veteral British director Hodges, best known for Get Carter, manages to create a brooding, threatening atmosphere. As such, the film never becomes boring despite the weak storyline, although ultimately it's not very satisfying either. "},{"Title":"Classic neo noir","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Jack Manfred is a struggling writer in London, trying desperately to juggle his relationship with his live in girlfriend Marion and his growing debt. One day his father rings him and tells him he can help and that he has lined up a job for him in the Golden Lion, a local Casino. Jack agrees and impresses the casino boss with his card skills. Strictly against casino rules Jack one day meets a woman Jani de Villiers who has gambled there and they strike up a friendship, its not long before she asks for his help in a heist she is planning at the Casino, if he doesn't she is a dead woman, as she owes large sums to some violent men. Hodges the director of Get Carter, struggled for many years to get funding for any films in the UK, on this evidence its hard to see why, it's a masterpiece of Neo Noir, Clive Owen gives a stirring performance as Jack, who's brooding character gives us a remarkable insight into his character with the best voice-over I have heard in many moons, Jack making poignant remarks to the viewer almost after every brief dialogue. Its full of seediness, exploring the corrupt environs of late night Casino life and the drinking clubs the staff inhabit, its full of dark interesting characters. The film is also a finely crafted insight into writers block, with Jack unsure of his ability sometimes straying into his novel's main characters guise of Jake,Marion's suspicious nature of his late night liasions and her dislike of his book idea also lend an interesting relationship angle. Oh and there's also a very clever twist at the end. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"i liked the whole movie, but...","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I am a Clive Owen fan myself, so any movie he does i can sit through, I specifically enjoyed this one. The female roles in this movie were splendidly pulled off, with just the right amount of profanity in the right situations, made it comical (if you find a British accent funny). If you enjoyed Clive's performance in Sin City, you can tell he had to reference this character as his part of hisinspiration, he often finds himself in contact with an alter ego. If you find yourself falling off the bandwagon not fully finished with the movie, you will regret it. The end ties some good loose ends, and it definitely found its way on my top 20~ "},{"Title":"Intelligent and Involving","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hodges' work here is amongst some of his best-I can see Clive Owen and himself working on further films in the future. The performances really are quite good, the stand out obviously bein Owen, with his stony-faced, efficient and emotionless style (one of the most relevant moments comes when he puts on a paper hat for the Christmas festivities, betraying not a flicker of emotion). Those that say the Voice-Over hides a lack of script or inventiveness should watch one of Robert Bresson's short, lean films 'Pickpocket' (something 'Croupier' pays homage to; both in the narrative of the struggling, writer who is fascinated by another seedier lifestyle, and through the technical details V.O., sleights of hand, etc.) Bresson's film clocks in atonly 75 minutes, and works on a tight, sparse, ultimately rewarding, basis. The script by Mayersberg has achieved a remarkable thing, building on the themes found in 'Pickpocket' whilst being a very dissimilar film in its subject matter, and this should be taken into account before this film is dismissed as another long-winded, unsuccessful adaptation of a literate script.  "},{"Title":"Using your opposite to accent your self definition","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Croupier is one of the best videos I've seen in a very long time &#150; as good as, if not better than, Almost Famous.  It has the power to surprise you, having everything a movie needs to be successful  a great story, brilliant acting, and inherently interesting subject matter.As the story unfolds, the viewer gains fascinating insights into the croupier's behavior. The first time we meet him, he's an aspiring author, trying his hardest to make a name for himself.  Ironically, at the end of the movie, he wishes to remain anonymous.  The croupier undergoes a transformation, which we watch from within, and not just from without.I love this movie because of its honesty.  It's portrayal of the compulsive gambler, with his hunger, suppression of conscience, and delusional way of thinking, is a perfect antithesis of the movie's main protagonist, a croupier named Jack Manfred (Clive Owen).  But he's not a hero.  In fact, his existence is on almost the exact existential plane as the gamblers.  The interesting thing about this croupier is that he's as addicted to taking the addict's money as the gambler is to throwing it away.  It's not the money that draws him  he earns only 450 British Pounds a week.  It's the opportunity for self-definition.  He's struggling delineate himself, not as the product not of his family history, but of his own rational intentions.  The casino suits him perfectly.  It's like the black velvet that jewelry stores use to show off their diamonds  the stark contrast seems to heighten the gem's glitter.  And so it is with the croupier  his surroundings help to sharpen his self-understanding, which he reveals in his book. Croupier is so successful in drawing you into the croupier's world that you feel like a voyeur.  Rent this movie if you can.    "},{"Title":"A short in-depth review","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Croupier acts to portray a seemingly dark and sometimes perverse dimension of the British casino underworld. Its' plot revolves around a humble stalwart of the Croupiers' who refuses to be corrupted and, so it seems, just wants to get on with life and his eventual aim to be a best-selling author.The film plays a very interesting method of twisting through elements of Jack Carter (Clive Owen) life exploring his relationship between his girlfriend, the casino and more spectacularly, the aftermath when the two combine.As a low-budget film, Mike Hodges uses very surreal atmospheric scenery and mood projections to add a very experienced touch of class. Although this might be considered overdone in places, this film does serve to give young and inspiration-seeking directors a good taste of how a simple story can be transcribed into an effective projection on the big screen.It is a real shame this piece of work was only given a limited release but this should not dissuade the movie buff to get out and see this film at some time. Given its successful opening in the USA and it's ever increasing stature on the British screen, it deserves a full re-release however impossible this may be.Short and snappy at just 89 minutes, it is guaranteed to give the viewer something to think about upon exit from the auditorium. Well worth the money to see and something I will definitely complement my DVD collection with on home release.  "},{"Title":"Really great movie!","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Loved this movie, but then again, I am biased as I think Clive Owen is the best thing since sliced bread! Saw him in the TV series 'Second Sight and became an instant fan.  He has a unique way of acting with a serious face and few smiles but he gets his character across to the viewer. His croupier is marvellous. I am glad I don't gamble!! Anyway, apart from Clive Owen, Mike Hodges has brought to the screen a really good entertaining story, which, without giving the plot away, has you guessing right to the end.   "}{"Title":"Independents sometimes hit the mark.","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Even if you hate voiceover (or art films) you will just keep watching this engrossing story within a story.  Wasn't it Hemingway who said Write what you know?  This film is about writing what you know, in this case the complex life of a casino and its habitues, seen from the eyes of a reluctant master croupier cum budding novelist. The setting is fascinating.  The characters are razor sharp.  There is actually a PLOT, although you might not care.  There is even a Parthian shot ending to make you work for it; but it's a nice touch, not the core. The central theme is the destructive addiction of gambling and its devastating effects on personal integrity.  Yet delving deep is not disturbing, primarily because of the detachment of the protagonist, even as he hits the slippery slope.  We are remarkably free to be voyeurs at no risk. And it will stick with you.This film is dense and compelling, and is yet so spare, so delicately played that its hard to believe it hit mainstream and bloomed. Just watch it.8 of 10.  "},{"Title":"It got what it deserved","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Shooting Gallary thanks, this movie was great. Croupier is a very good thriller that would have never been seen if it wasn't for Shooting Gallary, and then the film opened in a few muliplexes, remarkable considering this little movie never even got picked up the first time around and now has made 6 million+. Clive Owen is perfect as the cold morality free croupier at the center of the movie. All the performances are good as well, Mike Hodges makes a grand comeback. See this movie sometime, it's a excelent thriller. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, Not American","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Intelligent, savvy, well-cast, entertaining urban-angst flick.  See it if you have a brain and want relief from mind-numbing American excess.Good for gamblers, urbanites, people who feel life. "},{"Title":"Very interesting and engaging story.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was the type of movie that caught me in it's characters and storyline early and didn't let go. I was completely engaged throughout the movie.I especially liked the narrative of the main character whose inner voice could be heard throughout the movie.An excellent and interesting mystery movie.I will rate it a 10! "},{"Title":"British Film is Best!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whether you know anything about the world of the Casino, whether you like to gamble or not, this film is a must see and when its over, you will have a real interest in Casinos and Gambling, specifically cards.  This film has it all, Plot, Acting, Sex, Violence, Suspense, Mystery.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Double down.","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a gambler and a film enthusiast, I have to say this is the best movie released in the US this year. It must take its place among the best gambling films ever made if there is any justice in this world. Just amazing. "},{"Title":"Okay but not as gripping as I was led to believe","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I read this movie was the sleeper hit of the summer season.  It appealed to me since it was a smaller film with an interesting story premise.I enjoyed this film due to the several mysteries about it and the interesting way it unfolded.  It was not a gripping film and did not keep me entranced but just merely interested.  There were a lot of loose ends in this film that may or may not have been answered.MINOR SPOILER WARNING - My biggest question is who killed one of the main characters?  What was the motive?  Was it an accident? I can normally deal pretty well with ambiguity but this left a big question mark for me.I can see why this movie was compared to Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels.  It was a good film but not quite as exciting as Lock, Stock is.  I'm also almost getting the feeling that this type of movie is getting a familiar type feel to it.  There are lots of Brit films out there with shady characters and the inevitable narration that goes with it.  I just hope these films don't get dull after a whileStill - a heck of a lot better than some of the junk that has been playing this summer with a lot less hype and less overblown budget too. "},{"Title":"Terrific!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In a summer full of movies in which the effects are the selling point and a distraction from the story, it was great to get lost in the movie and become totally involved in the story and characters. Great surprise ending. "},{"Title":"well, i certainly liked it.","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  you're either going to love or hate this film, and if you hate it, it will be because you think clive owen is cold and wooden, because there are too many holes in the plot, because the script is lifeless.  if you love it, it will be because you think that the performances are subtle and engaging, because there's something about this movie that keeps you watching even though you're not sure what jack's father and the chinese gamblers have to do with the whole thing, and because the narration is ten times less annoying than in any other movie.  being in the latter category, i was amazed by croupier mostly because of clive owen -- he could have played jack as a completely morose and unfeeling character, but he gave just enough shift to make you wonder what he's really up to.  if you see this and you're in the former category, go back to the multiplex. "},{"Title":"interesting film with solid acting","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday and have to say that I found it to be an excellent film.  I found everything about it to be great from the acting to the plot to the character developments to the surprises which I thought were pretty unpredictable.  Clive Owens does a fine job portraying a a croupier (casino dealer) who has past experience in a casino and is looking for a job.  As a person who enjoys gambling I thought the film provided some interesting insight into the underworld of the casino business.  However, I don't think you have to be a fan of gambling to enjoy this film. "}{"Title":"Best Movie of 2000 (from 1998)","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is everything every movie should be... involving, cool to look at, and surprising... it made me realize (once again) how much I love the movie-going experience... thank you Mike Hodges and all involved!! "},{"Title":"clever film","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is subtle and clever, and always interesting. Good character study. A far cry from the usual blockbusters (thank goodness). See it if you love artistic filmmaking, good plot work, etc. I also loved the acting- clive owens was perfect as the ennui-filled writer/croupier with a good head on his shoulders. Great twist at the end.  "},{"Title":"Every day I write the book","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's a peculiar sort of British sensibility, found in the songs of Elvis Costello and the novels of Martin Amis--mordant, precise, archly literary and blackly self-mocking. That personality has never turned up in a movie before this one. (Dennis Potter doesn't count, quite.) The fiction-writing hero (Clive Owen) takes a job at a casino to fulfill Flaubert's description of the ideal author present everywhere, visible nowhere. The question of the movie is is this croupier, a clean dealer who brooks no cheating and no off-the-job chicanery, really addicted to superior odds, or to the chaos of a losing game? The script, by Paul Mayersberg (a one-time right hand to Nicolas Roeg), has a cold, glittering brilliance, and the director, Mike Hodges, was recently--accurately--described by Andrew Sarris as one of the most underrated true masters of the medium living today. He doesn't make a wrong move in this icily compelling mix of Robbe-Grillet and pulp fiction, which detonates in a trick Freudian ending that has a perfect inevitability. "},{"Title":"There is a film to be made about British casinos but, credible as it is, this isn't quite it...","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most people who watch Croupier will not have the faintest idea what it is like to even visit a casino, let alone work in one. Having done both, I can testify that Paul Mayersburg and Mike Hodges have done a fine job of conveying the atmosphere of a gaming environment, turning a reasonable plotline into a pretty watchable film. Croupier also has a high degree of technical accuracy (although the tech advisor should have pointed out that roulette wheels are never allowed to stop spinning while a table is open for business...)British casinos are much more low-key in appearance than their American counterparts and their staff are less likely to be interested in the science behind their jobs than they are in each other. While friendships between casino staff may be frowned on by the management, the idea of firing people who form relationships is ludicrous - they are much more likely to be put on opposite shifts. People who work such peculiar hours always socialise together and, when genders mingle, sex is never far away. In fact, the use of the word incest was a plum insight of Mayersburg's - that's pretty much how it is.While the atmosphere is well conveyed, its failing is, unfortunately, the performance of Clive Owen. Looking great and undoubtedly pretty good at the ice-cool & enigmatic stuff (which came first - the Owen or the Kemp...?), he is fantastically useless at conveying even the faintest whiff of emotion. Catch the way he tells Gina McKee You are everything I desire... Wooden isn't in it - there would be more life in his girlfriend's corpse than in his own performance at such moments. Nick Reding and Kate Hardie were excellent as Max and Bella - much more a true reflection of typical gaming staff in the UK.There is a film to be made about British casinos but, credible as it is, this isn't quite it. Paul Mayersburg must at some point have worked in British casinos to get the feel - if he didn't, then I take my hat off to him. Even if means I have to put one on first. "},{"Title":"High stakes on this film..","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Imagine if you will, The Sting directed by Alfred Hitchcock. This can give you a partial description of the electrically tense energy of this film. Set in the gaming parlors of London, this plot of mega-twists-and-turns, high-stakes suspense story will have you on the edge of your seat til the very last moment.  Query What happens when a young aspiring writer decides to put his book on hold to once again utilize his skills as a croupier in a posh casino in London?  His observations become the book as he tells us in first person about gambling, punts, and money.  I never gamble says Jack yet he get seduced into a situation that calls upon all his keen knowledge of the odds, the risks, and the potential payoff.  Clive Owen is outstandingly brilliant as Jack.  His cool and quiet presence on the screen is deafening and a performance not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Peliculn Round 2","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" After the first slow movie ended, we went down to play, as always. Ping-Pong is what we play; one, two or three matches before going upstairs again to see the next film. We had two more movies; one chosen by me, the other by Gian. We watched Gian's choice because we had already watched a film I'd chosen.The thing with Croupier is rather strange. Don't ask me why I felt weird when it started, like I didn't trust the movie. There were many parts that should have been exciting but they weren't quite exciting to me. I tried to like those parts, but it became very difficult.From the outside it is a well done film, I mean; directed by a respected British filmmaker (Mike Hodges), an interesting plot, an attractive main character and among other films, poker. I haven't seen lots of poker pictures, but before Croupier I had seen some very good showings of this thrilling card game; for instance, Rounders and more recently Shade.Comparing Mike Hodges' film with the latter ones would only be useful in terms of how the movies deal with the game. Then, the three of them contain totally different characters in different realities, living different stories involving different situations. In Rounders we could meet two friends willing to get to a professional poker career. In Shade we experienced the lives of different people consumed by the game and its difficulties. However, in Croupier, there's just one character, and that could be one of the movie's problems. We see everything in Jack's (Clive Owen) life as a croupier, writer, gambler or whatever, and what I think is that the film gets so centered in him that it becomes boring.In the pages of what's close to a screenplay owner of contradictions, Jack walks along in his different facets and Paul Mayersberg forgets about the rest of the people involved in his tale. The contradictions I'm talking about is that the script can even follow the only character it cares about with some sense. It presents the main character's narration that at moments gets confused with the rest of the story, generating big time lines problems.Although it gets tedious, Clive Owen's narration is good, as his performance. At this film's time he had already had some Hollywood experiences, but in a movie from his own country, he was already proving the gifted actor he was. Watch it for his performance, or for some interesting poker scenes; but as I see it, there's not much more into it. "},{"Title":"Croupier is a winner","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Croupier is a slick, even, noirish Brit flick which tells of a struggling novelist who takes a job as a croupier and begins crafting his story with himself as the protagonist. This smart little film moves along quickly, with Owen as the centerpiece involved with three beautiful women, gives insights into the job/life of a croupier, and winds up with a clever ending. Overall an enjoyable three star watch. "},{"Title":"Too many holes in this story","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While I may agree with many of the comments about this being a stylish, well acted independent film; in the end this story just doesn't hold up. I won't go into too much detail since it would spoil the story for those who haven't seen it, but at the end of the movie there are all sorts of loose ends and unexplained or inconsistent relationships. It's a movie that holds your attention while you're watching it but just can't stand up to close scrutiny. "},{"Title":"nobody does it better than the Brits","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Seedy men, shady women, and a plot so complex you'll need to draw up a diagram to figure it out - this must be film noir!  And bloody good it is, too.Croupier comes to you from Mike Hodges, who also directed the sublime Get Carter and the not-so-sublime, but highly amusing, Flash Gordon.  And it's easily one of the best crime movies of the 1990s, especially since it comes without the layer of Hollywood gloss that makes so many movies - even acclaimed ones like LA Confidential - seem glamorized and fake.Clive Owen does a superb job conveying much of his character's inner life through tone of voice and facial expression, which is very important in such a subtle flick.  With his wonderful stoic demeanor and tough-guy good looks, he would make an ideal James Bond, if someone ever chooses to make a serious movie with that character.  But it would be a sin if Owen joined that franchise as it is now - popcorny and ridiculous.  This is a better showcase for his talents than any slam-bang action movie.Some of the plot twists are a little silly - I'm not sure why the thieves rely so heavily on answering machines when making their plans! - but overall this is tightly written stuff.  And hey, you'll learn a lot about how casinos actually work.  I learned to stay away from them altogether...Needless to say, this is much grittier, smarter, and more satisfying than its closest American equivalent, which I am ashamed to say is probably Ocean's Eleven.  Only the Europeans could make a movie this low-key, cheap, sneaky, clever...and cool, too.  "},{"Title":"Imagine THE LADY FROM SHANGHAI mirror climax as an entire film.","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  CROUPIER is one of those films which feels like it's been written by David Mamet.  Like THE SPANISH PRISONER, it features irritatingly mannered narration, irritatingly mannered dialogue (where people speak, not as ordinary folk do, but in sinisterly loaded aphorisms), an irritatingly mannered hero (Clive Owen is a dead ringer for Campbell Scott), and an irritatingly mannered puzzle approach to plot.  Also, like THE SPANISH PRISONER, once you have accepted the basic air of smart-alecky contrivance, CROUPIER is very enjoyable, in fact even more so, because as a director, Mike Hodges has known greatness, whereas David Mamet has not.Set in the mirror-distorting world of casinos, the film is actually a pretentious rumination on the nature of the artist.  The hero, Jack Manfred, is an unsuccessful writer who becomes a croupier to earn money, and get material for his work.  The action we see is actually the novel of his experiences, and his narration frequently interrupts and comments on his fictional self.  This splitting of selves leads to a troubling doubling that scuppers Manfred's self-satisfied authority.You see, Manfred is one of those Nabokovian omniscient narrators who needs to have complete control over his story and characters.  He is a croupier because he doesn't want to gamble, take risks - he's the one in control. This extends to his artistic motives, which extend to teaching people how to think. But he is not absolutist enough to pull this off.  He thinks that by dividing himself in two - author and character - he can get the character to take all the risks he can subsequently order, as an author, into fiction. The film takes on a genuinely Kafkaesque (a sadly devalued phrase) as the discrepancy between Manfred's smug self-image (wholeness and power), and the reality of his experiences (a process of dissolution and emasculation resulting from male insecurity, machismo, fear of women, Oedipal complex and personal history (the mythic primal scene of South Africa, black-free place of his upbringing)), over which he has no control, becomes wider.  In true Mayersbergian fashion, the final sequence casts doubt over everything we have seem, and asks who is the real author in (and of) the film.Mike Hodges' elegant, unruffled direction conceals a script of prismatic complexity, distortion and fragmentation; a perfect metaphor for Manfred's surface control and inner collapse.  The dialogue is frequently unbearable, but once you attune to its rhythm, it becomes accumalitively compelling. The puzzle element of the film can be enlightening or annoying, depending on your taste, but there is enough bizarre incident, unpredictable plotting, clever sleight-of-hand, and hilarious (very British) visual non-sequiturs to keep one interested. "}{"Title":"Arthouse thriller?  It is neither art, nor thrilling.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the most contrived, tedious and clichd films I have ever seen... and, yes, I've seen Pearl Harbour. Even the likes of Gina McKee couldn't act their way out of the appalling dialogue.  It has been described as 'art-house', this can only be a euphemism for dull, dreadful and, quite frankly, artless.  Why is it that when a film is devoid of plot, critics feel it deserves to be called art?  But far more baffling, why did America love it?  Without you, this film would have remained on the shelf where, perhaps, it belonged. "},{"Title":"Not a Bad Story","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" An aspiring writer (Clive Owen) is hired as a croupier at a casino, where he realizes that his life as a croupier would make a great novel.My interest in gambling movies is about average, though I do find them somewhat interesting in the context of organized crime. That was not a major aspect here, though the movie was not without its unexpected death and shady characters. Lead by Clive Owen, it was a decent little story.I also like that he was not a croupier just for the sake of being a croupier, but also had the idea of writing a book in mind. This then creates the fun of the unreliable narrator... is everything he says true, or is part of this just his fantasy of what would make for a better story? "},{"Title":"pretty good sleeper","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is movie is OK..... it is a bit dated even for 1998 with a too straight focused--no nuanced sexual world in this thing; and the casino seediness is overdone and obvious read other reviews. So a need to suspend disbelief.If you have an hour or so to kill this really is not bad. There are a couple twists which work.I saw it in 99 about when it came out but didn't remember a thing except that I vaguely disliked it.... Unfortunately, when you use Netflix streaming you learn to lower your standards since the biggest chore is finding something good.RECOMMEND "},{"Title":"Small payout","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I would have thought the main reason for using narration in a film was to help the audience understand what was happening on screen. Croupier uses narration, in fact, it is a key element in the movie; however, it clarifies very little and actually makes parts of the film even harder to follow. What it does do is give an insight into the personality of the narrator and hero of the story, Jack Manfred, whose basic philosophy is Hang on tightly and let go lightly.Croupier, as the name suggests is about gambling. During the course of the film blackjack and the roulette wheel feature prominently. To the uninitiated, some of the gambling procedures are obscure, and the script provides little help in understanding them.The story is about a struggling writer, Jack Manfred played by Clive Owen, who becomes a croupier to make ends meet. His previous experiences in this capacity have left bitter memories, but he soon impresses his new employer with his prowess at the gaming tables. The job puts pressure on his relationship with his girlfriend, Marion, played by Gina McKee.Despite the casino rules, he becomes attracted to Jani, a female gambler played by Alex Kingston (with a fairly convincing South African accent). Jani is under pressure from creditors and talks Jack into helping rob the casino. Things take an unexpected turn with Jack writing a bestselling novel based on his experiences.Although the plot seems straightforward when spelled out like this, much of what happens is hard to follow. Don't make a cup of coffee during this movie, let alone go to the bathroom; otherwise it could become totally indecipherable.The film maintains a lively pace, building tension towards the robbery scene, but when it finally arrives, it is decidedly anti-climatic. It seems that in their attempts to create something fresh and avoid the obvious, the makers of the film also forgot how to reward an audience for staying the course.The characters in Croupier are relentlessly unsympathetic. They spend a great deal of their time at the blackjack table or at the roulette wheel; the focus of their world is on themselves and their addiction to gambling. Jack Manfred is cynical, egotistical, stern faced and humourless. Although he seems devoid of real charm, women in this movie are drawn to him, but he cheats on them, and treats them badly without exception.The movie ends with the revelation that the Jack's father may have had a hand in events that unfold during the course of the movie. This rings a little false as the father's character is only briefly sketched in the film, and for the plot to then hinge on his involvement undermines what had been up until then, a perceptive if somewhat cynical story line.Croupier is original and different &#x96; even if opportunities have been missed to fully involve the audience with its unappealing and self-seeking characters. "},{"Title":"Icy-cool Noir","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Croupier is an excellent icy-cool noir film. The movie has a David Mamet feel to it. I really enjoyed this movie, but the last 30 minutes left me a bit bewildered. Clive Owen is fantastic as the calm and cool Jack Manfred. A struggling writer, Jack takes up an offer from his seemingly estranged relationship with his bizarre dad to interview at a Casino for a Croupier job. Jack gets the job to the consternation of his girlfriend, Marion, who seems to be bi-polar. The requisite cast of delicious characters at the casino elevates Jack's coolness factor as he narrates in the 3rd person throughout the movie - to great effect. Croupier is a classic character study. The ethics & rules that Jack has placed upon him thru his employer get strained and blurred. The robbery scene was very disjointed and confusing - what happened? The death of Marion left more questions than answers and the revelation that Jack's dad was in fact behind the casino robbery was not developed enough. The movie flows so neatly and clean, I think it could have gone another 10 - 15 minutes with more development of the loose ends. "},{"Title":"The house of addiction.....","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Jack Manfred is a struggling novelist in London. To make ends meet, he sells his beloved car and gets a job as a croupier at the Golden Lion Casino.Jack had previous training as such back in South Africa. He doesn't particularly like being a croupier, but he's good at it and finds a certain pleasure in watching gamblers, for who he has disdain, lose. The casino has a strict set of employee policies, including no gambling ever, no relationships with other casino employees and no fraternising at all with the gamblers - also known as the punters - outside of the casino. Although Jack cannot tolerate cheaters, he is not averse to bending rules when it suits him As time goes on, he begins to observe casino life with a certain distance, through the eyes of Jake, the main character in his novel and his alter ego......A lot of people do not get this film because of the fact that it's jack playing out his character Jake for the second half of the film, and no the film noir some think it is.This is a man in purgatory, living a life that no one wants, starting work as his girlfriend finishes, and comes home when she is going to work, the people he meets are false, or desperate, and when he gets close, they disappear or turn out to be something different.So why not live out a fantasy world, in order to get your dream underway (writing your novel).Many have said that Owen is wooden in this, I disagree greatly here, his motivation is to play someone unattached with the real world, to appear withdrawn, after all the world he is in at work is full of fantasy and falsehood.The rest of the cast are great, and the ending lets the movie down ever so slightly, but all in all it's an amazing movie, full of vibrant images, and that undoubted cheap nineties feel. "},{"Title":"realistic look at casino life","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Clive Owen is Croupier in this 1998 film directed by Mike Hodges. Owen plays Jack, an aspiring writer living in London with his girlfriend Marion (Gina McKee). He takes a job as a croupier at a casino, though he doesn't want to, and it gives him inspiration for his book. The character in the book is named Jake, and as Jack becomes desensitized to what goes on in the casino, he becomes more like Jake. He is approached by a beautiful gambler in trouble, Jani (Alex Kingston), who wants his help in an illegal operation at the casino. Meanwhile, Jack's relationship with Marion is heading downhill A very realistic look at the world of gambling and casino life, with Owen complete perfection as Jack, who gets inside Jake's head and then really can't get out. Alex Kingston, best known here for her work on E.R., is beautiful and seductive as Jani.Someone on the board, obviously British, mentioned Owen emerging from his TV personality. Sadly we don't know anything about that in the U.S., though I've got his TV show on my Netflix list. The first time I became aware of him was in Closer, and I've been following his work ever since.Very good film with abundant sex, nudity, violence, and of course, gambling. "},{"Title":"Croupier deals with interest.","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Jack Manfred is a struggling writer who is set up by his gambler father for a job dealing at a London casino. Catching inspiration from the seedy setting of his employment, Jack starts to write about his experiences. But although it makes for a good story, the reality is that his life is spiralling out of control.Croupier is known for two main things outside of being a good and interesting film. Firstly is that it launched the career of Clive Owen, lifting him out of the TV mainstay league and into the Hollywood subconscious. Secondly is that it was largely ignored on release in its homeland of Britain, but after America took a liking to Mike Hodges tantalising tale, it scored a re-release and Owen and the film have not really looked back since.Tho not quite deserving of the sleeper gem reputation it has, Croupier none the less is a strong London based thriller set amongst the ducking and diving world of the all night casino. Led by an engaging Owen performance, the characters are meaty, with Hodges and his writer Paul Mayersburg creating a nice line in paranoiac mystery. There's a bit of an overdose of twisters in the final straight, but in the main Croupier comfortably holds the attention span for its 90 odd minutes running time. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Your mum and dad - they f**k you up Philip Larkin.","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Deeply Freudian but clever and entertaining,Croupier depicts life at the fringes of The Lifeas represented by the workers at a London casino.Here they hang together unless they be hanged separately - so to speak.Peer relationships are complex and deep,group loyalties are fierce and strong when engaged in the constant battle against cheating punters. Uncontrolled movement of large sums of money inevitably attracts violent and dangerous criminals and their threatening presence adds a frisson of fear to the lives of the casino staff who are obliged to cater for them. Mr Clive Owen is excellent as the eponymous croupier who tries to divorce himself from the action at the tables,but finds,against his will,that he is drawn deeper into the demi - monde. Steered towards a job in the casino by his father,Owen finds out too late the truth of Philip Larkin's axiom. Croupier is a short,sharp movie that,a decade on,has enhanced its reputation and is a fine antidote to those Guy Ritchie Diamond Geezer fantasies so beloved of would - be Bad Boys who spend their Saturday Nights kicking over traffic bollards and making rude signs at coppers. "},{"Title":"The Croupier Earns Its Neo Noir Title","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I stumbled upon this movie while channel surfing late one Saturday evening, and was hooked from the first scene I saw.I had never been that impressed by Clive Owen - thought the best thing he did was his cameo on the Extras Christmas special/series finale - but from the moment I saw him on the screen in The Croupier I was captivated. Of course, it may be because of the shock of his appearance; the film was made more than ten years ago, and Owen was youthfully slim, and had bleached out hair. However, Owen did not rely on the superficial to create his character, Jack.Jack is a cold, distant, and - as we discover by the end of the film - amoral. Is this genetic, inherited from his father? Is it because of he is a writer, and he is driven to create something on the one hand derived from his life, but on the other unique and separate? Or, is it that the most significant thing about Jack is his amorality? It is the undercurrent of amorality, or, some might choose to believe, immorality that drove Film Noir, and this is why The Croupier was referred to as Neo-Noir. There is an eerie coldness and bleakness to the story, the characters, sets, lighting, etc. And the amorality tale is told with precision and relish by all involved. This is a great movie if only for the fact that it was so unusual for its time.Owen's performance is not the only one of note. The whole cast is excellent, with Genna McKee a standout as Jack's very moral girlfriend and the one true and tragic victim. "}{"Title":"Not bad if you have nothing better","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed watching this but it wasn't anything fantastic. The main character is flat and a bit too two dimensional, not much of a person. That was the thing most wrong with this for me. The scenes in the casino seem believable and are interesting. The small insights into people other than our hero are sort of interesting and compelling, but we don't get to explore them. In a way, that leaves it lacking human interest but it adds some mystery. It's got an exciting denouement that isn't ruined by piles of equally over-the-top violence. Other than that, the plot was good and it kept moving along. The acting was good, the characters mostly believable (except the main). It was fine for a lazy Friday night with a bottle of wine. "},{"Title":"Excellent father-son perspective","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie keeps 3 stories going at once with a great voice-over narration Jack writing his book, Jack's physical life, and what's happening in his book. The sense of Jack's own addiction to seeing people lose while trapped in their addictions to gambling, and his growing perception of his father's similarities to the punters, give a fascinating perspective to a world not so far removed from the daily distractions and petty addictions we all face. There is also a wonderful portrayal of disengagement, and an appropriately self-critical sense of not being able to fully engage in life's struggles, of not being able to withstand for the temptation to take the easy, condescending attitude toward everyone in life. Does the movie ultimately claim that nothing truly good ever wins, and that no good ever lasts? I thought that that growth in perspective alone showed an unstoppable trajectory beyond the fin of the film. "},{"Title":"Fine labour of love","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Say what you will about CROUPIER, but this film knows its world.  Every detail - from the seedy background characters of the casino to slick hands of the dealer - come to life seemingly without effort.A tight, minimal script - the film could almost be a stage play - highlighted by strong perfomances makes CROUPIER a minimalist treat. "},{"Title":"Quite original","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After Casino, which made a good point on Casino facts, we have a film with a more self-centered approach. The writer, who is also the croupier, combines the book writing with his own life as a croupier with a tendency to overcome the dilemma he poses  Croupier or Gambler, no third choice. Witty dialogs, less duration than the usual 150+ minutes Hollywood is trying to set as a standard in modern movies but really extensive use of this short time. Low budget and fair, if not poor, casting ( with the stunning exception of the protagonist who makes this film shine ) still don't dim the impression it makes to the audience. Surely an unconventional film. "},{"Title":"A struggling writer falls back to working as a casino dealer for inspiration.","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clive Owen (probably best known to US audiences as the star in the BMW Film series; also a bit part in The Bourne Identify) stars as Jack, a struggling London writer living with his affectionate but very straight-laced girlfriend.  On his father's suggestion, he takes work as a croupier at the roulette and blackjack table at a local casino.  Despite efforts to remain outside of the associated lifestyle, elements of gambling life slowly seep first into Jack's writing, then into his own life.  With stylish film noir hints, the story unfolds with a ironic sense of humor and very well-developed literary narration as we follow Jack down the path he initially resists, then accepts, and finally...The film itself is quite short but makes good use of each minute, and continues to growing and very exciting trend of British filmmakers and actors infiltrating the American cinema, adding sophistication lacking from most of the recent years' lackluster blockbusters. "},{"Title":"Riveting skillfully-directed low budget film","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very rarely I am surprised by a film. This is such a film. The background of the film is gambling, which I detest. For some reason, however, the film gripped me from beginning to end, which I find difficult to explain. Perhaps it's the realism of the film with the little twists which needs no gadgetry (like the South African lady being in cahoots with the hero's father all along). Perhaps the film-makers should learn that expensive props are as nothing compared with a skillfully-directed story. "},{"Title":"Tight, Dark and Literate","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very nice little film. It has touches of Noir and of course a great twist. Disregard the star ratings in the newspaper (two in my local rag) and catch this one. It's great fun and make nice use of Hemingway and a voice over telling the story of the novel.. "},{"Title":"If you didn't like it, you may be dead.  Or maybe just brain dead.","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A real treat. It's on dvd so go rent it on netflix or buy it.  You won't be sorry.  It has no machine guns or explosions but the characters are believable and you actually care if they live or die.  This is also a must see for fans of Alex Kingston, you won't believe your eyes. "},{"Title":"A fine little movie","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is showing as not released on the board but I rented this and  watched it today. I had been curious about it for sometime now and the wait was real worth it. The main actor was incredible. the script and interaction of character was very intriguing. I only wish Hollywood would make more movies like this. Wow. This took two years to get to the states? I want this as part of my collection now. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  great story, over the top actors.  The story kept me on the edge of my seat. This movie was recommended to me by a good friend and I am so happy she told me about it.  The story is about a writer in England that takes a job as a croupier (dealer) in a casino at the request of his father.  What follows are twists and turns that are unimaginable.  Take a date or a good friend, you will discuss it for an hour after the final credits. "}{"Title":"This Is Why I Go To Movies","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Maybe a dozen years ago, Siskel and Ebert were discussing one of the most valuable qualities a winning movie has felt life. You see the movie, you feel you know the place and the environment. So, you see a movie about gladiators, and you feel you know the life in that time, and in that profession.This is a fine film which deserves better distribution and more attention. The way it provides felt life is in the way it takes us into the world of the gamblers and the people who take their money at the tables. We learn the way gamblers cheat. We learn a bit of the croupier mentality. We see the way the public and private lives of the croupier blend. This is a British suspense film, which means, not a lot of suspense by American standards. When there is an attempt to rob a casino, we don't see bombs and bullets flying. It's a little too civilized for that. That's okay.There's a lot in the film to see, though, since it isn't filled with mind-numbing violence. You get the time to watch Jack the croupier change as his career steals more and more time from his writing. In fact, you see him become more like Jake, the character from the novel he's stitching in his spare time. There are a couple of small plot point problems I have with the film, but that may be from not following it closely enough. Jack comes into some money at one point, and he makes it clear in the narration that he can't spend the money, it could be demanded back from the people who gave it to him if their project collapses. By the end of the film, when the project has collapsed, the money drops as an issue. The final scene opens up more issues that couldn't be resolved earlier, so they hang a bit in the air. That's a small point, though. I have no trouble recommending this film, even if it's small, melancholy.It's a crying shame that you could make ten of these films for the price of a summer studio megafilm, maybe 20. Instead, we get a monster attacking a city or an asteroid about to collapse a monster who is attackng a city. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, stylish, intelligent","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie takes you right into the gaming tables in a very entertaining way. Interesting cast, good acting, good direction, great lighting effects..atmosphere to burn.  A very artfully done movie.  Show you don't need a huge budget to produce cinema superior to the big hamburger pieces of this summer like Patriot and MI Two.This movie is head and shoulders above those, by it's basic ingredients Plot, casting, script, direction. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A multifaceted one dimensional character.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A comment, not a review... Croupier is now showing in art film houses, and is worth a look. The movie belongs on the big screen and will not translate well to your 19 panasonic.The fine comments made by the person preceding this seemed to miss only the point that the croupier never gambled, but his action throughout the whole film was, in fact, gambling. The dichotomy was painfully obvious... a gambler who does not gamble continuously gambling with his fate by sleeping around, breaking every casino rule, risking death or imprisonment, all the while showing a painful lack of personality on the outside.The ending sort of fizzled into a TV movie ending, as if the writer/director had made their point and just wanted it over with. "},{"Title":"has its moments but falls slightly flat","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie reminded me slightly of lock stock and two smoking barrels, though i don't know why as they are not very alike..  the story was okay - it had several humorous bits and the characters were alright.  gina mckee is as always GREAT.  but there was something lacking overall and there was a believeability factor that was a problem.its not bad though, certainly better than most of the other films that come out these days. "},{"Title":"Hallelujah! Something to work your brain this summer!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Croupier is a thinking person's film.  The meat is in the script, which is packed with subtle meanings, double entendres and ironies. For example, Jack, our hero, prides himself in being honest, because he doesn't gamble and cheat like the people that he observes in the casino, but he deliberately makes up wild lies about himself, when people question him.  The woman who is trying to interest him in a dishonest business deal says that she only wants to use him, because he's the only one in the casino that she can trust, and so on.  The movie depicts real people with all their flaws.  Jack says very few people are good and those who are leave us early...the others of us who are flawed will die, but much slower.  This is a film of observance and participation, of good and bad, of glamour and ugly reality.  Just when you get comfortable with one aspect, a contrary feature is introduced that throws you off and you never know what is around the corner.  Kind of like Jack's life....you are worried for him during the whole film, although he is not the most sympathetic protagonist.In my opinion, not since David Mamet has there been writing with this much spark and intellectual depth and Croupier in some respects reminds me of The Spanish Prisoner.  If you like excellent writing, you should see this film or at least rent it when it comes out in video.  By the way, Croupier has been at my local theater all summer and the other night when I saw it, the room was pretty full...that's all on word-of-mouth. "},{"Title":"Moody, Atmospheric, Taut...well worth finding this movie","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lot of fun...moody, interesting and worth hunting down, as it's only in limited release.  Impressed with Clive Owen...he has an ability to imply subtleties in a plot that not always as it would seem. "},{"Title":"Owen is wasted in this film","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I suppose I didn't see the same ending as many other reviewers.One gent wrote this 'It's not the worst ending I've ever seen in a movie but I can't help feeling cheated by the last twenty minutes which sees an unlikely plot twist of Jack visiting a morgue along with some unlikely dialogue with a policeman . We're also treated to Jack having a telephone conversation which does seem ridiculous almost as though the screenwriter didn't know how to finish off the screenplay along with a faintly ridiculous final scene.'I agree. This film deserved a much better finale than it has. It pretty much ruined the movie for me.Last... is Marion's character bipolar? Or something? I guess I did miss that, as her mood swings were wider than the English Channel. "},{"Title":"REVISED Thinking-person's Twisty Noir","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Croupier is thinking-person's noir, very much like Spanish Prisoner or House of Games or Hard Eight. The voice over doesn't 100% work, but has some rationale as literally a writer's voice.While Clive Owens' intense performance is the primary reason to see the film, it does provide the opportunity to again see Alex Kingston in a role almost as sexy as in TV's Moll Flanders. It has a nicely complex plot that reverses and turns in and around and keeps you guessing and then swirls back again.It is worth seeing on a big screen.(originally written 5/2/2000)(revised 3/29/2008 as my version submitted on 30 November 2005 offended someone) "},{"Title":"Clive Owen Proves Once Again He's One of the Very Best Actors of His Generation","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Jack The world breaks everyone, and afterwards many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break, it kills - it kills the very good, and the very gentle, and the very brave, impartially. If you are none of these, you can be sure it will kill you, too, but there will be no special hurry.Croupier is a refreshing little indie film with a lot to admire in it. The plot is smart for the most part, even if it does drag towards the middle. The acting is all very good, but the stand-out is Clive Owen. 'Croupier' gains it's real power from the subtle yet marvelous performance by Clive Owen as the suave, cool but ultimately unhappy writer turned casino croupier. The plot has nice twists and turns, but really the best thing about this film is Clive Owen. Owen is an actor I recently gained a lot of respect for after seeing him consecutively in such great films as 'Children of Men' and of course 'Closer' for which he received an Academy Award Nomination. 'Croupier' is an interesting little crime caper, that although isn't big, spectacular and extremely exciting, offers first-rate performances, solid writing and decent directing. Grade B "},{"Title":"BEST OF BRITISH ??","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film that America taught Britain to appreciate. Like it's Get Carter stablemate, it oozes Britishness. It's atmospheric, well written and a tense film.It's got a fine cast, and Owen has already proved himself to be worthy of better things. The one drawback with the film is Owen's hat, that should be sent back to the 1980s. "}{"Title":"Best film of 2000","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Went to see this film today and I have to say it was the best film I have seen in 2000. By a long shot it is the most interesting and thought provoking.  On the way out of the movie everyone was talking about different parts of the movie and how they related it to the ending.  Go see it for yourself, I thought it was great, but then I liked the X-MEN too.  "},{"Title":"Solid British mystery thriller","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Careful drama about a croupier who starts writing a novel based on his experiences and also stumbles into a crime being committed. Raised above the average by the central character's philosophizing about his work and becoming addicted to watching losers. He never gambles - gambling is a refusal to accept reality. The plot itself resists the temptation to be overloaded with twists and maintains an element of the mystery thriller. Director Mike Hodges offers a modern movie that still shows his roots in films like Get Carter. The central character is at once a convincing, surprising and enlightening portrayal of the inner life of a croupier in London's seedy underworld. The humorous touches are well-done rather than overdone, although the film suffers from occasional unevenness.  "},{"Title":"Love it. Clive Owen full stop","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was the first film I saw with Clive Owen in it, and it was love at first sight. He does an excellent job in a role as a down-on-his-luck writer. I could easily imagine Humphrey Bogart cast in a previous era-immediately my mind went to In A Lonely Place.The atmosphere is spot on and that, more than the serviceable plot (cannot describe without spoilers), is what makes this film. Alex kingston is amazing as Jani, the gambler and classic femme fatale who reminded me of Angelica Huston's character in The Grifters-another excellent neo-noir film. Highly recommended for UK crime thriller, neo-noir, and Clive Owen fans. "},{"Title":"Smart Lipped, Atmospheric, and Suspenseful&#x85;Clive Owens Breakthrough","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the Film that is Credited as the One that Put Clive Owens on the Map. Director Mike Hodges had Been on the Map Since 1971 with His Neo-Noir Classic Get Carter. Hodges Never Quite Attained Anything Beyond Cult Movie Respect, but Owens, On the Other Hand, is Still On the Rise.It's a Smart, British-Neo-Noir This, With Voice-Over, Snappy Cynical Dialog, Icy-Cool Dames and Characters that Operate on the Fringes, Mostly Struggling with Life and Their Place In It. The Film has Atmosphere and Stunning Scenes in the Casino that Mirror and Reflect a Gaudy but Attractive World that is Forever in Reach, but Slippery.The Story is About a Writer/Gambler Who Writes but Doesn't Gamble and the People that Inhabit His Detachment. He Always Seems There but at a Distance, Observing, Making Notes, and Figuring Out the Odds and the Angles.It's a Slick Piece and a Low-Budget, Heady Art-Film with Noir Twists and a Suspense that is Sustaining. The Ending is Where Most Folks Cry Cheat as They Cash In Their Chips to Move On to Another Game of Cinema. But Odds Are as They Do, will Continue to Think About This Bit of British Sleight of Hand. "},{"Title":"I, croupier","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This interesting but flawed film is ultimately let down by its disappointing and unsatisfying final 15 minutes. Before that there is much to enjoy in this archly cynical tale of part time author and full time croupier, Jack, played convincingly by Clive Owen. Jack compartmentalizes his life, so much so that he almost comes across as being a split personality. But great interest is maintained by his personal involvement in events are combined with his dry detached observations of the same events.He has a tempestuous relationship with his wife, Marion. He claims to love her but has a brief fling with another casino worker Bella. She is promptly sacked from the casino but then turns up on Jack's doorstep to accuse him of getting her sacked. He denies this. but since we get no other explanation, we can only imagine she was correct.Then there's Jani, a south African woman, who appears to be heavily in debt and in real risk of physical violence or worse being acted on her. After a scene in which he, rather strangely, fails to sleep with her (although literally sleeping in the same bed as her) she offers him 10,000 for some odd and unclear casino scam. He accepts.Various more or less interesting characters and subplots appear along the way to kept the story moving. These all seem to be progressing to a powerful conclusion. Sadly, however, this is never realized. Instead the climax consists of not just one, but many, failed attempts to tidy things up.MAJOR SPOILERS The first indication of this is the shocking and unnecessary death of Marion, which seems to serve no other purpose than to write her out of a story after she has fulfilled her usefulness. No explanation for this is given and to add to the strangeness, the policeman in charge blurts out I loved her you know. A line both puzzling and almost unintentionally funny.As bizarre and shocking as this was, had the film ended here, it could have been filed away alongside certain enigmatic events, such as the payment made to Jack. Being unexplained, the viewer could decide for themselves. But instead we are spoonfed a 'feel good' ending which blandly and unconvincingly over-explains some things while leaving other things dangling.The payment turns out to be made by his father using his bride-to-be Jani as go-between. This explanation actually undermines the film before it since this subplot, which seemed sinister, now becomes cartoonish.Likewise Jack's novel is published (anonymously) and implausibly becomes an international sensation. This is unlikely since Jack's authorial voice is too dark and cynical for the masses. I did not believe it, nor did it fit the general mood of the film. Nor could I believe that Jack would just carry on a job he professes to hate when he is rolling in money.Finally we see Jack with Bella. Now they are together? Is this meant to be a feel good ending? "},{"Title":"Fun if you're not into being lulled","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Croupier is a kind of character study of someone I, at least, don't know personally. That in and if itself makes the film interesting. But there are plot devices and a noir lens on the events as they unravel. I found the film compelling. I never knew what direction we were taking while watching it. The director doesn't want you to easily identify with the main character and if you're ok with that, then you'll probably love this movie.  "},{"Title":"Croupier has the same feeling as The Stranger","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Croupier has a very similiar feel to The Stranger by Albert Camus. The sense of meaningless throughout and then the little bit of redemption at the end.  Amazing. "},{"Title":"Roll the dice--> Hold on tightly, let go lightly Mikes back","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wish Croupier could be heralded as the triumphant return of Michael Hodges (The Terminal Man, Get Carter, The Omen II, etc...). But alas, it is not. It is not his return in the sense that this is a bad movie. No quite the opposite, Croupier is outstanding, it has wit, it has one line zingers, it has dark characters that you can crawl into.No, Croupier is not his return because of the fact that few saw it, and most of those who did saw the film 2 years or more after its initial release.Croupier was so strapped for financing and distribution that it actually was disqualified from Academy awards due to its showing on TV.Oh well, the academies loss.Oh course to tell the truth, Croupier probably would have made little appearance at the Academy anyway because while it is a great movie it has more of a niche in the gambling, odds, math, more technical people sense.Therefore, it has the effect of a love hate relationship.Those who love the movie, really get into the dark life of a croupier, a dealer, who has a dark side that he cannot always figure out, a second persona as in Jack/Jake who is a writer, and the big urge to go for the big score despite knowing that casinos always win and that he needs to beat the system.In a way Croupier is like the movie Pi, both are best appreciated with math or statistics on the side. If you don't care about those topics it may not be the movie for you.Jake knows to play the odds and roll the dice. To hold on tightly, (but) let go lightly, do you? does Jack? does your average poker player?Viewed in the theatre in 2000 Rated 7 (the split factor lowers the rating) "},{"Title":"What a surprise find for the American audience","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A tightly written film with a plot that takes the viewer through many twists. If you enjoyed 'The Spanish Prisoner' this film is for you. Seek it out. Outside of LA & NYC, it may be hard to find. Hollywood missed an opportunity to satisfy the many viewers that are tired of their 'recipe for success' movies that encompass nothing more than in-your-face violence, foul-mouth teenagers, and prevalent illegal drug use. Ironically, the studios are now complaining about a lackluster financial summer yet admit that there was little material to work with. The entertainment giants need to 'think way outside the box.' This movie, 'Croupier' is fascinating from the opening scene. The ending is a little rushed, money was probably very tight. This is a substantial film none the less. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"The Gambler always becomes the Dealer, and the Dealer the Gambler.","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning  this comment may spoil the movie if you haven't seen it, so come back and read this after you've seen it!This clicked for me, although the plot was so convoluted and subtle, it has taken me 3 days to think it through.  I want to see it again, to confirm this hypothesis.In the end, the evil father uses his son, as well as a bunch of other bad guys, to accomplish his life's dream  the ultimate double-double cross. To do this he also has to use the good guys (Marion) who participate unwittingly by doing the right thing, and corrupts his son.At the same time, the son is able to accomplish his life's dream albeit Anonymously (The Croupier), but only by using the bad guys, and using up the good guys = and ultimately losing all the positive things in his life.So the bad-guy father, the ultimate gambler, ends up with everything he has ever wanted, but has totally corrupted his son, by becoming a dealer.  The son, the dealer, has lost what he was seeking (career, love) and, having been set up by his father, becomes a gambler.  "}{"Title":"Exactly what I like about small-budget indie flix","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It seems like the big-budget hollywood movies fall into a few categories -- remakes of older work, saving the world or overblown romance.But there are great stories to be told where there don't have to be explosions, cartoonish heroes or long sappy love scenes.  No great crime gets solved by plucky wisecracking reporter/ex-cop/private eye.  No one overcomes broken ribs and gunshot wounds to fight his way back to where the terrorists are hiding.And (most refreshingly) NO !@#$!@#$@ one-liner sound bites.Just an intriguing backdrop in which some intriguing characters are set in motion.  With good direction to keep everyone in character and moving properly, the scenario plays itself out intelligently. "},{"Title":"slight but fascinating little film","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nicely directed character study by Mike Hodges, about a young British writer suffering from a case of writer's block, and dealing somewhat with an identity crisis. He takes a job at a London casino as a table dealer (see Croupier). The job takes over his life, but he is  somehow able to turn it into a brilliant novel. "},{"Title":"Gripping.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I profess a certain fascination with the gambler's mentality, so it was easy for me to like this film. But it held my attention in ways that didn't have much to do with gambling at all. Interesting situations, good dialogue, refined film noir aesthetic. This is definitely London, England and not Las Vegas, Nevada. A few elements of the plot seemed contrived (it's all contrived, it's just not supposed to seem that way), but overall I would definitely recommend this entertaining meditation on fate and personality. "},{"Title":"It works, but what was the intention?","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Croupier is one of those films that you probably never wanted to see, but which are still worth the money should you get in by accident.Take an incredibly cool guy (you know, the type where you expect ice crystals to form on the forehead) and give him a job as a croupier, to allow him to act out that severe superiority complex he got.Then add some women who hang around for a chance to be mistreaded by said jerk, as well as some other people to act as props. Give them incredibly braindead dialogues, which sound like the characters have been fed on bad philosophical textbooks for too long.After that, all you have to do is to write a storyline that won't get boring and add a good amount of dark humor to the setting.Croupier managed to do all that. If you like satire, you will most likely like this movie. Nevertheless, you will always wonder if the makers genuinely tried to force some deeper meaning into their dialogues and narration. If that was the intention, it failed gloriosly, but in a satirical way. The pseudo-philosophical statements from the off are so shallow that it hurts to even consider them as serious. On the other hand the whole thing may be created as a satire in the first place, so there would be some meaning on a different level...Nevertheless, I'm quite certain that there will be people who are going to beat some sense into those senseless lines - even at the cost of mental sanity. It'll be great fun to see what those people will come up with. "},{"Title":"With a gripping story and sturdy direction, Croupier shows how good low-budget filmmaking can be.","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Croupier is what low-budget filmmaking is all about. It is one of those movies you'll never see because U.S. distributors think that putting out Dollman IX is a better financial investment than a fantastic piece of film work by a seasoned director.Croupier was shown as part of the American Cinematheque's run of Michael Hodges' work.  I won't profess filmic snobbery - I had no idea who Michael Hodges was and wouldn't have known him if he popped up in my soup. He's directed over 13 films for theaters and TV, including Get Carter (with Michael Caine), The Terminal Man (with George Segal), Flash Gordon, and A Prayer for the Dying.  He's certainly bounced around for years, but when he hits the mark he does it pretty damn well.  After watching Get Carter (immediately after Croupier), it was evident just how many modern films borrow from that 1972 thriller.  Croupier, made in 1998, is evidence that Hodges never went away, he was just ignored while he got better in the background.Croupier is a phenomenal piece of work about a novelist, cold and detached, who takes a job as a croupier in a casino in order to find material to write about.  He finds it, and finds that the world of the casino and its chaos invades his own.  As much as he tries to cooly detach himself as the observer, the freakish accidental nature of the casino throws his life into turmoil.  As a croupier, addicted to the high of watching other people lose, he never gambles, always calculating the odds so he never loses. But life and the casino are too similar and he's forced to deal with his world becoming one giant gamble.It's a complexity that only a mature writer could conceive, and only a mature director could develop.  It is a story that demands a subtle, deliberate guide.  The characters must be kept unaware of the other's motivations.  There are timings and attitudes that are revealed in the progression of the film that make each payoff worthwhile, but an amateur would be too eager to reveal them early.  Hodges does a brilliant job, taking Paul Mayersberg's screenplay and exploring its underworld with style.If you can find a way to see it, make sure you do.  It's what Rounders wanted to be, but was infinitely too juvenile to attain.  Croupier does not have U.S. distribution, so it's unlikely you'll see it, even on video. Make your inquiries.  Bang a drum.  Call Bob and Harv over at Miramax and tell them to hang up on Quentin Tarantino and go see who he learned from.  "},{"Title":"A black-and-white feel film noir, like The Hustler","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the title of my review I mention the feel of The Hustler, the classic movie about another sort of addiction (and alcoholism) with Paul Newman, Jackie Gleason, George C. Scott, and Piper Laurie. Jack Manfred is an analog to the George C. Scott character, constantly facing the harsh reality of his world and evincing a certain strength of character thereby. Croupier is lighter, yet it deals with several of the same problems faced in a world populated by addicts; plus it packs the added interest of a mystery. The performances are terrific, especially Owen's. As in The Hustler, the audience lies in suspense, weighing with the characters what is the right thing to do and hoping they'll figure it all out. ...For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2008 "},{"Title":"Simple Story Which Confuses Many","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm writing this review in response to those many I know and read reviews off stating they couldn't understand the film.Basically the ending he is with Bella not Marion so its not as if it was a dream etc. and with him saying his dad is 27 years away, he hasn't seen his dad for that long since he moved to england i presume.However... the importance of the phone call from Jani and his dad is to show that he gambled and took a risk in playing a part in this robbery... and throughout the film he believes he is in control but as a result he is shown that he was never in control and that his dad was playing him all along.His dad set him up to have the job, and his dad was behind the robbery of the casino, and his dad therefore got stinkin rich from it He is also shown as not being in control with the fact that the women paid 1000 more for his car then he managed to flog it for.Generally a good film though, worth a watch for any noir fans. "},{"Title":"Smart movie","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Classic British gritty thriller Croupier stars Clive Owen as a casino dealer who's endeavouring to get a novel published too.He's one of the best in the business at dealing and gets snapped up by a Casino after a period out of the business.Gina McKee is his other half who he lacks true feeling for, a fact which doesn't seem to particularly bother him.Alex Kingston appears as a mysterious South African who descends on his life with apparent ulterior motives.There are a few other characters whose respective involvement is initially deceptively benign but without giving anything away, the web of intrigue is well woven here and the ultimate ending is *very* effective.It's not the deepest story but it is exactly what it tries to be and it does it well. "},{"Title":"Plot holes do indeed spoil this good attempt at filmmaking...","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Read the other reviews...  There is a nice look to this film and the actors they try their best with the script as written but in the end, I was left thinking that's it?  Why did it happen?  If the script had been tighter and answered more of the questions posed in the film then I think this would have been a much suppier film.Still, It is something different and if you haven't seen it, it tries hard to be enteraining...  "},{"Title":"Dazed and Confused","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The main character in Croupier is a self-righteous introvert who says he is not an enigma but rather a contradiction.  Unfortunately, Croupier is also a contradiction - a film that started out with a purpose and ended up in disarray, a film with sustained suspense leading to a pittance of a climax.  Jack (Clive Owen) is the storyteller who wants to be a 'detached voyeur' to the losers who indulge in his gaming table but he finds an addiction to seeing other people lose.   Jack, in his erstwhile campaign to be the only honest dealer in town, falls for his split personality, Jake, who panders for dishonesty.  Jake is also the main character in a novel about the seedy casino business who also makes Jack's day when the novel becomes a best seller, read by one and all, including Jack's casino boss who doesn't see any connection to his own business. Marion (Gina McKee) is Jack's live-in girl friend who could be his conscience but would rather not, and belongs to him until he is unfaithful, in which case, she runs off with another man only to reappear a few frames later ready to absolve him of all his sins.  She also worked for the police force but has decided that being a store detective is more rewarding.  Then there is Jack's father who Jack thinks, ('wink-wink') is a busy entrepreneur but all the while believes is a low-account shyster.  Finally we have Jani (Alexandria Kingston), an older woman that Jack seems to lust for, who disrobes in front of Jack and spends the night in bed with him but nothing happens because Jack is too honorable and she isn't.   Croupier probably started out with good intentions and some good ideas such as  The gaming industry is crooked and one honest person's actions would lead everyone else to change.  Or there should be honor even among thieves.  Or Ernest Hemingway started out writing about cheats so why not make a movie about that.  Croupier manage to screw itself with so many complicating themes when they should have settled for only one or two and made a much more enjoyable movie.     "}{"Title":"Promise Without Payoff","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  CROUPIER underscores what's wrong with many European films.  It substitutes style for substance.  Artiste for true art.In this case, this character study of the life of a writer-turned-casino dealer has all the appeal of a television documentary.  It's interesting, if passionless.  I came away with feeling I learned something &#150; in this case it was that British dealers are not allowed to accept tips (as opposed to, say, the migratory patterns of Sub-Saharan waterfowl).The subtext of the telling thinly veils a screenwriter (Paul Mayersberg) who's clearly disappointed with his own agent &#150; a theme which culminates in yet another hole in this sieve of a plot.  On the other hand, I found myself actually enjoying the voice-over stream of consciousness at the gaming tables, even though the technique boasts the cinematic finesse of a chain saw.  I've often speculated that dealers view the gambling public with the codependent disdain of a seasoned hooker, and this film confirms my cynical suspicions.The role of the flirtatiously perky Marion (Gina McKee) is intriguing, yet in the end I was left shrugging with open palms.  Her actions/reactions often seem disingenuous as if, well &#150; scripted.  It's a shame, because this role could have taken this film to the limit.The problem with CROUPIER is that it tries to do too much within the context of the telling.  This is a setup that promises a great deal, but in the end delivers little.  With its multiple subplots and twists, there isn't sufficient screen time to fully realize the characters, and I was left not caring about any of them in particular.  A juggler with one too many balls in the air.  With sensible rewrites, this script might have actually transcended the austere acting style encouraged by so many European directors.And the steeled coolness of our hero, Jack Manfred (Clive Owen), also does little to evoke empathy.  The film alternates the polarity of his character from savvy insider to dimwitted stooge.  Certainly a man with his street smarts would've seen a lot of these plot points coming down Broadway (up Abbey Road?).  Time and again, we wonder, `What happens next?' yet the payoff often diminishes the protagonist's intelligence to that of a gullible patsy.Is it worth a look?  On the whole, yes.  But, I'd wait for the video.  That way, you can freeze frame McKee sans wardrobe.  "},{"Title":"Not really noir, but pretty close","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like films of nearly all genres (okay, maybe not anime or historical romance), but if you had to ask me what my favorite type of film was, I would have to say either gangster movies, war dramas, or films noir.  Croupier is not really a film noir, but it uses the elements of noir very well.The protagonist of Croupier Jack (Clive Owen), a would-be novelist who mentally narrates his life in a taut, hard-boiled style.  He lives with his girlfriend Marion (Gina McKee) in London (don't be fooled by the imdb title saying France, this is really a British film) and spends his days fruitlessly searching for writing work.  He dyes his hair blond and wears clothes that George Michael threw out ten years ago.His father (Nicholas Ball), a bartender at a South African casino, gets him a job at a London casino as a croupier.  When he lands the job, Jack assumes the alter ego of Jake.  He washes the dye out of his hair and wears a tux wherever he goes.  He also begins a forbidden affair with a co-worker named Bella (Kate Hardie) and is aggressively flirted with by a beautiful, mysterious South African gambler named Jani (Alex Kingston).  At the end of the day, however, Jack takes all of Jake's adventures and puts them into the novel he has finally gotten around to writing.The only real mystery to this film, besides how it will turn out, is who is Jani and what are her motives.  And since that's not really central to the plot, I can't really say this is noir.  However, this film does use several noir elements to good use (hard-boiled narration; cynical, world-weary hero; femme fatale).Unfortunately, the film is slightly flawed.  There are no stand-out performances by any of the actors, and the last twenty minutes or so of the film seems to disintegrate.  It's as if screenwriter Paul Mayersberg were told to wrap it up just as he had gotten two-thirds finished.On the whole however, Croupier is a highly intelligent, entertaining piece of quasi-noir.  I rated it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking, multi-leveled, amusing.","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  On the surface, about a struggling but promising writer (one assumes because of the interest of his publisher) who takes a job as a croupier.  Cannot tell too much more about the plot per se without ruining it.  Very interesting movie, and having seen it with a good friend we were not quite sure exactly WHAT happened - particularly in the climatic moment - but it would appear as though this movie does blur the line between story and story-within-a-story - is Jack's life as a croupier real (and part of the point is even if it were real it's still a story in a movie!) or is it all actually the novel he's writing?  Is it in some way a metaphor for the life of a writer? He controls the game but he doesn't gamble himself, it's all about watching people lose, etc...The very end of the movie where he no longer hears the sound of the ball and has become master of the game is particularly intriguing in this light...The screenplay doesn't hammer this point home at all, but does leave it's share of clues, particularly with it's cast of characters that are all a little too vivid to be taken as anything but...characters that might appear in a novel or screenplay.  I'd be very interested in how others interpreted this and those clues, and in exactly WHAT happens during the big heist. "},{"Title":"Boooorrrrinnng....","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't believe anyone found this so-called thriller exciting. It took way to long to build up to a pretty tame plot to rob a casino. The characters are in no way truly threatening. Some of the characters in Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels (especially Barry the Baptist) were way more terrifying, and they were played for laughs!! Sorry but this lame-o plot to rob a casino by making a 'scene' on the floor is too ridiculous to contemplate. And what exactly did his girlfriend do with the money? Why did she end up dead? Why was the cop investigating the case telling Jack, I loved her, you know... What?!? I did not think the voice over was effective, nor the whole idea of the Jack/Jake confusion.Unsatisfying and not recommended. "},{"Title":"Stylish and fun","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If Clive Owen is indeed interested in being the next James Bond then Croupier could very well be his calling card. This fascinating, stylish, slick thriller is James Bond Lite - the hero isn't a super-suave, womanizing secret agent...he's just super-suave and womanizing.Prior to this film I couldn't imagine Clive Owen as Bond. I still don't think he matches him quite well but it's much easier to form a mental picture after seeing him in a tux with slicked back hair and a British accent.Croupier is not a great movie but like Mike Hodges' other cult classic, Get Carter, it is a fun British caper with fairly good performances all-around, an intelligent script and savvy direction.Too bad it didn't make more of a to-do upon its release with the critics and audiences - however it seems it has slowly been gaining a cult audience like Carter and perhaps in thirty years it will be slightly more respected amongst the cinema elitists. "},{"Title":"Am i the only one who thinks this is overrated?","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Looking at reviews on the internet this film seems very popular. But surely some people will agree with me that the script is pretty dire? Clichd, unnatural dialogue. And th eplot was unreal - so he's suddenly an expert at card tricks after buying a book in waterstones? So that south African woman faed her injurie? His g/f just finds the money? Then dies for no reason? I was in love with her - who cares? The robbery gets botched then SA girl is happily married with dad? It just didn't link up or make sense. There was no real motivation for the characters, i didn't understand why any of them would be friends.What was good about it was the casino seens which brooded, sinister, and compulsive But this seemed to fall foul of classic British failings - a script that tries to be hip and cool but just comes across hollow. This film had nothing to do with writing.  "},{"Title":"hard-boiled noir drama","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Jack Manfred (Clive Owen) is a struggling writer. His dad refers him for a job as a croupier in the Golden Lion Casino. He sleeps with fellow croupier Bella (Kate Hardie). His relationship with girlfriend Marion Nell (Gina McKee) deteriorates. Gambler Jani (Alex Kingston) pulls Jack into a relationship and convinces him to be the inside man to rob the casino.This tries to be a hard-boiled crime drama. Director Mike Hodges uses the Clive Owen narration to bring about that sense. His style is more like murky 70s drama without enough flash to make it exciting. Jack Manfred isn't that compelling. He's too cool, too detached and too calm. After everything that happens, he's bemused. I can't really feel for this character. "},{"Title":"Puzzling","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a strangely subdued mood / character piece with Clive Owen playing a writer who takes a job as a croupier and begins to live the croupier's life as the life of the main character in a novel he begins writing. As such, there is a strong metafictional thread to the narrative.Unfortunately, both Owen's character, and his fictional character, are rather dull, and most of the people he meets are rather unpleasant. He gets involved in a low key crime sub-plot, and that's rather dull, too. Shady lady femme fatale Alex Kingston is both dull and unpleasant. Only Gina McKee, as Owen's frustrated ex-policewoman girlfriend, is even remotely sympathetic. And she gets killed, for no apparent reason.This small, mildly unpleasant film, served as something of a launchpad for Owen. Heaven only knows why - he's as wooden as a mahogany worktop. He has improved since, I'm glad to report. "},{"Title":"A wonderful left field surprise! One of the best British movies of the last ten years.","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Croupier' really came out of left field for me. As much as I love the original 'Get Carter' I couldn't off the top of my head name you anything else directed by Mike Hodges, and while I have probably seen Clive Owen in many movies, nothing he has done has made an impression on me. What a shock then to see just how good this movie is, and how impressive Owen's performance is. Guy Ritchie's overhyped 'Snatch' and 'Lock Stock..'  failed to entertain me, and Jonathan Glazer's  equally overrated 'Sexy Beast' was moderately amusing, but nothing special in my book. 'Croupier' not only wipes the floor with them, but joins 'Trainspotting', 'The Cement Garden' and 'Nil By Mouth' as one of the handful of genuinely GREAT British movies of the last ten years. The less you know about this movie the better, just watch and enjoy! A real winner this one. "},{"Title":"May have been ok for the 1970s....","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Read rave reviews about this film so was expecting something great - mmm.. not to be.  I really didn't like this film that took itself far too seriously.  The style and direction may have worked in the 70's but today it looks terribly clichd and hackneyed...agghh... a writer who can only write when wearing his trilby... an irritating voice-over... a sex scene that was embarrassingly unrealistic (spent the first few seconds thinking it was a rape)... reminiscent of an old episode of 'The Sweeney' but without the catchy theme tune! "}{"Title":"Cold, bizarre, but reflective of reality","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is no love in there.  You don't feel safe.  Everyone is SO cool! There is no reason whatsoever why things happen.  This gives me a sense that this movie is a total made-up.  However, if you neglect the whole plot and just spin out THE feeling you get from the movie, you feel like it at least says something about this world we live - selfish, blunt, and sometimes a little wild.  In this sense, the whole atmosphere the movie wants to convey and the place where the story happens, a casino, match.  Nevertheless, I don't want to live in that world.  After I see it, I don't feel like I have got anything from it.  Maybe a true story, but not a pleasant one. "},{"Title":"almost as good as The Usual Suspects","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am still searching for a movie to equal or better The  Usual Suspects. Croupier comes close (but not quite). That said, Croupier is a most excellent movie with fabulous atmosphere all the more enhanced (or perhaps because  of) Jack's voiceover narration... sort of like the third person sitting on the shoulder and guiding Jack, the movie, and the audience all along.The surprise ending was a surprise but a bit of a let- down... I mean, it could have been anyone... the trick is to make all be explainable backward. The film doesn't attempt to do that, and therein it stumbles toward becoming a great film.Nonetheless, a fabulous movie... definitely worth seeing at least twice. I will remember this one for always. "},{"Title":"Good movie...but way too many unanswered questions for me to fully endorse","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Finally got around to seeing CROUPIER, and I'm glad I did.  Although I also found way too many plot holes to buy the entire story (see snap23's review from 12/13/01--he nailed 'em all), the film had first-rate acting and looked great.  There's a bunch of decent UK cinema I need to sample, but it won't be exposed to me via U.S. cable TV.  We seem to get stuck with never-ending reruns of garbage like HEARTBREAKERS & THE NUTTY PROFESSOR.  Our loss.I also plan on checking out more of Clive Owen's work at some point (incl. the currently panned KING ARTHUR now playing in a U.S. multi-plex near you).  And as for Alex Kingston, I have but one word---WOW!  "},{"Title":"plotholes","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've read a fair number of the reviews now, although there seems to be way too many, so these words will hardly get that much attention. SPOILER ALERT Did I miss something.. or a lot of somethings? This movie looked like being a tight and clever little piece of Film Noir, Gangster Arthouse and whatever you're having yourself. However, after watching it the questions came flooding inA. Would Clive's girlfriend have sussed from the overheard answering machine message that a robbery was going down in the casino?B. Why if you were going to do a job in the Casino would you want to pay someone 20K to react when you cheat, when they would anyway? Furthermore, if you were going to pay someone off, the last person you'd pick is the honest croupier.C. It was out of character for Clive to behave so honorably in bed with Jani, after he virtually raped Bella.D. It wasn't clear to me what happened at the robbery. Did the police/ special branch foil it or not? If so why was his dad so happy?E. Who killed the girlfriend?F. Now that he's written his one book , anonymously, what's his future?G. Where did his dad get all the money to set up the sting with Jani in the first place, and, if he had invested so much, don't you think Clive would have received more than the occasional phonecall from South Africa.H. I thought with hindsight, that it was unlikely Clive would actually have applied for the job in the first place, given the sour relationship between himself and his dad.So that's my lot! DID I miss something? Maybe I'm just thick. Whenever you encounter a twist in the plot, like in The Others, you can resolve all the holes by thinking them through. That clever writer chap usually thinks of everything, but not so here... SNaP! "},{"Title":"not sure what all the fuss was about","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not sure what all the box office fuss was over on this one, other than a desperate search by an audience so starved for characters even marginally more complex than those of The Wedding Planner that even this mild fare will fill the bill. Breathtakingly less satisfying than the color noir films that one supposes inspired it in every way, Croupier plays like the second-winner at NYU's year-end undergraduate film festival. It is referential, pretentious and underneath its pose of sardonic detachment &#150; de rigueur on these well-trod boards &#150; is pretty damn sure that it is clever as all hell. The story holds together, but no one in it has any real charisma. The viewer has trouble knowing just what to look at in the brightly lit but dully colored boxes in which the story runs its course. The titular character glowers, poses and dyes his hair, but never becomes particularly interesting. The supporting characters don't really register. And the `shocking' twist at the end elicited, from one viewer at least, a quizzical yawn. Save this one for a night when sleep just won't come it won't serve as an evening's main event.  "},{"Title":"A very poor quality film","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is a third rate attempt at a compelling, moody thriller and fails miserably on all three counts.  It just about managed to keep my attention as the protagonist was seen slowly and predictably breaking all the life rules he had conveniently set himself at the beginning of the film.But it's in the last 25 minutes or so that things really start to spiral. A vaguely plausible plotline (and that's being generous)becomes completely rediculous as suddenly new characters appear from nowhere and random and bizzarre events are never explained.This wouldn't be quite so bad if the scripting wasn't so cheesy, the acting so wooden (despite a strong British cast) and the direction so uninspiring. This is not an example of good British film making nor indeed should it make Tarantino bat an eyelid, at least not in comparison to his earlier work.My advice in this case, if it's hard to get hold of, don't waste the effort. If you're a Brit like me and it's in your local video shop, steer well clear.  Perhaps head to the video entitled American Beauty - now that's an example of great British direction.  "},{"Title":"Pretty rubbish I wouldn't bother... includes some spoilers!","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning contains spoilersI felt no sympathy for any of the characters, incl the main one, who gets over the death of his girl friend v.quickly, (but it's OK as he shacks up with an ex prostitute from the casino he works at). The main character is portrayed as this wonderful intelligent writer who gets drawn into a web of deception, all the while there is running his monologue of the book he is writing. I can't say I would buy the book, a much better premise perhaps would have been if the voice-over (which annoyingly cuts in to narrate any bit of the film that you might not have understood, via his book) would've had 52 different personailties... to represent each card in the deck, but I digress. In the end there was a twist, whereby the main character has been setup by someone close to him, but as I disliked his character so much by this point (I found it impossible to like anyone in this film, the characters are all one dimensional zombies) that I really didn't care, and was glad the film was over.Plus points The English actress from ER doing a dodgy south african accent Minus points An irritating film  "},{"Title":"Croupier","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Quite the spectacular film. Very realistic, tons of motifs and for all of you analytical types, has some subtle motifs to be caught the third or fourth time around. Some graphic scenes, but not too much. I find that the movie puts things into sudden perspective. It almost throws you into this casino-dealers life and makes you feel like you know him. The protagonist seems simple but as the movie progresses one detects a subtle complexity to his nature, especially when confronted with difficult choices.The end is the best part; after the film you'll be wondering, what are the chances. Very Entertaining. Expand your mind. "},{"Title":"A good try","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, the people here made a good attempt at something that would make you believe that the world they depicted of casinos was genuine. It was sadly just a cameo montage of pop belief. But the acting wasn't bad. And the style made you think your money was well spent.The story, what story? I like people having a go but why not do the research? Stupid violent scenes just to broaden the viewer group!?!?I had a nice time in the cinema but this is just a performance vehicle for people who want to be serious about movies, Still a bit of fun tho 6/10 "},{"Title":"Frigid Nastiness","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Down-on-his-luck writer with writer's block resorts to a job as croupier. Through a rather conventional take on art imitates life and vice versa, said writer unblocks when he discovers his subject in the croupier writer becomes croupier, croupier becomes the book's narrator, and a book/movie is born, which is what we are supposed to be watching (O the irony). But in order to write one's own life, one has to at the same time both live it and be a detached observer of it. Thus the film's central tension how long will the sullen, sunken-cheeked snot, who eschews gambling and holds himself above the compulsions of others, remain immune? Does ice really flow in his veins? Can his contempt for humanity, all those who greedily grovel before him every night, really prop him up and sustain him?Well, of course not. Any experienced movie-goer knows this overconfident fool's jig is up the minute the femme fatale takes her seat at his blackjack table, cleavage exposed and dressed in black, no less. She's ER's Gina McKee (is the price of admission really worth seeing her in the buff, nipples plump and taut?). The only question remaining is who is setting him up? The movie relies heavily on this for its major punch line, which, unfortunately, by the time it arrives, has been practically neutralized by a) too many plot details left dangling (who really killed Marion? who ratted on the reformed hooker and why?); and b) the movie's overwrought chilly pretentiousness.And the voice-overs when will they ever learn to use them sparingly, if at all? Spoken narration superimposed on image violates, distracts from, cinema's inherent visual language; the action might as well be interrupted by explanatory written placards as in silent movies. Every beginning writer learns show not tell, yet voice-overs do nothing but tell, tell, tell. Here they're particularly pretentious and obnoxious because the protagonist is supposed to be a writer.Style eats into content, all in the name of greater seediness, in a self-conscious exercise in film noir. This little dark underexposed flick tries too hard to be bad. Americans are much better at this sort of carny; director Hodges would have done better to memorize American B-movies of the 40's and 50's. An essential requirement in noir is at least one incorruptible innocent, inevitably sacrificed. But the one shining beacon here isn't bright or shiny enough to lend the noir around her its requisite doom and gloom, without which it's simply dreary mush, contrived seediness for seediness' sake. "}{"Title":"Drivel","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you ever go to a movie and suddenly a voice-over starts telling you what you are seeing...look out. It's usually a sign of script and direction shortcomings. I suspect the original writing doesn't have any voice-over, but after the movie is shot they realize nobody can tell what the heck is going on so they decide to explain it all in a disembodied voice...coming from one of the character's minds.Dish up the same kind of drivel for the Croupier. Unexplained violence...beatings that are never investigated, ugly sexuality which comes across as either pedestrian or rape-like. A main character that amazingly has incredible (read not believable) talents not only as a mathematician but as a writer. Does any of this equal a good movie? Not really. Plot points are so obvious that this can hardly be called a thriller. But imagine a guy who has no background whatsoever suddenly writing a best-selling book...all the while holding down a job in a casino. Well it's so silly you almost want to weep. The movie soundtrack drones away...Chapter 8, blah blah blah..., Chapter 9, blah blah blah. All to keep us on track as to what is going on.Maybe if you knew how to gamble or play cards, or play roulette, you'd find some sort of interest in this movie...but don't count on it. Don't expect to learn anything about the human condition from this film. Don't expect to learn how to gamble, or write, or love either. In fact the best bet for this flick is leave it on the Video Rental shelves and put your money on the lottery. "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Interesting little film about a croupier (dealer at a casino) getting involved in a caper - sort of.  I won't give away any more than that.  The film is well-done, well-directed--but it's way TOO quiet!  All the twists and turns in the last section are done so quietly and played so blandly by the cast, that they carry no emotional impact whatsoever.  Also Clive Owen in the lead is not a good actor.  He's handsome, but bland.  Still, it was interesting.  Worth a look--on video.  Don't shell out $9.00 to see it. "},{"Title":"Mixed","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well it appears, if you're from the UK, you hate this movie and if you're from the US, you like this movie. Well I'm from the UK and I dislike this movie. Yes some of the acting is good, and the casino scenes are tense and interesting, but there are too many predictable/strange parts. I found some of the scenes badly edited, (where was the quality control?). Most of the storylines did not make scene, especially the robbery. I found the main character boring and predictable, etc etc.So much more could have been made with the Casino scenes. "},{"Title":"Maybe I just didn't get it...","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I respect Mike Hodges, and liked Get Carter immensely for it's bleak outlook, but The Croupier just seems like a particularly dull ITV drama.The reserved, cold acting isn't just the preserve of the lead character, it's spread to the entire cast, meaning there is nothing to contrast Owen's character with.None of the characters evoke any kind of feelings at all, except boredom. The ending of the film is also untidy at best. The camera work etc is fairly good, but if you want to see Hodges best watch Get Carter, don't bother with this uninteresting, unimaginative trawl through emotions he covered better 20+ years ago "},{"Title":"Too Hollywood","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Independent film that would make Hollywood proud. The movie substitutes good looks for good acting, a cryptic plot for a good story line, and self-absorption for character development. May be I missed something, go see it for yourself.  "},{"Title":"The Tedium of Obsession","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I'm an enthusiast of films that are works or art, that show life as a constructed work of  art and that incidentally bind the two together by making the protagonist a writer (or  filmmaker). This film joins my list of several hundred such.What makes it unique is the notion of fate made explicit as our croupier as someone  who not only watches people lose in a system that is stacked against them, but becomes  both obsessed with and dependent on that watching. His watching is both the subject of  the movie and his book. Naturally, we discover that he is being watched and has a  manipulated fate as well. Some women move in and out of his life.Very solid stuff that could have made a great film. But when you make a reflexive film  about watching, it should make US into the watchers. Instead, to accompany this  promising situation is a collection of voiceovers. It just doesn't work. And the players  don't seem to know that this material is layered and requires some acknowledgement of  the layers -- like Cate Blanchett did with the similarly obsessive gambling/watching film  Oscar and Lucinda.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"As convincing as a three dollar bill.","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Hideously bad movie purportedly about a croupier who wants to be a writer and the incidents that make up casino life. Moves at a snail's pace. Dull, dull, dull! Virtually everything about this movie is amateurish and unconvincing - with one very notable exception the performance of Clive Owen, who is like a Rolls Royce purring through a slum. Advice for the casino sequences were allegedly provided by a professional but judging by the way in which they are handled they were completely ignored by the director. While casino staff may very well be a different breed to the rest of the world they are nowhere near as witless and booooring as the characters presented in this script. Odds and ends are thrown into the script in an attempt to provide it with convincing background but would appear to have been jotted down in a list on a cocktail napkin. For anyone who makes a living in the casino business (as this writer has for the last FORTY years!) this is a poverty stricken depiction of their world which even in the farthest and most obscure reaches of England has NEVER been this wanting! An appalling, insulting mess of a movie that plods and plods and plods along to an idiotic and unconvincing ending. American critics loved it. "},{"Title":"Poopy-eh!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a poor, poor film.  Can't believe it's the same Mike Hodges who gave us Get Carter.  This stultifyingly cliched, over-arty, poorly acted and poorly scripted mess isn't worth wasting your time on.  I actually laughed out loud at a couple of scenes (which I don't think was the director's intention), and was filled with utter relief when the credits rolled at the end.  I truly cannot see why so many critics across the globe have raved about it. get rid of it! "},{"Title":"All style, no substance","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This low-budget film about a writer who goes to work in a London casino has an awful script, wooden performances, and not much to recommend it. Of course it will appeal to highbrows for whom mainstream is a curse word, and who automatically add 20 IQ points when they hear a British accent (apologies to Jeff Foxworthy).The script is full of holes (has he written a book yet, or not?), cliches (relationship trouble she works days, he works nights), and provides so little insight into such basics as character motivation that it requires a voice-over narration just to move the story along.In an attempt to keep the audience from dozing off, it includes a street fight scene that is about as realistic as a high school production of Julius Caesar.If your idea of scintillating dialogue is I'll see your ten, and raise you twenty, then RUN to see this movie. Otherwise, save your money. "},{"Title":"Post-modernism at its worst","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly disliked this artsy fartsy opus (as did my wife).  First of all, the plot doesn't hang together; many loose ends dangling and events unexplained.  The 'main event' in the drama is preposterous and without any convincing motivation on the part of the players.  But hey, this is post-modernism, so the writers and producers must have assumed that plot consistency didn't even matter.The main character, as portrayed by Clive Owen quickly began to irritate, with his pose of detached irony (as if we haven't seen it all before). His one display of emotion is uncontrollable rage, when he gets into a fight and administers a sadistic beating to his would-be attacker (how charming!). Otherwise he remains aloof and detached.  He doesn't seem to care much about anything -- certainly not for the various women he interacts with, nor does he have any friends.  The drama takes place in oh-so-hip and oh-so-decadent London (shades of Hanif Koureshi).  Everything is relative, and of course 'Society' is to blame for its corruption of the 'natural man' (ho hum).But essentially, the main character has no morality whatsoever and, excepting a couple incidients of uncontrolled rage, almost not emotion. The problem with such amorality and 'existential ennui' is that you can't really a have drama; if nothing matters, then there's nothing to resolve.  And ifthe croupier doesn't care much about anything, then we can't care about him as the 'plot' (such as it is) unfolds.The post-modern pose of smirking irony which this film so exemplifies has become tedious.  The old film noir detective movies of the late 'forties were all about morality.  Things got resolved, justice was done.   My advice forget this piece of dreck and go rent a good Raymond Chandler film. "}{"Title":"A loser","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  CROUPIERWith a knowing voice-over, a casino setting, and a story-line  involving a mysterious woman and criminal activity, Croupier was possibly intended to be an updated UK version of 40s and 50s clubland movies like Gilda or The Blue Dahlia. But it fails at almost every level, and emerges as a clumsily plotted, heavy-handedly directed, laughably portentious farrago, with a cast of deadly dull characters. Had it been fully released in 1998, when it was finished by director Mike Hodges, it would at least have had some novelty value,  but having only now (summer 2001) been given a general release it is simply the latest in a string of  British movies about the seamier side of London life.Like other films in this Brit-noir genre, Croupier - and especially its main character Jack Manfred, played by Clive Owen - aims at a cool, sardonic tone, but in the main achieves only dour charmlessness. Gina McKee as Jack's girlfriend Marion , Alex Kingston as enigmatic gambler Jani, and Kate Hardie as fellow-croupier Bella, provide ample female interest, but little glamour, despite a few nice frocks (black, naturally) and a dash of nudity. Practically, the only liveliness in the film is provided by Nick Reding as Max, another croupier,who has a refreshingly down-to-earth view on life. Max is also given about the best line in the movie - when Jack is intoning Hemingway's famous quotation about being stronger in broken places, Max reminds Jack that Hemingway shot himself. The term existential has been applied to the movie, and at every turn it tries to underline parallels between gambling - with its winners,  losers, chancers and cheats - and everyday life; but this is hardly an original thesis, though it might seem profound  to some younger members of the audience. Another, intellectual aspect of the film is that Jack is using his experiences in the casino as material for a novel. I think more might have been made of this in order to enliven the film, with perhaps some scenes being ambiguous as to whether they were factual or extracts from Jack's book (though this would have been derivative of The Usual Suspects).For me, the best aspect of the movie are the gambling scenes in the casino, which are well shot and gripping, but don't compensate for the various downsides.         "},{"Title":"Should've been titled Crappier.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A down and out writer becomes a casino dealer and gets caught up in---I really don't know what. This movie is neither a mystery, thriller, nor high drama. It is just about a guy who says a lot of stuff, and is a really good dealer. Clive Owen behaves so emotionlessly flat, that I can't tell if it's deliberate. There is so much talking, and no real point. I really must have missed something about the ending, cuz I was dead lost. Plus I really have no intention of wasting another 90 minutes of my life watching this again just to get some clarification. Maybe it's good, and maybe it's bad. My initial reaction bad.The most shocking moment in the entire movie was seeing a BUTT-NAKED LIKE A NEWBORN JAYBIRD Alex Kingston (Dr. Elizabeth Corday on E.R., and gentlemen, her breasts are *hypnotic*.) Unfortunately, she displayed her surprisingly glorious nudity in a less than entertaining movie. "}]