[{"Title":"A great film, lost to most","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"51 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The fact that so many people hated this film comes as no surprise to me, but not, I believe, because it was a bad film. On the contrary this was a superb film that has, for those willing to look beneath the surface, a much deeper story to be told.Simply put, the film is not 'feel-good'. The subject matter is disturbing, and challenges one's view of religion and belief in the existence of God and Satan.As we are taken through the film, the director immerses us in the world Maya Larkin (played very well by Winona Ryder), a person who has previously been demonically possessed. She discovers that a semi-famous author, Peter Kelson (played by Ben Chaplin) is about to become the antichrist incarnate, and obviously sets out to prevent this event.The plot develops slowly, but inevitably. Excellent use of sound and lighting create a chilling atmosphere, in which it becomes difficult to separate reality from the horrors which the victims have to face. As we approach the climax of the film, things start happening faster and faster, and the plot becomes intentionally a bit confusing. As an audience we are made to empathize with the lead characters as they realise time is running out and their course of action remains unclear, and that all they can do is ride along and try to figure out what is happening before it is too late.The themes drawn upon in this film are very similar to those in End of Days but with far more emphasis placed on the psychological drama - more like Stigmata - than on the action and special effects of End of Days, making Lost Souls in my opinion a far better film.Be prepared for a major plot twist at the end. The director does not state the obvious, yet we are given clues throughout the film, many of which make little or no sense at the time they are portrayed, but which snap into place if you get the ending. The sudden conclusion and lack of any final explanation communicate the intent clearly enough and left me feeling a bit blown away - although in my opinion left most of the audience feeling confused and let down, expecting more and wondering what happened.If you can appreciate a well crafted, and subtle film, and prefer a movie that makes you think, and does not necessarily have happy messages, then you should enjoy this film. It forces you into thinking about it, and by no means classifies as light entertainment. If you go to movies to be entertained by action and easy to follow plots, then stay clear - this film was never intended to appeal to most people.Personally I have seen far too many of those films in recent months and found Lost Souls to be remarkably refreshing. "},{"Title":"End of the world as we know it, and I feel... bored.","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Look, I'm a sucker for a good eschatological/apocalyptic thriller. Something totally fascinates me about that stuff. After the sheer stupidity of the illogical 'Stigmata' and especially the lame-brained 'End Of Days', I had a lot of hope for 'Lost Souls'. Sadly, it fails to deliver. Hollywood disappoints yet again!Winona Ryder plays a troubled young woman who believes that Satan is planning on being reborn in human form, and kicking some Christian ass. Ben Chaplin plays a crime writer who Winona thinks is the Devil in waiting. Instead of just shooting him and doing the world a favour, she forms an uneasy relationship with him. What exactly she plans on doing is hard to say. That's the whole problem with this movie. The 'Se7en'-esque visuals are more important than a decent script. The characters motivations don't really make sense, and as soon as the plot looks like it's going to go is some kind of interesting direction, it doesn't. After a certain point you give up even caring what happens, surely a bad sign in a movie where the whole fate of mankind is at stake?!Ryder used to be effective as alienated teens back in the late 80s in favourites like 'Beetlejuice' and 'Heathers', but lets face facts, movies like this and 'Girl, Interrupted' show how limited her range really is. She hasn't grown as an actress and is basically just not believable.Ben Chaplin showed some flair for light comedy in 'The Truth About Cats And Dogs', and had a few outstanding moments in Terrence Malik's wildly uneven and overrated 'The Thin Red Line', but he fails to interest here. Ryder and Chaplin don't show any on screen chemistry or rapport, and this sinks the movie even further into terminal boredom. The talented character actors in the supporting cast - John Hurt, Kevin Baker Hall, Elias Koteas, John Diehl - are all wasted by the dull and cliched script. Add to that one of the most anti-climactic endings in recent memory, and you've got yourself one lame thriller that is a real lost opportunity.If movies about Satanism, demonic possession, Occult conspiracies and/or The-End-Of-The-World-As-We-Know-It are your scene, avoid this snoozefest and go straight to 'Rosemary's Baby' and 'The Exorcist', both stylish AND genuinely scary classics. After that try the hugely overlooked 80s supernatural Demi Moore flick 'The Seventh Sign', and the more recent Christopher Walken vehicle 'The Prophecy', or the fantastic Spanish comedy/horror 'The Day Of The Beast', both from the mid-90s. These movies all feature more intelligence, originality and suspense than 'Lost Souls' could ever dream of having. "},{"Title":"How Can You Go From Little Women and Washington Square to This?","Date":"24 July 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Winona had just had a big hit with Girl Interrupted, and Ben Chaplin was impressive doing Montgomery Cliff's The Heiress part in Washington Square. So what possessed them to do a cheesy Exorcist meets the Omen and Rosemary's Baby formula movie? In any case, the movie has a good opening twenty minutes and promises real scary stuff to come. You don't know anything about the characters or what's going on and that makes it a little frustrating, but you can forgive the movie for that. Unfortunately, the movie becomes less scary the more the silly plot and characters gets revealed. Probably the silliest moment comes when Winona tells Ben that he fits the profile for the antichrist because he's never been baptized. It is hard to see how Winona Horowitz could say such a thing with a straight face.Apparently the first time director is a great cinematographer. That is usually not such a good thing. Yes, Stanley Kubrick did make the transition, but most cinematographers are too concerned with the lighting and have no idea how to direct actors. That turns out to be the case here, where everybody is just doing monotone line readings.I confess my love for Winona, but even her presence only makes the film barely watchable and not quite enjoyable or fun. "},{"Title":"lost cause","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What is the point of this film? To tease the audience? This entire film does nothing but say hey hear is a bunch of scary noises and screams something interesting is happening behind this door but we're not going to show you! the audience waits for hours for something that finally happens in the last five minutes of the movie. When it finally happens it's two easy and very uneventful. (Spoiler) it would have been more interesting if this man became the devil earlier on in the movie. That would have made it harder for Winona Ryder's character and it would have provided at least an once of suspense for the audience. Instead we were all like...What...that's it? this movie had the potential to be a better film but it just simply wasn't. We're suppose to be dealing with an extremely evil power and all it took was one bullet...come on! Ryder should have stolen a better script. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated horror films of the decade.","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I can make absolutely no sense of each and every one star review which calls this film horrible as well as the 4.7 rating. It is unfathomable to me. The cinematography alone should warrant a rating of at least 5. This is a subtle religious horror flick that I have to assume people rejected because of the lack of scares and gore. However, the performances, direction and cinematography are all top notch. Though Lost Souls was marketed to look like a demonic scare-fest, I would compare this film to the likes of The Exorcism of Emily Rose. In fact, I would not be surprised if the makers of that film borrowed quite heavily from this one, both in style and effects. The premise is relatively simple A small religious sect believe the coming of the anti-Christ to be near, sitting dormant in a human body. The biggest praise that I can bestow upon this film is that over 12 years later, this film still looks like it could have been made yesterday. In fact, it looks uncannily more modern than a large majority of recent horror efforts. Lost Souls simply does not age. Another popular factor in why this movie is so poorly rated and received is the fact that audiences just did not like the ending. I feel sorry for those that do not. The ending is original, and though it did not satisfy blood thirsty Hollywood horror fans, it is very much appropriate for this film. To put it simply without spoiling anything faith is the central core to Lost Souls, those with it and those without. That is what this ending plays off of, and I think it's perfect. Please do not let any of these negative reviews divert you from seeing this film. This is not End of Days or Stigmata. Lost Souls is not camp in the slightest. It is a dark, beautifully shot and well acted film that is significantly ahead of it's time. 7/10 "},{"Title":"I have mixed feelings about this one","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In this horror effort, Winona Ryder (my has her career fallen)  plays a young woman who once went through an exorcism (?) and now finds herself as the one person who can prevent Satan himself from occupying the body of a normally decent enough New Yorker (do decent New Yorkers exist??) Ryder does her best with the supernatural material and Ben Chaplin as the perplexed chosen one is decent. The story and direction (by first time director and award winning cinematographer Janusz Kaminski) rachet up the thrills and suspense and arent afraid to offer a downbeat ending. Sometimes gets obsessed with style over substance however. GRADE B- "},{"Title":"fairly run of the mill movie","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Was this made for TV? Probably went striaght to rental. It's ok for a time filler, nothing much more. Couple of scenes may make you jump, or at least curl your lip. Not tooo slow going, just managed to keep my interest long enough until the anti-climatical ending. It's like reading a book only to find that the last page is missing, but then reaslise that it makes no difference...  "},{"Title":"Take a second look","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The majority of the reviewers of this film were looking for a movie that isn't there at the expenses of seeing the movie that is. Lost Souls is a tightly wound question balanced on the edge of a knife Is Maya a psycho killer or the savior of mankind? Given the fact that most psycho killers believe they are saviors of mankind, I opt for the psycho killer interpretation. The movie, which is a continuous balancing of the question, never letting up on clues that raise the question further, opts to let us decide. It allows Maya to walk away from the car after murdering the person she had convinced was the devil. At the fade out, one wonders how she had managed to get away with murdering her parents and how many more she will murder before she is finally stopped.Ryder, whose eyes have always been a vehicle for her acting, uses them chillingly in the scene in which she murders Father Lareaux. Studying Ryder's evolving facial expressions as Maya finds out that the Father won't support her delusions, takes action, and then gloats at the outcome will convince anyone she's crazy.An incredible performance. Or the way she handles the scene in which Kelson, her intended victim, casts back to his past to test if he really could be the devil. Kaminski bolsters it with the imagery of a deer caught in the headlights of an oncoming car unknowingly escaping, for the moment.Adding up the body count just bolsters the psycho killer interpretation. By her own hand, she kills the murderer George Viznik, brain dead; Kelson's girlfriend, Claire Van Owen; Father Lareaux and Kelson himself. Murders at her instigation the investigator, John Townsend; Kelson's uncle/father; and Kelson's brother.Take a second look. Watch Maya's eyes. Ask yourself at every turn, is this about the devil, or is this about the here and now, a psycho killer walking invisibly among us. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Lost Souls'","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was a fairly good Devil story and certainly worth renting.GOOD - Decent suspense and cinematography and kudos for pointing out there IS a Satan and converting a non-believer to that fact. Winona Ryder looks very pretty, too, as good as I've seen her. This was before her real-life problems put her in the news and her career took a nosedive. Also the profanity is pretty low in here.BAD - A somewhat-disappointing finish; some skewed theology (but not as bad as most movies); same cliché scenes where a person should have been shot but the shooter hesitates way too long and is stopped; priests winding up as villains.OVERALL - it's not a bad film and could have been really good with a tighter script and a little more suspense at the end. "},{"Title":"Terribly boring","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is crap! This is a horror about a person being possessed by the devil(How original!). Unless you have trouble sleeping please don't watch it. When I watched it everyone who was watching it with me walked out because it was boring. I stayed until the end because I thought something scary was gonna happen but nothing ever did. "}{"Title":"A new amazing cure for Insomnia!!!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There is nothing to say about this movie.  IT SUCKED.  I love Winona Ryder, and that's the only reason it even gets a 1 out of 10.  All the action you see is in the preview, so just watch that.  Do not go see this piece of c**p.  Go see Digimon instead.  It's bound to have more action and mature themes than this 'G' movie. "},{"Title":"A cure for insomniacs","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw a preview of this film in the movie theaters and I couldn't wait to see it. However, it didn't stay at the local theater long enough to catch it. That was the first omen of things to come. I just caught this film on cable, September 2003, and discovered that I saved myself the $8.00 theater ticket!!! This is the most boring Antichrist movie I have ever seen. It didn't totally suck, it just lay there waiting for someone to give it an injection of vitamin A (Action)!!! The camera direction and cinematography were good, casting the movie in an eerie, washed out color, that actually enticed me. The initial plot was well thought out, but then it disappeared into a vast vortex that sucked any life out of this film. The talented actors, Wynona Ryder, Alfre Woodard, John Hurt, etc. are completed wasted on this pitiful script. And how much eye makeup would a formerly-possessed-teen-now-turned-satan- slayer, really be wearing? They caked on the smoky brown eye shadow on Wynona Ryder to intensify her gloominess and fear, note to director we've seen it before in Beetlejuice. And explain to me how the possessed, murdering professor, introduced as the catalyst for this story, had managed to wake from his coma and escape the high-security mental hospital, where he is housed, and show up at the home of a murdered priest so that he can terrorize the heroin and the vessel of satan, with a knife. Only to collapse on the floor with writhing contortions and blood leaking from his body. What the heck was up with that? I'm still scratching my head at the positive reviews posted for this film. I was greatly disappointed and have not seen a good horror movie since the re-release of The Exorcist. "},{"Title":"no wonder she turned to shoplifting","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Enjoyable work from Winona Ryder, as usual, but in her most unsmiling role I've yet seen, as an ex-demoniac hot on the trail of the Antichrist.  (This flick proposes the adoptionist theory that the Antichrist wasn't--or won't be--born that way, but will be adopted as such.)  Directorial debut of Janusz Kaminski, frequent cinematographer for Stephen Spielberg, Lost Souls has a dark, spooky, almost monochrome noir look that's quite well-done, in addition to being appropriate to the subject matter.  Though not laden with, or reliant on, special effects, the story is utterly familiar and ends in an anticlimax that one supposes is meant to be ambiguous did she imagine/ hallucinate the whole thing?  No, she didn't; couldn't have, since other characters also had experiences apart from hers.  That makes the ending totally inconsistent with with the rest of the flick, which had it that the budding Antichrist couldn't be harmed with a gun or a knife.  So, what?  Was she using silver bullets?  Like The Ninth Gate, this is a waste of a talented director and a talented star in a well-made film of an absolutely inconsequential story.  But then, I knew I was in trouble from the opening frame, which features onscreen a TOTALLY FICTITIOUS quote from Deuteronomy, Book 17! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Lost","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have written comments twice, and only feel compelled to write when a film is particularly bad. Lost Souls fits that bill exactly.I don't need to repeat many of the comments - just read on and you'll see why this one is a complete waste of time. Winona Ryder was the only reason I thought about watching it in the first place, but unfortunately she couldn't even help it out.I read somewhere in the comments someone watched it 4 times.I felt like a lost soul halfway through it once!  "},{"Title":"Interesting Antichrist Horror Film","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is for the over 13, those under may not understand all the nuances. The film starts off slow but builds quickly to capture your attention. At the end, one still does not know if good triumphed over evil or not. This film is OK for teenage get-togethers or college groupie sessions. It is a decent Anti-Christ film. It leaves room for a sequel, Lost Souls 2. Winona Ryder and Ben Chaplin are the two main characters. It is difficult to imagine Winona Ryder as a champion of Christ to save the world from the new Devil. There is no room for chit chat for movie watchers. However, this film is less memorable than the Omen and quickly forgotten after 20 minutes of watching it. OK for horror, not gruesome. This horror deals with the supernatural, not gore. Three thumbs up. "},{"Title":"A misfire but still delivers as a conventional thriller","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Lost Souls' is an interesting misfire despite the fact that it is a good thriller. It starts as a really ambitious film dealing with the coming of the Antichrist, or at least the strong belief of Maya Larkin (the character played by Winona Ryder) that this coming is actually going to happen very soon.The problem I have, however, is that we do not really get to know Maya Larkin very well throughout the movie. We watch her in her quest but we do not understand her well and we doubt her motivations. She is not believable as a person of faith with the necessary experience and background dealing with the 'evil' at hand.The film starts well creating a dark foreboding atmosphere but stays at a level of a suspenseful thriller without any theological or philosophical implications. One would think that if so much is at stake then something more should be needed in order for us to root for her the way we did for Fathers Merrin and Karras in the 'Exorcist'. "},{"Title":"Kaminski's attempt at film-making!","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Janusz Kaminski is better known as Steven Spielberg's cinematographer in films like Schindler's List. In this film which aired late last night, this story is about Ben Chaplin, a psychologist Peter Kelson, and Winona Ryder, a French Catholic School teacher named Mia Larkin. Mia arrives and asks him about true evil. Slowly, the film does unravel to explain why she meets with him in the first place. I don't want to ruin the story but Peter Kelson's life is about to take a turn for the worse. Unexplainable things begin to happen to him and slowly a truth about his parentage comes up. There are lot of questions that are left unanswered. Maybe it's because it was edited for television. I would have liked to have seen more in the final scene in the church before the end of the film. I think the lack of explanation doesn't help the movie and the ending is rushed to finish the story. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really don't have any idea what some of the other reviewers are talking about. There's no hidden depth to this movie at all. It's shallow, pretty to look at, and nothing happens.There's absolutely no ambiguity about who the devil is. I mean, Bros' long theory on Winona being the actual devil is good an all, except near the end when he shoots his two accomplices and they were offering him unlimited power. yadda yaddaThe devil is almighty, but apparently he can't survive a gunshot wound, or prevent the clocks from turning 666 just as he makes his vulernable transofrmation. Wow! Thank the heavens for digital clocks, she might not never have known!STUPIDEST MOVIE EVER "},{"Title":"Misunderstood.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is fantastic, well portrayed (although obviously somewhat rushed), and has great music.  The plot and ending are often misunderstood, leading to bad reviews.  However, this movie is truly a landmark in filmmaking and psychological thrills.   "},{"Title":"Missed Opportunity For Amazing Cinematographer","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Maya Larkin is the assistant of an exorcist priest. One day, she deciphers what she thinks might be a code in the revelations of one of the possessed victim she interacts with. A code that may lead to unveiling the identity of the man about to become the anti-Christ.I remember seeing this movie at the time it came out and being terribly disappointed and frustrated because there were flashes of brilliance beneath all the crap. The perspective of seeing the first movie directed by one of the greatest cinematographer of our time, Janusz Kaminski, was enticing for any film buff. Furthermore, it was around the turn of the new millennium and so a lot of horror and occult movie fans were waiting to see a great film tackling those genres. It just seemed... topical. Unfortunately, we were treated to several attempt who all flopped and Lost Souls was one of the worst tries.At the heart of every movie is a story and here, the writers have done an awful job. A bunch of amateurs wouldn't screw up this bad. Who opens up a movie with a fictional quote from the bible? What kind of awful writer can't come up with genuine material from such a huge book? But here, the writer have come up with an awful story that goes like this. Satan is going to possess a man (born of incest) on his 33rd birthday. Wow. The central character in the story is Maya Larkin, played by Winona Ryder. I was never a big fan of Ryder but recognize her appeal as a generation X icon. But this role probably was the final nail to her declining A-list status. Larkin is a poorly written character that doesn't make any sense. She doesn't act like a real person nor does her presence around people of the church feels remotely believable. I think Ryder could have done better here but certainly, she started at a disadvantage due to writing. Opposite Larkin is Peter Kelson, a writer who specializes in demystifying the mind of serial killers. This secondary character is less sketchy and comes alive thanks to actor Ben Chaplin. At the time the movie was shot, Chaplin was an unknown actor. This was on the heels of his role in the acclaimed Thin Red Line. I must say that Chaplin's performance is one of the few redeeming qualities of this movie. He is always believable and his acting in the final scene is what makes Lost Souls still memorable to this day. Surrounding these two characters are a bunch of nonsensical characters who act pretty like pawns. Most are played by crappy actors although we get two amazing veterans as well in key roles. Philip Baker Hall and John Hurt are wonderful actors but here, they had nothing to work with. Their characters are sketchy, incongruity abounds and it looks like they mailed their performances. Aside from Chaplin's performance, the other saving grace of this film is the cinematography but here, we have a mixed bag. Many scenes of exteriors and interiors have a jaw-dropping beauty and ethereal quality to them. This movie, it must be said, has aged very well in this respect. There's a timeless quality to the cinematography that is certainly due to director Janusz Kaminski. One of the main person responsible for the look of several Spielberg movies, among others. Many scenes are delightful and atmospheric. However, this is a mixed bag. Every scene where tension should be present pretty much flops. For instance, all the exorcism scenes are awful. And seem to come straight from a FOX occult show like the X-Files, using black and white image and devoid of absolutely any impact. You never feel scared. Worse, it doesn't even feel tensed. As a viewer, you just sit there and remotely watch was is happening. Kaminski is also totally unable to film kinetic scenes. Any scene where a car bumps into something, or people draw knives or guns is sketchy, unfinished, amateurish and devoid of any life. Much has been said of plot twists within the film. You can read about those in the Lost Souls forum on IMDb but really, none of the theories hold of to any scrutiny. What we have here is not ambiguous writing with possible twists but just plain bad writing. The final scene impacted me as a viewer but can't save a movie that has a nonsensical plot that isn't even remotely based on genuine religious history. It's just made up stuff by awful writers, turned into a movie y a first time director who was way over his head. It's still heartbreaking because there are things Janusz Kaminski obviously excels at but the overall direction of a film was too much at this point. Maybe a more solid script would have helped him. Since then, Kaminski has been back to his cinematographer gig alongside Spielberg. He never directed a movie again but here we are, ten years later and it appears his next directorial effort is in production. Hopefully he learned from the previous experience!Avoid Lost Souls at all costs, or skip to the final scene. "}{"Title":"Problematic, but watchable","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The reasons why Lost Souls was badly regarded become pretty obvious when you see the film. There are two that come to mind. It is stupid, and not exiting. On the other hand, it's not exactly unwatchable either. If nothing else, at least Janusz Kaminski's antique looking photography makes a nice picture, but in fact Lost Souls did a bit more for me, only a bit though.Maya Larkin is a teacher at a seminary school. She and her Catholic colleagues are convinced that Satan is about to enter human form, more specifically, the body of author Peter Kelson. His name was mentioned by a patient in a mental ward who was subject to an exorcism that went wrong and left Maya's tutor Father Lareaux on death's doorstep. Now Maya is going after Peter, hoping to find him before Satan does.One of the reasons I like Lost Souls is sort of a matter of personal taste. I've always loved Winona Rider, she has a great screen presence and her body of work shows a wide variety of faces. One could argue however that this is her most superficial role, but even so, she is not a lazy actress. Too bad the script didn't give her quite enough of a character.There are three things that Lost Soul could use; a brain, an energy boost, and perhaps another ten to fifteen minutes in running length. The ending is rushed and is about as anti-climactic as cinema can get. When I see this kind of thing happen, sometimes I want to think that maybe there was a longer ending planned, but something went wrong in the editing room.None of us can ever know. What we do know is that Lost Souls is dumb, and while it is probably destined for obsurity, it's not unwatchable. "},{"Title":"Frightening and scary!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"   This movie was one of the few that really scared me. It has many moments of actual horror. You can feel the horror surrounding you. It swallows you, almost. Maya Larkin (Winona Ryder) was once possessed by demons. She now helps priests in performing exorcisms. When she finds a name in a numerical code, she must hunt down and convince a skeptic that he is destined to become the anti-christ. This was a very creepy movie. I like the camera-work in it aswell. It makes it look like an older film. I especially like the ending. It was dark and gloomy. I thought it was great. This is a scary movie that people will look back on one day and see it as the year 2000's THE EXORCIST. Altough it got little time out in theaters, this is a movie that I feel will be something some day. LOST SOULS 5/5. "},{"Title":"What an awful movie","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, this may be the worst movie I've seen all year. The dialogue is horrid (example Guy points gun at other guy, other guy's brother breaks gunmans neck. Other guy Thanks, bro! - this all takes place at a yuppie dinner.) The plot is pretty pointless and full of holes. The ending is the *worst* ending of the year, hands down.Don't waste your money on this one, guys. "},{"Title":"This movie was horrible","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was horrible.  This was a rip off of The Exorcist.  There was absolutely no point to the movie, and so many different plots were presented but never emphasized!  Pointless and weird happenings would occur with no explanation, the characters would talk about things we don't know about and/or will never know about, and the entire movie turns out to be a confusing, pointless, let-down.  Not only was there no character development at all, but on top of that the acting was pretty terrible.  The only two good points of this film where Philip Baker Hall (a phenomenal actor) and the cinematography.  The cinematography was fairly decent.  With limited scary parts and no plot or point at all, Lost Souls scores a very shady 1 star. "},{"Title":"On Ryder","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Will Miss Ryder ever make another good movie again?  I went to the The Exorcist and it was excellent.  I went to Lost Souls thinking I would see something that would be as good.  What a disappointment.  The quality and acting looked tired as if little effort was put into the film. "},{"Title":"Deliver us from this Awful Movie","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, I like Ryder a lot.  But I even have to draw the line at this pathetic attempt at entertainment.  I went to this movie to enjoy suspense and horror and ended up confused by both the ending (I won't ruin it for those that might want to see it) and why I paid what I did to see it.  I was scared and on the edge of my seat more in The Little Mermaid than I was in this turkey.  Even a nude Ryder wouldn't have saved this one.  I'm sorry that I waited nearly a year to see this movie.  In a nutshell..it was boring, long, poorly filmed, and barely had a plot to follow.  Save this one for cable, but only if there are no good re-runs on.   "},{"Title":"just awful","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this film allong with the matrix and this film was the worst . Wynona Ryder's talent is wasted in this horror flick about a man who is goning to become the antichrist on his 33'rd birthday. The plot sounds good but it is wasted with the shots of exorcisims and flashbacks of young Wynona Ryder being exorcized and the shouting of a young girl in a diner chanting  Jesus is dead. . If you want waste your money see this one but if you want to be scared rent the new exorcist and watch that in the dark "},{"Title":"Save your money, seriously, don't even rent it.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Throughout the movie I was rather entertained. Granted, there were cheap thrills and a few startling moments, it was a humorous movie. I think that about all horror movies so nothing is special about this one yet. Truthfully, I don't have much to say about this movie. The ending sucks, it is the biggest let down of any movie I have ever seen. The whole audience had no choice but to boo this movie as the credits began to roll. I would not recommend you see this movie, ever. It's not worth the money, go buy a can of paint, I guarantee you'll enjoy watching it dry more than this movie. "},{"Title":"Lost Common Sense.","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lost Souls (2000) Dir Janusz Kaminski / Cast Winona Ryder, Ben Chaplin, Phillip Baker Hall, John Hurt, Elias Koteas The subject of demon possession worked to great extent in The Exorcist but since then too many films have attempted to copy it and never coming close to its greatness. Title could have referenced redemption but more than souls were lost in this clown act. It opens with an exorcism in an institution. It is believed that Peter Kelson, a young writer who has written books on evil and will be possessed. Winona Ryder delivers him a tape of the failed exorcism but playback reveals nothing. The woman in the room next door can hear it perfectly. Too many silly moments and little character development. Directing by Janusz Kaminski is stylish with tremendous production but the ending uses problematic issues of violence. Ryder delivers a laughable performance. John Hurt does his best in the role of a Priest but it has been conceived countless times by other actors leaving him with nothing to do other than follow the motions. Ben Chaplin is flat and only serves as a possible romantic interest for Ryder. Phillip Baker Hall is wasted and has performed better in more detailed roles. The Exorcist is perhaps the best this sort of sub genre can achieve, and this junk never comes close. This film is an uninspiring mess that should be lost down a deep dark hole. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"MAKE UP YOUR OWN MIND... i liked it","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Flawed, certainly. Could've been better, but this is, in my opinion, much better than most of the reviews give it credit for. It does have a creepy atmosphere. I thought Winona and Ben did good jobs with their roles. I like the reviews theory which stated that the 2 characters were twins and she ended up the Antichrist, this would've been a good addition to the plot.... As for the downbeat ending - I liked the fact that it was left to just acting and editing as opposed to special effects. If it had been a full on fx-fest at the end people would have complained about the end. It reminded me of the end of the daddies of all Antichrist movies, The Omen, where in The Final Conflict, Damien is dispensed with relative ease. The end was in keeping with the rest of the film and if you bought into it up until this point then the end will suit. From my point of view, if you buy the whole theory on the arrival of the Antichrist, then like any new arrival - they are at their most vulnerable upon their entry into this world. Hence they can be dispensed easily. Anyway, it was creepy, It had some good artistic moments, the acting was okay and the end was fine. A good to average entry into this genre and it didn't try too hard. "}{"Title":"Depth, not pizazz","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Those who want a rip-off of Rosemary's Baby (as reviewers have called this film) would do better to see The Astronaut's Wife, although neither film, in fact, has Rosemary's innovative every-day-ness.  What Lost Souls has going for it is its dark sense of style, its plot (young man is brought to realize he may become the vessel for Satan's return to earth), and its ambiguous ending, which leaves open the possibility that all these people are delusional.  This may not add up to much for most people and I don't think I'll find it especially memorable myself, but it is the details that made the film for me  the way in which Ryder insinuates herself into Chaplin's life, the slightly-amused-at-himself way that Chaplin searches around his bed for a pentacle (a gag with a big pay-off later), and the confusion (especially in Ryder's character) between vision and reality.  It's not an occult thriller for the ages, but it's definitely worth seeing--especially if you appreciate variations on a theme in a genre film, and aren't insistent on seeing something Totally and Completely New. "},{"Title":"A Light Fare...","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one of the latest of the Antichrist stories.  This is a light fare of moderate pace.  A kind of short story about an unsuspecting high profile and very successful psychologically illness/crime writer.  This prolific author finds himself in the middle of a bizarre set of circumstances where it is revealed to him by a strange young woman (Winona Ryder) and her associate (Elias Koteas) that he is on the verge of being possessed, inhabited and taken over completely by Satan.  With Satan possessing his being, the author, Peter Kelson becomes the Antichrist.  Because of certain genetic, social and family situations concerning Peter Kelson, he is the perfect vessel possession by the Great Lord of Darkness.  Not particularly fast paced, but very dark and abit meloncholy.  This event must be stopped before the author's 33rd birthday.  The rest I leave up to you...the viewer. "},{"Title":"Give us a break!!!!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If it were not for the suspense the film created regarding what would happen to Kelsen, I would have given this movie a 2. The filming is good, actors are brilliant, but the story is old. If the movie started good, it ended very bad indeed.I have one advice to wrote the film script - stop picturing the devil as a complete moron. Why would he change the car clock to 666 to get caught and shot after 1000 years or waiting and all that trouble to find a suitable and perfect body.If the film without the last 20-30 minutes deserves a 6 or 7, lets minus 3 points for such an unimaginitive and ok, everything will turn out good in the end, even if we are fighting Satan himself - because we are so intelligent and such a pure human race ending and you end up with a generous 4 score.And it could have been less if I did not have a sort of crush for Winona!!!!?!!!?!!? "},{"Title":"This film clearly shows Kaminski's influence by Roman Polanski","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen this movie four times, I finally feel I am in a position to comment intelligently on it.  The reason for delaying my opinion was that I wasn't sure how the ending fit in with the rest of the movie.  This film clearly shows Kaminski's influence by Roman Polanski, who has been noted for abrupt endings, particularly in the case of The Ninth Gate.  However, in this movie, unlike The Ninth Gate, the abruptness of the ending is clearly the only logical conclusion given the premise established by the screenplay.  John Hurt is perfectly cast as the battle-tried and wounded priest exhausted beyond comprehension by combat with Satan.  He seems to me as believable as Max von Sydow in the title role of The Exorcist, although we know less about the character in this movie.  Wynona Ryder gives a competent performance in the lead role, though it might have been better-handled by a more seasoned actress, and the character deserved fuller development in the screenplay.  The black-and-white opening titles are quite compelling, as are the black-and-white, stroboscopic exorcism sequences.  All in all, the cinematography is outstanding, with the film quality ranging from finely-detailed color to grainy, flickering black-and-white.  The screenplay, with the exception noted above, is also generally quite good, although the story line is fairly predictable.  There are a few logical implausibilities, the most notable one being that although Peter Kelson's uncle had been priest of the same congregation for many years, and his brother a member of that same congregation, Peter Kelson yet had no clue as to what they were really all about.  This of course could be explained by some kind of deception on the part of the congregation, but that is not indicated in the screenplay.  Overall, I give this movie a rating of 8 and recommend it to those interested in the genre. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, glossy, supernatural thriller","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (Possible spoilers)&#145;Lost Souls' stars a suitably haunted-looking Winona Ryder as Maya Larkin, the secular assistant at a bungled exorcism. Having been once possessed herself at an early age, she is uniquely motivated to anticipate demonic events. From a code jotted down on sheets of paper in the possessed man's room, she learns that the Devil is about to manifest himself in human form, then the identity of his chosen victim (sceptical novelist Peter Kelson, played by Ben Chaplin). As the hour of reckoning approaches, she battles to persuade him and the church of the truth.The debut director of &#145;Lost Souls', Janusz Kaminski, is responsible for the cinematography of &#145;Saving Private Ryan' and &#145;Schindler's List' so he certainly knows where to place his camera and light his actors. The photography here is gorgeous, even on a second-generation review copy, favouring a resplendent palate of reds and yellows. Whether or not this adds anything to the presumably sought-after atmosphere of culminative unease is a matter of opinion. It might be argued that the richness of Kaminski's imagery, and the &#145;warmth' it engenders in the viewer, actually work against the sought impact. The director might have taken a leaf from David Cronenberg's book, where a much colder palate and clinical composition within the frame frequently serves to inculcate a sense of alienation and terror. At the heart of this film lies the doomed author Kelson and, with Larkin's help, his journey from outright disbelief to numbed acceptance of the dark forces that threaten to overwhelm him. Its success stands or falls on how convincing his change of mind is, and although the transition is managed smoothly enough, Chaplin's slightly perplexed, then stunned, manner hardly reflects the horror that faces him. One can't help imagining the greater soul-searching that would have gone on if the role had been played by John Hurt, who has a minor role at the start as Father Lareaux, one the original exorcising priests. (He then briefly resurfaces later, possessed himself). Hurt's soulful and battered face would have made a far more convincing receptical for spiritual distress, but would have hardly made good box office for the youthful viewers &#145;Lost Souls' sought to impress.As it happens this film was indifferently received, the reasons not hard to find. Despite all of the flashy techniques employed, and the excellence of the cinematography, the set pieces inevitably disappoint. There's a feeling of  tiredness, of deja-vu, that none of Kaminski's efforts can quite dispel. Only with one or two scenes and moments does he succeed, creating any real frisson. Kelson's disturbing ride in the lift with his next door neighbour, for instance, where he is accused of being a &#145;noise maker'; or the giant close up of a knife tip threatening Larkin's iris during one of her hallucinations  - an image that Dario Argento would have been proud of. At other times, the inspiration is less original. Thus, we are confronted by blood seeping across the floor - as in &#145;The Shining' or key words written backwards (this film's X-E-S recalling the R-E-D-R-U-M, from the same 1980 film). There are also hands stretching through walls (shades of Kaminski's compatriot, Polanksi, and &#145;Repulsion') as well as the more obvious and laboured inspirations of &#145;The Exorcist' (1973) and &#145;The Omen'(1976). Ultimately these elements, some more assimilated than others, add up to a distinctly minor effort.Not all the weakness of &#145;Lost Souls' can be put down to such unimaginative &#145;cribbing'. Why, for instance, having established that Kelton has been named as the anti-christ elect and knowing that a &#145;time of transformation is at hand', does Larkin not immediately associate the two facts? Instead, she and the writer go out to seek out more clues in the house of a deranged deacon - as if further corroboration was really needed. (Such a redundancy does, however, set up a knife chase with the possessed killer from the beginning). Then again why at the end of the film, after the climatic confrontation, do none of the satanists bother to chase after Larkin and Kelton after they escape out in the street? Such indifference to the fate of their leader seems unaccountable.Kelson's final acceptance of the supernatural reminds one of similar educations forced upon the heros of Hayer's &#145;Burn Witch Burn!/Night of The Eagle' (1961) or Tourneur's &#145;Night of The Demon' (1959). These are much more successful films, also ones in which the hero's reason and trappings of civilised logic collapse before overwhelming fear and belief. In comparison to these earlier works ultimately what most marks out &#145;Lost Souls' as a film of its time is its ending - one which, presumably, further depressed box office receipts. The downbeat final scene is actually one of its better plot points; by refusing the audience a reassuring coda to what has happened, it succeeds in being disturbing where the previous flashy in-your-face drama and horror largely has not. In short this film entertains passably, but hasn't worked too hard to provide anything original or unusual. In the crowded genre of exorcism and devil-possession films, it's hardly enough to turn a head. "},{"Title":"unadulterated cack","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this film with high hopes, I was well up for a good supernatural thriller, I was disappointed.  I'll give it a couple of good points, yes the sound and lighting were good, but there is no plot progression, from the start of the film she knows the guy is going to turn into Satan, they then bum around for a while, the odd possession occurs and then it ends.  It goes NOWHERE! "},{"Title":"Exorcist Rip off!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films ive ever seen. Winona Ryder doesnt seem to be doing good on the film front lately and the ending is enough to make anyone yawn. This is a cheap Exorcist rip off that has a bad plot and depressing charactors do your self a favour and DONT rent this its a complete waste of time. 0/10! "},{"Title":"Winona, Good. Cliches, Bad.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think I could see where this movie was coming from a mile away.  Not to be so obvious, but this was probably released to coinside with the re-release of the Exorcist in order to cash in on public interest.  I wouldent immediately peg it as a carbon copy, it definately stands on it's own for some originality.There are a veritable rogues gallery of cohorts and conspiritors the lead character must contend with.  His interaction with them is skewed and confusing.  The reckless plot spares little indication of of any individual's past or the source of their convictions.  Ryder's is the worst, a former demonicly possessed youth with a tramatic upbringing, her true motivations are barely addressed.  The question why so many people were given advance knowledge of this prophecy or why they chose to seek it is given trivial consideration.This is film from a first time director and a highly accomplished cinematographer, which is clearly evident from it's highly stylelized and disturbing appearance.  If you're interested in that and Ryder's decent performance have a gander at it, if not don't expect much. "},{"Title":"Bad Film","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was not disturbed by the subject in any way.  The film is full of cliches already used by other thrillers and secret societies' films.  I was able to predict almost every cue point in the film, so, no surprises happened for me. "},{"Title":"98 minutes of movie, 30 minutes of fun","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie on DVD with very low expectations, and indeed my expectations came true for the greater part. One of the first scenes was rather good and I spotted an actor best known from a part in Miami Vice as a crazy killer. After that you can and will fall asleep for 50 minutes, the nasty brown colors and Winona Ryder who did come off the ship from alien 4 unfortunately are not the stuff that will keep you awake. Set your alarmclock though for the last half hour or so, the finale is - surprise- quite good! "}{"Title":"A walk slowly into suspense","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A well done film.  It does not exceed expectations nor does it fail to entertain, although the ending takes away from the impact.  Did the director needed to get the film in under two hours. This film is not for the young nor for the faint of heart.  A must see for people who enjoy this genre of film.  "},{"Title":"Another Satanic subject failed attempt","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It seems rather incredible that so many years after The Exorcist and Rosemary's Baby the artwork of the back sleeve of this DVD/VHS still has to recall these two masterpieces so it can grab some sort of attention. Guess the whole genre still has to feed of these two in order to make somesort of impact with the public.  No wonder however,  for this film much like Stigmata, End of days, Ninth Gate, even the Devil´s Advocate brings nothing new to the genre. And that is a shame, since this should be disturbing, interesting and ideal film subject matter. Nevertheless this is not to say that it is entirely bad. The director/cinematographer goes about his task  very professionally. Ben Chaplin is rather cool, perplexed  and slightly upsetting in his role but Winona Ryder is completely out of her depth and rather unconvincing in hers. It really has not been her year. John Hurt one of pet favorite actors... well it hurts me to see him taking on these rather empty roles. And this one well taken care of could have been right up his ally, juicy, meaty and nasty. The ending ... well let´s just say that this movie pushed itself into a corner in the sense that the end had to be the end. Rather dissapointing and not that original, scary or creepy in any case. "},{"Title":"Complete waste of time","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The idea of the movie is good, which is evil becoming flesh... But the execution, story telling, characterisation, etc. leave much to desire.  Somehow it was very disappointing. Nothing scary, even though I saw the movie at nite with lights off (well not completely, since that's not so gd for the eyes!). For those who have not seen it, please don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Complete waste of time","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The idea of the movie is good, which is evil becoming flesh... But the execution, story telling, characterisation, etc. leave much to desire.  Somehow it was very disappointing. Nothing scary, even though I saw the movie at nite with lights off (well not completely, since that's not so gd for the eyes!). For those who have not seen it, please don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Serves it's purpose","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Lost Souls is a victim of bad buzz.  After being delayed again and again by New Line Cinema, they finally dumped it in the theatre (for about a week and a half).  I didn't see it until it arrived on DVD, but I enjoyed it.In a nutshell, Saten is coming to Earth to take over the body of a human.  Winona Ryder knows who it is, and tries to do something about it.  Strange things happen, gloom and doom abound.  Lost Souls is in the same demonic family as Stigmata and The Ninth Gate (and those can be traced to the grand-daddy of demon possession films, The Exorcist), but Lost Souls has one thing going for it that Stigmata and Polanski's film don't have.  Director Janusz Kaminski.  After serving as director of photography for Steven Spielberg on such films as Saving Private Ryan and Schindler's List, Kaminski crossed over into directing with this film, and it shows his work.  Lost Souls is unique in its genre because of it's film style.  The film is moody, dark, and devoid of a lot of color.  Watching Lost Souls, you feel that Evil is afoot, and ready to break into our world.  I like his style of filming, and look forward to seeing more of his directing work in the future.Is Lost Souls great?  No, it's merely good.  It's not likely to stick with you for long after its doom drenched climax (which, by the way, fits the feel of the film to a T).  If you like this genre of movies, I definitely recommend Lost Souls.  My grade  B  "},{"Title":"Very close to being a good movie, Winona looks great.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Satan is to be reborn into a man who has no idea this is going to happen, but others are aware, and plan to either prevent it or kill him.The best thing about this movie is Winona Ryder (who looks better than ever btw).  She plays a Cassandra role in this movie, in which you might reasonably expect her to be annoying, but this is not the case.  The editing was shockingly bad at times, and the plot ran thin, and muddy more than once. A shame as this was close to being a good movie on an old theme. "},{"Title":"A Great and Unappreciated Film","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just finished watching this superb and exquisite piece of celluloid and felt the need to comment on it. A majority of people hate this movie (the box office numbers don't lie) and most have written it off as yet another cheesy Exorcist or Omen rip-off, when in fact it is anything but. I don't want to sound like a cliched hackneyed reviewer, but I must say that this movie had it all. Great story, brilliant direction, disturbing visuals, and some of the finest acting in the last year. You have to hand it to the director for using Winona Ryder's brooding acting talent to her advantage. This film is superb in every manner. The visuals are very much like Saving Private Ryan or Schindler's List. (it should be noted that the DP on those films is the director of this film) What a remarkable debut by a true talent. In time this film will be appreciated for what it truly is and not for what it seems on the surface. I'm hoping that the director is not deterred by the moronic and inept American audiences and continues to make films.I give this one * * * * * * out of * * * * *  "},{"Title":"Look past what's on the screen....","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When watching a movie like this one, you have to look past the usual stuff that the studios insist on including just to stir up box office.  I, for one, saw in Mya's character, a woman scared by what was happening and unsure of her own sanity.  Ditto for the character of Peter.  If a stranger approached you on the street, would you believe them right away?  As for everyone saying this movie borrowed from others, what movie hasn't?  I liked the subtle approach this movie had, not the in your face style of End of Days or the vomit spewing, head twisting gore of The Exorcist.  Each film covered the same material but in different ways, and with so many films duplicating their predecesors, movie-goers should really look at each one individually and not compare them to each other.  I give this one high marks for mood, cinematography, performances, and creepy moments.  Definitely not a blockbuster, but surely worth seeing on video. "},{"Title":"The Eek...zzz...Eek...zzz comment made me laugh and he´s right.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (This review might contain a slight spoiler, but in a movie with such a script i doubt it.)What an incredible boring movie. And i´m not saying this because it lacked action scenes and flashy special effects, as i´m definitely not that kind of person. I´m saying LOST SOULS is boring, because this movie must have one of the most predictable and uninteresting scripts ever to appear in recent years. I couldn´t believed how predictable this story was, there was nothing in this movie that wasn´t done before in much better horror stories.From the exorcism scenes, the little creepy girl, and the prophecy banal plot to the (wow what a surprise !), pentacle under the bed and final black mass where all the relatives and friends are involved, (oh, wow, i wasn´t expecting that at all, what an amazing twist !), this story is so devoid of surprises or original concepts that becomes incredible boring to endure.I tried very hard to like this movie as it had a promising beginning, and a good photography, but with such a weak plot how could anything else save what was left ? And for an horror movie it wasn´t scary. I mean this must have been the most relaxing horror or supernatural movie i ever saw such was the lack of creepy atmosphere. All because of its predectibility. And what gets realy annoying is the fact, that someone must have noticed this script wasn´t scary at all and so to scare the audiences instead of pure atmosphere they decided to make us jump on the chair by using the usual LOUD noise in a silent moment. What movie is this ?! A teenage horror(yeah right) slasher movie ?!!! Where are the naked babes ?...It´s this ambiguity that ruins LOST SOULS, it´s not interesting for true classic horror fans, but at the same time it´s not your usual commercial hollywood horror crap, so what´s the target audience here ? I don´t have anything against a story that mixed THE EXORCIST, THE OMEN and ROSEMARY´S BABY all together, it´s not because of this i disliked the movie, it´s because the ingredients are all there but we have no cake. Somewhere along the way someone didn´t knew how to mix them in a trully scary way, ruining a movie that could have been great, but it wasn´t and it sure was the script´s fault. I think it´s unfair to blame the director for with a weak script like this, how could anyone had done any better ?... It´s almost painful to feel the director trying to create a creepy atmosphere, but each time he´s almost succeeding in doing that, here comes that predictable script again. And i sure don´t think the film had a bad ending, as i can´t stand those happy hollywood endings when they are placed in the movies just to please the american test audiences. For a story like this LOST SOULS had a great ending. At least it was a logical one and it wasn´t condescendet to people who only like boy-keeps-girl endings. Probably the best thing in the entire movie. A story like this deserved a grey ending like the one it got. Not a dark one, after all the good guys won. So what´s realy wrong with LOST SOULS...the script wich could have made us think about its theme and religion in general, but instead just makes us think what a wasted opportunity this movie was. Anyway it could be worse, it could have been filled with computer effects and had a happy ending.Oh, and if you still want to see this movie, stay away from its promo-trailler, because it´s another of those which reveal the whole plot, even reveal the bad-guy and give away the only thing that could even pass for unexpected  in this mess of a story. Fortunately i saw it afterwards, or else this would have been a truly unbearable experience. And there are still people commenting in IMDB who still speak of a great final twist ?! I must have seen a different movie.Overall, wait for the DVD instead, for i´m sure it will be filled with removed scenes, as there are plenty of sequences appearing in promos, that aren´t even in the final cut of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Not amazing but still worth a watch","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A brief sum up of this film.  End of Days without the special effects crossed with the exorcist with the cinematography of the intro to House on Haunted Hill.I had read the reviews on this website of this film before I went to see it, however I always take reviews with a pinch of salt because I like to make up my own mind.  However no matter whether the review said it was good or bad, all of them said it contains hardly any special effects.  Therefore when I went to see it I didn't expect to much from the visual department, ie, I wasn't expecting people to start morphing into demons etc.  However it isn't true to say that it is completely devoid of effects, the exorcism and hallucination scenes are particularly freaky, I won't spoil it if you intend to see it.The plot is that a particular man, born of incest, will one day be chosen by the devil for possession so that satan can walk the earth.  Basically Ryder plays part in a group of holy people (to be P.C.) who are looking for this man, and when they find him they try to convince him that he's going to be possessed by the devil.  How, when and where, they aren't too sure of and have to figure that out too.  What came to my mind was now that they've found him what are they going to do with a man who will soon change into the devil?The film is very good but you'll probably agree that it wasn't what you were expecting when you walked into the cinema, especially since the trailers don't reveal that much. "}{"Title":"Believe Me, You Have Seen All of this Before","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this film at the dollar theatre and I pretty much got what I expected. From the Exorcist to Stigmata to End of Days, this movie borrows a little bit each one of those as well as some others but cannot seem to come up with any one original concept. Winona Ryder plays the stereotypical troubled soul who risks all to save mankind from Satan. Of course, no one believes her so this makes her task that much more demanding.The director must have a thing for dripping water and shots of milk. The film is full of gloomy camera shots which only seem to serve one purpose, although what that purpose is I have no idea. This is not a horrible film but it has been done so many times that there is nothing redeeming about the story or the script. The one lone shining quality in the movie is the performance of Winona Ryder. She gives it her all but even she cannot save this from being just another mediocre film. "},{"Title":"SO SO!","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the movie was different in context of that you had to think about how the movie would end. I watched the movie prime time with only 6 people in the theater which was odd.The characters should have been grown a little more,Peter Kelson was totally off guard as to what to do, if Maya Larkin was an exorcist why did she have to go and converse with the guy she was to kill. The ending was classic very unexpected and tastefully done. I give it a 5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"For the Love of.....","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a mess.  It was absolutely horrible.  The plot had more holes than a block of swiss cheese.  It seems the film was seriously over-edited. There are just too many tidbits that are not followed up and never amount to anything.  The conclusion was weak.  I will not spoil it, however, if the conclusion that ended the film was plausible, it could have been initiated 20 minutes into the movie.  This film has no soul or character.  Please save yourself the time and money. "},{"Title":"Liked the movie, hated the ending","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw how nice the movie was put together.  It had a top caliber actress who is talented as well as beautiful.  The movie had two scenes that will stay in my mind for a while.  The ending is truely that, the end.  There is no resolution, just a stop.  In the tradition of the flop movie, Body Shots. For those of you who haven't seen it, which is everyone.  You now know why you never heard of a movie called Body Shots. "},{"Title":"Yet another good vs. evil movie with no Biblical truth!","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"    I don't know why, but you would think that the people that write these screen plays would at least make some attempt at basing their fiction on truth.    The movie starts with an ominous biblical quote about the rise of Satan; the only problem is that it is pure fabrication. There is no such verse in my Bible. I tend to think that a lot of Hollywood writers are former Catholic alter boys with a grudge. Granted, Catholics are way off the mark as far as their teachings are concerned but it would be nice if God was portrayed in His true power and glory. If movies were to be that way, I guess there would be no long lines at the box office because it would be like watching a heavy weight fight with a knock-out in the opening second of the first round.   I just have a suggestion to the movie makers. I realize that God beating Satan without anyone breaking a sweat is not what people want to see but at least do some Biblical research and try not to make things up as you go along. Some people get all their Bible teaching from these movies and I feel that there is some degree of responsibility on the part of the movie makers to get the basics right. After all, you wouldn't show someone driving a car while sitting in the car seat backwards even in the most slapstick of movies because there has to be at least SOME element of truth. "},{"Title":"Lamest yet of this Genre! (SPOILERS)","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably one of the most uneventful, disappointing, and poorly written movies I have ever seen!  I can honestly say that  this movie had some of the biggest plot holes and that I can only hope it was some editing screw up do to with pacing, if not, the writter of this movie should be banned from ever being allowed to do a script again, if it was editings fault, then I hope they add the missing story line back onto the DVD edition when it comes out.  There was so much left unexplained in this movie. SPOILER ALERT now onto the spoilers/plot holes -- Was Kolsen's mother part of the Evil (with a capital E) church or was she raped by her brother?- Was Kolsen's Father/Uncle the one who killed Kolsen's parents?- Who the hell has a digital clock in their car that is actually  set at the correct time, with out being off by a couple minutes, I thought only mercury clocks were that precise and who set his clock?  And wouldn't that clock then have to be set at the same time with the hospitals clock he was born in?- The uncle/father tell's Kolsen he's going to be all powerful, but it only takes a bullet to the head to do the job, AFTER his designated time (455pm).  I always figured Satan to be a little more powerfull than that.- What exactly was Wynona job's during the Excorcism?- If Excorcism's are so rarely okayed by the church (per a statement Wynona made in the movie) how come she knew exactly how to prep the room like a seasoned pro?- The priest's possession, was it from the Exorcism they did earlier in the film? If it was, how could both the Priest and the Serial Killer both be possessed at the same time, wouldn't the Demon only be able to possess one body at a time?These are a few things that just popped into my head while I wrote this, I'm sure there's a ton more that I've over looked, but hey, who cares, not like the movie folks did when they wrote it!  On an upside, this move had really kewl camera work, like the kind in Saving Private Ryan, the really grainy type you get when you remove 60% of the color in the film.  So if your really into neato tricks you can do with film but found Private Ryan to intense of a story, go see Lost Souls, you'll be thrilled an find it as about as deep as the children's book Run Spot Run. "},{"Title":"Not too bad.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I was surprised to see that there was a POSITIVE review of this movie.  People here have been bashing it left and right.  One person told me that it was a poor take off of the Exorcist.  However, to me this movie was nothing like that.  I mean, it did touch on exorcism (and I must admit, we have seen the temporal lobe seizures before), but there was a lot more to it than that.  First of all, it touched on the ignorance of some people in the church by saying that it's hard to believe in God and NOT in Satan as well.  And then on top of that, it went on to talk about Satan's possession of a human, therefore causing the birth of the anti-Christ.  To me, the movie hit this really well.  Overall, it helps to show that there IS Good...and there IS Evil (with a capital E) and they are both in constant conflict.  I thought it was a great movie, one of which the horror genre has needed lately. "},{"Title":"Excellent Acting-Visionary Cinematography-Just OK Script","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was particularly impressed with the control and depth Ben Stiller brought to his role, here was a masterpiece of understatement delivered with honesty and attention to detail.  Other characters in the film were similarly offered by Winona Ryder et al.  I say this because the screenplay was rather technical in its approach and development (check out Ryder's off-kilter grin as she relates to her friend We're in trouble here - I think she's referring more to the production than to the plot).  From your stereotypical exorcism scenes to your Joel Peter Witkin imagery to the standard talk show interview to drive the plot along - this film borrows just a little too much inspiration from earlier works.  However, to be fair, I found that the scene where Stiller relates his dream to his family refreshing and off-beat (mostly due to how he carried it off).On the up side is the film's dynamic, driven by truly visionary cinematography.  I understand from other IMDb commentors that this is the director's background and it is obviously his strong suit.  The camera takes an active role in the film and its movements and logic command attention, demonstrate capability, and give meaning where it would otherwise be lacking.  After the film I drove home and all sorts of curious details of everyday life unfolded before me - glances through the windows of passing cars, the hypnotic cadence of the streetlights gliding past - a testament, I believe, to the powerful vision of the filmmaker's artistic ability.  I fully expect better things from this director in the future. "},{"Title":"Lost Souls lost its soul","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has no soul - it's bland and boring.  The creepy lighting is great for effect, but the WHOLE movie looks the same!  The plot is nonsensical and relies, like all really bad devil movies, on constant references to various silly numerologies (it's your 33rd birthday, XES is 666 in roman numerals, you were born on so and so day) give me a break! We've seen it all before and done much better!  The most dramatic scenes in the movie are glazed over in a matter of seconds while we spend most of the time pondering the meaning of the number 13.  Whatever.  Skip this loser and see Rosemary's Baby, which this film made a very pitiful attempt to emulate. "},{"Title":"A finely-crafted film","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This finely-crafted film features excellent cinematography, dark, lush scenes freighted with portent, a complex, highly spiritual and precariously-balanced main character portrayed well by Winona Ryder and - unfortunately - a weak screenplay and unsatisfying ending.  This could have been a much better film. "}{"Title":"Lame Ending","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT!  The end sucked.  I thought I read in some of the reviews that the end of the movie was good or clever.  I'm sorry to say that it was neither, if all that had to be done to save the world was to shoot this guy it should have been done the minute he was confirmed to be anti-christ. One guy was smart and tried to take this potential anti-christ out but got cold feet and waited to long.  Perhaps if more explanation about what happens when this guy becomes the anti-christ(in the producers opinion) then the end might have not seemed so pathetic.  But then again maybe not.  Wait for the video or dollar theater on this one. "},{"Title":"Some good scares, no payoff.","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" You would expect more from a film that sets up the ultimate confrontation between good and evil.Winona Rider is a mild-mannered French teacher by day and a mild-mannered exorcist by night. Although she does her best Linda Hamilton imitation, she just doesn't have that butt-kicking-babe-in-a-small-package quality. She can't even hold a cigarette convincingly.This isn't to say that the film doesn't have some redeeming qualities. There are some genuine scares in this thing that'll lift you right out of your seat. Janusz Kaminski delivers up some fine imagery despite the monotonous greenish-gray pall he's thrown over the entire operation. John Diehl and Phillip Baker Hall issue the journeyman performances we've come to expect from them and almost pull this film's fat out of the fire.To be fair, if I told you my biggest disappointment it would give too much away. But, lets just say it's the scene right before the credits and leave it at that. "},{"Title":"Some Good & Some Bad","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film won't go down in history as the greatest horror movie, or as the worst.  It's got it's place in the average world.It's no Exorcist, Rosemary's Baby or The Omen, but the filmakers used some of the elements found in those movies. The 'chosen one' is protected by a mass of acolytes (The Omen).  He's in not aware of his destiny (Rosemary's Baby) and there's some exorcism scenes (guess from what movie this is). The exorcism scenes are alright. They couldn't afford to make the whole movie about these events, so it's not as detailed as Regan's exorcism.Some elements were interesting. The idea of the character not being able to hear the exorcism was pretty good.As for the ending.  Well that's just it is really. It ends. A lot of viewers feel very frustrated by that.  I find it refreshing. If you have the ante-christ show up at the end of the movie, I think it would more damaging than anything else.  If you can make it look good or at least interesting, don't show it.  And I really hate the idea of a powerful being showing up at the end and being defeated by the common people.  If you want to have a movie about defeating a physical incarnation of the devil, you HAVE to make a whole movie about it. Or better, a trilogy (The Omen).I give this movie a 7+ out 10  "},{"Title":"Simply thrilling. Well, not really.","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Kind of a spoiler, gives only a couple secrets away (but not that you couldn't have guessed them in the first place)*** )This film is definitely not for someone that is afraid of the dark or small furry animals. Basically it's about Maya Larkin (Winona Rider) a teacher at a church that is approached by her priest to go on what seems to be an exorcism. They head off to the local insane asylum where they lock themselves up in a room for a little while with one of the inmates. Basically the exorcism fails and Maya finds papers that the inmate had been writing. Of course it was all in code, so after she figures out the code she realizes it spells Peter Kendell, a novelist who (thank goodness) lives near her. So it turns out that Peter is about to become the anti-Christ (don't you hate when that happens) on his 33rd birthday. Without spoiling the blatantly obvious ending, I will say that the few special effects that took place were pretty good. Slightly reminiscent of Ghost, but none the less creepy. Winona was great in the part - of course she seems to have a knack for playing the creepy girl. I personally would have liked to see the director's portrayal of hell on earth, but oh well. I guess I'll have to wait for Terminator 3. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movie (of this kind) this year...","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The story is about the same as End of days, but the thing is that it is not going anywhere. The ending is the worst part of the movie, but you are lucky if you are able to watch it until this point.Anyway, to make it short, I strongly recommend NOT to see this movie.  The preview was great though, since it convinced me of seeing the movie.If you like the kind of movie with intrigues and mysteries, you will not like this one. Or wait until it is on TV... "},{"Title":"that which could have been","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had such potential, but the ending wrapped up way too quickly - I think a lot of needed footage probably ended up on the cutting room floor by mistake.  And the ending is AWFUL.  The audience was booing the screen!  (me included).   DEFINITELY wait for cable on this one... "},{"Title":"Lost Souls has a lot of wasted potential","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has some really cool cinematography. It has a great look, great promo, great premise, great lead actress, and a lot of reasons why it should have been a great movie.But they had no story. It is like they had a great idea for a movie, and where able to create a terrific atmosphere to play it out on. But they just had no story. And, everytime they had a chance to make things interesting, and more complicated, and more complex, and up the stakes, it seems like they choose some easy solution rather than going with the problem and building something.This point is the most obvious at the end of the film, but they were taking the same easy way out, all the way through the picture.Winona was a great choice and this should have been a great film, but it turned out to be really bad. "},{"Title":"average religion based movie with a very deceiving ending !","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  an average religion based movie with good special effects, good suspense and thrills.No original story with some unneeded lengths, but, although the movie keep you going and asking for more, very deceiving because of the stupid ending.A good punch at the end would have made this movie a stigmata / exorcist simiar movie....wait for video rental...or cheap night a the movie theater !!! "},{"Title":"This movie wasn't bad, but it just didn't deliver.","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie promised a great deal more than it gave.  The effects were nothing spectacular and neither was the plot.  It was mostly a rehash of bits from other similar movies, ie; The Omen, Exorcist; Rosemary's Baby.  The acting wasn't bad but there's no Oscar in this crowd.  Finally the movie seemed rushed, the time allotted was not enough to solidly develop the plot, this was especially the case towards the end.  The movie's plot had introductions to interesting plot twists and then they just disappeared and were left as loose ends.  The end of the movie seemed as if the director was telling the story and suddenly ran out of time and had to wrap it up quick.  Overall it wasn't bad, and the cast was filled with people you recognize who have talent but it leaves you feeling unsatisfied and as if you're not really sure you just watched two hours of film.  I can't say I'm sorry I saw it but there are many others I would have gone to see first, unless you're really into the occult than this one's a rental, if that. "},{"Title":"MAJOR DISAPPOINTMENT!!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Let's start out with the POSITIVES Plotline (chosen dude for the AntiChrist must be convinced and given the choice to stop the transformation) was actually a decent start, Bathroom sequence (the only REAL special effect in the flick) was really decent.NEGATIVES Cinematography. It was ridiculous! It looked like it was shot by some industry kid who can't seem to be able to stand a normal shot.  The whole movie was shot low-color, high-contrast and grainy, all the scenes were extreme close-ups or some method shot.  Normally, I couldn't care less, but It got old REAL quick.Acting. There wasn't much for Wynona to work with, but even still, it was so borrowed and cliche' that...  it was just BAD.Few special effects. I wasn't looking for Armageddon, but unless you count the entire movie (the way it was shot) as a special effect, there was only one real sequence the bathroom sequence (...and you saw that in the preview, sorr-eee).Ending. You watch the credits roll in disbelief  What?  THAT'S IT!!??  That's all I get?  ...makes you want to find out the director so you know not to watch their movies ever again (if it wasn't for the fact that you already wasted over two hours...).Bottom line Watch The Exorcist again and forget this movie ever existed!  "}{"Title":"Lost Souls?  Not quite...  More like a Lost Movie....","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay....  Before you all start ganging up on me....  I liked the overall movie....  I gave it an 8...  BUT...Let me see....  Where to begin....First off, the sepia tone wash that appeared throughout the film was annoying, at best.  It made the entire movie difficult to watch, and, since you are in a dark theatre and the film is so dark in brightness and color, it was VERY easy to miss off center action....  If it happened far left or right, forget about it!  The story was pretty decent, however, we don't always get a lot of information in a timely manner....  Parts of the story seem to bog down, and then - POW! - here's the little bit of background story you need for the scene to make sense....Most of the movie was pretty good, though...  Just, like I said, the sepia wash throughout made it very difficult to enjoy.....  Of course, I don't want to give the end away, but it seemed like they reached an end to the money, so the end of the movie had to be NOW....  Not a very well done ending...  kind of rushed and hurried....  A lot of loose ends that REALLY didn't get tied up to well....  And for the character to just walk away.....  Besides, we don't even know her motivation for not wanting to do it at the end....  If you've seen the flick, you know what I mean....  It could have used a bit more work, but I guess they just wanted to get it done by such a date...  Oh, well.....   "},{"Title":"Utterly and profoundly odd","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The theatrical trailer for Lost Souls left me foaming at the mouth.  It gave the impression that the film would be a special FX extravaganza comparable only to The Exorcist.  Hell's bells, was I ever mislead!  More End of Days than Exorcist, Souls was so unbelievably odd that I couldn't decipher whether my feelings for it were positive or negative.  My decision an apprehensive positive.  Ben Chaplin failed to act his way out of the proverbial wet paper bag, but Winona Ryder's performance was very strong, even if she did resemble a frazzled crack addict in withdrawal.  The movie's Apocalyptic premise was far superior to that of its contemporaries, such as the largely disappointing End of Days, the religiously misrepresentative Stigmata, or the right-down dreadful Bless the Child (how Oscar-calibur Basinger got tangled up in that dreck is and always will be beyond me).  The cinematography was beautiful, and the special effects were quite impressive.  Really, my only complaint about the movie is that it doesn't lead up to anything at all.  The movie's climax, or should I say ANTIclimax, was nothing more than an easy way out for the screenwriter and will surely leave viewers displeased.  Over all, Lost Souls is very entertaining, but only for those who appreciate or are tolerable of the bizarre and unusual.  For everyone else...you may want to see Bring It On instead.  lol "},{"Title":"Give it a chance...not THAT BAD...","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I went to see Lost Souls yesterday, I saw the tailer expecting it to be really good. The trailer looked excellent, Winona looked great, and yet, it was another religious movie, which most of them I liked, I was excited. I went in with my friend, and during the slow start, there were a few good JUMPS, and I kept telling myself, It'll get better, this is just the beginning... but, i kept saying that, defending the movie as much as possible. The climax of the movie is good, and is HOUSE SCENE is pretty interesting, and basically all the vision scenes are really good, but at the very last part, I felt a little....ripped off. I gave it an 8, which is giving it alot, but I thought the acting was good, and the directing good, and with what they had, everything seemed ok. So, if i were you, I would give it a chance. Not a total loss. I HAVE SEEN WORSE (Summer of Sam) and I have seen better scary films (The Exorcist) So go ahead and see it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Yet another one that convinces me there are NO good post-1970s horror movies!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well.. Wynona looked nice. She has found a nice hair color and doesn't look all gaunt and scrawny as she has in the past. Otherwise, a so-so movie that was about to pass in my own personal opinion as a fair movie for the Halloween season got considerably crappier and crappier as it progressed.Ya know, even the thin story and the cliche aspects of devil vs the Church would have been forgiven but... well the end. The end is just awful. Some will say It was sooo unexpected! No it wasn't. Or You really have to think! Nope. You really don't. It was a weak attempt at fancy unique film making. I was convinced that a decent storyline was laid out in the beginning and en route to the studio 3/4 of the script got lost in a wind storm so they wrote something up to replace it.My friend and I noticed the complete and simultaneous exhale of your kidding. from the audience when the ending credits came up. I tried to forgive the movie, but couldn't. I will give it enough to say it was better than Bless the Child.  "},{"Title":"Major dissapointment.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was not scary at all. And the ending gives the effect that the directors just got sick of filming it and stopped. Overall a major disappointment. They were comparing this movie to the exorcist, I don't think so. "},{"Title":"Good but..","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Winona Ryder amazed me in BeetleJuice, and didn't fail me here. She played the role well and was exciting to watch on screen again. The movie itself was both very intriguing, and semi-scary. Granted, I did jump at some scenes in this flick. The only thing disappointing with this movie was the ending. I cant spoil it but it was kind of cheesy. All in all it was a enjoyable movie, and well worth the 5.50 I spent to get in. Out of 10 I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Skip it","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The only thing I can say about this film is it was bad.  It was slow and had no real excitement.  The ending was very dissapointing and like other reviews I read the audience said it sucked and the ending was dissapointing. Definetly pass on this movie.  This is a cable movie.  I would not even sugest renting this one. "},{"Title":"How can this be compared to The Exorcists","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this last night with some friends when we failed to make The Exorcists on time. We weren't expecting anything spectacular or anything horrible. I sat through about an hour and an half of nothingness. I usually enjoy most movies, but this is really bad. At the end of the movie, the audience got up and in unison said, This movie sucked. The ending was weak and was a bad take off on some the scenes of the exorcists. This was a bad chose for Winona Ryder.During one point in the movie, I couldn't take anymore so I got up to get some fresh air. During the entire film, everyone in the audience had to have gotten up and left at least once. This movie was intended for horror, but it wasn't. There were even parts of comedy (well, they weren't suppose to be). I usually give all movies a chance, but this was a top class horrible movie. Usually you can give a bad movie some kinda credit (good acting, costumes, cinemetography, etc), but there was nothing like that here. I guess if you want to go waste your money feel free to see this movie.My rating~ 3/10 (my lowest score ever) "},{"Title":"Nothing Spectacular","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was essentially a waste of time.  Coming out on Friday the thirteenth was the only way it got many viewers at all, and probably could have been better released on television.  If you want to see a good movie based on the Anti-Christ, watch The Devil's Advocate.  It's essentially the same story, but done much better.   "},{"Title":"It's awful--save your money and your time!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I walked into this movie because the other two that I had considered watching were sold out, and I didn't want to watch 'Coyote Ugly' because I thought it looked cheesy.  About five minutes into 'Lost Souls' (which I had no prior knowledge of), I was wishing I had gone for 'Coyote Ugly.'  'Lost Souls' is just another movie making the Catholic Church look like a freaky-deeky, fanatical, mumbling, dark, terrifying religion, and I can't say I'm surprised.  It follows an exact prototype of 'Stigmata' and 'Bless the Child.'  I just can't help feeling offended as my religion is presented to the public in a twisted, totally out-of-whack way.  And even aside from all of this, the movie has a weak plot and a stupid ending.  Poor Winona Ryder--I don't know what she was thinking.  And don't try to tell me 'the devil made her do it!'  With all due respect, I thought the movie was a load of crap.  Save your money and your time! "}{"Title":"An unbelievably bad horror movie","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A truly remarkable achievement Lost Souls manages to turn a terrifying premise (Ben Chaplain is the Antichrist--but doesn't know it yet--and Winona Ryder is part of the group that has to stop him before he brings about the end of the world)into a dull, scareless stinker of a horror movie.  Finished in 1998, it sat on the shelf for a looooooong time (and should have kept sitting there).  I am usually pretty lenient on horror movies, but this was among the worst I've seen in the theater.  Winona Ryder had a dazed, almost drugged look the whole time.  I know I'd have to be medicated to appear in a film as awful as this one.  First-time director (but long-time cinematographer) Janusz Kaminski shows us his talents lie in framing a shot and adding an interesting look to a film, but also that he should stay far away from the narrative part of filmmaking.  John Hurt appears as a priest, but his role is really only created so we can be afraid of the forces the good guys are up against.  The worst element of this film was how much they built up to the climax that never came.  At the end, I felt I had been in one of those terrible carnival rides that you waste half the night in line for, then come out wishing you had gotten on the Tilt-O-Whirl again instead. "},{"Title":"Bad movie...","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"     This movie was bad. It is not worth seeing.    The movie itself is just a cross between the Exorcist and The Ninth Gate. Yet it is nowhere near as good as either of those films and the 9th Gate was at best ok.    The acting is acceptable but it doesn't matter. The plot is slow and lumbering and builds up to a HUGE disappointing ending. The audience actually moaned and complained in disbelief where I saw the movie.    There is little originality to see in this flick. It throws all the horror film cliches at you.    I've already spent more time than I should waste thinking about this movie. 2/10 stars     "},{"Title":"Boring middle, good end.","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This had all the elements I had expected; the Science solves everything doctor, the youth-scarred, extremely devout girl, and the man with no faith destined to be The One. While spooky in places and predictable in many, the end helps to significantly make up for it with several interesting twists, and only a couple of items that didn't quite make sense. More of a thriller than a scary movie; The Exorcist it ain't, but End of Days it ain't, either. See the cheap matinee, or wait for video. "},{"Title":"very disappointing","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  for me 'lost souls' was one of the most awaited movies this year.now, after seeing it, i have the impression that something must have happened during the making of this movie, because what starts as a promising, dark, moody horror flick ends up as most disappointing, mediocre movie. a lot of human effort down the drain, i would say actors did a good job, kaminski as a director apparently did a good job too, art directors and cinematographer made the whole thing look really handsome (maybe a little bit too 'artsy', but i liked it anyway), plot seems exciting for the first hour... and then everything collapses characters do senseless things, some of the scenes appear out of nowhere, as if they were planned to be a part of something that has been removed in the editing process... and the ending is so senseless that it makes 'end of days' and 'ninth gate' look like really good movies. it was definitely the story that killed this film, it looks like the screenplay has been changed in the very last moment, because the ending simply does not fit to the rest of the movie! so much work, so much money and effort to ruin everything during last 20 minutes? please!if you still have a choice whether or not you should see 'lost souls', i would recommend seeing 'the exorcist' or 'rosemary's baby' for 100th time instead. "},{"Title":"Just because it's pretty doesn't mean it's not cheesy.","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  All told, there's really nothing terrible about Lost Souls. Well acted, competently shot, a seemless film that feels quite good; but lacks in substance to such a degree that leaves you wondering how such a week concept got out the door in the first place. After all, it's so well put together, you would think at least 1 person would have voiced uh, the story...it's pretty...void...And that's just it. You have no idea where the development is going - ever. I kept wanting to give it another chance, telling myself that something was going to happen. But when it did, the dulldrum of waiting put a twist of humor on nearly anything attempting to be shocking.Lost Souls is it's own best parody. It honestly is, in the few moments of enjoyment, quite an embarrassingly  humorous film. Characters taking such ridiculous context so seriously, that one can only laugh in respect to their eventual responses. "},{"Title":"Subtly compelling, completely mismarketed movie","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You know, it's a bad thing when the marketing tells you a movie's one thing, and you find out that it isn't. So with this movie (Lost Souls), they're bandying around that this movie is the Next Exorcist.Well, frankly, it's not.The nature of The Exorcist was that it was tightly scripted and edited, giving it a great sense of tension and suspense. It was also claustrophobic, centering mainly on a single room, which heightened the fear.Unfortunately, Lost Souls isn't your typical shock movie, and doesn't even come close to The Exorcist. It's slowly paced -- and as a horror movie connoiseur, I found it difficult to read this movie. Horror movies have a pulse; you can generally work out what's coming up and when if you look for it. This movie didn't have that pulse -- the shocks, when they came, had no build up, and were completely random. While this alone is kind of refreshing, it did add up to a sense of 'Huh?'.Don't get me wrong though -- I actually really liked this movie. It's stunningly shot, and the story itself is pretty cool. The ending is a little of a let down -- it ramps itself up and then fails to deliver on what it promises.All in all -- rent it. It won't lose anything on the small screen. "},{"Title":"Intense, great video effects","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie will draw you in and then shock.  You feel and sense Evil at work.  The camera shots are unusual and help create the chaos and confusion. Though the teasers beg comparison to the Exorcist, I only was once mildly reminded of that movie while watching Lost Souls. It's a fresh approach to horror and it's great entertainment! "},{"Title":"Is this what happened to Rosemary's Baby?","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, it wasn't great but it was enjoyable and had some intersting camera angles and had the look and feel of an older movie (or else the theatre really needs a new screen) and had interesting visual feel in parts. I kept thinking though that it seemed like the explanation of whatever happened to Rosemary's Baby. "},{"Title":"A joke with no punch line","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have not felt this way about a movie since the Blair Witch project. I'm in denial that I could have paid to see another amateur attempt at making a scary movie. The continuity is very sketchy and it just does not follow through on many plot opportunities. When it has a chance to bring to the screen a moment of fear it backs away.The only people who will think this movie is frightening are the producers who put up the money. "},{"Title":"Lost Souls is a lost cause","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the acting was decent, and the movie had several scary/disturbing moments, which were fitting a movie of this kind. That said, don't see this movie. It was by no means great, and probably would have fared better if it had been released as one of the pre-millennium doomsday films. However, even a change on the release date would not have saved it. The entire film was ruined for me in the last 5 minutes. I regretted having even wasted my time watching it. While I don't want to ruin the ending for any of you that do want to watch it (the film did that well enough), you should probably walk out at the climax of the film, you should know the moment when it comes. I would have felt better not knowing what happened rather than being treated to the movie's ridiculous finale. "}{"Title":"Beautiful movie with a shattering twist ending","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie, beautifully shot and paced with great discipline, has one of the great twist endings in all of horror/suspense cinema.It seems that perhaps the director relied too heavily upon the intelligence and observational powers of his audience; the unbelievable twist at the very last few seconds of the film went unnoticed by most of them.** POSSIBLE SPOILERS? **When I watched this movie for the first time I sat stunned as the credits rolled. The unexpectedness of the ending took my breath away. I feel sorry for those linearly minded viewers who missed out on the experience. Try watching it again without getting so invested in your beliefs about which characters are evil and which are good. Keep an open mind about the nature of deception and that the Devil is supposed to be the Father of Lies. Pay closer attention to the criteria that are given, in moments of exposition throughout the film, for the Devil's return. What characters might fulfill those criteria? "},{"Title":"It is not trying to be a horror movie folks!","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It would appear many horror flick fans had an expectation that this movie would be like The Excorcist, The Omen, Rosemary's Baby. Having watched the film, it's clear it was never intending to be like those films. So, that means horror fans will hate this film and say things like dull and cure for insomnia over and over again.Lost Souls is more like one of the more low key supernatural-themed X-Files episodes. Characters are introduced, there's a mystery presented, and motivations of almost all characters only become clear near the end. What this movie does well is let the mystery brew and keep the suspense going almost to the end. I think this is what totally irritated the horror film fans they never get spinning heads or vomit, and that's really all they wanted to see anyway. No spoilers here but many folks complain about the end. Sure, the end is abrupt but it makes perfect sense if you were attentively watching. Its a reasonably good film if you like slow-paced moody flicks. "},{"Title":"Visually impressive but dramatically as flat as a pancake","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lost Souls is a visual feast directed by Janusz Kaminski, the cinematographer for most of Steven Spielberg's recent blockbusters. Despite the impressive surface veneer, the film lacks any real dramatic tension, though there are a few spine tingling set-pieces. Winona Ryder and Ben Chaplin deliver perfectly acceptable performances but the film is missing the necessary x factor. It feels flat overall and the finale is a pathetic, damp squib of an ending. With so much talent on tap, this is a wasted opportunity to produce a memorable addition to the horror genre.Those seeking a decent satanic movie would be best checking out the original Exorcist, Exorcist III or The Exorcism of Emily Rose. Alternatively, the Italian film L'Anticristo offers alternative exorcism thrills and spills.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"slow, but very good","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *** MIND THE SPOILERS ***The biggest assets of this film are the solid acting performances and the amazing cinematography. It just oozes this dark, creepy atmosphere. So, no complaints in the visual department.The plot has been widely criticized, but I don't see what all the fuss is about. Most people I talked to who didn't like it, automatically assumed that all the supernatural things that happen in this film, actually happen. A bold assumption, given the fact that we learn very early on that the main characters perception of reality isn't exactly trustworthy. And when we find out that most of the evil omens were brought about by a demonic sect that wants their dark messiah, it makes the Peter=Satan prophecy very much a self-fulfilling one. So, is Satan really coming or is this just a lot of superstition? In fact, the film tries very hard to keep both options open right to the end, and my only real complaint is that it didn't fully succeed. A few things remain unexplained by main character hallucination and the doings of a bunch of wacky satanists (mainly the silent tape and the crucifix falling over). This is bad because it forces the movie to acknowledge the supernatural. If it had been able to maintain deniability, it would have been brilliant.I'm not a particular fan of the genre, so I can't say much about originality. It is a very slow paced film though, and most of the suspense has to come from the ongoing theme Is he, or is he not the antichrist. People who automatically assume the latter, are very likely to be bored. But I didn't, and so I wasn't. So I think this film is very good. If not for the flaws I just mentioned, it could have been a classic screw-with-your-mind movie, like The Usual Suspects, The Others or ExistenZ. Mainly due to the cinematography, I'm giving it 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Some good shocks, but the story is very tired.","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie does offer a couple of good shocks, and Ben Chaplin is impressive as the-man-destined-to-be-Satan (he gives a new meaning to the phrase Sympathy for the Devil), but the story is tired - just another Omen/The Exorcist knockoff (and if you're an atheist, very close to being mindless hokum). The (intentionally) underlit cinematography is more unattractive than atmospheric; however, I did like the strangely downbeat ending. (**) "},{"Title":"An unpretentious entertaining movie","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Bearing in mind that very few movies which have handled the themes of exorcism or the Anti-Christ ever came close to recreating the intensity of The Exorcist, Lost Souls is not a bad movie at all.All the well-known ingredients of how to overcome the destructive powers and satanic intentions of the Devil are once again displayed and most of the time by a series of actions which succeed in keeping our attention focused, right up to the end.There is little novelty in the plot but the pace is as it should be and the acting good Winona Ryder accentuated her beautiful eyes with a massive amount of mascara and her chain-smoking probably helped in giving her that very bleak appearance. Ben Chaplin plays the part expected of him with no overtones and is convincing in his role.The much underestimated John Hurt made only a short appearance but did it with his usual flair.One knows beforehand what to expect when choosing to watch a movie with the devil as the main theme and the producers and director set about their task without any other objective than to offer us an unpretentious entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"WINONA RYDER GIVES A GREAT PERFORMANCE!","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"                     Winona Ryder(Maya Larkin) and Ben Chaplin (Peter Kelson) both perform great acting abilities trying to fight off the forces of Evil vs. Good.  Winona is perfect for the role, she performs magic with her eyes and gives a very frightening and spiritual spine chilling performance through-out the entire picture.  Sarah Wynter( Claire Van Owen) also recent star of 24 hit TV Show) was a great supporting actress for Ben Chaplin.  If you are a Winona Ryder fan, this is a must see picture!  You really never know when the number 666 will turn up in the dark shadows of this thriller picture. "},{"Title":"sad, beautiful dream","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  a cinematographers dream. indeed, it does almost seem as if one is settled comfortably in the mind of a dreaming cameraman. the secret to seeing this movie is to gaze through it in a reverie. let it enter your imaginative space. let it dream in you. perhaps this introverted viewing process, or lack of it, is why the film is generally not well reviewed. can you gaze gently at a horror movie?there is very little wrong with the film. the camera is inspired. performances are beautiful. perhaps the third act is a little abrupt in its ending. but that is really the only flaw i can find. be warned that it is very sad.  "},{"Title":"Tick, tick, tick","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Curious film that you watch happily all the way through without touching the remote but leaves no impression. Goes through the motions like a shopping list. Tick, tick, tick, tick. Sorry, that's one tick too many for the plot.Ben Chaplin, so memorable as a house bound sitcom character in BBC's 'Game On' Sitcom (I'm not being sarcastic, he was good) preconises his talent to the broader masses by staring bemused and theurgically off camera in the absence of direction. John Hurt, seemingly content now with being a jobbing actor, continues his meandering swim along a river of inconsequence. Winona Ryder, well, Winona is critic proof as she's a cuddly little thing you'd be happy to take to your bar mitzvah, once we've discovered what they are.So bereft of imagination it achieves a strange sort of purity, that of un-adulterated product. If one were a pretentious writer seemingly content to meander along a river of inconsequence one might say that the film makers, having achieved the former, have made some sort of crazed, existential statement.The film makers have made some sort of crazed, existential statement. "},{"Title":"Well, Winona Ryder and Ben Chaplin are great.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Lost Souls is one of the those films that could be good but it really wasn't. I'm not saying it was bad either but it was just totally different to what I expected. It was just *really* strange. Some bits were little exciting though. I wasn't to keen on the ending either. I heard the film took so long to get released because they couldn't decide on ending for the film, well, I wouldn't of minded waiting a little longer. Winona Ryder and Ben Chaplin always deliver good performances and in this movie it's no exception. They do act really well. That's really about it though. I give Lost Souls a 4-5/10 "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this movie last night, and I must say that it was one of the best movies I had seen in a long time.  I was spellbound and captivated throughout, although I was slightly disappointed in the ending because it ended too quickly.Winona Ryder performance was excellent; I really enjoyed it, although I had not enjoyed her performances in many of her other previous movies.  Ben Chaplin also did a bang-up job.  Kudos to them both.I would highly recommend this movie to those who enjoy classic battles between God and the devil and the conspiracies of the Roman Catholic Church.Other great movies in the same (or a similar) genre would include - The Prophecy trilogy - Stigmata (with Patricia Arquette) - Dogma - End of Days - The Devil's Advocate - The Ninth Gate - Fallen - The Seventh Sign  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, haunting film","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" SPOILER ALERT I have been looking for a movie that would freak me out for about two years and this one just about did it. I went, even though I expected it to suck, just because I like Winona Ryder so much and because I have a thing for Revelation films. I was immediately surprised by the excellent and fascinating cinematography and fell quickly into the storyline. Granted, it doesn't spell everything out for you like the usual Hollywood flicks and I did leave the theater wondering how Maya was going to get around being arrested for a number of murders, but all in all, the things that the film left out allowed us to use our imaginations to fill in the gaps. A very potent recipe indeed. If you like average Hollywood blockbusters, this movie is not for you. It is a must-see, however, for those of us with an interest in the darker side of side and a desire to be challenged at the cinema. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I could watch this film over and over, just for the cinematography.  It was wholly beautiful and wonderfully directed.  I can't wait for the DVD!!!!!!!!!!!!It made you do some of the thinking (I know that is hard for most Americans used to Freddy and I know how Stupid you were last summer).  Everything wasn't handed to you on a silver platter, which IMHO is the way it should be.Good script, good flow and I loved the ending...simply stated excellence.I say 9/10. "},{"Title":"The best part of the movie was seen in the trailer","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was not scary at all, it was a joke.  I was severely disappointed as I was expecting a thriller.  I was going to walk out, but I kept thinking it would get better.  There were NO visual effects.  Save your money, don't see it.  If you want to get scared, have someone walk up behind you and scream, it will be better than this movie "},{"Title":"This movie was pretty damn cool","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Lost Souls was an awesome movie.  It had everything; good story, great acting, and spectacular visuals.  This movie is not the exorcist for the new millenium, nor does it try to be.  I know many people will say that the ending is just stupid but it's not. Although it's not the greatest ending, The rest of the movie makes up for it.  If your in search of a late night movie look no further "},{"Title":"Really Bad Cinema","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great example of a movie that suggests strength at its beginning but never actually amounts to anything. The film opened with a menacing bible quote, unfortunately, it bailed out on its biblical basis towards the end. It is truly disappointing to see a film set up a strong set of rules for itself and its characters only to abandon them later on a whim. It appears as though much of the evangelical nature of the movie was dismissed when it became clear that to properly deal with the subject matter another grueling hour of movie would be necessary. The entire 'fright' premise of the movie was that 'You too might become the Anti-Christ!' A poor topic at best. Aside from this major error, the characters were shallow and poorly animated, and though the cinematography was beautiful, it did little to save this cast iron bomb of a movie. I would recommend that the cast and crew be destroyed or at very least forced to watch the film. A just punishment I have already suffered unjustly. "},{"Title":"Great until the last two minutes","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I loved the camera angles and the spooky special effects.  Winona Ryder plays the same part she always does, but this is the type of character that was needed for the film.  There were a few bad lines, but overall it was great...until the last two minutes.  It seemed more like they ran out of money or time or special effects, and just decided to end the movie early. Boo. "},{"Title":"a must see movie","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A really intelligent film. It  was beautifully shot, wouldn't take  away or add anything. If you're a fan of good horror flicks, you must see it. Juxtaposes good and evil in the most  simple but very frightening way. Janusz Kaminski should direct more movies. "},{"Title":"horrid waste","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i went to see this movie with a group of buds late on friday the 13th. this was one of the worst 2 hours and $5.25 i've ever spent.  the plot was shotty, the character development was non-existent, and the ending was just plain bad. another 'end of the world' flick that has no point.  there was no action sequences, the so called 'exorcism' scenes were incredibly weak, the character backgrounding was so loose that i didnt understand a whole lot even at the end when it was all s'posed to come together.  even the first exorcism in the opening scene was almost pulled straight from The Exorcist.so to put it all short; DONT SEE THIS, WASTE OF TIME AND MONEY "},{"Title":"Excellent Film!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I cant seem to express how much I loved this film.  It was so beautifully crafted and imaginative.  I think it equally matched the horror that the Exorcist brought to people many years ago. Scary visuals and creepy sounds make a frightening viewing experience.  Winona is hot!  "}{"Title":"Distinctly ho hum slice of Satanic horror hokum","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lost Souls seems to be one of those films that a minority of viewers claim as actually great, while most look on in disdain, this slim chance of it being a good time persuaded me to watch it but really, its not that good at all. Easy to see why some might be persuaded into this but unfortunately, this one only approaches good in a few isolated moments, it is fairly watchable but ultimately not so good, mostly tiresome in fact. The plot centres on Winona Ryder playing a former victim of possession turned worker for the catholic church in pursuit of demons and whatnot. During an exorcism coded writings are discovered foretelling the Devil's rebirth on Earth in human form, and the man in which this is to happen. From then on the film is a race against time to stop this from happening, but its not an especially doom laden or exciting one. I did get a couple of chuckles from supposed scare sequences, one of which is hackneyed enough to be really quite amusing and the ending is quite fun, but overall this was very much a lacking film. Ryder sleepwalks through her part, she comes across as a bit agitated but nothing more, no haunted feeling, no intensity or urgency, she does her bit but without any real spark. Fair work comes from the hardy ever reliables that are Philip Baker Hall, Elias Koteas and John Hurt, all do their best to inject gravitas and manage it pretty well, more of them would have given the film a much needed charge I feel. Unfortunately its mostly a Winona Ryder show, though Ben Chaplin does pretty nicely, suitably confused and ultimately fearful as the to be possessed. The film has been praised for its visuals, and seeing as director Janusz Kaminski was a cinematographer for Spielberg some of the shots look quite nice, but generally the film is no great shakes visually, it has the generic glum and gloomy look of many, many Hollywood thrillers and the whole film is over-edited, few shots stay around for long enough to have much impact. The other source of the films fandom is in its supposed twists or depth, neither of which I can credit really. There is no ambiguity of note written into the film and different interpretations are closed down throughout the film by its banal and predictable chain of events. As for some kind of a twist, it may well have been intended but the insipid Ryder can't pull it off. So all in all, this film simply doesn't work very well. On the plus side though, it is perfectly bearable and sometimes unintentionally funny stuff, it never quite attains true tedium and has the odd neat moment and an OK finale. Not too bad an experience then, but very much skippable. "},{"Title":"Booooring","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is simply too predictable.It runs along the the devil is coming lines, with other movies in the genre being Judgement Day and Stigmata, but it completely fails to bring in any new elements.Many of the things that are supposed to be scary, are too old fashioned and poorly cut by the editor, so you are left with an impression of a handful actors sticking to a manuscript without putting any effort into their performance.For me, this movie rates on level with any 2 hour slow motion movie picturing a cup of jello hitting the floor.Oooohhhh! Bluuuuub-bluuuuub-bluuuuuuub-bluuuuuub-bluuuuuub. Splat.  "},{"Title":"**  Scary but eventually pointless","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Typical humdrum spiritual thriller that is a small cut above the embarassing Bless The Child on the scarefest front but not anywhere near the level of Agnieszka Holland's The Third Miracle when it comes to its examination of faith and redemption. Winona Ryder is given a one-note role that she tries to expand but can do little with as a young woman with a troubled past who is on the lookout for the man who has been chosen by the devil to assume a reign of evil on earth. First-time director Janusz Kaminski (Academy Award-winning cinematographer of Steven Spielberg's Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan, and Holly Hunter's husband to boot) shows great promise in his debut when it comes to flashy editing, gorgeously atmospheric cinematography and spooky art direction-in truth, there were some scenes that scared me beyond many other movies I've ever seen. But his artistic endeavours soon overpower the production and it soon becomes apparent that they are his method of trying to cover up an aimless plot that wanders around in search of a new obstacle. Still, the many well-produced elements will keep you in your seat to see if the film fulfills its promise; it doesn't, and I must mention that the ending is so weak it will leave you angry.  "},{"Title":"For the love of all that is good-DON'T watch Lost Souls","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe that someone in Hollywood okayed this rubbish.I invested over an hour and a half in this garbage,which i consider to be one of the worst movies i have seen in many years.The ending is so DISAPPOINTING that i laughed out loud when the lights came on in the theater-i was in a state of shock at how much i had just been violated.Don't even rent this movie,or watch it on T.V.Rather watch your favorite movie again-you will be better off. "},{"Title":"Probably the biggest waste of money I've ever experienced!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was horrible.  It was awful, it sucked.  The ending sucked.  The plot sucked.  The main character sucked (who IS that guy anyway? random..). It was boring and the only thing that kept me awake was the occasional loud noise.  It wasn't the least bit scary or suspenseful.  I didn't leave the theater scared, I left in disgust.  If you want to spend $14 for you and a friend to see it, spend it on something else.  I think a Backstreet Boys CD would be a better investment, and that's almost going too far. "},{"Title":"religion horror on the rise","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Janusz Kaminski is a great cinematographer and has worked n such projects as Jerry Maguire, Amistad, Jurassic Park 2 and has won 2 Oscars for the masterpieces Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan.  But now, he has broken off the chain briefly to direct, which is fine (many directors go from the camera to the hot seat including Jan De Bont, Barry Sonnenfeld, even Stanley Kubrick) because here, he adds a lot of great expertise with Mauro Fiore, and the two create some of the best photography in a film this year and a great atmosphere for the horror.  But Kaminski did something wrong  he didn't realize the story, plot and even the dialogue might not have been as credible as it should've been.  The story follows a End of Days meets The Exorcist plot as a woman finds during an exorcism that the devil shall be reincarnated in a man on his 33rd birthday.  Winina Ryder is great as always in hidden charm as this woman and Ben Chaplin tries but doesn't quite succeed as the man.  If this story and film had been released a long, long tiome ago, it would be a breakthrough, but now, it is muted and quite dumbing dispite some (what looks like) great direction and camera work by Kaminski.  I guess it's just because the new version of the Exorcist on any day is better than this and Arnold against the devil is more credible than Ryder.  B- "},{"Title":"A forgettable chick flick version of End of Days.","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" You can count the scary moments in director Janusz Kaminksi's Lost Souls on one hand and have fingers left over to form a crucifix. This derivative supernatural thriller about Satanic possession starring Winona Ryder has finally reared its accursed tale in theatres after New Line Cinema let it rot for more than a year in its studio vault. Originally, New Line had scheduled Lost Souls for release about this time last year, because Pierce Gardner's script dealt with the millennium. A similar array of movies, such as Stigmata, The Ninth Gate, Dogma, and End of Days convinced New Line to confine Souls in limbo.Were they ever right!Now, New Line faces stiffer competition with the re-release of The Exorcist, the scariest movie of all time. Brave lads that New Line are, they have concocted the silliest advertising campaign on record. Quoting their ad 'The Exorcist' scared your parents. That was then, 'Lost Souls' is now.' This atmospheric but anticlimactic drivel imitates better movies, like Rosemary's Baby, The Omen, and The Exorcist, but it lacks both the suspense and the anxiety a good horror movie needs to frighten audiences.Lost Souls starts well, but falls apart because the Devil wimps out in the end. A Catholic A-Team of exorcists led by Father Lareaux (John Hurt), Deacon John Townsend (Elias Koteas), Father Jeremy (James Lancaster) and secular exorcism survivor Maya Larkin (Winona Ryder), appear at a New York psychiatric hospital to perform an exorcism on convicted murderer Henry Birdson (John Diehl) at his own request. Unfortunately, not only do our heroes botch the exorcism, but also Father Lareaux emerges traumatized while Birdson lapses into a coma. Maya liberates reams of Birdson's numerology notes. Decoding them, she discovers Satan will reincarnate himself in the body of a bestselling author who writes about serial killers. Ironically, writer Peter Kelson (Ben Chaplin) refuses to believe in evil with a capital E. Nevertheless, he frets when Maya reveals that the Devil wants to possess him.Check around your bed, she warns. They usually leave a pentacle.Sure enough, the incredulous Kelson learns his sneaky girlfriend, Claire (Sarah Wynter), has placed a giant pentacle in the ceiling of the apartment directly beneath his bedroom. Meanwhile, Deacon Townsend tries to murder Peter. Eventually, Peter and Maya learn Satan will inhabit Kelson's body on his 33rd birthday.Souls tries to be subtle when it should be shrill. The elegant photography with its muted black & white palette detracts from the horror and suspense. The dangers are similarly muted, and the showdown between Maya and evil lacks ferocity. Two scenes where demons approach Maya in creepy ways contain enough dread to make your skin crawl. Chiefly, Kaminski evokes fear with loud sounds designed to scare the Beelzebub out of you. Brace yourself for the broken crucifixion scene because it's about as chilling as this mishmash gets. Basically, Lost Souls amounts to a forgettable chick flick version of End of Days. "},{"Title":"The Transformation is Near","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** The movie Lost souls starts off with an exorcism of a former mathematics professor Henry Birdson, John Diehl, who's in an asylum after he went mad and murdered his entire family. The exorcism goes terribly wrong with the priest preforming it Father Lareaux, John Hurt, ending up hospitalized with an emotional breakdown. At the exorcism is Maya Larkin, Winona Ryder, who was herself exorcised when she was thirteen and with all the confusion in Birdson's hospital room Maya grabbed a number of papers that Birdson was writing numbers on that seemed to have been coded only for Birdson to understand. Myra at home trying to decipher Birdson's number code sees on TV Peter Kelson, Ben Chaplin, a writer being interviewed and is oddly attracted to him.After being exorcised as a little girl Myra, after having her mind and body restored, developed an ability to sense the Devil whenever he was near and had that same kind of felling when she saw Peter on TV. Maya follows her instincts by going to Peter's apartment to see if their, her instincts, right or wrong about him. She also sees that the number code of Birdson has Peter's name spelled out as the the Greek letters X-E-S thats sex backward; which is the numerical equivalent of the Greek number 666. Also when Peter meets Maya he feels a strong attraction to her as if he knows her or knew her sometime in his past and slowly develops a strange friendship with her. Strange things also begin to happen to Peter after he encountered Maya where his next door and nosy neighbor Mrs. Levotsky, Anna Berger, is later found hanged. Later he's almost killed at a party by John (Elias Koteas), a deacon who knows Maya, when he put a gun to Peter's face only to fail to pull the trigger. The attempt on Peter's life by someone that Maya knew alerted Peter to Mayra's intentions for him. Later he went to the school where she teaches to confront her only to find out from Maya that he was chosen by the Devil to have his body and soul taken over by him and thus become the Antichrist of Revelaions! This was supposed to happen when Peter reached his 33rd birthday. Even though this type of story has been done many times before in the movies and TV Lost Souls does rise above the level of exploitation that is so common in exorcism movies and the acting by both Chaplin & Ryder is far above of what you'd expect from a film like this. I especially liked Ben Chaplin who was totally unaware of what the Devil had in store for him until almost the very end of the movie and at first tried to convince himself that all this was just a bad dream. But sadly the truth was far too powerful for him to suppress and in the end it was the Devil who won the battle to take over both Peter's body and soul.The only thing, for me at least, that dragged down the film Lost Souls was it's very unconvincing and contrived ending. That could have been made more effective by the writer of the movie if Peter not Maya was made to put an end to the Devil's, Satan's, evil plan on Earth that he cooked up for Peter. That would have made Peter far more sympathetic to the audience as well as Maya as he already was in the movie up to that point. "},{"Title":"Dark, Beautiful Look--Utterly ridiculous movie","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  From what I know or understand, The Exorcist, hails as the greatest movie dealing with demonic possession.  I finally caught this movie last night on cable.  Though I wanted to see it in theaters, I am glad I waited.Photography on this film is disturbing, dark, beautiful and chilling.  The script is silly, inane and falls dead very quickly.  The style of the film was breathtaking.  The dark feel really captured the film, and as far as I'm concerned, really was more powerful than the film itself.> Winona Ryder is gorgeous any way you dress her up.  I do like the reclusive, frumpy way her character was portrayed. I did not like the over abundance of  knowledge her character seemed to have. It was like she has been to heave and hell, spoken to both Satan and God and knows of all their plans.  A story like this always delivered poorly.  Instead of trying too hard to use what knowledge the Catholic church knows of satan and posession. USE YOUR IMAGINATION...all the cliches and nonesense are in this picture. I was hoping this movie was building up to something great.  Some phenomenal conclusion that would be really stand-out.  Well, It didn't.  It fell on its face and became a lifeless shell of horrible cinema.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Standard god-versus-devil horror movie reasonably well-done see","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Winona Ryder starts off a bit shakily but her well-timed screams increase in conviction as we get into the swing of this god-devil-and-exorcisms movie. It's helped by the use of photography with drained colour that creates a gothic feel even in ordinary surroundings. Ryder's character is herself psychotic, having recovered from a mental illness / possession episode. Now a helper-associate for the Roman Catholic Church (a branch specializing in devil-ditching) she deciphers the ravings of a possessed inmate, and works out a code that names the person who will become the devil incarnate. Cleverly balancing psychology with the extremes of Romanist belief in the devil, Lost Souls is closer in tone to Polanski's Ninth Gate than, say, the Exorcist or the rather lame Bless the Child. It's not the scariest or classiest movie made in the genre, but it holds its own rather better than I expected. "}{"Title":"Blah!","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Terrible movie, the worst of all the c**p about antichrist etc. I am specially disappointed with the director, that I loved when he worked with Spielberg. I really wonder which movie Jason Keith's seen...A suggestion DON'T spend your money on it. Rather, see again the exorcist ;-) "},{"Title":"The Second of Rosemary's Nine Gates","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Here is a man who has mastered his camera, and had to bend to the prosaic, simple visions of Spielberg and other cinematic bozos. Putting him in charge means you get really, really creepy images, really powerful stuff, close to the bone. The down side he doesn't know much about acting, and narrative pacing. Kaminski is clearly influenced by Polanski, even to the knife, the images from the walls (`Repulsion'), the clear references to `Rosemary.' Even the Devil is Polish the Polish devil is unique, much more malevolent and visually-based than any other.Horror is perhaps the most cinematic of the genres, unless you are goofing or grossing. Horror tales never depended so much on story beyond giving some shape, some excuse for the images. So investing too much in story is a mistake I think. Script aside, I believe this is one of the most powerfully shot pure horror films ever. (For the most intelligent, you might check out `Ninth Gate.' For more viscerally visual, see some Greenaway if you have the guts.)Here, we have an actress who is still Depp's soulmate in the sense of being adventuresome and deliberately traveling beyond her reach. Like him, she is also generous, willing to not be the see-me, see-me focus, and to submit her presence to the effect. She worked with Kaminski on `American Quilt' and one would assume some special recognition of talent occurred there.Here we have an actor in Hurt, who frightens just with his commitment. Often this detracts from his performance because Jesus, he just intimidates. But he is just right here as the Devil's primary adversary then agent.Here we have perky Meg Ryan who is becoming a (possibly intelligent?) force in production. Winona has been as well, but here it is Meg's Prufrock pictures that takes the risk of being visually oriented. Problem is, they panicked at the previews and dumbed things down. This would have been better (but still flawed in pacing) if they had kept their meek mutts off.This visual meditation requires a self-aware eye and is not for people with attention deficit disorder. "},{"Title":"Lack of a plot (and many other things)","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I like seeing movies on their opening night, and it being Friday the 13th my buddies and I decided to see lost souls.  There were some interesting scenes that were morbidly funny in my opinion -- but not worth the cost of a ticket.  Do yourself a favor -- wait for the video!*Mild plot *Bad acting *'Different' cinematography-Jon  (MassMan) "},{"Title":"Cinematography Doesn't Equal A Great Film","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Director Janusz Kaminski is best known as being Spielberg's favourite cinematographer and has won cinematography Oscars for SCHINDLER'S LIST and SAVING PRIVATE RYAN . This no doubt explains why in Kaminski's LOST SOULS the cinematography seems to be the most important aspect of the production . Things like narrative drive , performances etc seem to have been sacrificed in order to bring moody , atmospheric sepia stained cinematography to the screen . I will give Kaminski some credit because he has made a brooding film even though audience members might spend the first third scratching their head asking themselves where this is all heading , and the editing is very good with a very impressive scene where street lights reflect upon Peter Kelson's car windshield as he drives under them Like nearly every single horror movie ever made it's the gaps in logic that lets the film down . Maya Larkin washes her hands in a public toilet , hears a sound behind her and calls out if anyone is there . Duh , it's a public toilet and members of the public use public toilets so why should Maya be concerned that someone might be in a cubicle ? It's almost like the character knows she's in a horror movie . Likewise why should the audience be concerned that Peter Kelson has a rude Jewish woman as a neighbour ? If he had a polite easy going Jewish neighbour I think that would be something out of the ordinary ! And the movie is full of these scenes that are somewhat bizarre where common sense prevails , I mean a bunch of priests being allowed to turn up at an insane asylum in order to carry out an exorcism ! Credible when you think about it ? I don't think so There's also two additional problems with the movie , neither of which have anything to do Kaminski . First off is you're reminded of other movies that feature Satan in all his forms and alas some of them like THE OMEN are far better than this but it's no better or worse than END OF DAYS either . Secondly much of the premise revolves around how seriously the audience can swallow the idea of Satan coming to Earth . Nigel Kneale used this plot in a brilliantly inventive way in QUATERMASS AND THE PIT but the concept used here is laughable if you're an atheist or the satanic equivalent of one and hence the film lacks credibility "},{"Title":"Extremely disappointing.","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When this movie was released theatrically, I thought I'd wait until its video release because of the awful reviews it initially got. Well, I finally got around to renting this out on DVD and boy was I glad I DIDN'T see this at the movies.The movie itself runs for approximately 97 minutes, but it will feel like it has run for 5 hours once the closing credits run across the screen. I really like Winona Ryder, but her movie roles she has been choosing as of late have been rather questionable. This one pretty much takes the gold medal for 'worst career choice'.This movie doesn't really know what it wants to be. Stigmata 2, The Exorcist Returns, The Omen The New Beginning, End Of Days II, etc. It takes bits and pieces from about 10 other films that deal with exorcism, devil possession, apocalypse derived from religious texts, etc., that it actually feels like you're watching something you've already seen before.Ryder is a young school teacher who was once 'possessed' by the devil. She assists Father Lareaux (played by John Hurt), the man who presides over the convent where she resides and teaches, in performing exorcisms. We even get to see one at the beginning of the movie that takes place in an asylum. Unfortunately, this particular exorcism backfires and renders Hurt into a catatonic state of mind. The unfortunate subject of the exorcism itself was not 'cleansed' of his demonic possession and therefore extends his character to be used at a later time in the movie.Meanwhile, Ryder studies the notes that were scribbled by the exorcism subject and discovers that Satan will take possession of a human (Ben Chaplin) on his 33rd birthday. The movie doesn't really delve into Ben Chaplin's character. All we discover is that he is an author of a novel that focuses on the trial of a serial killer. He seems to be an all-around nice guy, but the dialogue doesn't allow the viewer to discover anything more about him. Ryder's character comes off as being rather dull. A series of shocked facial expressions, bad hair and running around in the rain is all we really get to know about her.So basically this movie has introduced us to two characters that we don't really care about. One must save the other from being possessed by the devil. And that's what the next 80 minutes or so of the film tries to accomplish without putting the viewer to sleep.I remember reading somewhere a long time ago that when this movie was being filmed, several re-writes actually took place during shooting of the film, and the ending was re-shot after test audiences gave it a 'thumbs down'. If it was any worse than the ending that WASN'T left on the cutting room floor, then I can't possibly see how bad it could have been. Basically, Ryder's character comes to a resolution that includes a loaded gun and the penultimate moment when Chaplin's character is possessed by Satan.Several times during the viewing of this movie, I checked my watch. I looked at the back of the DVD case to see how long it ran for. I even spent some time trimming my toe nails. The photography in this movie was bleak. Everything came off as either being 'grainy' or dark. I felt like I was sitting in a cold latrine whilst watching the movie. There wasn't anything about the script that really kept me interested. The acting was below par and none of the actors could inject any character into their characters.This movie was really a waste of time. Never have I been so disappointed in the outcome of such a dreary film. I really thought something could have been made out of the 'ending' had someone really sat down and thought about it. Give this one a miss folks.2/10 "},{"Title":"please see!!","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  winona ryder rarely fails to take you to the exact place where your fear (of childhood in other movies and religion in this) is born and leaves you there, standing on the edge of a cliff wondering if you'll end up jumping or not and you sort of dangle there till the end of the movie (yet if you own a sensible mind, the images will haunt you in your sleep). the movie itself is not that scary in my eye, but it does give you enough insight to let your own doubts and questions lead you to where your true fear may lie and this is the real appeal of the movie, so yeah, i recommend it. "},{"Title":"Far from perfect, but a lot better than it's IMDb rating...","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just finished watching Lost Souls on TV2 Film (a Danish movie channel), and I instantly logged on to IMDb to see its rating, and perhaps learn more about the layers of the film.I was shocked a 4,5/10 rating on IMDb!? Granted, the film is far from perfect, but it's a lot better than 4,5/10, so I must admit, I actually only think the film deserves a 7/10 rating, but because its rating is so low, I give it an 8/10.I also managed to find some good heated discussions about the movie on its IMDb board - especially its ending. And I must say, any movie-ending capable of starting such heated discussions on IMDb has my full respect! Lost Souls definitely owes a lot to Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby from 1968 and William Friedkin's The Exorcist from 1973 (and perhaps even Roman Polanski's The Ninth Gate from 1995) thematically, visually, and plot-wise. Examples the general dark cinematography, the cinematography during the exorcism of the priest-scene resembles scenes in The Exorcist a lot, director Janusz Kaminski's choice to leave scenes open to debate (Which they are! Want proof? Just check the heated discussions on IMDb...), and finally the whole idea of everybody being in on it (as shown in the church-scene towards the ending) resembles Rosemary's Baby a lot. You can see these examples as a sign of director Kaminski being unoriginal, or as references/a tribute to the original classics. I choose to see it as the latter.It's clear that director Janusz Kaminski and cinematographer Mauro Fiore understand the horror genre. The cinematography is dark, creepy, and classy. The scenes are slow, although not Tarkovsky-slow, but, however, still far from the past-paced MTV editing of most of today's horror movies. All in all the movie is very atmospheric and has the feeling that something dark is looming around the corner (which perfectly underbuilds its plot). Kaminski also manages to avoid the most annoying horror clichés, although, as aforementioned, he does pay a lot of (too much?)tribute to especially Rosemary's Baby and The Exorcist - but there are even more genre references, so keep an eye open if you dig movie intertextuality. Furthermore Kaminski understands that true horror arises not from whats going on on-screen (too often big over-blown CGI-monsters), but from what goes on off-screen (in your mind!). No movie monster can ever compete with the figures of your imagination. This movie follows that philosophy.Wionna Ryder fits perfect in the role as Maya. It's not a mind-blowing performance (because the character is, to be honest, rather cliché), but it's steady. Ryder understands when to act subtle and when to act on the big emotions. Ben Chaplin is acceptable as Peter, although a bit more anonymous character-wise and easily replaceable by another actor with similar looks. Finally, Philip Baker Hall as Father James, is always a joy to watch. He doesn't receive much screen-time, but he's menacing in the few scenes he appear. A true character actor!I see a lot of IMDb users hate this movie because of its ending. Personally I like the ending, but I understand them to a certain a degree. It can feel like an anti-climax - but only if you're not using all your senses when watching movies. I think it's a great ending for the same reason I liked the ending of Rosemary's Baby it's open for interpretation, thus leaving the movie running in your head a long time after it's ended. You can't stop thinking about the ending. Did Peter turn into Satan before Maya shot him? Or Did Maya actually shoot an innocent man? Was she, in fact, the one destined to become Satan all along? Or did the whole story perhaps take place in a mentally ill Maya's mind? If you're a thinker, these questions are bound to come up. That's what makes this movie so interesting, and even re-watchable. At least I'm gonna watch it again, so I can look for more clues to the puzzle that I didn't catch the first time.But the movie also has its flaws. It's as if the director didn't have the guts to go all the way with the horror works best in the audience's imagination-philosophy, and had to put in some supernatural slasher scenes that only work against the movie's horror. Either that or he was under pressure from studio execs. Furthermore the plot and the dialog sometimes feel a bit too cliché. It's as if the movie isn't sure if it's a mainstream or art-house movie. Does it want to be an intelligent piece of art or a mind-numbing by-the-books Hollywood horror. It's as if it's going in both directions at once, and therefore doesn't fully succeed at either one.That being said, the movie does have a lot of qualities, and is definitely worth watching for any serious fans of the genre (as I am). I've watched all the classics The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, The Exorcist, Rosemary's Baby, Repulsion, Halloween, Cannibal Holocaust, Nosferatu, Dracula (1932 and 1958), Vertigo, Psycho, etc. etc. etc. - this movie has a lot of good elements, although not quite enough to reach the classic/cult status of the aforementioned movies. At the moment I'm waiting for Lars von Trier's upcoming 2009 movie Antikrist which is, surprise, surprise, a horror movie... Trier's first since his TV-series Riget. I hope he'll bring something new to the genre, because the genre sure needs it.Well... that's about it I guess. On to the rating. I find the movie worthy of 7/10, but give it 8/10 because of its currently absurdly low IMDb rating of 4,5/10! "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning, Well Acted, But A Little Disjointed.","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lost Souls is an eerie religious horror/thriller from first time director Janusz Kaminski, an Academy Award winning cinematographer. The movie follows Maya (Winona Ryder), a religious Catholic woman who is very spiritual and is a part of a small group of fellow religious people who perform exorcisms, investigate religious mythology, etc. But she becomes convinced that a famous writer, Peter (Ben Chaplin) has been pre-destined since birth to become a leader for Satan, after decoding the writings of an institutionalized man. When she approaches Peter about her findings, he is skeptical, as most would be. He's not religious and isn't a spiritual person by any means. But Maya and Peter both find themselves stuck in the middle of the bizarre happenings that have been predicted, and a final showdown ensues between the forces of good and evil.As far as religious-themed horror films go, this is a really good one. Religious horror films typically tend to get under my skin, it could be because I was raised Catholic, but they have always tended to scare me much more than say a slasher movie would. So, with Lost Souls being a film of this type, it did creep me out a little. The story has been done many times in various different ways (The Omen probably being most notable for this), but what I liked about this film was that it was crafted a little differently and wasn't quite what one would expect. The performances here were great, Winona Ryder and Ben Chaplin were both perfect and showed some significant talent. Philip Baker Hall and John Hurt have supporting roles as priests, and they were both also very good. To sum the performances up, the acting was all really wonderful and believable.The cinematography is what really soars in this film though - not surprisingly either, as the director is a cinematographer (who worked on both of Spielberg's Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan) and has won Academy Awards for his work. So naturally, the film looks stunning. Very flashy photography, dark and sometimes almost sepia-toned, and very moody and artistic all at the same time. I really liked the entire movie's 'look'. From what I've read on here it seems like the biggest problem people have with this film is the ending. I personally liked the ending. It was ambiguous. So what? It made you think a little and, while it was a inconclusive, it at least went out with a bang (literally). I've seen other films end in a similar fashion, but I think this film did it pretty well. It was daring and I liked that about it, and it didn't happen too fast.Bottom line - Lost Souls is a notch above most religious thrillers, and is very well acted with some amazing cinematography. While the ending may disappoint some, I thought it was at least fitting to the film and it changed the entire perspective of what had lead up to that point - it ended like that for a reason. Really not that bad. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a great movie. The acting is superb and I think saves this movie from being mediocre.You have to see beyond and this movie is in it's form by allowing the viewer to rely on their intelligence.For those of us who get this movie and enjoyed it, will understand how absolutely underrated this movie is.Lost Souls is in the great style of Prophecy and other little known movie gems that are enjoyable and actually have you think about topics such as they depict.The viewer is actually commended to open his/her mind if they so desire and not to be confined to the predictability of so many movies.Enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone...","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Since I consider Christianity as fiction setup anyway I find some fiction-horrors based on it quite interesting...But as they say, road from a bad movie to a good movie is much shorter than the road from a good movie to a great movie. Considering this, Lost Souls is a good movie. I liked it on several accountsThe movie is almost all brown-monochromatic, which adds to eerie atmosphere, acting was quite good (no stupid romances), otherworldly evil rarely manifests itself (its power lies in fact it's unseen), and when people (or who they are) start to die, the plot do not rub in their deaths, the scene simply ends... quite a feat )But in overall feel the movie was kinda corny. To put it shortly, it was good but not great. If you like religion-based horrors, go for it. 5.5/10  "}{"Title":"FearDotCom prequel?","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Like FearDotCom, this is a beautifully photographed film; like FearDotCom the script fails to live up to the visual aesthetics of the film; however, unlike FearDotCom, Lost Souls does make sense . . . but somehow I didn't like this film as much.I've always wondered something about films like Lost Souls and End of Days - how does a frail and fragile human being defeat demonic/satanic forces whom used to be angels and were cast from heaven by God, himself?  How does a human being accomplish this by him/her self as though physical weapons of this world have any impact on the spiritual warfare?  It's as though someone just wants to take a common knowledge premise - good versus evil - take the most universal scenario of ultimate good/evil (God vs Satan) and not follow through.  Let's read the liner notes on the bible, and make the rest up as we go along.  With that said, there's no real need to dive into the numerous anti-christ prophecies that the film failed to address and/or contradicted.From a narrative standpoint, I didn't see any real reason to give Ryder's character hallucinations other than to serve as a cheap scare gimmick that didn't really work.  Maybe I'm just tired of seeing hallucinations in film as they try to blur the lines of what is hallucination and reality, which winds up annoyingly predictable.  No insult to Rider, though, her performance was admirably subtle, yet believable; I just wish the writing didn't rely so parasitically on horror cliches and was bold enough to stand on its story . . . then I could buy into her character and this plot a little more.  Unfortunately, gimmick-dependency has a steep price - it makes Lost Souls lose its integrity and thus it really lacks intensity where it needs it.  The slow pacing is fine, the lack of a climactic battle that destroys half a city to save the whole world - even that's fine.  Silence, if handled properly, is infinitely more powerful the sound effects and music at full blast.  Lost Souls is a movie about obsessions and emotional extremes, neither of which comes across with proper conviction to keep you on the edge of your seat in the silence.The film wants to use a variety of inspirations to get its point across - it wants to be Rosemary's Baby, it wants to be the Exorcist among others - and as a compilation of cinematic elements it's all right.  Unfortunately, Lost Souls comes across as just a static compilation.  It plays the same notes as its sources, but it does not understand nor can it play the music.  It could've been a wonderfully intense movie that took former concepts to the next level in a unique blend, but sadly we're left with a movie that just recycles ideas a little differently.On the bright side, it is a beautifully shot film and Winona Ryder's in it. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERI just love the end ... 666! Bang! Great. Not particularly scary ... and the with the knife ... AND SHE ISN'T SURE WHETHER IT'S REAL OR NOT!  So she pricks her finger deliberately.  Blood. A great moment.  This is a great film.  Probably not one to watch if you're Christian, not because it's blasphemous, but because that other guy didn't like it. "},{"Title":"Dark and Creepy","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Lost Souls is about a small group of catholics, believing that satan can captivate and posses men. Maya Larkin(Winona Ryder) had that same experience when she was possessed but now she is part of that group and helps with the exorcisms. Suddenly this author Peter Kelson(Ben Chaplin) becomes a target for satan, and the catholic group think it's his body, satan wants to posses. Now Maya must find a way to save Peter. I think Lost Souls was filmed wonderfully, dark and creepy,very beautiful. And who didn't love Winona Ryder's dark smoky eyes? Anyways the story wasn't that great, pretty predictable and not scary. But the visuals and filming were awesome. I would give Lost Souls 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Of all the bad horror films starring fairly big-name stars in recent years, this has got to be the worst. (GOD BLESS THE CHLD is a close second.) The plot plods along, and the ending is much too abrupt. We don't even get to see de old deble! This was made just before Wynona got caught shoplifting. Maybe this thankless role did her in. The movie is proof positive of my feeling about devil-themed movies 99 percent of them suck. Anybody see THE CALLING? How about DEVIL'S ADVOCATE? I rest my case. "},{"Title":"Nice photo, lack of drama","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First of all it is a really good photo throughout this movie, but some  elementary lessons in drama would not have done Kaminski and the writers any bad. In the beginning everything seems good but at the end there's a total lack of suspense, which is quite bad when Satan's 'round the bend. But. some exorcism, Evil with capital E, devil worshippers and a glimpse of Satan can be entertainment for sure and this one is quite OK apart from the glitches mentioned. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric Creepy Smart Chiller","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Going by the general reviews here for this film, I shouldnt have enjoyed this.  Thankfully I watched it with very little idea of what was going to unfold.  I realise this is very derivative of many other satanic, posession chillers, but it is a welcome addition to a genre that is almost always over-the-top.  This is a slow burner, the characters are introduced slowly but surely so the audience can empathise with them.Winona Ryder is excellent as Maya, Ben Chaplin has certainly flung of his sit-com cloak with a fantastic performance as a man slowly but surely realising his destiny/losing his mind.  The relationship between the two leads is innocent and tender, thankfully the studio never forced them to become romantically involved as it wouldn't ring true.The Direction is fantastic, adding atmosphere and tension, the bleached picture created a very real place.  I was completely drawn into the movie and have to say that I have not been scared by a film since The Shining and The Exorcist, I am not puting this film at the same level of those films as they are Masterpieces in their own right, but I felt considerably uneasy by this film which thankfully never gets drawn into a overblown exagerated ending,  All in all I would give this film 7/10, an dreccomend it to anyone that was scared to death by The Exorcist.Just my 2cents  "},{"Title":"why it is so inconceivable that his adversary is also real","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie has made it for me. it scratched that obscure itch even I forgot about in the back of my eyeball. The high contrast of the bleached out footage visually captures the theme of ying versus yang. Visually, it was very well shot. That's my good comment for the day. The presentation of the footage is mostly good, but I don't like the jumpy slow motions. The end of the movie punches itself into a half-ass American Psycho corner of unreality. The movie has the stupidest question I have ever heard a lead character pronounce, and seems to hint that the elder priests who've got it got it wrong, and the little brat and her stubborn little brain has it right about the existence of the devil. I should say, the greatest trick the devil pulled on man was to make him believe he existed! Fools! But this is a problem that predates pre-production. The sadness of the movie is that apparently, the cinematographer lacked the humbleness to work with the director as a team, or the director was too insecure to pull the cinematographer's reins, which ends with the two of them telling different stories. There is so much irrelevant visual story-teling, or should I say visual story-telling the actual plot isn't even aware of. I guess this is what you get when you let the award-winning guy out of the bag.The world as simple as good and evil? This isn't your narow-mind and rotten brain we're talking about exorcist girl! I hate this movie just because of Winona Ryder's character. She gives the movie depth, but if it weren't for that stupid comment and her basic attitude towards that topic, I might like this movie a lot more.  "},{"Title":"The problem with this movie is the villain is stupid","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It is virtually impossible to make a good movie about Satan.  Satan is allegedly the second most powerful being in the universe, and yet via Hollywood he is incompetent and impotent.  That strains the suspension of disbelief tremendously.  Whether or not you believe in Satan, the concept of Satan requires the villain to be smarter then the average mortal.  Why would the devil, with all his mystical power, incarnate himself into the body of a New York writer?  Why not the President of the U.S., or the President of Russia, or the E.U., SOMEONE with some sort of authority, if the devil must incarnate himself?  At least in the Exorcist, the devil possesses humans to ruin the INDIVIDUAL soul, not to conquer the world. That at least makes sense.A second problem with all apocalyptic movies is that according to the Christian tradition, the end of the world will happen *one* way.  There are no variations, and the Book of Revelation spells out how the Antichrist comes to power and how he is defeated.  It's stupid to extrapolate the idea of the Antichrist from Revelation yet undermine the rules outlined in the Bible for his existence and reign.  I guess the Book of Revelation would make a pretty boring movie with the climax already established.  Those are the two fundamental problems conceptually with movies like Lost Souls, End of Days, Bless the Child...A.) the devil is too stupid to be a threat and B.) the writers cut and paste what they want from their source material and thus undermine the very extrapolation they are attempting to promote.BTW, the movie was boring with no scares.  It's greatest success is in making Winona Ryder anti-cute.   3 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Too focused on the camera?","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's not an easy thing to make a movie that could be mistaken for a horror movie these days. People expects to get really frightened, to see some blood and some violence, some teenagers hanging in their intestines in a tree. So they tend to get really disappointed when they encounter something else, like Lost Souls.Personally, I thought this movie could have been the very best of all the recent satan-arrives-and-ends-the-world movies. But it didn't. Maybe the director was a bit too focused on the camera works and forgot about the script. Well, the actors did great and there was a lot of dark tension that built up through the movie, but something was missing nonetheless. Too bad, really. It could have been really great. "},{"Title":"Too focused on the camera?","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's not an easy thing to make a movie that could be mistaken for a horror movie these days. People expects to get really frightened, to see some blood and some violence, some teenagers hanging in their intestines in a tree. So they tend to get really dissappointed when they encounter something else, like Lost Souls.Personally, I thought this movie could have been the very best of all the recent satan-arrives-and-ends-the-world movies. But it didn't. Maybe the director was a bit too focused on the camera works and forgot about the script. Well, the actors did great and there was alot of dark tension that built up through the movie, but something was missing nonetheless. Too bad, really. It could have been really great. "}{"Title":"boring","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I think think this movie was so boring. When I first watched it I thought it would be awesome. But then I watched it. Well i was disappointed. It was just too boring for me. But there were a few scenes I thought were cool. The scenes were done good. The acting in my opinion was pretty good. Honestly I dont have much to say about this movie.  But thats my opinion. But I do recommend this movie to anyone who likes these kinds of movies. Some of you out there might like it, some may not. But at least give it a shot first. I also recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good horror movie.  "},{"Title":"at first a bit disappointed, but made me want to see it again","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was a bit disappointed after having watched Lost Souls for the first time. Although, disappointment is the wrong word it left me with a feeling of indifference. But a few days later the rather haunting images of the film kept creeping up and made me want to see it again. The film has an almost dreamlike feeling to it, lacking any twists and turns; yet it still manages to leave a lasting impression on it's unsuspecting viewers. Reading the last comment by bros made me appreciate Lost Souls even more. I myself had similar thoughts concerning the plot, although reading that comment opened my eyes indeed. Especially the final scene is quite ambiguous. SPOILER Remember Ben Chaplin's amazed and at the same time shocked expression as he realizes Wynona Rider has seen the 666 on the clock's display? Did this really mean that Chaplin had become the Antichrist? Maybe the display didn't change at all, and her sudden astonished look on her face made him understand that she's insane and willing to see whatever her fanatic mind makes her see?! But then again, what about the pentacle and the satanic congregation in church? The movie would make most sense if it shows us the world as Wynona Rider's character sees it full of potential clues of demonic intervention, yet without true proof of the Antichrist's coming. What if the Devil was out to make Wynona's character do his bidding by making her believe she's doing this in God's name? That would give the notion The Devil made me do it a completely new twist... "},{"Title":"Not a very good horror movie","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is lack of spices, the ability to make people scare are shown in this movie but the story is very empty. The plot is not very well done and almost one hour of the movie there is no clear indication what the characters ability and what they can do.Almost do not follow other mystery and horror category but some thinking of the casts like Miss Ryder, the movie has been make an exceptional one. "},{"Title":"Winona Ryder, what were you thinking!","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love cheesy horror movies.  Maximum Overdrive, House on Haunted Hill, i even liked Deep Rising.  At least those movies had an ending, this movie is just 100 minutes of crap.  The ending is so predictable that there is no point to even watch it.  It would have been nice to have evil unleashed on the earth, but that would have cost too much.  Instead we'll just hang out in a dark house with a psycho chasing Winona Ryder.  As for Winona Ryder, she plays a school teacher by day, and a satan worshiping exorcist by night. Come on, do you expect us to buy this?  Ben Chaplin is probably still dreading doing The Thin Red Line so he thinks to go mainstream with Lost Souls.  Instead he ends up putting his acting career lower than Howie Long. "},{"Title":"Too long in between frightening scenes, but all around good","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of film you have to watch, but wish they had more to add, they focus far too much on the story line, and making it interesting, when basically people just wanted it to be scary. Winona Ryder, was great, but other actors were just ok. The film had potential, but lacked jumpy moments !!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"The very definition of underrated","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hmmm. Odd that this film received such bad reviews and bombed in the box offices of every country it was screened in.I've seen A LOT of movies. I have a degree in film and yet I have never EVER been more terrified in a cinema than when I went to see this film.See it so everyone involved gets the royalties they deserve so much. "},{"Title":"I walked out!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had no fluidity, no point, and no scare.  The only movie I have EVER walked out on was Ishtar.  It tried to range from the Exorcist to rosemary's baby, to Jacobs ladder.  Failed horribly on all three.  It's not like I didn't give it a chance.  I stayed for about 100 minutes (nothing would have saved this film by then), I couldn't take anymore.  No thrills, no scares, no point............ I WANT MY MONEY BACK!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Worst disappointment since The Blair Witch Project","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This dog of a flick left me feeling absolutely violated.Chic camera work, one laudably executed scene involving a giant crucifix and Elias Koteas' pretty mug (the ONLY three bright points of the film) could never be enough to save this one. From stunted dialogue to meagerly informed religious reference to downright intrusive similarities to a cache of better celluloid predecessors across a number of genres, it baffles me WHY WHY WHY New Line execs missed so many reasons to permanently trash this one. Throughout, the film merely teases with promises of a dark, intelligent and brooding unfolding of events on the vein of The Exorcist, Rosemary's Baby, The Omen, ad infinitum. And when it fails to deliver, don't expect the less-engaging but sometimes more carnally fun gore factor or a redeeming climax to kick in--neither do... AT ALL. This movie isn't just bad, it's the type of film that could make a viewer downright angry (I heard several people mention they'd like their money back)... and leave would-be talent thinking there is DEFINITELY work for me in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"What a lame movie","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Best thing about this movie was the trailer for '13 Days' at the beginning. Repeat The Best thing about this movie was the trailer for '13 Days' at the beginning.All jokes aside, the movie was boring, an exorcist ripoff, and comes at a time where every other week a new Satanic movie is being released.The girl (Winona Ryder) looks good with long hair. That's one of the pluses of the film.  The ending of the movie is so bad you will be asking yourself... this is a joke right?   "},{"Title":"Lost & Found","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Often, in any kind of film, you can see a special effect coming.  The shot just looks different, you can see someone is about to morph, or something is about to explode.  Lost Souls works so well because the whole feel to the film-- the lighting, editing, sound-- are all so disconcerting and surreal that when something unreal happens, you DON'T see it coming.The imagery in parts is nightmarish, almost a step-up from The Exorcist in terms of effects and creativity.  This is an incredible debut film from cinematograper Kaminski, never mind if it was shelved for two years.Of problems, there are only two Winona Ryder is miscast, she didn't look convincing as a blonde in Edward Scissorhands either, though perhaps that was intentional, as there is one scene with her normal hair.The second, and bigger problem, is the ending.  Great movie, but horribly anticlimactic.  Again, maybe this was the point.  I can't give anything away, of course, but the closest I can say would be, maybe I shouldn't have been rooting for the Devil.  That dim realization isn't enough to make up for a lame ending.Great movie.  Scary movie.  Creepy movie.  Bad ending.  Knowing this, see it at your leisure. "}{"Title":"Mediocre occult film, beautifully photographed","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If beautiful, haunting images made a film, this would be a classic. The color is both dark and somewhat bleached, and as s result, even the most mundane places look eerie and Gothic. There are some well-chosen locations and great camera angles. In short, this film looks great, ideal for the storyline. But the story itself never really takes off. Wynona Ryder, who's beautiful with long hair, plays the assistant to some priests who special in exorcisms, and she becomes convinced that a famed author, well-played by Ben Chaplin, has been chosen to be the anti-Christ. But the story never becomes as scary as it could have been. Not helping is that the screenwriters haven't done their homework on the subject. And the ending is dull, and so abrupt, it seems that the filmmakers pasted it on because they didn't know what to do with the story and were running low on film. There are a few scattered thrills and a few moments of suspense, but not enough of them. "},{"Title":"Director Didn't Understand Plot","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Listening to the director's comment track on the DVD makes it obvious that he did not understand the story and background at all. His focus was on the cinematography which is understandable since this is his main occupation. This was his first director job. He did not understand the religious parts of the film at all. This led to many faults that were not resolved. He stated he did not want to do what The Exorcist had done so refused to clarify the story. He was the wrong person to direct this film and it shows.He stated that he took the original script and completely reworked it from the original intent. It is obvious he did not know the religious ideas therefore making a mess of what could have been a really good film. "},{"Title":"Worthy enough in regards cast, look and approach but is still dull","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Maya Larkin is one of a religious group sanctioned by the Catholic Church to carry out exorcisms and such. When carrying out one on mental patient Henry Birdson, things go disastrously wrong but one of the voices appears to point to some connection to famous author and lawyer Peter Kelson. Maya investigates and believes that Kelson is the one selected by Satan to be his conduit into the real world &#150; becoming human in the same way as Jesus was God in man's form. With time running out she goes to an incredulous Kelson with her story.I was away on holiday when this film screening in the UK for the first time but the sheer weight of the names in the cast made me interested enough to set the video for it. I knew that this had been shunted all over the place in 1999 because of similar films (most notably End of Days) and it eventually was released without any real fanfare, fuss or attention. Watching it I can totally understand why the producers wanted as little competition as possible and also why it just crawled into and out of cinemas &#150; because, generally, it is quite dull. Not a great deal happens and it has an air of a serious version of End of Days but it doesn't have the weight behind it to carry it off. The ending is satisfying bleak but up till then it hadn't been as effective and I regularly found myself wishing that there was more to it.It is not the cast's fault because they all clearly expected more and they all try hard. Ryder works hard and is impressive, stealing many of the scenes in the film (to borrow a Bill Bailey joke). Chaplin tries to manage the doubt his character would feel without damaging the film generally &#150; he can't quite pull it off though and he seems too accepting. Support from Hurt, Hall, Koteas, Diehl and others is all OK but the film doesn't use them that well although their presence does help give the film a more professional appearance. Kaminski's direction is good from a visual and stylistic point of view but this was not enough &#150; he cannot inject tension or anything special into the story but at least it all looks good (if not that imaginative).Overall this is an average film that even shunting out of the way of the millennium competition didn't help. The cast are professional, polished and serious but the material is too heavy and delivered in a flat fashion. Visually it looks good and it seems like an adult telling of this recent cliché but mostly it is surprisingly dull. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I heard","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What's the problem?  This film is no classic, but it's not the disaster critics have been calling it. WARNING Possible spoilers ahead!!!!  Winona Ryder discovers that Ben Chaplin will play host to the Devil, become the Anitchrist and take over the world.  Can it be stopped...and how?  This is a very odd horror film for 2000--there's next to no blood, no gore, no extreme violence and only a few well-placed shocks.  (How it got the R rating is beyond me).  It's easy to see why New Line didn't release it for a year--it's not a typical horror movie.  What it is, is very well-made, creepy, exceptionally well-directed (by Janusz Kaminski) and a great performance by Winona Ryder.  The film isn't perfect--it's sometimes hard to follow, the (purposely) grainy and drained of color look of the film wears on you and Chaplin gives out a pretty bad performance.  He's stated in interviews that he didn't want to do the movie--he only did it because Ryder asked him.  Unfortunately, his reluctance shows.  Still, the movie is a near-perfect example of quiet horror--it creeps up on you slowly and leads to a downbeat (in a way) conclusion.  Again, why are people saying the ending was so stupid?  I thought it ended perfectly!  So, it's no classic but not a disaster.  I gave it a 7.  Worth catching. "},{"Title":"The movie sucks, but Ryder looks stunning.","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" How many of these crappy turn-of-the-millennia thrillers are there? From Y2K to the End of Days to even more obscure takes, there's just a slew of films that came out around 2000 built around the idea of humanity's time running out. Most of them stink out loud, but Lost Souls may be the worst of the bunch to come out of a major studio. This thing is overwrought, unclear, repetitious and has some of the worst pacing of any movie you'll ever see.To start with, you have to get about 30 minutes into the film before you get any solid idea of what and who it's about. I don't mean there's some mystery keeping the viewer in suspense. I mean you spend the first half hour staring blankly at the screen and wondering Who are these people? Why are they doing that? Okay, why am I looking at this guy now? Is he a reporter or some kind of lawyer? Wait, he's a writer? Now why are we back with those other people? Is he the main character? Is she the main character? What the hell am I watching?Then the middle part of Lost Souls tells you the same thing over and over and over again, getting more and more explicit each time but expecting you to be surprised every time it tells you the same thing. Imagine if Citizen Kane had constantly told the audience the secret of Rosebud, but kept going on as if it was still an unanswered question. That's what the middle of Lost Souls is like, except executed with 1/1000th the talent and skill.That brings us to the ending and a case of narrative whiplash. The first three-quarters of this film is languidly paced, dawdling along before suddenly going from 0 to stupid in 8.67 seconds. It's as if they started out with a 350 page script and shot the first 80 pages before it occurred to anyone that they were making a 6 hour long movie, then they tried to cram everything everything into just more 30 pages. It goes from feeling like a bad episode of Masterpiece Theatre to a worse episode of Pokemon.What is Lost Souls about? Well, there's this troubled young woman (Winona Ryder) trying to stop this guy (Ben Chaplin) from becoming the wussiest Antichrist in cinema history. The tagline for the movie poster should have been The Omen&#x85;for Dummies. Some stuff happens but there's very little violence, no nudity, only a smattering of bad language and Ryder and Chaplin appear to be engaged in some sort of acting contest to see who can come up with the most different ways of looking forlorn.The only possible value this garbage could have is as more evidence that Winona Ryder is one of the most beautiful women of all time. It's gone amazingly unnoticed because she never became a Julia Roberts-type movie star or sought out constant media attention, but Ryder is truly incredible to look at. Actresses as a profession are more attractive than average, but even most actresses have a beauty peak. With some it's early, with others it's late, but there will generally be a time when an actresses' physical appearance is at its zenith and she doesn't look as good either before or after that period. Ryder's not like that. She hasn't had a beauty peak. She's been at a beauty plateau for over 20 years, starting out as a phenomenally cute young woman and maintaining that level of visual appeal all the way to the point where she's now getting to be almost old enough to play the mother of one of her earlier roles.Unfortunately, as great as Ryder looks, she's not enough on her own to make Lost Souls worth watching. You'd be better off acting out the book of Revelations with finger puppets. "},{"Title":"Pure Drivel","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rosemary's Baby rewritten ( badly ) for the clueless generation ... This film reeks ... The acting is fine ... The story is basically antichrist appears on earth ... Done to death ... And as most people with a brain now realise that there are no gods, this sort of story no longer works ... The fact that whoever edited this was unable to put a narrative flow together from such a simplistic story is another matter I love horror films but would strongly suggest you give this one a wide berth as it offers absolutely nothing of interest This rule that you have to write 10 lines or more is really difficult with this film because it is so devoid of any interest that it really is just ... Sad ...Boring ... And a complete waste of everyones time "},{"Title":"Cinemus interruptus","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After some consideration, my theory on what is wrong with this film is thisif you do a good job of building tension and suspense in a movie, you should have something really impressive to show for it at the end. There are many films that somehow missed this logical progression, and this is one of them. I have considered seeing the film again, in the hope that maybe I missed some important bit of information that would have made the climax much more...well, anything, but it's like being dumped. You just can't go through that same thing if you think you're going to end up disappointed again.Perhaps there is a director's cut hidden somewhere, where they will show us how the film was GOING to end and explain why they didn't use it. We can only hope.  "},{"Title":"Aren't there enough Devil-themed movies out there?","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Another story of someone suspecting that the Devil is soon to take over the world. There have been so many of these kinds of movies that I can't even distinguish them anymore. Winona Ryder has starred in so many good movies, so why did she degenerate into this? About the only clever scene was when he couldn't hear the tape; otherwise, Lost Souls made little to no sense.So, there are plenty of good movies out there, so don't bother with this one. Also making fools of themselves are Ben Chaplin, Sarah Wynter, Philip Baker Hall (the old guy in Paul Thomas Anderson's movies), John Hurt and Elias Koteas. Not a terrible movie, but pretty worthless. "},{"Title":"lost souls deuteronomy 17","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" i just want to say whoever got the idea that in Deuteronomy there is mention of the son of Satan or incest is completely wrong. if you want to make an end time film then maybe you should stick to the correct source. like Revelations or Daniel or any other prophets, don't get me wrong the movie was good but i think Meg Ryan or whoever might want to bone up on their B I B L E. before making an F O O L out of themselves. just my opinion. if you don't believe me. check out the book deuteronomy for yourself.(boy what jerk i am). thanks oh yeah it has to be 10 lines so.........BLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAH BLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAHBLAH and BLAH. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Perhaps a hasty vote, as I am 3/4 through this film, but it suffers from a loose script and substandard acting, although Ryder and Towsend help. It is another copy of the Exorcist 20 + years later. It is not scary, although it is placed in the horror section at the video store. Scary is The Exorcist, When a Stranger Calls Back, Hellraiser, Even Horizon...Peter. As I write this, the movie is playing on my Sony DTS system, and the sound is superb. The washed out colors look good as a compliment to the latter. The beginning was excellent, but after that up until close to the end has been drab and almost without purpose. Of course the scenes serve to complete the story, but when you have seen - in copious amounts - over 50% of the scenes (jail scenes with crazy guy, irascible antagonists, dramatic cups of coffee, etc.), it looses its flair.Something to show to perhaps buffer a bungled social situation with a newly met person. "}{"Title":"Lost Time (mine, that is)","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie had so much promise! What a great idea! The cast was pretty good! Great cinematography...But what a failure. If you're studying film, this may be a great film to dissect. The editing was confusing the storyline...I'm not sure if there was one, actually one of the worst endings in motion picture history. SPOILER I mean, come on. You wait the whole movie for some resolution to this guy's Satan thing, and then...that's it???? What a letdown. And what's with his girlfriend being involved. I should have also warned that this was a rant. lolAnyhow. This movie was very weak when it had the potential to be very good.I guess that is the worst thing about it. Not living up to its potential. ** "},{"Title":"A dull, seen-it-all-before Satan flick.","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  LOST SOULS (2000)THE GOOD--It's no surprise that when a film is directed by the Oscar winning cinematographer Janusz Kaminski that it is a triumph stylistically. Of course, a nice looking film doesn't mean it's a good film, but Lost Souls does have some nice eye candy. I particularly liked the dream sequences, the one in the toilet was very well constructed.--The film starts well, with some good philosophy. I liked the ideas that the leads (Winona Ryder and Ben Chaplin as Maya and Peter) had on good and evil, God and Satan, they interested me.THE BAD--Haven't I already seen this movie tons of times before? In films like The Exorcist, Stigmata, End of Days, The Omen and many more? Lost Souls doesn't bring anything new to the forefront, in fact it is basically a cardboard copy of the previous films mentioned. You'd think that copying so many movies would bring about a solid plot, but it is not to be. The film is almost plotless, it seems like there wasn't very much of a story so Kaminski had to fill in some time (to make the 90 minute mark) by the characters just looking at objects.--I was pretty bored by this movie. It didn't hold my interest, probably because I found it so predictable and wasn't interested in the characters or the so-called plot of the film.--I expected a better ending. We've watched all the crap up until these climactic moments, and what we're given is very, very simple and definitely not as clever as it thinks it is. The movie gives us a lame twist and then sort of just ends, without caring much for the slight bit of development we got or the time we spent to get to this point. I expected a bit of action but what we get is just one disappointment after another - a bore, much like the rest of this rehash.RATING4/10 - Lost Souls is the kind of film that thinks its deep and conceptual, when in the end there really isn't that much there in the first place. Except for several rip-offs of other movies.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE IRECOMMENDDamien Omen II (5/10) End of Days (6/10) The Exorcist (9/10) The Omen (8/10) Stigmata (6/10) "},{"Title":"Robber soul.","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ah!Satan!Your biggest sin was not tempting Eve but inspiring lots and lots of movies,each lousier than the one before ,all dealing with your unwanted son.There were exceptions of courseit gave a masterpiece Rosemary's baby and some watchable flicks such as the omen  or the changeling . Here we deal with a fourth-rate Omen with snatches of 'the exorcist thrown in .The director has really a robber soul.Before the scene at school where Ryder reveals  the unfortunate hero what fate lies in store for him ,the story never takes off.And when it does ,it's a spate of clichés that we are watching.Why they dare produce such duds and spend money for that is beyond me. "},{"Title":"Occult hodgepodge","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" LOST SOULS (2000) * Winona Ryder, Ben Chaplin, John Hurt, Sarah Wynter, Elias Koteas, John Diehl, James Lancaster, Victor Slezak, Philip Baker Hall, Alfre Woodard. Horribly executed nonsensical horror flick that slice and dices elements of 'The Exorcist', 'The Omen' and 'Rosemary's Baby' involving Ryder as an exorcism survivor who learns that the AntiChrist has chosen crime writer Chaplin as his earthly entity to conquest for the next millennium with the usual by-the-numbers scare tactics that frankly aren't scary albeit for the starkly spooky cinematography by Mauro Fiore. Incidentally this is the directing debut of acclaimed Oscar-winning cinematographer Janusz Kaminski who should have known better when the completed product sat on the shelf for two years! "},{"Title":"The closer you get to evil the less evil it becomes. Dull as dishwater supernatural thriller.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lost Souls starts with Father Lareaux (John Hurt), Father Jeremy (James Lancaster), Decon John Townsend (Elias Koteas) & a young woman named Maya Larkin (Winona Ryder) visiting a patient named Henry Birdson (John Diehl) in a mental institution upon his request who happens to be a convicted killer & seemingly possessed. The four visitors perform an exorcism which causes a brain aneurysm & renders Henry speechless, some time later Maya deciphers some notes in Henry's room which leads her to the name Peter Kelson (Ben Chaplin) who has made a career out of studying murderers & writing books on them. Maya believes that the Devil will possess Peter & thus take on human form just as God did with Jesus &, well actually I don't know as it's never really made clear what would happen. Maya tracks Peter down to his home in New York where she tries to convince him that he will soon become the Anti-Christ which Peter doesn't really take that much notice of, at first that is as events start to happen that ultimately convince him differently & that he will indeed be possessed by the Devil...Directed by Janusz Kaminski who is much better known as Steven Spielberg's usual Oscar winning cinematographer with credits to his name like Schindler's List (1993), The Lost World Jurassic Park (1997), Saving Private Ryan (1998), Minority Report (2002) & War of the Worlds (2005) with Lost Souls being his only directing credit, to be brutally honest the guy is obviously a talented cinematographer but he should leave the directing side of films alone. The script by Pierce Gardner is as dull as dishwater, dialogue driven rather than action & just rips off ideas & themes from far better films like The Exorcist (1973) & The Omen (1976). Everything you would expect is here at some point, an exorcism, crucifixes, possession, hallucinations & just everyone in sight questioning their beliefs & religion, yawn. To make matters worse, much worse, is the fact that Lost Souls is slow, bland, forgettable, dull & ultimately a complete waste of 100 odd minutes. I only saw it mere hours ago & I'm struggling to remember half of it, the story itself had potential I suppose but it just plods along in a very unexciting fashion until it's awful ending, I mean would you shoot someone dead because a car dashboard clock read 6.66? It might just have been faulty, take it to the nearest garage & get it checked out but there is no need to shoot someone through the head because of it, is there? I don't even want to think about Lost Souls anymore & the fact that it sat on the shelf for over a year before the studio finally had the courage to release it should say something in itself. One area where Lost Souls does impress is with it's visual style & look, Kaminski is obviously a cinematographer as he spends far more time on how the film looks than trying to entertain the audience, anyway Lost Souls looks fabulous with bleached out colours that make it almost black and white, Kaminski loves his rays & shafts of light as they are everywhere & he throws in various tricks & cool camera angles to keep things interesting, on a visual level anyway. With a budget of about $28,000,000 I was amazed at how cheap Lost Souls feels, apart from the cinematography it has nothing going for it. The setting is dull as is the music & general feel throughout. The acting was OK but I didn't particularly care for anyone which was a big problem with a character driven film such as this. Forget about any blood, gore or special effects as there aren't any. Lost Souls has to be one of the lamest films I've seen in a while only saved by striking photography & this is far from enough to save it, one to avoid unless you suffer from insomnia. "},{"Title":"Is it The Exorcist? Is it The Omen? No, it's just another rip-off....","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" You just know going into a film like Lost Souls that you're in for a dreary time; and this Winona Ryder vehicle doesn't disappoint in that respect. These Exorcist/Omen inspired films are ten a penny; and this one is worth even less than the rest of the pack. Lacking the slightly intriguing elements of Stigmata, and the rough and readiness of Arnie's End of Days, Lost Souls really doesn't have much going for it. One thing is does have going for it, though, is...nah, I'm just kidding. Well, actually I suppose the cinematography is rather nice; but you can't polish a turd, and that fact remains true despite director Jaunts Kaminski's best efforts to prove otherwise. Yes, this is the only feature film to be directed by this guy, and after it got it's critical mauling; he's wisely retreated back to the safety of the cinematographer job on Spielberg's sets. The plot is really original...err...not...and it follows a former victim of possession, turned personality-less shell who suspects that some writer may be the next anti-Christ because some other possessed guy cryptically said he would be. Groan.I saw this film mostly because Winona Ryder is in it. Even though most (if not all) of her recent output has been rubbish like Lost Souls, I do like Winona and even with dismal material like this, she almost lifts it out of the absolute pit of the dustbin. It's rather sad to see the actress who lit up the screen in the eighties teen comedy hit 'Heathers' having to work with such lacklustre material. She really needs a new agent. The rest of the cast isn't worth mentioning, so I wont bother mentioning them. As you would expect from this sort of dross, much of the running time is spent on characters seeing things, and then ambiguity taking over and it turning out to be something else, or nothing at all. Not only is this annoying, it's rather boring and will undoubtedly make you wish for the ending to come as quickly as possible. Speaking of the ending, the twist in the tale is really predictable. Or rather, it would be if you cared enough to put any thought into what might happen at the end. On the whole, I will wholeheartedly recommend this film to people I don't like. If you haven't seen many horror films, I don't know, you might find something here; but most people will do well to stay away. "}]