[{"Title":"Philip K. Dick would like this movie","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"104 out of 128 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has gotten a bad rap mostly from folks who just didn't get it. Of all the movies based on Philip K Dick stories, this one actually is most true to the plot line.  And as a fan of Philip K Dick I give this movie a lot of credit for that.  He visualizes a dark, grim future world at war with aliens and the fear and confusion that comes from the impostor accusations.  The movie reflects that very well.  They did add some material just to make it a full length feature flick, since the original literary work is a short story.  Sinise is excellent, Stowe is pretty and sensual as usual and D'Onofrio is over the top , as usual.  A good cast, good photography and an interesting set design.  I give the movie high marks, and recommend it especially to any fans of  Philip K Dick.  "},{"Title":"Better Than I Would Have Thought.","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"74 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Impostor is a Sci-Fi movie mixed with some elements of action & mystery. This was better than I thought it would be. I even put off watching it for awhile because I did not have very high hopes for it, but it turned out pretty decent.Gary Sinise plays Spencer Olham, a doctor along with his wife, Maya, played by Madeleine Stowe. Spencer wakes up and goes to work the next morning to find that he is a wanted man. It appears that the military and the U.S. Defense department think that he is actually a cyborg with a bomb placed in it's heart, with a mission to kill the Chancellor! Pretty far out stuff. The visuals explaining this were pretty cool, too.Spencer manages to escape but always has the military hot on his trail. This is where the mystery comes in. The viewer is forced to wonder whether or not Spencer is actually himself, or the cyborg programmed to be Spencer. The movie does an excellent job of placing doubt in the minds of those watching, no matter which way they are leaning. If they think Spencer is really himself, it still makes you wonder. Major Hathaway, played by Vincent D'Onofrio, claims that the cyborg is merely programmed to act human, as if it really wants to live.The special effects here are pretty good as well. At the beginning, I thought we would have another Starship Troopers (visually) on our hands. Since the story takes place in the year 2079, it would not be a good science fiction without the cool household gadgets and such. We see plenty of that here, especially in the beginning. Parts of the movie reminded me of I, Robot, Demolition Man and at times, even Star Wars. This comes recommended for science fiction fans. "},{"Title":"Quite superb... captures PKD's visions well.","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"60 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have no idea why this movie is such underrated. Yes, Gary Fleder is no Steven Spielberg or Ridley Scott. He doesn't have the excellent imagery or visual wonders of the other directors' films. But at the same time, he has been more faithful to the original short story than Scott or Spielberg could have been. He has added only one major twist which made the film rather more interesting. And one major credit of the film is that it could capture quite obviously the feel of paranoia that's been the mainstay of Philip Dick's most stories.Gary Sinise is always pleasure to watch on screen. And in this case his performance is flawless. D'Onofrio plays the tough security officer with enough passion. Madeline Stowe is rather frigid in her role.In short, 'Impostor' is a gripping tale with solid plot and enough substance. A must see for every genre fan, regardless of the fact that one of the greatest sci-fi writer has penned the story. "},{"Title":"Much better than Minority Report...","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"77 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised to see that IMDB users had rated this movie as low as they did.  This movie really exemplifies the paranoia that is typical of the works of Philip K. Dick much better than the more expensive and more widely-seen Minority Report.  As much as that movie had going for it (great visuals and action, leavened by the right amount of humor), it let the viewer off the hook at the end by resolving the story with a tidy, happy, feel-good ending.  Impostor is a much lower budget film and very grim but remains true to its Phildickian origin throughout, with the plot unfolding layer by layer until the end, which is both shocking and inevitable. It's the kind of stuff great Twilight Zone episodes were made of. "},{"Title":"Superior Sci-fi Film","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"46 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Like Total Recall, Impostor was based on a short story by Phillip K. Dick. (Dick's stories were also the inspiration for Blade Runner and Minority Report.) In my opinion Impostor is a solid science fiction film.The core of these stories by Dick has to do with the nature of reality and Impostor is no exception. If we have memories implanted in our minds, how can we tell what is real and what is an artificial memory? Added to this in the movie is the change in a society that comes from years of war. Can we have freedom and human rights when anyone can be a spy? This combines two great traditions in sci-fi; illusion vs. reality (Total Recall) meets taking over our minds and bodies by an alien power (Invasion of the Body Snatchers).  Add to the great story concepts is superior acting by Gary Sinise and Madeleine Stowe. The supporting cast is good with Vincent D'Onofrio playing a complex character. Is he a villain? Nothing is as it seems.With all of these positive comments, I cannot give the film a 10/10. This is a low budget film which first started as a short film and grew into a feature. While the story of Impostor IMHO is superior in some ways to Minority Report and much better than typical sci-fi, the lack of money for Impostor shows. The director, Gary Fleder is no Speilberg, Ridley Scott or even Paul Verhoeven. Sometimes the pace of the film seemed to need tighter editing. The script in the central part of the film could have used more work to learn more about this world. And the music was just ok in supporting the action and emotion of the film. Still Miramax was right to decide on making this a feature film rather than a short subject or straight to TV film. Impostor has some great sci-fi story ideas and good performances. 8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Those who deny the existence of robots may themselves BE robots...","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"32 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The previously posted comment for this film would have successfully steered me away from it... If I weren't such a huge fan of Criminal Intent (Vincent D'Onofrio) and Monk (Tony Shalhoub) that I had to see it anyway.I wondered throughout the movie, Is this guy (Gary Sinise) a robot or NOT??? The sets and direction (not to mention the performances of Gary Sinise and Vincent D'Onofrio, which were intense) sucked me in. D'Onofrio makes a fabulous driven investigator. Shalhoub's role was small, but I was too busy grooving on the plot to care. My one regret in the performances is that Madeline Stowe didn't have much to do, except alternate between the roles of a stereotypical uber-doctor and a limpid, grieving wife. The one scene that hints at her acting talent occurs when she confronts her husband at the abandoned park.Granted, the film does start out like it's going to be typical sci-fi schlock, but once it was past the first 15 minutes, I almost forgot it's science fiction.The bottom line This movie WORKED for me! 9 / 10 stars "},{"Title":"very,solid,well done sci/fi entry(one of the best i have seen so far)","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"32 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" this is a terrific,well acted movie.it has plenty of action,a very good storyline and is also realistic.it asks many questions and leaves the viewer to answer most of them.i was drawn into this movie right from the beginning until the very end.there are some great,and unexpected (for me,anyway)plot twists.the ending i thought was brilliant.i felt the writers really captured the look and feel of a futuristic earth at war with the enemy.i also liked the fact that you never really know who the enemy is,until the very end.even then,i wasn't sure.if you are looking to be entertained,you should give this movie a try.if you like compelling and thought provoking action and drama,you should also give this movie a try.this movie has some intelligence behind it,which many movies today are sorely lacking.this is one of the best movies of the Sci/Fi genre i have seen to date. i wouldn't call it a masterpiece,but it is a very solid,well done film.My vote for Imposter is 9/10 "},{"Title":"Don't miss this movie!","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie surprised me, it was far better than what I was expecting, seeing as I believed the critics and chose not to see it at the theatres based on that. I won't be listening to critics anymore! I wish I had seen it at the theatres now, and supported it. More science fiction as well done as this film should be made, considering far worse movies, make far more money.The special effects were 1st rate, locations, cinematography, acting, all very, very good. The story was compelling, lots of action and kept you guessing the entire movie, right up until the very end!Very well done, I recommend this flick to ALL sci-fi fans, don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Not great, but not bad, either.","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  5.5 out of 10Impostor was the first of 2002's futuristic thrillers (the other two being Minority Report and the Equilibrium) and it's also easily the weakest, which is no surprise when you consider this is essentially nothing more than a blown-up short film.  Not surprisingly, critics were harsh on this one, and while many of the complaints are valid, Impostor is still a bit better than its reputation.The film's concept, that of a seemingly normal man accused of being a replicant, is a fascinating one, but it's unfortunately drowned by director Gary Fleder's obsession with shaky camera movements and quick cuts.  The script, written by a committee (or at least a group of people who had a hand in it), suffers from too many logical flaws to fully work as the cerebral sci-fi it obviously aspires to be.  Most importantly, the question of identity and what it means to be human is never fully addressed and only touched upon briefly. But flawed as the film is, the cast is solid, with Sinise delivering yet again another terrific performance, and the special effects are actually convincing (the cityscapes are genuinely awe-inspiring).  The movie's fast pace ensures it's never dull and there are even a few exciting action sequences (most notably the hospital fight/chase).  But best of all is the climactic plot twist, a no-holds barred surprise that boosts the film up a notch.  As a whole, the movie is mostly middling, but there are enough inspired moments to make this an enjoyable viewing.  "},{"Title":"Skip the full length movie; watch the short version!","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"31 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched the feature length director's cut, then viewed the 37 minute short version on the dvd.  The short film is much better! It's more faithful to the PKD story and captures the theme of identity and illusion vs reality more concisely. It's essentially the beginning and ending of the feature w/additional scenes that flesh out the characters. The short makes Olham a little more contradictory - he tells his wife that his project is a good thing, then he questions what he's doing with his friend at the Project. What's missing is the interminable chase that's been done better in innumerable films (see The Running Man for example). Vincent D'Onofrio is a particularly good villain who's not really a villain (or is he?)...................... "}{"Title":"An excellent Adaptation of a P.K. Dick story","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The late Philip K. Dick has been the source of inspiration for many movies in the last 25 years, although most of them are only loosely based on his fine work. This film is based on Dick's story, The Imposter, and they've managed to expand out a 20 page story in a 90 minute movie, mostly just by adding in chase scenes. Still, the movie is fairly faithful to Dick's original work, with essentially the same ending. (Although in the novel, the U-bomb was capable of destroying the entire earth and did.) The basic concept of If I'm not me, then who am I? comes through pretty effectively here. Gary Sinese and Vincent D'Nofrio come off well in their roles. Madelene Stowe and Tony Shaloub have good supporting roles. (Funny that three of the principal actors have gone on to detective shows.) "},{"Title":"Interesting.....","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The story Waking up one morning, a top scientist and weapons designer finds himself accused of being a replicant / cyborg impostor, planted by aliens in order to assassinate the leader (i.e. dictator?) of earth. To quote Tom Cruise in the competing movie Minority Report Everybody Runs, and so he escapes, trying to prove his innocence / identity.I was expecting this movie to be quite boring, either too confusing or too Hollywoodised to be enjoyable. Still I rented it on the off chance that they might have made a good sci-fi movie without anyone noticing. And I was actually quite surprised I did enjoy the movie. I have to admit, I spent a lot of time speculating about the outcome, as there were many hints in the movie, and I became quite interested whether the script would follow through with them or leave them as plotholes. The movie is thrilling (I kinda like Man on the Run movies) and has some fun, but not too clever or revolutionary, setpieces. The world the movie is set in is quite acceptable, mixing many of P K Dick movie gimmicks (hover-cars from Blade Runner, personal identification similar to Minority Report, an Orwellian government presence similar to Total Recall).By the time the movie reaches its climactic finale, I was very thrilled and also very excited. The ending was just perfect, exactly what I wanted it to be. So while I doubt whether the movie will be great on repeat viewings, it definitely is worth seeing. It does not quite fit into the usual Hollywood scheme of things and had a tough time, being released in the same year as Minority Report, but to me it definitely wasn't inferior to that much anticipated and overhyped movie...One warning though Near the start, there is a particularly gruesome and gory scene that fully deserves an 18-rating in my opinion, instead of the 15 rating the movie received. I feel the movie could have done without showing it quite as explicitly - in fact, the horror of just watching actor's faces without seeing the actual projection might have been much more effective and elegant.7/10 "},{"Title":"Don't miss this movie!","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie surprised me, it was far better than what I was expecting, seeing as I believed the critics and chose not to see it at the theatres based on that. I won't be listening to critics anymore! I wish I had seen it at the theatres now, and supported it. More science fiction as well done as this film should be made, considering far worse movies, make far more money.The special effects were 1st rate, locations, cinematography, acting, all very, very good. The story was compelling, lots of action and kept you guessing the entire movie, right up until the very end!Very well done, I recommend this flick to ALL sci-fi fans, don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Soiled Dickey","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Dick's stories are something good, but not quite cinematic like those of others. His type of writing has three elements--The creation and presentation of a new world. Dick's world is advanced but in inhuman ways so that the balancing goodness is driven inwards into the hero(s). Technology, government, mindless evil converge.--The notion of constructed humanity, or human constructions within this contextThese two notions are deliberately opposed which is why Kubrick and Scott were so attracted it literally set the stage for visual ambiguities and tension.The third, but only in the stories, was a twist -- a Rod Serling clever surprise.This film is apt but bad.The aptness comes from Dick's own personality he didn't polish his stories. The rawness was a deliberate effect. He would have wanted a raw film as well, not a glossy, even oily rendition like Spielberg's `A.I.' He would have wanted rough editing and cheesy acting like Scott and Harrison delivered in `Bladerunner.' And he would also have wanted the crappy production values we see here. But about a third as long. The point is that in this respect at least, bad is good.The misfits come from the failure to deliver the sort of oppressive world he had in mind. This looks more like `Logan's Run.' `Brazil' or `12 Monkeys' would be more right. And finally, the twist. After a few hundred Twilight Zone episodes you would think we would know how to pull off this zinger without broadcasting it. Here bad and bad are just bad.There are two huge missed opportunities to reference other films, which is certainly something Dick would do1) Lots of films now are playing with the notion of what is real and whether the film can be trusted. The two `Blair Witch' films are the most seen that deal with this, but many others do too, like the notable `Shadow of the Vampire.' The padding here is largely in the `hallucinations' he has. Would have added a lot if that spilled into the narrative we see, so that we couldn't trust our own eyes.2) `A Beautiful Mind' is the hot film right now. Missing from that film is the real interesting fact that Nash's delusions were largely shaped by Dick. Given Nash's superhuman power to convince (to invent reality), we well might have had a future where mathematics had in inherent mystical paranoia. Since this movie was a tossaway in the first place, they could have partnered it with `Mind' as Nash's actual delusions. Now that would have been cool, and apt. Real science fiction in the Dick tradition, not Star Trek-quality stuff. "},{"Title":"Know Thyself","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's a race against time, and my time is running out. I know who I am, but nobody believes me. And if I can't prove my innocence, my identity, then I lose. The game is over, and my life will mean nothing. Is this how I will end? Will all that be left behind be an empty shell, an echo of me? Is this how it will all end? Impostor is a heart-pounding, adrenaline rush of one man's race to prove his identity and to save his life. His race against time will bring him close to his would-be captor, but his enemies are closer than you think. And nothing is what it seems, and through the talented Mr.Gary Sinise , we are carried forth in the struggle of one man to survive the impossible. And with every twist and turn in a brilliantly written story, our breaths are held, and we are captivated by a chilling ending. Do we really know who we are, and do we believe ourselves when we say, It's me. It's me. "},{"Title":"pretty darn good, but disappointing ending","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I try to see all these adaptations of Philip Dick stories, because the guy was a genius and his stuff really *should* make for great movies, but with very few exceptions (Blade Runner alone pretty much actually) that really hasn't been true. I saw a trailer for this movie years ago and I thought, well, that will probably stink but I'll see it. But then it seemed like it never came out. I don't know what the story about that is, but I finally decided to just look up the movie and get it on video. After all, just because a movie wasn't a hit doesn't mean it wasn't good. Blade Runner itself was a pretty big bomb. On the scale of Dick adaptations this one isn't as good as Runner, but it's better than Minority Report or Paycheck. I'd say it's about equal to Total Recall overall, and actually could have been a lot better (mostly because Gary Sinise is a lot more convincing actor than Arnold Schwartzenneger) except that the ending was pretty predictable and underwhelming.A really impressive cast was put together for this film -- Sinise is a very good everyman type of actor and he brings a heck of a lot of pathos to this Hitchcockian innocent man on the run thriller. I thought his performance in the scenes where he was strapped to the torture rack and when he was feeling withdrawal from the drugs (ostensibly) was really powerful. It was strange at the time to see Madeleine Stowe in sci-fi/action like Twelve Monkeys but she did well enough in that movie that she feels like a sci-fi veteran in this one. She does a good job, but doesn't have that much to do really. Mekhi Phifer and Tony Shalhoub also do very solid support work. Vincent D'Onofrio has been a favorite of mine for a long time, from Full Metal Jacket and Whole Wide World primarily. At first I felt like he was trying too hard to be villainous or something, but his performance got better for me as the movie went on. For example the whole scene where he gets the tracking device placed on him and chases himself around for half an hour could have ended with a lesser actor with some kind of anguished scream or expression, but D'Onofrio just gives it a kind of a shrug and a nod. By the way, I pity anyone in the audience who didn't see that one coming, so I'm not quite sure what the director and writer were trying for in that scene other than maybe just pure suspense. Anyway, there's these moments like that little expression and the way that the confrontation between his character and the defense secretary ends give you the idea that there's a real or personal side to this character as well as the extremely fascist front that he presents.His intense queries about the human soul would also back up this reading of the character, and indeed the Dickian themes of the movie. Though I didn't quite like the action climax of the movie, I did like Mekhi Phifer's character saying at the end when asked if he knew Olham (Sinise), I'd like to think so. Of course the interesting thing about that is that Philip Dick was mostly interested in discovering the things that separate a human being from a machine, whereas both this film and Blade Runner use a lot of his ideas to promote a more friendly opposite interpretation that seems to say there's no essential difference between an android and a human. This film even uses the term replicant which was invented for the film Blade Runner and does not show up in any Philip Dick book as far as I'm aware of. So I haven't read the original story in a few years but I'm going to guess that the similarities aren't all that great. Still, it doesn't feel like a total ruined opportunity like Minority Report did because that film resorted so much more exploitative elements like the dead child that seemed alien to Dick's style to me. Impostor and Blade Runner might change a lot of story details and they might even technically back up a different conclusion, but they do both do a pretty good job of making the audience think about what it is that actually makes us human and that's all Dick was really trying to accomplish anyway in my opinion. I say that's all as if asking human beings to question their existence were the type of thing you do every day, much less in an action film.I wouldn't give it a ringing endorsement because the story just isn't all that compelling or unpredictable. I think this could have used maybe another rewrite or something, but I'm no expert. The ending in particular was kind of dumb. Why wouldn't D'Onofrio's character have shot Olham the second he saw the original Olham in the spaceship? But whatever, it's hard for me to think of a better shock it's just that the whole thing has already been done so many times now. The interesting thing is that I think the writers knew that most in the audience would believe Olham was a replicant, so instead of trying to keep it a mystery for most viewers they explored the dramatic implications of that situation and showed us the anguish of the android so that we could really empathize with him as a machine.Overall, a pretty solid movie that probably deserved more success than it had. It's better than a lot of sci-fi movies that made more money at the time. "},{"Title":"How many more great stories of his our out there I have not read!","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This Movie was great! What I really wanna know is how much it differs from the book. I also enjoyed paycheck & although I, Robot was not one of his short stories it sure felt like one. This movie especially the first time I saw it had me hoping for one thing, then expecting another & then just when I thought I had it figured out it all blew up in my face...(literally) OUTSTANDING! See it! Much like Riddick! this Movie & story is just plain Great Sci-FI! Gary does an outstanding job convincing you that he is indeed not guilty, then you have trouble believing him as he starts to doubt himself, the whole time thinking maybe the government is just crazy, but slowly you put the pieces together & just when you think you know who or what he/she is... Just see it, it is amazing SCI-FI! I am going to buy a copy right now. ENJOY!  "},{"Title":"Better than Minority Report","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm a bit of a Philip Dick fan but put off seeing this after the Spielberg-mangled Minority Report. Impostor moves along at a nice pace without deviating too much from the short story on which it's based. The visual effects are excellent without being overdone, and the ending just about makes Impostor a sci-fi classic. I assume the only reason this film didn't do better at the box office was due to marketing budget as there's nothing b-grade in sight, and it's been hollywoodized far better than some of PKD's other stories, cough-Paycheck-cough. Perhaps the only downside is the cast, although solid, make it look a bit like a CSI reunion. A must-see movie if you're remotely into sci-fi. "},{"Title":"A rather cheap adaptation of IMPOSTOR, a 1953 novel by Phillip K. Dick","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" IMPOSTER is loosely based on the 1953 novel of the same title written by Phillip K. Dick (also responsible for sci-fi classics such as BLADE RUNNER and TOTAL RECALL) and is actually the second story in a trilogy titled THE LIGHT YEARS TRILOGY, loosely based on the relationship between humans and aliens.Originally planned to be released as a 30-minute short, Miramax was apparently so impressed with what they saw, they requested extra footage be shot so that it could be released as a full-length feature film.Unfortunately, IMPOSTER would have been better off left as a 30-minute length feature.Several problems plagued the production of this film, including several attempts to 're-title' the film as IMPOSTOR, THE IMPOSTER and CLONE and the infamous release dates that were juggled around based on the general public's appetite for a film of this genre.IMPOSTER could be described as a sci-fi thriller mixed with some drama. The film takes place in the year 2079. Gary Sinise portrays Spencer Olham an engineer who has the perfect life a good job, a loving family and a beautiful wife (Madeline Stowe). Unfortunately, IMPOSTER takes the tired route (ie. THE SIXTH DAY, TOTAL RECALL) where Spencer wakes up the next day and he is public enemy number one. It appears that he has been accused of being an alien spy and he spends the rest of the film trying to prove his identity and innocence while also dealing with paranoia.IMPOSTER certainly isn't a slick piece of work, but it wasn't the worse thing that I've seen either. Most of the sci-fi films released lately have been mostly hit-and-miss (ie. JOHN CARPENTER'S GHOSTS OF MARS, A.I., etc) and IMPOSTER is certainly no different. While watching this movie, it isn't hard to see that this was shot on a very tight budget. The sets are almost 'cardboard-like' and it is a little hard to believe that this could be the very society we could be looking forward to living in 80 years from now. But this is where your imagination is supposed to come into play, but the movie doesn't provide much to support it. The characters are very wooden and I'm getting a little tired of seeing Vincent D'Onfrio portraying the bad guy all the time (sans his television role in LAW & ORDER CI). This time he plays a nasty man named 'Hathaway' who makes it his mission to hunt down Sinise and have him bought to justice.The whole outcome of this movie feels like something that was intended for a 'straight-to-video' release. I couldn't seem to take anything seriously in the movie. In some scenes, the special effects appear as if they were created on someone's home computer. But while the acting was a bit wooden, I do give many kudos to Sinise for trying on the role that has been played to death in so many other films. He gives IMPOSTER his best shot... but your best shot would be to watch this on home video.I give IMPOSTER 3 out of 10. Read the book instead! "},{"Title":"Fun to watch, but don't think too hard","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you like movies like total recall, you may like this movie.It is exciting to watch. However, when I think about it afterward, there are many things that are lame.For example, if a robot were to take over a human, why would it program itself to the point it doesn't know itself is a robot, and therefore can't carry out its mission in an efficient manner? Also, the movie showed a video clip of a previous robot being drilled. Why wasn't the robot programmed to explode when drilled? Why would the robot leave dead human bodies to be discovered in such obvious place? If they are as advanced as the human say they are, they ought to have a better way to get rid of a dead body.If the aliens want to assassin someone, once they get past the shield, they could just send a smart guided bomb, why bother with the robot thing? "}{"Title":"clever, dark, dick.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i love this film! the adaptation of PKD's book about a scientist being accused of an alien impostor carrying a bomb that would lead to the undoing of a certain chancellor. the good aspects of the story are the ideas of humans, human nature it presents. the ending is GREAT! and you WON'T see it coming. and just so you won't feel cheated listen to what sinise says about einstein theoritically concluding that only the universe and human stupidity are infinite. well worth a look 4.5 out of 5. i woulda given it a five if it wasn't for the restless camera movements. which is one minor flaw. there woulda been some scenes where i woulda appreciated the D.P. or gary fleder himself to make the camera stay put. see it! "},{"Title":"True to Phillip K Dick's Style","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, which time will no doubt prove to be a sleeper, was well put together. The sets look good, and with the exception of the silly looking transport ship in the beginning of the movie, the props and costumes are also well done. I'm surprised that this movie didn't do better in the theaters, given the cast - which all perform marvelously. My favorite part about this movie is the way it explores a Dick theme that Blade Runner fans will no doubt recognize What makes us human? "},{"Title":"Posing as a sci-fi thriller","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Impostor sets up an intriguing premise that suggests McCarthyism taken to the next level, and then spends the next ninety minutes avoiding it by slogging through tunnels.  It's the kind of movie where every money shot is seen from a wide angle as a spaceship lands, but the characters exist wander through sets built by the lowest bidder.The year is 2079, and Earth has been at war with an alien race for the last 29 years. Gary Sinese plays Dr. Spencer Olam, a brilliant engineer who has spent his career developing weapons to fight the aliens.  Olam is happily married to a successful doctor (Madeline Stow) and is about to launch a new weapon against the enemy.The aliens cannot attack the remaining human cities directly due to shield technology that protects them.  Now they've hit upon a clever strategy kill a prominent citizen, replicate him down to the exact detail, and send him into the populace with a immensely powerful bomb hidden in his chest. These replicants are pretty well done.  They contain all the subject's memories, knowledge, fingerprints and even DNA.  The only thing lacking is a soul, intones one character in an unusually metaphysical statement for this movie. The replicant is not even aware that he isn't who he appears to be.Dr. Olam is believed to be one of these replicants.  He was on an alien hit list of targets to be replaced.  But was he?  He is arrested, but insists that he is still himself.  His accuser, a security chief named Hathaway, is sure he is not.  So sure, he'd like to just skip ahead to the vivisectioning without any further investigation.  Olam escapes.  He wants to get to his wife's hospital so a crucial test can prove conclusively there isn't a bomb in his rib cage.The movie then sets up a series of scenes in which Olam runs around in a maze of crumbling buildings and tunnels in order to avoid the authorities. There are precious other characters to be concerned with, but he does run into a forgotten community of dwellers who are stuck outside the system, relying on survival tactics.  They don't amount to much except for one who guides him through the tunnels, but he isn't given much to do.The technology in the movie is enough to cause engineers nightmares. Humanity has accomplished space travel and highly advanced weaponry but still uses old-fashioned bullets to shoot their own kind.  Small devices planted next to the spinal cord are used to identify citizens as they pass security points, but when Olam has his removed, he is able to carry it around and not set off the sensors in one scene, but later is able to use it as a decoy merely by slipping it into another's pocket.  The real kicker is the DNA scanner that he needs to fool to unlock a door at the hospital. Only the right DNA will work, so where does he get it?  From a surgical glove in a wastebin right beneath the scanner!  The people who thought this up are probably the descendents of the team that developed the copywrited CD technology that can be foiled by a magic marker.Imposter is based on a Philip K. Dick story, and could have been at least mildly interesting if it didn't wander aimlessly so much through it's low-rent production.  It does contain a twist at the end that while easily guessed, doesn't cheat.  But getting there is like peddling your bicycle to the moon. "},{"Title":"The future takes time to arrive, but isn't worth waiting for","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film has had a checkered history, to say the least. Adapted by director Gary Fleder's buddy Scott Rosenberg from a Philip Dick (BLADE RUNNER, TOTAL RECALL) short story, it was originally intended to be a 30-minute episode in a 1999 movie trilogy. The producers thought the concept could be expanded to a feature. At least four other writers worked at various times on developing the script for the longer version. Principal photography was completed almost two years ago. Dimension announced a succession of release dates, none of which proved to be accurate. A changed political climate in the entertainment industry led to re-shooting the more violent moments, and the toned-down version received a 'PG' rating from the MPAA instead of the 'R' rating it was first given.The result, finally released, is a chaotically plotted futuristic remake of THE FUGITIVE. Gary Sinise plays a weapons designer in a world 80 years from now that's besieged by would-be invaders from Alpha Centauri. The aliens plan to assassinate Earth's leader using artificial humans with bombs planted inside their hearts. The weapons engineer is believed by Earth's security forces to be one of these assassins. Vincent D'Onofrio portrays the chief nemesis, relentlessly pursuing Mr. Sinise. Unfortunately, neither character is well enough written or acted to make much connection with the audience, so we don't really care what happens to them. Only Madeleine Stowe, playing Mr. Sinise's physician wife, attracts any empathy or interest.The movie is shot in those monochromatic hues that have become commonplace in so many films. The action scenes are routinely staged, and so poorly photographed and disjointedly edited that we can't follow what's happening to whom most of the time. One positive element is the visual effects which, although used sparingly, are attractively designed and executed.Given the source material and the cast, IMPOSTOR proves to be a big disappointment that was hardly worth the wait.  "},{"Title":"Great film.  Could have been longer","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was a great film. I thoroughly enjoyed watching it. In fact I watched it twice and was still not disappointed. I haven't read the original story this was based on but I do plan to find it. The film is a bit slow, but for what it is this is part of the process they did to create the story. The slowness at the start, for me actually helped the film to move along.I liked the introduction and explanation of the war which helped set the mood of the story. The relationship with Sinise's character and Stowe was good. I doubt more minutes of screen time could have fleshed it out any better then what they had done. Overall this is a good movie and certainly well above average. It is also interesting to note that the three leads all went on to do cop / Crime type TV shows. "},{"Title":"You've got to take whatever decent SciFi you can get.","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Really good science fiction. I thought I knew exactly where this was going and was getting bored as it moved toward the seemingly inevitable conclusion, but then it wound up throwing me at the very end. The special effects were kind of cheesy for this day and age, and, unless you are Elon Musk, it is more than a little ridiculous to think that science and technology will advance this far in mere 60 more years; however, the tech stuff that will never actually happen is not really a problem, because these fictions were only plot devices so that the story could explore deeper ideas about existence and identity. For me personally, the ending came out of left field, and I found it downright unsettling. If you let your mind wander, you're left with some things to think about after the show is over. Good stuff. "},{"Title":"The sets are exquisite. A solid, serious, and very entertaining Science Fiction film...  Blu-ray Stunning  A10  V10","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Wow! I hadn't seen this film for many years; I remember that I did like it very much, but I didn't really remember many details from it.Let me say it again... WOW! Sure, being 2001 with some of the CG being a little dodgy and not knowing exactly what the budget was at the time, I still thought it looked like a billion dollars! Many other reviewers have also stated this. With Sci Fi, I am REALLY big on set design (anything from the silent era German Expressionism to slick, or not so slick Futurescapes) An EXCELLENT example is 1956's 'FORBIDDEN PLANET' - Truly amazing... especially for 1956; the head of the studio was out of the country at the time, so the director who happened to be an art designer went wild with the set design (and with the innovative and unique soundtrack too) And, WOW! did this one look good too! The city design and the many areas they had to go through, including both the more polished city areas and also the grungy desolated areas, ALL of it was pretty dang impressive to me.The story although fairly simple, is very well done. I think the largest share of the credit should go to the director for how nicely he put this film together. To me anyway, this is the kind of Science Fiction film where after you finish it, you REALLY are hoping that the ones who made it would come up with many more like it. Gary Sinise is Gary Sinise, like he always is. The acting overall was decent.And, as I state in my Summary, the Blu-ray is frigg'n FANTASTIC looking! Not bad for a film made nearly 15 years ago.Highly recommended for those who enjoy serious Science Fiction (this is not what I would call 'Heavy', but definitely 'Serious') and also for those who appreciate beautiful looking Science Ficiton films with a gripping and entertaining story. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Impostor is one of the lesser known stories by the master of Science Fiction, Philip K. Dick. It is so unknown, that one of his biggest fans, didn't even realize that this film was based on a story by Dick, until I saw it in the credits. As usual, the story is out of this world, as it takes place in the distance future, a future where the Earth is at war with an alien species. This species has the ability to clone humans in such a realistic way, that it is nearly impossible to detect them. Special military investigator, Hathaway (Vincent D'Onofrio), is tasked with figuring out who has been replaced. On the eve of a big announcement by the President, Hathaway intercepts a transmission claiming that her top military adviser, Dr. Spencer Olham (Gary Sinise), has been replaced. When Hathaway confronts Olham, he claims to have no knowledge of this, and unlike previous replicates, he has memories. As Hathaway prepares to eliminate Olham, he escapes to the surface, where he teams up with the exiled citizens who live there. Together they try to prove Olham's innocence, while avoiding being captured by Hathaway. Vincent D'Onofrio stars as Hathaway, and much like his role in Law & Order Criminal Intent his intensity and determination are infectious. He's paired with Gary Sinise, an actor I'm always disappointed to see in a leading role, and whom always manages to surprise me with a great performance. He isn't what I'd call an action star, and may not have been ideal for the role of Olham, but he was very believable. Impostor was only one of Dick's short stories, but it is every bit as good as his better known works, which of course include; Blade Runner, Total Recall, and Minority Report. If you want to see a unique story that blends Science Fiction, Drama, and Action, look no further than Impostor. "},{"Title":"Gary Sinise tries to prove that he's not a replicant","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Impostor cost $40 million to make and the sets constructed especially for the movie show it. It really does create a future world, and that's a plus. The movie was a huge box office failure, and the reason is probably that the story was so bland. It became mainly one long chase, and as such was clichéd, despite movement through all these wonderful sets. We needed more plot. The middle part of the story fell back on a sub-plot that was not well connected with the main plot. I also sense that we were not given enough sense of character or emotion. The titular bad guy (Vincent D'Onofrio) in pursuit of Sinise for most of the movie is a character that's pretty much a blank. Much as I like the work of Sinise in his roles as a bad guy, he didn't elicit the sympathy that was needed for his part. He did not make a good leading man in this picture. The result looked pretty bland as compared with Rutger Hauer in Blade Runner.The fight scenes were ruined by rapid cuts and jiggling camera work. When will Hollywood learn that new and fast is not necessarily better? Some of those production dollars should have gone into creating a more gripping story. "},{"Title":"Definitely for sci-fi buffs","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.Impostor (2001) is not bad B movie sci-fi flick. It's nice one actually, if you don't set your expectations high. The story is the strongest point of the movie, and yes, you have already seen it many times i guess, but it's a nice one, even if not the most original one. Acting was just OK, although i really liked Vincent D'Onofrio - he's a true actor, and he did the best he could given the material. The movie settings were kinda dark, and given the budget, they could came up with something more colorful, although it represents dark future, so it's forgivable.Overall, this flick is mean to sci-fi stories buffs, not that it is really original one, but simply that you don't get many sci-fi flicks often, and this one is not bad, it's a B movie sci-fi flick that you should watch without high expectations, and could be surprised. "}{"Title":"Borrows props, costumes and footage from Starship Troopers. Steals from better material.","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After what looks like the filmmakers raided a Columbia Tri-Star garage sale and picked up Starship Troopers gear for cheap, Impostor gets off to a shaky start with a prologue that looks tacked on by the Weinstein's. A clumsily edited montage with voice-over explaining the conditions on earth with footage from various other films, which one gets the immediate impression last minute reshoots were scrapped for dumpster diving for stock footage of more costly vfx films, like Armageddon and again, Starship Troopers. Even with all the derivative technical aspects, Impostor is anchored down by a bland performance from Gary Sinise, who is not leading man material. The plot kicks in when our lead is apprehended and accused of being an alien robot with violent plans toward humanity, while he maintains his innocence. A contrived series of events, including moving our tied up lead to another table a few feet away to tie him up again, gives him the opportunity to escape and go on the run. Is the man on the run who he says he is or is he a clone/robot? Doesn't really matter much, as Impostor becomes a generic chase movie with awful action scenes that are tacked on from the endless reshoots and tinkering this had for two years after it originally ended production. The last few minutes of the film pick back up the actual plot and has the guts to end the story properly, but doesn't have the visual effects budget to end it right. It goes out with a poorly rendered whimper. "},{"Title":"Excellent plot, well acted, plenty of action and suspense","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" For some reason, this film never got billed in my local cinemas at the time. I only watched it now because I was checking for a Philip K Dick adaptation I hadn't seen and this was the only one remaining for me to see.The plot is wonderfully twisty - no way of guessing the ending either, so I won't spoil that!Plenty of action, although perhaps more could have been done to make the chase sequences more original. Also the score didn't do much for me. Nevertheless, as a sci fi film, it's well worth watching - ranks high in the list of Philip K Dick masterpieces like Bladerunner, Total Recall, Minority Report etc. "},{"Title":"Gary Sinise is the Fugitive","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the future, an alien race uses androids as bombs to attack Earth. A government weapons specialist (Gary Sinise) is accused of being one such android and sets out to prove his innocence.James Berardinelli wrote that Impostor wears out its welcome by the half-hour mark, and doesn't do anything to stir things up until the climax. You could spend the entire midsection of this movie in the bathroom and not miss much. Keith Phipps echoes this, saying it essentially uses the setup of (the story) as a bookend to one long, dull chase scene. This is about right. I was drawn in early, but by halfway had gone from excited to bored... whether the protagonist was innocent or not was not something I cared about. "},{"Title":"A good film; the strengths of the performances outweigh a few production problems","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" IMPOSTOR is a good movie, a solid and effective adaptation of Philip Dick's short story. The screenplay is gripping and tightly written. It's a wild ride, troubling, involving. The story is simple but not simplistic. It has some surprises.All of the key characters' performances are good, and some are extraordinary. Gary Sinise is spot-on as the protagonist, Spencer Olham, running and fighting for his life and something more. Madeleine Stowe gives a genuinely moving performance in the role of Maya, Olham's wife. The chemistry and sense of love between them form the heart of the story.I saw the original on HBO years ago, and liked it enough that I recently bought the DVD with the director's cut. I'm not sure what the differences are, but this cut does feel leaner and tighter. The effects are uneven, which I expect is due to the movie's origin it was originally conceived as a short, then the producers switched gears in midstream and retooled it into a full length feature. Some of the visuals are borderline, by today's standards, reminiscent of some bad moments on the Sci Fi channel. Others are excellent, so don't let that stop you from seeing the movie.Looking past the uneven SFX, the movie is well worth seeing. One caution if you haven't seen IMPOSTOR, and see any reviews that warn of spoilers, don't read them. Much of the story's emotional impact has to do with specifics of the plot it's best not to know about when watching it the first time. "},{"Title":"Great movie!!  How did I not see this before??","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" OK, first off I'm not a huge Gary Sinise fan. Not saying he's a bad actor, but for some reason he has jut always been kind of bland and uninteresting to me. In Imposter he was very good however, and so was Vincent Donofrio. Very well done movie, and the only movie other than Sixth Sense to trick me. This is my favorite genre, so I might be biased, but if you like mans struggle against alien invaders type movies it's awesome. Highly recommended, and I might even be tempted to stop avoiding Gary Sinise movies after watching this. ) Sorry Gary, nothing personal buddy. "},{"Title":"Drawn-out, yet atmospheric sci-fi mystery","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's 2079 the world has been at war with an alien race from Alpha Centauri for 45 years. A secret government weapons designer Spencer Olham is forced to go on the run when he accused of being a replicant assassin created by the aliens to kill the Chancellor.Impostor is an overlooked adequate science fiction based on a story by Philip K. Dick. Due to the source material it's reminiscent of Total Recall, Blade Runner, Minority Report to name a few. Coincidently Stephen King's novel the Running Man shares a lot of similarities.Directed adequately by Gary Fleder and despite an abundance of unnecessary slow motion shots, the special effects, futuristic sets and gritty locations are well realised and executed. In addition, it has a fitting score, the camera work was ahead of its time using a style that has become common place since.Wisely Imposter doesn't feature the Alien race and the action follows Spencer Olham (Gary Sinise) on his search through the domed protected city and outskirts to find out the truth while being tracked down by Major Hathaway excellently played by Vincent D'Onofrio. There's a cast of familiar faces including Gary Dourdan, Tony Shalhoub, Shane Brolly and Madeleine Stowe who is at her peak here as Maya Olham.It's a drawn-out mystery, that said it has some nice ideas, touches, a few twists and a satisfying downbeat conclusion. Overall, an entertaining science fiction that oozes atmosphere. "},{"Title":"As the subtitle says.. things are not what they seem","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Never heard of this movie, but as BBC1 showed it tonight.. saw the start and lots of space shots.. OK. Got into it, and stayed with it. I noticed many 'hints' and comments about the possible future in this film. None of them good. Some very good and inventive ideas on the way, and OK, maybe they borrowed as usual from other films. Who doesn't. There are holes in the story here and there but whats perfect. Many sound effects seemed to be put in just for effect, but again, never mind. Yes, the lead from CSI NY was brilliant. As that was also on tonight, he did well for exposure. I didn't see much wrong with this film at all. Thank goodness no sex. OK, hes in a shower. Dark and moody yes, but that was the idea. Well worth the watch for any sci fi buff I think. "},{"Title":"A decent addition to cinematic Philip K.Dick  adaptations.","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a decent addition to the growing number of movies based on Philip K. Dick stories. It reprises Dick's use of the idea of replicants or simulated humans as a device for raising enduring questions about identity.In Bladerunner ( based on Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep ) this revolved around whether one's individual identity is ever either more or less than the sum of one's memories. In Impostor it relates to whether it can be said that an indistinguishable copy of something is any less really the thing copied. In The Man In The High Castle, Dick used the example of a replica pistol, identical in every detail with the original, from the Civil War. In terms of what quality can it be said that the original ismore real. This raised the Japanese notion of an inherent spirit or,if I can recall correctly, having read it some thirty years ago, Wu.In the context of Impostor it comes down to the interrogator telling the suspect character, that the aliens could copy everything about him but one thing, his soul! Yet the way the story unfolds questions the assumed existence of any such uniqueness. Positing the possibility that identity is merely the expression of memories, beliefs, reactions and feelings that can all be copied such that the copy is not any less the real thing and, moreover, not only regards itself as real but other's of it's type as the real version of their subject.I think these questions could have been made clearer in the movie. Especially had the crucial climax been given more time to develop. Less time could have been given to the action sequences and running around earlier in the movie. Although the central chase section around the hospital has to be regarded as being in some understated way a kind of black joke. As which it certainly works, whether or not intentionally.The design, sets, costumes and general realisation of the setting is excellent. I also like the fact that it is not inconsistent with Bladerunner, which could easily have occurred some decades earlier in the same world. However, I find the depiction of space fighting as it is glimpsed here to be stuck in the corny old rut of Star-Wars / Star-Trek whoosh-about dog-fighting. I am quite sure that a force that travels from another star system to attack Earth isn't going to do it by using piddly-little space fighters and ray guns.The twists in the plot are all predictable, but one nonetheless waits to see how they are handled and how the characters react. As far as this goes, the climactic scene near the end pays off well, if in a truncated, understated way. We may not be surprised to discover Who is who but how they respond to this is the truly challenging moment in the entire piece. However, I expect it also proves antagonistic to many people. "},{"Title":"Mind-bending Ride (potential spoiler)","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This review refers to the long version (the original short version is also on the DVD and worth watching.) I enjoyed this movie. It moved from beginning to end non-stop. Not all of it was physical action. Some of it was thoughtful dialog, especially from the main character (Spencer Olham) played by Gary Sinise. You never really know, once the conflict enters, what's going to happen next.The characters are not good / bad; they're pretty balanced. EX, D'Onofrio's Maj. Hathaway has nasty interrogation skills, but is also able to empathize with Sinise's character, esp late in the film when he believes he is chasing the real Olham, not the impostor.I haven't read Philip K. Dick's original story, though I have read a good bit of his work. So, I cannot compare the story and film. "},{"Title":"I don't know why a lot of people didn't like this movie...","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Sinise as Spencer Olham is a tragic everyman figure, a sort of average joe going about his life, without a care in the world.  He's made no wrong turns and has no angst over lost love.  In fact, he has a rather happy and fulfilling life with a great job, national accolades and a rather hotty of a wife in the form of Madelaine Stowe whom he loves very much.  And then all at once he is in shock and disbelief that he is accused of being something he knows he's not and the sad, eventual denouement when reality closes in. I think the most telling moments are few and far between, but hit at the heart of discovery like a detective who's on a case and finds out something he really doesn't want to know.  It could have been a better film, but it was certainly a worthy effort. It was certainly better than Minority Report, whose pre-crime cop dealing with the angst of loss, is wrongly accused of murder, etcetera, etcetera.  I was never able to get interested in it and although Cruise was believable, the whole thing seemed so contrived. Perhaps too many special effects got in the way.I think the prolonged wait for this film to be released was the biggest problem.  There had been promos for it since, if I'm not mistaken, 1999-2000 before it's final release in 2002.  I know it was originally supposed to be part of a series of shorts and was later expanded to, not quite, feature length.  I think the expansion was part of the problem too.  Perhaps after such a long build up and having additional scenes added to pad it to feature length then winding up with something less than a Sci-Fi Citizen Cane is why it's so criticized.  Certainly Imposter is formulaic and flawed, but no more than Minority Report.  Unfortunately, I'm in the Minority on that view.  "}{"Title":"A decent little watch with a solid cast of journeyperson actors","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Impostor won't disappoint if you go in looking for a nice little movie. The cast is impressive for such a relatively obscure movie D'Onofrio is appropriately fierce, Stowe is competent and sympathetic, and Sinise is of course always reliable.   As co-producer Sinise put together a fine project here, and it is fun to see quite a few recognizable faces & names even in bit parts.  (I'm talking about Elizabeth Pena, Lindsay Crouse, Rosalind Chao, for example.)Special effects are decent, and keep plot points moving while not getting in the way with obviously low budget awkwardness.Philip K. Dick's story is adapted here, and while there are certainly extraneous elements, including some kind of silly fight scenes, it makes a sufficiently interesting movie.I'd personally like to see more movies like this  inexpensively made, with skilled cast members doing their jobs without emphasis on glamor, interesting plot and effects that are clearly 'scenery' rather than being used to carry things on their own.  This is a show you can use as a substitute for another evening scrolling through channels hoping to find something to watch after a busy day.Good job to Sinise & Co. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, under-appreciated flick.","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What is the nature of identity? A seemingly simple question, but one that, if properly analyzed, can lead to an infinite number of even more interesting philosophical questions. Imposter, based on a short story from the prolific Sci-Fi writer Philip K. Dick, takes the high road, preferring to explore the nature of being and the paradox of identity over the obvious and tired clichés of most recent science fiction movies. In many ways, the fact that the movie is such a think piece is/was it's downfall...the current standard in Sci-Fi requires spending as much or more on computer-generated special effects as it does in scripting, character development, and editing. Those that prefer their plots simplistic, their irony missing, and their explosions and chase scenes plentiful should look elsewhere for their entertainment. Director Gary Fleder and his ensemble deliver a first-rate flick that challenges you to think as you attempt to solve the mystery of Spence Olham's identity. Gary Sinise and Vincent D'Onofrio turn what could have been a conventional detective/manhunt story into a battle between two intelligent protagonists. Madeline Stowe delivers an interesting bookend performance to her work in 12 Monkeys, with Tony Shalhoub rounding out the enigmatic cast as Olham's friend - or betrayer. The very fact that this script allows each character latitude to show character nuances, allows the audience the luxury of being kept in the dark to most of the cast's true motives throughout all but the last few minutes of the movie. Few Sci-Fi movies ask you to think. Most detective dramas either telegraph the ending in the first five minutes, or play with the viewer, offering up red herrings galore, to divert them from the truth. Imposter treats it's audience with respect, asking viewers to think for themselves. If you are looking for special effects and awards for best alien makeup this is not the movie for you. If you like being challenged, give it a look. "},{"Title":"An excellent film you've may never hear of.","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS!!! SPOILERS!!! SPOILERS!!! SPOILERS!!! SPOILERS!!! SPOILERS!!!This fits snugly into the universe of Starship Troopers & the Showtime series Total Recall 2025, while exploring a completely different tangent all together. I love this flick, honestly. Great cast, incredible art direction (except for the horrid Logan's Run arachnid style laser scanner thing in the hospital), luscious albeit limited sets (still a small budget production after all). Some really nice turns in the plot and character arcs. Overall a really solid piece of work, and I wonder how it is I could have never heard of it until happening upon it at a DVD shop in Richmond next to all the HK cheesy ghost flicks? Really does a sweet job of capturing Dick's paranoia about nukes, self-identity and general distrust of fascist / nationalist government. Interesting too because themes here overlap with Minority Report without ever feeling derivative or redundant. Rather this one seems to have a bit more psychological meat and noir discretion at play. Like the nod to Starship Troopers in the score and the armor of the security guards, nice touch. "},{"Title":"Good in the middle, but great at the end","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I like SF books, movies... This movie is good movie for me. Maybe it is boring in the middle but the end will blow you. Because of great ending I gave this movie 8/10 otherwise it would be 7/10. Every SF fan must see this movie. I promise i will read the book. "},{"Title":"Philip K Dick Fan's Unite!","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Philip K Dick Fan's Unite!Being a big fan of Blade Runner and Philip K Dick I was excited to learn that they were making a new movie based on another one of Dick's works. At first I thought this was a jump the gun on Minority Report. But it is a great movie. It has action, story, romance and Philip K Dick all over it! Don't let the critics , or even your friends, family, co-workers, or pet ostrich's fool you.This one will have you guessing till the very end. And then once you get to the end you will be guessing again and again. If you watch it for the greatness of Philip K Dick then thats what you walk out with and won't be disappointed. If you go in for some Hollywood-eye-candy-brainless-action-movie then I suggest you see Battlefield Earth. The adaptation of the story was written by Scott Rosenberg who also wrote or co wrote movies such as Gone in 60 Seconds, High Fidelity, and Con Air. Impostor is no Blade Runner, or Minority Report. But its the next best thing!  "},{"Title":"Good if you like sci-fi","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you like Star Trek you will definitely enjoy Impostor. This is one of those sci-fi movies that entertain sci-fi enthusiasts, but hardly appeal to commoners ; )Unfortunately, the end is predictable and the individual performances mirror a way to cut down on the budget. Still, it does get really exciting from time to time and many scenes are intelligently and shrewdly done, and sometimes they might even surprise you.One can't help to draw paralells to the Fugitive and, even more so, to Blade Runner (by the same director)...this will be crystal clear when you see the movie.The overall impression was far from horrible, as many people seem to think. After all most sci-fi movies are about stimulating the imagination and entertaining, something that Impostor definitely lives up to. "},{"Title":"Great renter....","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While I can appreciate the bitterness that some of the reviewers of this film felt for having paid top dollar to see this in the theater, I don't think it deserves some of the harsher comments it's received. I may be a little more lenient because I only paid the rental price. So here goes&#133;First thing to note is this is not a GREAT movie&#133; just by staring Gary Sinise should have revealed that. He hasn't been making very many movies lately and the recent ones have been, lets just say, less than stellar (pun intended). I still like him as an actor though. I really like Madeleine Stowe and Vincent D'Onofrio, but even they have a hit and miss star quality. Anyway, I thought the movie started a little slow but that could have been because it started with, what it seems like is, the stock start for all Sci-Fi movies these days. The makers want to introduce you to their new fangled, future world and I guess they think we, as the audience, will have a tough time adjusting, so they have the obligatory what got us to this point in the future, what new gadgets we have had to adopt to survive, and why bad things are going to befall this certain character. SO by the time you get to the end of the set up, I think, you're either turned off or ready to get on with the show. Fortunately I was in the, &#145;let's get started', mood. I suspended my disbelief and made excuses for some minor inconsistencies and found I was really enjoying myself. The story was rather interesting and creepy. I will not explain too much or spoil anything (as others do without warning&#133;shame on you). Suffice to say the bad guys (aliens) have found a way to duplicate us perfectly and plant bombs inside the impostor's body. The duplication process is so complete that the changeling may not even know it is a fake. Spooky huh? Ok, well that's my feelings about it&#133; So anyway, you can see just by that scenario, someone could end up in a very bad situation. And of course someone does. I have to admit the one point in the movie that bothered me the most was the archaic and grizzly way they came up with to destroy/reveal the imposter. In a world of new medical technologies and understanding, you'd think they could find a more humane and less intrusive way of dealing with this situation. The way it's dealt with in this picture was a little disappointing but rather graphic and it does give the character an excuse to be scarred (w)itless and run like hell. The performances were not Oscar worthy but they got the job done well. Tony Shalhoub didn't have a very good roll and could have been played by anyone. Other that that I thought it was a pretty well executed movie. Some reviewers complained that it was too predictable an outcome but given the premise, the possible conclusions of this movie are rather limited. I still think it was handled well. I say it was well worth the rental price and time spent to see it. Sit back and enjoy. My thoughts. Yours?  "},{"Title":"Started off bad, but ended up quite good","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I started watching this movie, I realized very quickly that it had all of the potential to be horrible. Sinise's performance early on was very cold and bland. It wasn't until his character escaped from Vincent D'Onofrio that the movie started to get interesting.The one thing that I look for in Sci-Fi films is cool gadgets. Imposter had two neat gadgets. In the film, everyone is fitted with an identifier chip. There are scanners placed at check points everywhere that allows monitoring of everyone's actions. There is also a scanner that the government agents use to heat scan the building that Sinise is hiding in. It allowed the soldiers to determine where he and others were at in the building. Sure, these were simple compared to other Sci-Fi flicks, but I still found them neat.The end of the film was a complete shock to me. I didn't see it coming at all. I had figured Vincent D'Onofrio's character to be the cyborg, so I was way off.Was this the best film ever? No. Will I watch it again? Probably. Do I suggest that others check it out? You bet. "},{"Title":"How could they mess this up?","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This sci-fi flick is full of action and has a very cool plot. Why was it so boring then? I think the lack of character development is what kills this one. Homeless people being kung fu masters didn't help either. It would have made a great short film. An hour of Gary Sinise running around was far too boring. The opening and the predictable ending were good but not good enough to be forced to sit through the middle. I give it a 4 on plot alone. Could have been done much better.      "},{"Title":"Direction problems, felt kind of cheap","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I wasn't expecting much from this movie seeing as it is a lower-budget production. It had the problems one would expect poor direction, including lots of unnecessary slow motion shots and cheap looking camera techniques. It really cheapened the movie and detracted from the viewing experience. If you've seen Behind Enemy Lines, you know how bad direction can ruin a movie like this one. Besides that, the plot was passable, acting was fine (maybe a little overacting by D'Onofrio) and the pace was good, so it wasn't a total loss. The ending was a bit confused - on the one hand, they didn't want to have a totally predictable ending, but on the other hand, the ending made it look like the script writers were arguing over what should happen and made an unsound compromise. They really could have done a lot better, first and foremost by firing the director, but the short story this was based on (by a true genius, Philip K. Dick) was really fantastic and a movie based on it had potential. My rating 4/10. "}{"Title":"It's not as bad as they say","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, the strobing made me a bit dizzy, but the plot twists and turns were very enjoyable.  Warning SPOILER AHEAD.  As to some plot holes that others have mentioned - i.e., why didn't they  perform a test to prove his innocence - watching the movie one can conclude that they probably already did while he was drugged hence why they were so certain.  I would readily recommend this movie to anyone, despite what the other comments claim. "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as they say","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, the stobing made me a bit dizzy, but the plot twists and turns were very enjoyable.  Warning SPOILER AHEAD.  As to some plot holes that others have mentioned - i.e., why didn't they  perform a test to prove his innocence - watching the movie one can conclude that they probably already did while he was drugged hence why they were so certain.  I would readily recommend this movie to anyone, despite what the other comments claim. "},{"Title":"If I'm Spencer Olum uhhh.....(BAM)","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILER!! Hey everyone out in movie land.  Ok here is a theory. It may not be the best but it's a shot.  We've established at the end of the movie he explodes and everyone seems to wonder why.Imagine that the target was not the chancellor.  Granted that there were at least two keys to Olum's detonation; One of the keys is him realizing who he really is.  We believe the second key may be Hathaway and the combination of the two replicants being together.  At the party where they were to meet The Chancellor it is also safe to assume that Hathaway would be there.  Also note that during the entire movie that Hathaway, Spencer and his wife are never in the same location at the same time.  The combination of the elimination of one replicant, the realization that they have been replicant's the whole time and the presence of Hathaway could have triggered the explosion.Would the aliens profit more by killing the most ruthless replicant hunter (Hathaway), or by killing the unpopular leader of the human race (The Chancellor).  Referring back to old school warfare, killing the General scatters the troops and makes them vulnerable and open to a full scale attack.Ok, that is our theory.  Take pieces of it and formulate one to your own imagination cuz quite honestly we still don't know what in god's name is going on with this ending.  Any insights e-mail me.  "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie...","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I personally liked this movie. I was reluctant to see it at first, but boredom got the best of me, so I watched it. True this movie has been done before, but I must say, Impostor and Minority Report are two TOTALLY different movies ... one has to do with psychic crack babies that prevent crime ... whereas the other has to do with ALIENS killing humans and taking over their identity to conquer Earth.  "},{"Title":"Some Science Fiction again","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Things that may be in the future are what science fiction is all about. And this at last is real science fiction again. Some elements are indeed stolen from other movies, but in the end it's what you wish for the unexpected. "},{"Title":"An In-the-Minority Report  A Good Review","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK, so there are vents where there shouldn't be.  I really enjoyed this film.  I thought that the acting was very good and the characters were well developed.All of the critics who refer to things like, if this is the future, why didn't they catch him faster? Well, if they caught him faster, then the movie would be over.  This is a chase movie, yes. But it's an involving chase movie.The is he or isn't he question is not so obvious that I guessed it early-on. Yes, there are clues. But none are conclusive. That's part of the point the movie is trying to make How much evidence do you need in order to convict someone? Is there still a doubt? And is that doubt enough?The bigger issues raised with the movie are about a future where our rights could be curtailed (very Philip K. Dickian); and a kind of Orwellian/Kafkaesque ominousness to it that made it engrossing.The special effects weren't sky's the limit ILM types, but they were convincing and kept me watching. Plus, I felt that the art direction was inspired and creative a joy to look at, really.I think it's sad this movie wasn't the box office hit it deserved to be. My hunch is that it wasn't because of the fact that there were plot holes (there are ALWAYS plot holes in thriller/chase movies--that's why we have suspension of disbelief and why we root for the main character).  The real reason it didn't do so well was that the twist ending made Sinise an antihero.  People generally don't like that.  But I did. I was reminded of the Brechtian dystopia in Galileo, and I certainly felt it to be close enough for my respect. "},{"Title":"Interesting for a Blade Runner fan","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this movie only because I trusted the name of Philip K. Dick. I think the story was good, although there really were quite silly plot holes. Nevertheless, I found this movie enjoyable as a Blade Runner fan. There were several references to the movie for a careful viewer The replicant terminology (which appeared in the Blade Runner movie and not in the novel on which it was based on, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep), the hands and eyes of Olham that hinted his being a replicant are only some. But I am not sure if these are used very knowingly or just to sell better... Their amount makes me think the latter is true. The clues that Spence is a replicant are so numerous things become too predictable. But I should admit the ending is quite good. I read in one of the comments how do they find the ship in 5 minutes?... Well, probably it is already in the memories of the replicant, although he is not aware of it.  "},{"Title":"Unclear...","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was really looking forward for this movie for the simple reason that Gary Sinese does not get the leading role very often. He is the best supporting actor in the business but he is far more worthy of bigger endevors.Imposter would make an ideal mini-series though. Not much effort was made to let viewers know very much about the dynamics of the war. And the Centauri?...Such an cliche alien race. When in doubt name the bad guy after the nearest galaxy. I was immediatly struck by the lack of weapon development...It is refreshing that some futuristic ray gun was not used...but the Glock 18? Glock has over 30 models now, you'd figure that they would be up to about 60 by this time.Echo the other detractors on the plot twist at the end. It was clever but without background on the enemy there were no subtle clues to make you watch the movie again to find things you missed (unlike the Sixth Sense).In all it was a nobel effort...but The 6th Day was better and it is probably the reason why this film's release was delayed. "},{"Title":"Watch the Original Short Film on the DVD","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Somewhere, somehow, someone forgot what makes a good science fiction story when adapting Philip K. Dick's short story into a screenplay. This was to be a part of a triology of science fiction stories; but, instead of sticking with a short script, the producers and director decided to turn this into a feature-length film. What had looked like a good episode of the Twilight Zone turned into the Fugitive in a future setting, (done much better in Total Recall and The 6th Day).See Gary run. Run, run, Gary. See Gary climb into an air vent. See Gary run through an aquaduct. See Gary run away from the ESA militia-men. Run, run, run.Half an hour of Gary Sinise running away from evil and incompetent security goons, (who manage to shoot lots of bystanders but not Gary), does not make interesting science fiction. The aliens that are attacking the Earth, (never shown), cannot figure how to win the war except by assassinating Earth's chancellor with a flesh-and-blood cyborg. Who is the impostor? This is as much science fiction as this story gets. Without the futuristic setting, we have a weak copy of The Manchurian Candidate stretched out into a Chasing Gary movie. Great cast and big budget, but a poor concept dragged out by a director, producers, and special effects crews that didn't understand the need for a meaningful story-line, (written in part by the same screenwriter responsible for Waterworld and the 1993 version of The Fugitive).I'm glad I got the DVD with a two-for-one coupon, otherwise I'd have felt completely cheated. Watch the Original Short Film on the DVD, or, better yet, get Blade Runner, (which has a story with some character development with its replicants).  "},{"Title":"Scary adaptation of another Philip Dick short story","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Having been kept up most of the night by viewing what other reviewers see as a predictable loser, I think it's necessary to put in an affirmative vote. I'm a big Blade Runner fan; this is no more predictable, if no less. Nor did I find it odd (to answer another review) that there were so many vents in this 2079 world. After all, humanity has largely given up living under the open sky because of the constant attacks from an alien world, and has constructed shields over most of the cities. Homo sapiens presumably still exhales carbon monoxide; should we presume the widespread use of charcoal filters instead? C'mon lets be fair to this movie. Gary Sinise and Madeline Stowe are first-rate, the lighting and special effects are first rate, the story -- beginning with major buildings coming down before our eyes, then the rise of martial law as humanity deals with constant warfare with an alien force which uses, among other things, replicant homicide bombers to assassinate earth's security forces and leaders-- well, it seemed a little too much like our future. Maybe that's why I don't remember anything about its release, a timing disaster after 9/11. "}{"Title":"very good movie","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  well i watched this a couple of days ago thinking this will be poor, but was very surprised to see a film with a very good story line fairly good acting and some nice effects i liked the twist at the end even though it was easy to see the whole way through the film. the only thing i didn't like was the fight in the tunnel i wasn't expected kung-foo action they way aswell brake out the nun-chucks i did have to laugh, but still it's deffinatly worth a watch.7/10 "},{"Title":"worth a look","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie begins without any pretense to characterization and without any prolonged setup, just like in the spirit of B-movies (speaking in the jargon of script-writing, it is devoid of any 1st Act in the traditional 3 Act format), perhaps this has got to do with the fact that it is based on a short story. Anyways, overall the movie does look like a polished B-grade s-f flick or a 'badly written' pseud.-A grade one.  What I liked about it are 1) the sets and the atmosphere, esp. once the hero goes outside the sheltered city into the battered suburbs, almost reminded me of ESCAPE TO NEW YORK. 2) the military, the secret service and the state overall, which is engaged in a global war against an alien assault, is not shown as gallant heroes but as nasty brutes. I think this is, would I dare to say, somewhat a bold thing to film in a post-S11 environment?_MAJOR_ SPOILERS henceforth3) surprise ending OK, of course it was no surprise at all that the protagonist indeed turned out to be replicant, but it was a _big_ surprise to me that his wife did as well. I was pretty much shocked when he looked up the spacecraft cabin and saw his wife's corpse there! 4) the unhappy ending.. not many s-f movies end without a victory for the human race. "},{"Title":"How do you know you're you?","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Like most of Philip K. Dick's fiction, Impostor asks questions about identity and the nature of reality - how do you know you're you, how do you know what's real - and this is what makes the film interesting and pack the punch it does; even though the closing sequences seem almost perfunctory (apparently the film was cut to win a PG13 rating), this is a movie well worth seeking out, with strong performances from Gary Sinise and Vincent D'Onofrio. "},{"Title":"Excellently atmospheric sci-fi film with occasional touches of Bladerunner","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this not expecting too much having heard nothing about it at all. I was more than pleasantly surprised by Gary Sinises performance in the lead role. He plays a top government scientist who's accused... well I won't give it away. The question all the way through is - is he or isn't he what he appears to be? Fast moving, plenty of action and some really nice atmospheric special effects complement what I would call a classic sci-fi story. I can't help compare it to Bladerunner with it's near future sky scrapers which look gorgeous (if you like that sort of thing). There are even touches of the soundtrack occasionally with the use of electric piano in the quieter moments but mainly the soundtrack just blends into the background and you don't notice it. I would guess if you like films like Bladerunner, Twelve Monkeys, and Dark City then you will enjoy this. Heartily recommended.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not sure how this one was missed at the time of original release. There was a lot of strong competition at that time.  This is a great movie if you like suspense.  Yes, it is Sci-fi, but in the end every good sci-fi movie has to have a good story and a compelling reason to watch.  This has both. Gary Sinise give his standard performance which is outstanding.  Just a good movie if you like sci-fi or not. "},{"Title":"Rote, but entertaining.","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A Guy's View This is a futuristic science fiction action film. Earth is at war with an invading force bent on destroying the human race and taking over the planet. Some cities have shields and some don't, creating a class system within earth society. The aliens are sending replicants to earth to take over human bodies like body snatchers without pods. These body snatchers are virtually indistinguishable from the people they take bodies from and look more real than the pod variety. Their big difference from humans is that their hearts are programmed to change into bombs and detonate when they get close to the people they are meant to assassinate.That's it. It's another chase and run away and fight and get help from the good lower class in the slums movie. Rote, but entertaining. "},{"Title":"Better than you might think after seeing the user-rating","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't really understand the low grade this movie gets here, I mean how many good science-fiction movies are made each year ??? The last good one I saw was Pitch Black, and before that the only one that comes to mind is Event Horizon... If I go further back i'm talking about the Alien-series, and that's been a while right ?Impostor is an action-packed movie with an interesting plot, good special effects, and even Gary Sinise acts good IMO !I gave this movie a 8, and if you're even slightly interested in science-fiction, I think this is a must-see !!! "},{"Title":"Too predictable","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, my wife and I decided to go see this as the previews looked interesting.  Unfortunately, it wasn't very suspenseful.  After 5 minutes I had the end of the movie accurately predicted.  The movie seems to run on the premise that if you throw in some well known actors and put in some good special effect, the audience will be lulled into not realising that the movie has no real substance.If you really want to see it, I recommend that you wait until a) it comes on Video/DVD (rental) or b) Go to a matinee at a cheap theatre to save most of your money.Terry's 2 cents "},{"Title":"A typical futuristic movie, with a non-typical ending.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In this movie based on the short story, Gary Sinise is a government worker mistaken for a bomb-carrying alien.Since this movie is set far into the future, the usual futuristic gadgets are shown, including implanted devices in the small of people's backs that track where they are at all times, flying buses with rooftop stops, and many other nifty gadgets for a movie set 70+ years in the future.This is pretty much your typical sci-fi future movie, but the ending got me a little confused.  I won't spoil it for those of you who haven't seen it, but if you aren't confused at this ending, please tell me what it all means.I recommend this for all of you sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"Well worth reading!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For a change, I thought I'd see a sci-fi movie.  I liked the storyline of this one and in general it was an interesting film that held my attention and interest.  BUT they sure did not pay for much lighting throughout most of this movie.  The scenes were filmed in dark settings which made it difficult to see what was happening (I don't mean the sex scenes, though it would have been nice to see them clearly too.)  Recommend this one only for people who have good eyesight.  Enjoy! "}{"Title":"a good b-sci-fi flick","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"   if you like science fiction like i do then i think you would enjoy this movie.  it's got very good acting, good effects and a darkly futuristic set and i found it to be a good escapist hour and a half.  i sure enjoyed it more than AI (the last sci-fi film i went to the theater to see).  sure it's B but what's wrong with a nicely paced b-sci-fi movie?  nothing at all.  "},{"Title":"Cool Stuff","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Imposter is an enjoyable sci-fi film.  It is strong on classic themes. I'd say the main themes are law-enforcement technology versus the individual, and justice what is justice, how can it be applied fairly?  There are also other themes including loyalty, compassion, and classic heroism. The film is very strong technically special effects, photography, lighting and color, and design are all strong.  The film succeeds in those aspects. The performances by the cast are good; I was convinced of their emotions and actions. The film reminds us that serious problems can develop in our future as to law enforcement, governmental authority, and individual humanity versus controlling technology.  We are cautioned that computerized tools for societal order can reduce our chances as individuals. On the other hand, we are informed that our survival may hinge on developing super-technical weapons to combat alien invaders.  Imposter provides a tense plot, with a surprise ending that I didn't anticipate at all.  A good way to end an interesting movie. "},{"Title":"Must-see film","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's about time they released a great film at the start of the year.  Not one part of this film slowed down for a second, giving it a Fugitive/Running Man feel to it.  The director was obviously trying to mimic Ridley Scott for detail - a lot of the film reminded me of Bladerunner, however, Ridley Scott he wasn't but very good nonetheless.  Superb acting from the entire cast - especially Madeline Stowe and Vincent D'Onofrio.  A definite 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Clarification","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Certainly, IMPOSTOR might not rank in the ten greatest science fiction epics of all time, but I just want to make clarifications.First of all, several commentors have said that this movie borrows heavily from BLADE RUNNER and TOTAL RECALL.  Some are aware of this, but many of the reviewers seem to be ignorant of the fact that all works were written by the same author.Second, many of the best movies--especially science fiction movies--were despised and lambasted in their own times.  Sometimes this is because the plots are too cerebral, but sometimes it's because the style of the film is not what is popular at the time.I say this not to chastise those who say they do not like this film.  I say this only to reprimand those who feel they have the moral obligation and divine right to call this the worst film ever made.  A request for all reviewers tell me your opinions, but do not tell me what mine should be.Dah svidanya. "},{"Title":"Do Androids Dream of Electric Set Design?","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Call it Blade Jogger.Based on a short story by Philip K. Dick, the author who write the source material for Blade Runner and Total Recall, Impostor explores some of the same questions about the nature of human existence and memory as thoseother movies, though not as thoroughly.  The story itself was written in 1953, and its Cold War heritage can be glimpsed in its themes of overarching government, fanatical suspicion of an insidious enemy, and the scientist's fear of his own creation, which would have been at home in any Twilight Zone episode.The year is 2079, and Earth's multinational government (uh-oh) is waging a war with some interstellar nasties from Alpha Centauri (whom you never glimpse, a nice touch).  Spencer Olham (Gary Sinise) is a scientist working on The Project, a massive weapon system that is supposed to tip the balance in the war, except that it's quickly forgotten so we can get to the main plot, which is sort of Blade Runner in reverse Olham is suddenly arrested by a fanatical secret policeman (Vincent D'Onofrio), who declares that he is not Olham at all, but a cyborg implanted with a bomb and instructions to assassinate the Chancellor, the frosty dictator of Earth who vaguely resembles Hillary Clinton on an anger-management bender.  Olham escapes, but is now a wanted man.  Worse, the sedation serums the MG-Men injected into him are causing him to hallucinate, and his grip on reality is severely shaken by the whole thing.  He flees into the Forbidden Zone (it ain't a dystopic sci-fi movie unless it's got one of those), where he links up less than willingly with an outland rebel (Mekhi Phifer), and tries to find evidence that will prove who he is.The movie owes a lot to Blade Runner, both in its plot and execution, but it lacks that movie's vividly realized future society and philosophical heft.  Impostor has the feel of a short story, sharp but not particularly deep (its ending is less a coda than a punchline), and it plays skillfully with the paranoia element that is always present in Dick's work.  It is helped here by the quality production design, and director Gary Fleder's feel for darkness and steam, as Sinise scrambles madly through pipes and access tunnels evading D'Onofrios stormtroopers with their Glock 18s and FN P90s a-blazing (Glock aficionados will be amused at a scene that hinges on the assertion that the things have external safeties.  Whoops.)  The major flaw of the story itself is its occasionally draggy pacing.  Supposedly, Impostor was originally intended as part of a three-story anthology movie, but was expanded and given its own showcase.  It was, perhaps, expanded a bit too much, and clumsily, as various ideas and questions are tossed around and hastily dropped.Gary Sinise earns a lot of credibility for the movie, although his characteristic nasal voice and shifty expression make him more convincing as a half-crazed fugitive than a solid citizen.  He also carries most of the movie's emotional load, since his character is the only one who manages to strike more than two emotional notes.  Madeleine Stowe is particularly absent as Olham's doctor wife.  Her character is obviously confused and overwhelmed by the hand fate and the screenwriter have dealt her, but Stowe never gives us anything else.  Olham insists that his wife is his salvation, center, and muse, but we'll have to take his word for it.  Similarly, as the Zoner who helps Olham, Mekhi Phifer doesn't lend his character much depth, though he, like all outland rebels in dark-future movies, turns out to be a tiresome scold.  The fine Tony Shaloub (in third billing) is introduced as Olham's friend, and then is quickly tossed away.But the most disappointing work comes from D'Onofrio, who takes what could be a fascinating character and makes nothing out of it.  His Maj. Hathaway needs to balance out Sinise's Olham, and therefore requires a great deal more nuance and depth.  He needs to be a bad guy who never doubts for a second that he's the good guy, and can, with charismatic ferocity, almost make you believe it (you can hear that in writer Scott Rosenberg's dialogue).  D'Onofrio's over-mannered performance makes him a cardboard thug, which isn't as interesting, and doesn't fit into the end of the story as well.  This part needed someone like, well, Gary Sinise, though I guess he was taken.Its faults aside, Impostor is an effective little paranoid sci-fi thriller, despite its half-hearted pretensions that it is something more. Sci-fi movies live or die on their realization of the sci-fi setting, and Impostor's setting, with Fleder's direction, Robert Elswit's eerie blue cinematography, and the production design by Nelson Coates, nails it quite well.  From the gleaming cookie-cutter buildings draped with vague, ominous slogans (For Our Children; There Is No Alternative) to the trash-strewn underbelly of the city and the crushed and dirty Forbidden Zone, Impostor's world convinces, and is used to good effect.And, it reminds us once again of that fundamental truth of life though you may love and trust someone implicitly, that doesn't discount the possibility that they could be an evil alien robot waiting to fill you with lead the minute your back is turned, or even that you could be an evil alien robot yourself, and not even know it until the second you go off.  I like a movie with a moral. "},{"Title":"pleasable sci-fi chase film","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Gary Sinise is Spencer Olham. He has designed a new weapon to wipe out the alien force which the world is at war with. He and his beutiful wife have spent the weekend in the wilderness and now are returning home.Moments after he reaches his workplace he is apprehended by authorities.They suspect that an alien has killed the real Spencer Olham and has replaced him with an alien robot harboring a deadly bomb.Now Spencer must be killed. Well of course he manages to escape . The rest of the film follows spencer's desperate attempt to prove he is not what he is accused of being before they catch him . The movie is rather exciting allover and given its short running time it never overstays its welcome . The sets and effects are pretty gCT N.The ending is partially obvious but allover its worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected, but...","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Earth is at war with an alien race called the Centauri.  Spencer Olham is a weapons designer with a new superweapon. He and his wife Maya are all set to meet the Chancellor, Earth's head of state, in the evening, but when he goes in to work he is tazered, arrested, drugged, and interrogated by Major Hathaway of the ESA.  Major Hathaway accuses Spencer of being an android with a bomb in its heart, who has killed the real Spencer Olham and plans to assassinate the chancellor.  Olham escapes, and tries to prove that he is the real Spencer Olham.The characters, with the exception of Major Hathaway who is a one-dimensional villain of the military fanatic type, are fairly interesting and I would have liked to know more about them.  But so much time is spent with the action sequences that the characters get rather lost as do the questions about identity.The scenes are all dimly lit, even where it doesn't make sense to have dim lighting, such as in a hospital. The action scenes have so many rapid-fire cuts that it's hard to tell what's happening.  This is particularly true for the escape scenes early in the movie.  In general the plot seems a bit thin, with not very much happening in spite of all that running around.The worst flaw is that the main premise doesn't make sense unless you assume the Centauri are military idiots, especially in light of the ending.Overall, this wasn't the complete bomb I expected, in fact I rather enjoyed it in spite of its problems.  But there were a lot of problems. "},{"Title":"Re-hashed futurism","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Impostor is another offering from Hollywood leveraging the science fiction works of the classic Philip K. Dick. In my opinion, only one of P.K.D.'s have translated well to the screen...Blade Runner. Most of P.K.D.'s works deal with confusion of identity or the replacement of real humans with artificial ones...sometimes both. Total Recall deals with a man who has his identity changed to fight a Mars resistance. Blad Runner deals with the elimination of artificial humans (replicants) who aren't allowed to have a permanent human identity. Impostor is the story of a brilliant weapons scientist named Spencer John Olham (Gary Sinise) that has been fighting the war with the Centauris by creating weapons of mass destruction. Spencer quickly finds out that he's not who he thinks he his. The government thinks he's an artificial human that has been planted in his place to assassinate the president. Vincent D'Onofrio plays the government agent who is trying to hunt Spencer down, and Madeleine Stowe plays Spencer's wife. The formula is pretty much the same as Total Recall...loving husband finds out he's not who he is, evil government agent chases him through futuristic cities, and he gets help from people on the other side of the tracks. The ending is very different, but it's all a familiar story. I'm not sure if this is P.K.D.'s fault for using the same premise in another work, or the screenplay writer's fault.Only hardcore sci-fi viewers should have any reason to go to this one. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I will keep it short and sweet. I thought Impostor was surprisingly good. Yes it has a few problems - but overall it is really good. I disagree that the plot twist is seen early - you think it is but then you see that it isn't. Anyway - I think Gary Sinise is one of the more under appreciated actors around. Impostor was dang sure better than the yawn fest known as Lord of the Rings. Oh my God what a BORING movie. I have passed kidney stones that took less time and were less painful than that. "},{"Title":"Film broke; did not see the end.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I couldn't spoil the end for you because I never saw the end. The film broke and the theatre gave our money back. What a blessing! I usually trust Gary Sinese to be in a good movie. This one was visually dark, like X-files running underground, like C.H.U.D. revisited but not as original. Personally I don't care if I missed what has been billed as a 1-2 punch ending. I was glad to get my money back. "}{"Title":"Hope the original version is on the DVD","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Most people don't know that Impostor was originally a forty-minute short, ballooned out because Miramax thought they could make more on it as a feature (especially since Minority Report, based on another Philip K. Dick short story, is being made).  Having read and loved the short story, it's not hard to guess what parts were added in for time.  I hope that when the DVD comes out we will be able to see the original 40-minute version as it was intended to be shown.Many people have criticized the darkness of the film, but I thought it fit the story perfectly (besides hiding the low-budget sets).  It's hard for me not to like a movie based on something written by Philip K. Dick, though, and I'll place it on my list of movies that I enjoy--but recognize as not very good films (right alongside Screamers and Total Recall). "},{"Title":"Tolerable Sci-Fi Flick","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  These days there seem to be science-fiction movies popping up right and left.  Some of them are good, some of them are bad, and some are ho-hum run of the mill.  Impostor belongs to the latter category.Spencer Olham (Gary Sinise) is accused of being a walking bomb made by enemy aliens the world are at war with.  Since the bomb can't be traced by any normal means, he seems to have no way to prove he is the human he claims to be.Although the plot has promise (as it is based on a short story) it is not enough for a feature-length film.  Although the acting by Sinise and D'onofrio is not too bad, Stowe could have been more convincing as Spencer's wife.  The special effects are well done, and they were not garish or gratuitous.  However, the film tedious; aside from the twist at the end, the majority of the movie is extremely predictable.'Impostor' would be good to see if there was nothing else playing in theaters, and science-fiction fans will mildly enjoy it.  Otherwise, there are better movies one can spend their time on. "},{"Title":"Some Impostor","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have a lot of respect for the major actors in Impostor. Gary Sinese, Madeleine Stowe and Vincent D'Onofrio are all intelligent and interesting actors. I looked forward to their likely contribution to a good science fiction film, and the fact that the excellent Tony Shalhoub was in it too could only help. However, the previews looked kinda, well, dumb.As I watched this film, I realized that it was not working for me, and it never really took off. Shalhoub was wasted in a brief bit part. For that matter, Stowe's role was almost as insignificant. It really came down to a showdown between Sinese and D'Onofrio, and this part made little sense. The initial setup, already revealed as apparently stupid in the previews, proved to be no better in the fully realized version. I don't want to go into details here, but the basic charge against the hero was so thin, so underdeveloped, and could so easily be proven wrong that it never carried it's share of the weight the plot required of it. The movie just moves from one loose end to another, and never gets interesting or even exciting. My only hope was for some sort of spectacular surprise ending (hinted at by newspaper reviews) to save the day. There was a surprise ending, but only the ramifications were spectacular. The basic twist itself was pretty feeble, and could be seen coming miles away.I walked out after this movie and stopped in to see the ending of Monsters, Inc; next door. The new 'outtakes' which are now part of that movie are, all by themselves, an order of magnitude superior to the entire Impostor. "},{"Title":"Well, there are worse things you can do with your time.","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie isn't terribly original, and the ending was pretty obvious from about the half way mark.  All in all, not a great showing, but still possibly worth a video rental.Save your money though and don't go to the theater to see this one. "},{"Title":"Great fx, poor plot more suited to tv","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Impostor is an extremely futuristic sci-fi film with great special effects but a plot more suited to the Sci-fi channel or Outer Limits television show. Despite the dazzling effects, this is not a movie the average moviegoer needs to pay full price for to see on the big screen.Impostor takes place in the year 2079. An evil race of Alpha Centauris have been attacking Earth for over 25 years now and we have been able to put bubbles around our cities to keep them out. Yet the battle continues, and Spencer John Olham (Gary Sinise) has created a defense that promises to help wipe them out. On the day he is to show his device to the Chancellor, the ruler of the surviving nations, he is taken into custody by the ESA (Earth Safety Agency). He is suspected to be an alien adroid that has killed the real Spencer Olham and who's only plot is to explode and kill the chancellor. He is detained by Major Hathaway (Vincent D'Onofrio) who is convinced of his guilt. Spencer's only hope from a sure death is to prove that he is really not an alien androidThe acting is okay in this film, which features Madeline Stowe in the role of Olham's wife. It is kind of sad to see Sinise, who shined so brightly in Forrest Gump take yet another cheesy sci-fi role like the one he had in Mission to Mars.This movie pretty much follows your typical science fiction plot line except for the dramatic conclusion, which still seems like a great episode of the Twilight Zone or Outer Limits. Most audiences will not fall for this stuff. The audience that will love this movie is the sci-fi guys, the people who are really into science fiction futuristic thrillers. Other than that, this film is best left for Cable or video rental at best. "},{"Title":"It gets you interested, but never really delivers","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As the movie started I got hoped a lot, explosions, nice fx, nice story, etc... but after a while it got boring, something like; yeah, yeah, yeah, where's the action know. But it gets interesting again, to the end, somewhat to late. There is not much more for me to say about the movie then, just go watch it yourself. It could have been a lot worse, it could have been better (maybe it's a mist chance). But where do (/should) you focus on; story, fx, action or budget? "},{"Title":"Okay But Nothing Special","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS CONTAINED*Saw this movie earlier today. The whole concept of body doubles and the old switcheroo has been done countless times in the sci-fi world. This time that same task is repeated with farily predictable results. Sinise's character is a respected military scientist who is believed to be an alien (Centauri) instead of a real human being. Anyways, the usual chaos ensues and a twist ending is tacked on to make it a little more memorable. Okay but nothing special. "},{"Title":"Why Oh Why?","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Why oh why does Gary Sinise - a very talented actor - keep finding his way into these cheesy movies?  First there was Mission To Mars and now this. Granted, Imposter was the better of the two.  In the end both endings were rushed, of little surprise and unsatisfying.  The Imposter story line surely had potential but instead turned into one big chase scene.  In short, if your looking for basic entertainment - sure why not.  If your looking for something to leave you talking - don't bother. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!!!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this without reading a review because I like sci-fi, though I would admit it's been years since I've seen a good sci-fi movie. This flick has considerable acting talent on hand, and nice effects and sets, all wasted on this thin-as-water plot and story. Here is the skinny on the action; A scientist is pusued relentlessly by security forces who believe him to be an alien android with deadly intentions. I won't reveal the ending, in case you really want to see this sorry flick, but my short description sums up 95% of the movie. I had a premonition of impending stupidity when the on screen print started telling me what time of day the current scene was occuring at, as if that mattered to the viewer's understanding or appreciation of the film. Too bad Hollywood can't find intelligent screenwriters anymore--someone who understands what plot and character development  mean.  "},{"Title":"Holes in the plot a' plenty, but worth the watch anyway.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this at an advance showing.  Started off quite exciting, but quickly slowed down.  The actors in this movie were very convincing, although the scene in which the they were looking for Spencer in the outlandish ghetto was pretty cheesey.  I suppose if you dont live in the city you _must_ be a minority?  Siniese and D'Onofio did a good job with their characters in this movie.  D'Onofio was basically the same character from Law and Order Criminal Intent, only _quite_ a bit meaner.  Fairly decent movie as a whole, but left entirely too many questions unanswered.  Why did the aliens attack? How did the disturbance in the shield happen? and why did this marshal law presence that they described not take notice to it?  I understand that the story was not orignaly made for a movie, but there were just too many holes in the plot.  One thing I highly approved of was the ending; every once in a while I see a film in which everyone does not live happy ever after... one might call this a realistic ending.  The twist at the end was nice, but expected.  Here in Memphis, its well worth the 5$ student discount at Muvico, but at the evil Malco, 7.50$ is way too much.thx to smr.6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Philip K Dick would have approved of this movie","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seriously, this is terrific Sci-Fi and oh what an ending. Superb.Considering the budget, I felt this movie was fantastic. The actors all perform really well and without a doubt the Philip K Dick in this movie shines through, ever so true to his vision.A movie I will want to watch again with friends who haven't seen it.Sadly this movie fell under the radar, which is a shame as it's 3 times the movie that say Paycheck was.Well worth watching.Terrific twists and it really drew you into the story and the universe.Recommended even if you only see it the once. If your a Philip K Dick fan, your going to really enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Great plot, but should have been a short-story film","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Hard to write a good review without spoilers, but here goes this movie has some great special effects and excellent acting by Gary Sinise (Doctor Olham) and Vincent D'Onofrio (Major Hathaway) as the doctor and the major. It's a little distracting to see other well-known TV actors popping up, so much that you think you're watching a rerun of some CSI- Criminal Intent-Monk mash-up.The beginning and (twist) ending of this movie are great. But unfortunately it's a short story that should have been a 45-60 minute movie. As one reviewer put it You could spend the entire midsection of this movie in the bathroom and not miss much. The middle has a pointless chase, with a contrived return by Olham to the hospital. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable for what it is","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The year is 2079. Humainty is at war with an alien species from the Alpha Centauri system. Society shelters itself under domed cities, and in one, Dr. Spencer Olum has been spent years designing a weapon that may give humanity the edge. One afternoon however, while inspecting his progress, Olhum is arrested, on suspicion that he himself may actually be an alien. He escapes custody, only to find himself on run from the law. Somehow he must prove his innocence.Although based on the short story by Phillip K. Dick, Imposter could just as easily be looked at as futuristic version of the Fugative. It is in no way an inventive story, and like all of David Thowy's scripts it is not very well written, but everything else is exceptional for a medium scale sci-fi flick. It is stylish, evocative and fairly thrilling. "},{"Title":"great action, great acting and great movie","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was drawn into this movie right from the beginning. Given, the first 10 minutes I wasn't so sure about where the movie would be leading, but after those it was a great ride.There's rarely been a moment, where I could take a breath, because the movie never stopped building up more suspense and action. It's creating a perfect environment, where the viewer can never be sure what is really happening and always wondering Who's telling the truth.Also the Art Department created a realistic torn down world, that's suffered from war and got divided into privileged and low-class people. That's not a new theme, but they display without the pathos you often see in other movies, without getting over-dramatic, without pointing to it every step on the way. It's shown, without talking about it all the time.That combined with the brilliant acting of the main cast makes this a great movie. Sinise is just great and believable all the way. (Not to mention, that you can actually buy him playing a 23year old character, while he was 46 at the time). I think in this movie the best parts are when he and D'Onofrio have scenes together. Those scenes are REALLY intense. They're both great actors who carry the whole movie.Without them this would be just another second or third class Sci-Fi movie, but they make it first-class. "},{"Title":"Has dark feel like Fahrenheit 451","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was a good movie, as I've come to expect out of Gary Sinise. It was interesting to see Tony Shalhoub also, before his TV Monk character caught on.The sets were believable, in that you felt like you could be living under a dome like they did. There's a claustrophobic element that comes through strongly, adding to the feeling that you are trapped and watched along with the characters. I kind of wonder what they eat though (Soylent Green?), there wasn't much vegetation or animal life apparent.I just hope our future isn't really like that--I was left with the same darkened emotions as when I first saw Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451. "},{"Title":"Does the android Sinise dream of electric sheep? The world may never know...","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" For those that are unwilling to give an unknown film a chance, this was the story of Gary Sinise playing the role of Spencer Olham. He is a very happy scientist that loves his wife and job working for the government. It is the future, and a band of violent aliens is trying to destroy the human race, but we have been resilient. We have built walls over our skies and continually send pilots to attempt to bring down their star ships. This story takes place somewhere in the middle of this chaotic war, where fear becomes a bigger enemy than ally. D'Onofrio plays Hathaway, the leader of a government elite unit specializing in locating spies &#150; and he has found a target &#150; Olham. Hathaway believes that Olham is an android of the human he once was, disguised to allow for easy infiltration and destruction. Hathaway's mission is to destroy this clone, and while he wasn't successful in the past, he knows the truth now. Of course, Sinise is Sinise, and for nearly two hours he runs, inspects, and prepares for what should be the truth &#150; but instead we are handed a diabolical twist that will make any childless film buff happy and any anti-Sinise fan jump for joy. We are left with a vision that is as stunning as it is disturbing, yet for me, I was disappointed. I loved the ending, but questioned the value of the preceding hour of stock running footage. The DVD itself contains the short film that this film was based on, and I must admit, I liked that a bit more because it cut the center filler out, but also eliminated the illusionist-character element that filled the time slot. It was a give or take, but as you watch the ending, you question the need for it.I can't give the ending away, so I will divert the conversation elsewhere. Loved the introduction to this film. The history lesson coupled with an opening chapter that slowly fed you subliminal clues to the past. The John Hooker song got my feet bouncing and my juxtaposed mind in gear. Even in the future they listen to great music. The relationship between Sinise and Stowe could have been warmer, the introduction was sensual, but not worth 45 minutes of fighting for. I could not believe they were husband and wife for the brief moments that we saw them together. The struggle with the situation that occurs to Nelson Gittes (played by Tony Shalhoub) again seemed very underplayed. I wanted to see a stronger bond, and not just two sentences of dialog that would attempt to bring to the surface a life long relationship. I loved D'Onofrio, but that has already been said. Mekhi Phifer was just filler, the typical stranger that finds that warm patch in his heart to help a total stranger. We have seen that in any other Hollywood puzzler, and for this film it was no different. So, what I am trying to say is that the acting isn't what stands out with this film, it is the story.We all know that PK Dick can write an amazing story that withstands the vaults of time, and this is no exception. When you begin watching the film, you may assume you have seen the action before, in other films. You will be half right, until you witness the surprising ending. I thought I had it figured out, but what happened continues to keep a smile on my face. What I missed about this story was the war itself, yet eerily, I liked the internal struggle. I was very reminiscent of what is occurring in our world today. The tale of an overprotective government that is too worried about the treat instead of its people. I wish we could have seen more about the big weapon that was going to be a turning point to the war, I think that would have explained the choice for Olham to be targeted &#150; but again, with the shabby acting and stronger story, you have a mixed message that gets sent. The focus becomes blurry and this small review found the short story/film to be stronger than the final verdict. A smaller scale sometimes paint a bolder picture.Overall, I thought this was a decent film for the small amount of screen time it was given. It kept my attention, while using techniques that are overused in Hollywood, but with Impostor it didn't feel used. Something felt fresh about this film, and while I know it wasn't the small actors giving less than 100%, or the overly sweaty Sinise, I think it was the voice and power behind D'Onofrio's character. Honestly, I am not drooling here, but he was great in this film. He was fun, angry, poised, and yet seemingly disturbed all at the right moments. Impostor is not a film that I think is a staple of the genre in any way, but it is a sinful delight that surprised me through the end. I would recommend this to friends, but only good friends. Alas, it won't be making my collection, but wouldn't mind catching it on network television one late night. Could I be any more vague? Oh well, I am reopening Do Android's Dream of Electric Sheep? Grade *** ½ out of ***** "},{"Title":"A Competent Sci-Fi Thriller","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's truly a shame that Imposter was so poorly received at the box office during its limited release. One is almost reminded of Idiocracy and Zyzzyx Road, and how studios mishandled each. Unfortunately, the same is true of Imposter, and fate has decided that another remarkable sci-fi thriller should fall through the cracks.Everything about Imposter is decidedly not B-list. The special effects and cinematography are believable, the acting is top rate and the cast is even filled with one or two inspired choices (i.e. then-up-and-comer Mekhi Phifer as zoner Cale).Yes, it's true that Imposter loses something on a second viewing (what twist movie doesn't?), but as a first watch, the film is an excellent sci-fi diversion. "},{"Title":"terrible full-length, Brilliant short","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie has a low rating for a lot of very good reasons. The main user comment on the IMDb home page (at least as of now as I write this, John DeSando's) spells them out well. It's a failure.But--there's a real gem here. What happened was, they set out to make a short, the studio liked it for good reason, had the film makers expand it to a feature-length film, and the end product was the dog of film that failed with critics and audiences and goes down in history as a big collection of mistakes.But if you rent the DVD, the original short is on there. It's well worth renting just for that. It's riveting, tense and provocative. Really ALL the problems users such as John DeSando rightfully point out (quoting him a plot twist you can see all the way from Mars....The plot holes are as many as dot our own moon....) are in the parts of the feature-length version that are added.Rent the DVD. Go right to the short. Skip the long version. Too bad the stupid studio had to ruin something good. (Shocking, I know--a movie studio took something good and tried to milk it for more and ended up spoiling it. Hard to believe, but true.) "},{"Title":"Looks and feels B-Grade, but not too shabby overall.","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 'Impostor' was a surprise; it aimed and landed higher than I'd thought. I remember a lot of the mainstream critics weren't fond of it when it first came out and although it looks and feels B-Grade, it has some serious flaws but is fairly engaging overall.The acting in the film isn't bad. I don't think I've seen a bad performance from Gary Sinise yet, D'Onofrio plays the type of character he's mastered countless times before and Madeline Stowe is almost always reliable (let us not speak of the abomination known as 'Avenging Angelo.'). A decent supporting cast helps shore up things and there aren't really any weaknesses from an acting standpoint. The strength of the script is the premise and it will be familiar to Philip K Dick fans society is out to get a man who may or may not be wrongly accused. Obvious recent Dick film connections can be made to both 'Paycheck,' 'Minority Report,' and to a lesser extent 'Blade Runner.' In fairness, all of those films are better than this and if you've seen them you may not find the material very fresh. This was a primary obsession for Dick though and I've always enjoyed seeing how it would play out. In this case, Sinise plays a scientist who is accused of being an alien robot with a bomb inside. He is told by a security agent (D'Onofrio) that he is going to assassinate the president of the planet. What follows is a desperate 'Fugitive' like attempt by Sinise to escape and prove his innocence as he leads his captors on a chase throughout a post-apocalyptic city.The script never really gives away the fact that Sinise really IS a killer robot until the very end, but there are enough heavy-handed spoilers that I was fairly confident. A few examples 1. The commentary that Sinise and Stowe make as they watch the news in the morning. They've been at war with an alien species that killed his father and motivated him to become a scientist who would create weapons to annihilate his father's killers. And yet on the news he listens the president talk about war plans and dismisses her as a warmonger. This struck me as inconsistent. He'll commit genocide, but SHE'S a warmonger?? 2. D'Onofrio is shown to be ruthless, but also extremely efficient. In my recollection of the film, his error percentage seems to be very low and his hunches are well researched and almost always right. Nothing really seems to dissuade you from this during the film. Having the story told from the Sinise perspective is an old and dirty trick to make you naturally root for the 'hero.' Had the story been filmed the same way but from the D'Onofrio perspective, I'm having a hard time believing that there would have been any doubt about the true nature of the Sinise character. 3. The spinal core test that Sinise undergoes. Had the test been interrupted before it got near his heart, you might find yourself wondering if Sinise is a human or a man. The problem with the film is that it scans TO his heart and then the machine starts to scream about a malfunction and previously undetected tissue. We learn no more because the test can't be completed. Now if he's a killer robot with a bomb in his heart and his only way of proving that he isn't is to take a comparative test from six months earlier, does it seem like anything gets resolved other than ALL POSSIBLE REMAINING SUSPENSE by having the testing machine screaming 'Malfunction!' and 'Unknown Tissue detected!' at the crucial moment? It never shows you the bomb but I think that pretty much settles the last twenty minutes of the film.It may seem like I'm trashing the film but I did actually like it. The direction was a bit heavy and the script had its problems but I came into this well willing to watch a Philip K Dick IDEA made into film. I'm satisfied with it because of the ending and the twist ending. For me that actually raised the quality of the entire film although this is one of those time when I wish I could give a six and a half rather than a six or a seven. If you can get beyond what may kill any of the suspense in the film for you, take some comfort in the performance of Gary Sinise his character sincerely believes that he is human and that there has been some terrible mistake. The look of tragedy and pathos on his face when he realizes the truth is worth the price of admission. This is great acting by a wonderfully unsung actor. It is a fantastic character study of a man who wants to prove what he thinks the truth is. The tragic results of this shine far above the murky quagmire of the rest of the script. My only other real regret about the film is that they fell into the clumsy and aggravating trap of having the score play non-stop throughout the film. 99.99% of the time this KILLS a film but misguided producers, directors and film scorers insist on unwitting self sabotage. Music should be used to accentuate tension your screenplay and performances have created NOT try to develop tension that is never really there. It is like putting up a hideous pair of curtains.If you're interested in Dick's philosophical ideas or a film with a strong performance from Sinise, 'Impostor' is recommended. Otherwise it is average and potentially uninteresting to casual viewers who may not have the patience or inclination to sit through the weak opening act. "},{"Title":"Watch With No Rest","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie (Impostor) just a day after I've watched the Star Wars Revenge of Sith. When it comes to fantasy, or sci-fi only a second divides the reality from the brilliant movie, and this one (Impostor) is such wonderful a movie. You will watch it and not even for a moment you won't be fooled to think this could not happen. Until the final scene I could not find any major false scene. Of course, at the opening scenes, when they are going to cut his heart, you could say they would better had him asleep. Well, watch this film - it's another proof that there is no weak movie after Ph. Dick. When I started writing this comment I intended to say some very nasty words on The Revenge.. ... however, I abandoned this thought ;) "}{"Title":"Impostor","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" off course Impostor has absolutely nothing to do with Minority Report. puzzles me how anybody can write this. The only similarity is the fact, that it is a Phillip K. Dick Story... that's all. overall it is a nicely done adaptation of the original short-story from 1954 with the same name. on the DVD (at least the version i saw) there's also a short-film version (37 minutes), which is exactly the original 1954 story. The makers really put some effort into the look of this future world. for a low/medium budget movie, i must say very nice! there have been way badder P. K. Dick adaptations. overall impression a solid film with a solid cast and no embarrassing moments. watch it! "},{"Title":"Still waiting, still dreaming","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yet another Phil Dick adaptation. And doesn't it show! As much as this film LOOKS GOOD - it is, at the same time, derivative of Blade Runner; Total Recall; Starship Troopers (let's be honest and look at the helmet and uniform designs); The Running Man; The Fugitive (please! he IS a doctor running for his life); 1984; Brasilia (Brazilia); Gaattaka (a misspelling - I know nothing about mitochondrial DNA - see, another stupid misspelling); et alia.I would offer that it is impossible to represent, accurately, ANY short story/novella/novel pictorially. The film, the cinematic representation, becomes something new. It must be seen (literally) as a a story in its own right/write. Certainly, read the text. Enjoy it. Devour it.But don't expect it to translate to the screen in the same form that you enjoy in your dreams. Once you see a PICTORIAL and thus set in concrete representation of what you read... well, you can't go back.Seriously, who did you picture as James Bond, 007? Whom did you see as the replicants in Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?. Was your first choice within the series that you love, the actor who became inured/entrenched within that role?Well, still waiting, still dreaming. Given the state of CGI - Jimi Hendrix might, still, become a starship captain with a penchant for playing left-handed Teles and Strats. Oh! My word. Then, Mr Fender and Mr Les Paul could have a play-off. Klingons could... Perhaps be part of the paranoia which drives this script. It is, really, excellent for what it is. Hiroshima, thy name is apology.   "},{"Title":"A hidden gem of a P.K Dick sci fi-film!","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is really under rated! One of two Phillip K Dick adaptations released in 2002 (the other being minority report) this is a gripping and well acted movie of the sci fi genre.Movie is a little sloppy in a Hollywood fashion, however the story and believable characters ensures a building of tension and suspense with a steadily building pace throughout.Brilliant acting and storyline stops this movie falling into the sci-fi bargain bin it's just a shame that it was overshadowed by the top gun in Minority report. Really enjoyable and most watchable!It makes you think too . . .  "},{"Title":"worth watching if your looking for a good sci-fi thriller","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Overall, I enjoyed the film.  It's certainly no Blade Runner but the storyline is interesting (as you'd expect from Philip K Dick) and the plots not too obvious, although a little predictable towards the end.  (Why did the simulant finally explode, when they spent time during the beginning of the film to explain that simulants only explode when close to their targets?) Anyway, I like Gary Sinise but I think he should probably stick to supporting rolls as I didn't think he was a strong enough lead actor.  He was however watchable and I didn't fall asleep half way through as I have a habit of doing.  I liked the dark feeling to the film and it didn't get too cheesy with the special effects.There's a real lack of good sci-fi films out there and this one just about falls into that category, give it a watch if your bored. "},{"Title":"Decent movie of a hard-to-film short story","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Philip K Dick's Impostor has for long been one of my all time favourite short stories. Because of that, and the bad reviews I had read, I wasn't sure if I was going to enjoy this flick. Also the original story really was a one-trick pony, relying on the denouement for its main impact, and without that much action to fill a movie.The DVD of this film is quite interesting, as it contains the original short film they made of the story, which covers the short story virtually scene for scene (with a few tricks thrown in for good measure). When it was decided to make it into a feature, they added additional scenes, and a whole new subplot. In my opinion, it works very well, and although the desire to pin a happy epilogue onto the end of the story irritates a little, it doesn't detract from the film.  "},{"Title":"this movie is good","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This review is for the Director's CutLook, forget about the horrible visual effects.  Just focus on everything else about this movie.  The acting is good (Gary Sinise rocks), the drama is good, the music is good, the suspense is good, the drama is good, the art direction/set decoration is good...Look, if you're looking for a gore-fest, action-packed movie, this might not be the one for you.  But if you like psychological action you should definitely check this out.  Trust me. "},{"Title":"Much Better Than I Expected","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really had very little interest in this film when it came out for its theatrical release, and it was only by accident I happened to catch it on cable recently.  And I have to say I have been missing out.No, its not the single best piece of sci-fi I have ever seen, and there are definitely slow moments and occasional logical inconsistencies.  But like most good sci-fi it is a movie that is not about gadgets or special effects, but rather about people --  about what it is to be human.  On that level, this movie has something to say, and in saying it sets up a powerful and unexpected conclusion that elevates the movie immensely.I don't know how I would have felt about this one if I had paid $9 to see it in a theater, but if you're a fan of sci-fi movies that make you think as opposed to simply go ooohh at the pretty effects, this would be well worth the price of a rental or to catch on cable sometime.   "},{"Title":"No accounting for taste...","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this when I caught it on Showtime recently.  Personally, I loathed Minority Report and I'd rather watch this any day; it seemed like it was made for adults, rather than pre-teens in awe of expensive productions involving super-stars surrounded by flashy, gimmicky CGI special-effects. "},{"Title":"I interesting thinker, unfortunatly not big budget like Minority Report","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I like Gary Sinise, as some one else mentioned he is a good actor, but I complety disagree that this is a crappy action story, with no plot.It does have the same theme as most other Philip K. Dick based movies, and the overtones of relations to Blade Runner ring true in this movie.  It goes so far as to call the accused alien clones Replicants.What I think most people will miss in this movie is the fact about what it is to be human.  If you watch this movie with that in mind, what makes a person a human, their true intentions or actions and not their birth. Or is it the other way around?If you are a true sci-fi fan, you will enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this film some time after having read the short story, and wasn't very hopeful. The short story was great, but the premise didn't seem to fit a full-length movie. An episode of the Outer Limits maybe.How wrong I was. Obviously the story had to be padded out to fit a movie length, but they did it so well. And the ending was twisted and handled superbly. All throughout (particularly after watching Minority Report) I suspected that the ending might not be as straightforward as expected. I'll say no more, but safe to say that they did a grand job.  "}{"Title":"good sci-fi","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Impostor is a well-crafted, action-filled, sci-fi movie. The chase is captivating, the ending superb. Special effects are good. As with every one of Philip Dick's stories, I would recommend it only to sci-fi fans. It is a pity that this movie had some bad press. It may have some dark moments, but looking at our current administration's skills and intentions, it may turn out to be optimistic!  "},{"Title":"Finally! Some real no fuzz hardcore SF","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Had no expectations at all when i put this one in the dvd. Rented it just because it was based on a Philip K Dick novel. I think it was a direct to rental video in sweden where i live. Thats a shame. Well.. wont go in to the plot details, guess it has been done by others already. I just want to say that this movie really surprised me. its down to earth classic SF at its best. some people complains about the frantic cutting of this movie, and yes it is a lot of that in it -but, its so competent done i have not seen anything like it for a long while. Its almost art. Could write much more about this one. But i tendency to write to much when i get started so i will just say one thing more. Have not read the particular Philip K Dick novel its based on, but if you have read some of his works and noticed how full of pictures or cinematic scenes it is in his writing you will love what the film-makers have done with the novel.  "},{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  yes, i liked it. it can be compared to other science fiction movies but to me it was a good story with good acting that kept me awake(thats all that counts). i watched this movie with the feeling that it was just something to pass some time. i was wrong, it did more. i enjoyed it and i give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Much better than expected","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't quite sure what to expect out of this movie. I had seen the preview last summer in the theater and it looked really good and when it finally came out I was going to see it but it was only in the theaters for a very short time. Normally that means it was really bad so I wasn't expecting too much when I rented it. It turned out to be quite the opposite. It was great!!!!!! The story had a lag in the middle but for the most part it was pretty fast paced and surprising. The end was really good as well. I wasn't expecting it to end that way. As in most futuristic movies it's pretty grim on Earth (wonder why it's always depicted that way??). "},{"Title":"Although not in the same class as Blade Runner, Impostor is an excellent adaptation of Philip Dick's story.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After Blade Runner and Total Recall, recent attempts to turn Philip Dick stories into films have fallen short of moviegoers' expectations.  However, I believe that Impostor deserves more praise than it has so far received. It captures Philip Dick's grim view of the future, where technology is used ruthlessly in the interests of security, far better than Minority Report, presenting us (as in Blade Runner) with a future that we would not want to live in.  Yes, the plot twists are very predictable, particularly when you consider Philip Dick's fondness for themes involving replicants not knowing they are replicants etc, etc.  But what would you expect?If you did not see this film already and are contemplating buying or renting the DVD, I strongly recommend that when you do you watch it twice.  On second viewing you will better appreciate the excellence of the sets, the photography, the pacing of the scenes, and the restrained use of special effects (with the possible exception of the total body analyzer, which looks as though it was taken from a James Bond film).All the principal actors work hard to make their characters believable, keeping their egos in check (in contrast to Total Recall - although, of course, because that was Arnie we didn't mind) and the action is relatively free of unbelievable stunts.If you liked Blade Runner and Total Recall, but were disappointed by Minority Report, I recommend that you give Impostor a try. "},{"Title":"Philip K. Dick has done it again !!!","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Another very good adaptation of a Philip K. Dick's story. Not nearly as good as Blade Runner but really interesting and entertaining. Keeps you awake all the way to the subversive finale. Good acting and very well directed. A must see for the fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"Very good movie!!!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Good plot, acting, effects - all of this brings us into a world of the future, with its own rules, with its own problems and with its own destiny.Philip K. Dick would be proud of such a good movie based on his short but touching and philosophical story.Who we are? What makes us a 'humans'? Would we dare not to believe the things we know by heart and see with our eyes?Action, mystery, friendship, spirit - thanks people, I like it a lot!  "},{"Title":"Predictable but entertaining","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Impostor is predictable, even though it tries not to be. The catchy end is not as catchy as the filmmakers thought it would be, and the story itself, with Gary Sinise's character fleeing those who think he is an alien impostor, isn't all that exciting or original. That said, it's an entertaining film, ideal escapism with marvellous sets portraying a dark vision of the future. "},{"Title":"What an impostor!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  impostor - noun, a person who pretends to be someone else in order to deceive others. (Cambridge Dictionary of American English)Looking at `Impostor', it certainly lives up to its name.  Because it is full of them.Philip K. Dick's science fiction story chronicles the unexpected life of Dr. Spencer Olham (Gary Sinise), the supposed title character, and a supposed engineering scientist and loving husband.  He shows up for work one day only to be captured and charged for being an alien-built cyborg with a timebomb hidden deep inside his body.  The fun ala `The Fugitive' does not begin until he breaks out and sets out to clear his name while being one step ahead of the authorities.If one imposter is not enough, how about a few more.  One being Spencer's supposed beloved wife Maya (Madeleine Stowe) - another Dr. Olham but of medicine - who is a supposed associate director in a city hospital but somehow does not fit into the role.  She turns out to be a little more than a token female, the 'little' part being the surprising ending.  Another is the smug supposed villain Agent Hathaway (Vincent D'Onofrio) who doubles as Spencer's manhunter and his judge, jury and executioner.  If his seeming villany is excessive, it is because he is not.  Nor is his seeming absolute power of barking orders, executing suspects in his self-styled hung trial (in all of the three power roles), and arrogant retorts towards his superiors as if they are his inferiors, make him more of a bona fide field agent than he 'is' a villain.  Rounding up the fakers' club is Cale (Mekhi Phifer), a citizen in a slum-like village outside the city dome where he also plays vigilante.  Ironically, although he shows typical traits of a bad-ass gangster, he turns out to be the only heroic character at the end.Though the original short story pre-dates that of `The Fugitive', its film production does not.  It takes its spirit straight from the hunt for Dr. Richard Kimble, condenses it to pure action thriller, and developes it along Dick's pages towards the conclusion.  It is short enough to cut to the chase without long dull breaks in-between the action scenes.  However, nothing that is shown is anything that has not already been done before.  Dr. Spencer Olham is a futuristic re-packaged Dr. Kimble, Hathaway plays up to the stereotypical snarling devilish egotistical baddie, and Cale is exactly like the typical character that hails from and lives in the slums / bad neighborhood.`The Impostor' does nothing for Sinise's resume, nor for those of the other cast members. Stowe is grossly misused.  Except for D'Onofrio, whose portrayal of the supposed bad guy is actually good.  The plot is peppered with holes and oblivious.  No proof is provided of Dr. Olham's alleged non-human background other than a lecture of cybernetic theory, not that his digitally-enhanced flashbacks is any indication of who (or what) he truly is.  Adding to that is the frequent mention of a powerful alien race that built the cyborgs, which Dr. Olham is accused of being, but those aliens have never been seen on screen.Be not deceived, `The Impostor' is not what it appears to be, yet it is what it is supposed to be.  And that is most distasteful, unless you have fondness for B-rated action flicks.Spellcaster Level 4 "},{"Title":"Miss this one, and you will miss nothing","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Impostor is one of the hardest kinds of films to write about.  At least with most bad films, there is some unique quality to their badness that warrants comment.  Joe Dirt took a potentially hilarious satirical character and stupidly tried to make him a conventional hero; Antitrust devolved from a promising first act into standard thriller cliches; The Musketeer was sunk by its underlit cinematography and pawnshop production values.  Impostor, directed by Gary Fleder and based on a short story by the great Phillip K. Dick of Blade Runner fame, has nothing like that to make its lack of quality remarkable.  It's merely a bad, lame, unexciting picture, virtually devoid of thrills and sure to pass from memory almost as soon as you've finished watching.It's 2079, and Earth has evolved into the same streamlined, anonymous- gray-building metropolis we've been seeing in game shows and syndicated sci-fi for the last twenty years.  The human race is at war with Centauri (we never find out if this is a planet, an alien race, or what), the cities are all underneath electromagnetic defense shields, and Spencer Olman (Gary Sinise) has just finished designing a super- weapon that may end the fighting for good.  Before he can unveil it at a big state dinner, however, he is taken captive by Major Hathaway (Vincent D'Onofrio), who informs Spence that he is not who he thinks he is...he is in fact a cyborg with a bomb in his heart, on his way to assassinate the Earth chancellor and possibly trigger Centauri's take-over of earth.  Spence escapes and, joining forces with a mysterious drifter (Mekhi Phifer), has to find his doctor wife Maya (Madeleine Stowe) and convince her that he is not a killer robot...or is he?This type of identity-bending plot was sort of a stock in trade of Dick's, and already inspired two superior sci-fi epics, Blade Runner and Total Recall.  Impostor will not join that illustrious company.  It's more like a played-straight, not-funny version of Battlefield Earth without the dreadlocks.  To start with, the story is marginal to the point of being skeletal; once we learn that Sinise is possibly this cyborg, it's nothing but a big chase until the not-at-all-shocking twist ending.  The Centauri war is a plot device rather than a plot, and we never even get a big payoff at the state dinner where the assassination is supposed to take place (Lindsay Crouse, as the chancellor, has one quick scene on a TV monitor, then we never see her again).In fact, most of the film's best actors are underused.  Vincent D'Onofrio, always a sure hand with an unconventional line reading or moment, is reduced to storming through a forest with a gun in his hand; he's never given the big moments he needs to become a truly memorable adversary for our hero. Phifer is wasted, and Tony Shalhoub (as Sinise's co-scientist) is gone from the film before we even get a chance to see him do anything.  This is really the Gary Sinise Show, and he is not compelling enough here to hold our attention or gain our sympathy.  He plays the character throughout the picture on the same note of confused indignation; there's never a moment where his guard is down and we get to see the real man underneath the heroic posturing.  For all his talk about his love for his wife, we finally just don't care about him.The picture tries to hide its lack of interest with heavy doses of filmmaking.  Mark Isham's score pounds away at your brain in an effort to create a false sense of drama, the editing is relentlessly, needlessly fast, and the camera is constantly on the prowl, afraid to settle down for a moment lest our attention move elsewhere.  The production design is completely uninspired; it's like the art department opened a box labelled Sci-Fi Action Thriller Set and pulled this out.  And the less said about the hokey video-game-sequence graphics of the space war at the beginning, the better.Frankly, I'm amazed that I've found this much to say about a film that stimulated me so little while I was viewing it.  I can say this for Impostor; it's not the worst science fiction film I've ever seen.  No. True awfulness takes on an authentic soul, and this film is far too uninspired for that.     "}{"Title":"Surprise filled sci fi tale","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This story is based on a tale by noted sci fi author Philip K. Dick and involves around a scientist in the future who suddenly finds himself on the run from government agents who believe he is actualy an android imposter with a bomb in his chest.  While hewing to some standard sci fi cliches, the film features some good acting from Gary Sinese in the lead role and has a number of twists that keeps both you and the characters uncertain as to the truth until the very end of the film.  A solid effort that exceeded my expectations, I would reccomend it to sci fi fans. GRADE B "},{"Title":"Very underrated","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm shocked to see how many people truly dislike this film. Okay for starters the script wasn't the best, the actors were alright, though not bad enough to have to comment on, the plot was awesome, of course as it's based of my favorite author's short story-by the same name (philip k. dick) who has inspired the classic blade runner and other good movies like minority report and total recall. I think the biggest let down with this movies was the directer and the budget, usually small budget movies don't get to me but when this movie could of been so much better- it ticks me off, seeing all the overused sets over and over again. I don't think the screenplay was that bad, the script wasn't the best, the twist ending was my favorite part of the movies because i didn't suspect but there wasn't that many clues after all, unlike something like fight club. The future philip k. dick envisioned was very different to what was shown on this movies mainly because the small budget and having to take parts from other movies, lol. I won't go over the plot outline again because it already shows but trust me it's not bad like everyone thinks; out of five stars i'd probably give it 3 and a half to 4. "},{"Title":"Very good and exciting movie","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just watched Imposor, and I have to say it was surprisingly good. I was entertained throughout the movie, with non-stop action, great acting, and also a good story. It was quite exciting, and had a really unexpected twist of the plot at the end. Nice thriller of the year, and it also had some great special effects even though this was not the important or subject in focus in this movie. Espcacially I enjoyed the quite unexpected end of the movie.Highly reccommanded to any fans of sci-fi, thrillers and even detective movies.All in all, a movie worth watching, and I give it an 8 of 10 "},{"Title":"Great little film","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" One can notice when watching this movie that it has been artificially lengthened, but not to an annoying degree. The story is nice, based on Phillip K. Dick, the acting is good, with solid actors doing solid work.I can't really tell too much of the plot without spoiling the movie. The end was pretty predictable to me, but I don't think this applies to most of the people, and the path to the climax was an interesting trip.The atmosphere is dark and the movie makes you think about people and human nature much more than most of the sci-fi of the day. It is definitely worth a watch and I recommend it to all sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"Decent, if lacking, Sci-Fi thriller","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Philip K. Dick novels have had quite a good history with regards to movie adaptations. Blade Runner is a classic, while Minority Report and Total Recall were both good examples of film-making also. However, Paycheck wasn't exactly a great piece of film-making, and neither is this film. While Imposter, like Paycheck, isn't a complete dead loss; it never really impresses either and despite some nice special effects, you always get the impression that the movie is happy to simply sit on the sidelines and just be an OK film. Despite being made on an obvious low budget, the high-tech special effects look good and are the best thing about this otherwise low-key movie. The film stars Gary Sinise as a government worker accused of being an alien spy by the organisation he works for. The film takes place in a time in which the Earth is under attack from an alien species that is genetically superior to the human race, and we are, therefore, losing to them.I've never been a fan of Gary Sinise; like this movie, he just isn't interesting. His face is memorable, but his screen presence is zero and if you're watching a film with him in the lead, I've found that it's a solid bet that the film won't be very good. He was probably cast because he was the best actor they could get for the budget; but that doesn't do me any favours while I'm watching the film. The paranoia in the film is one of it's best elements, as it depicts a society constantly under threat from a life form that is more intelligent and more developed than they are. The future is depicted well in the film, and the stylistic approach given to the grim setting that the movie portrays is a big plus for the movie. The plotting is rather scatty, however, and at times it can veer off in directions that aren't all that relevant to the plot, which is most probably a result of the fact that the film is based on a short story. I would recommend this film if you've got nothing better to do while it's on, but otherwise I would say watch something else. "},{"Title":"Good short stories don't always make for good films.","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Sorry, despite all the good things you can say about Dick and his writing (including this story), this should never have made it to the big screen.First of all, when Spencer Olham goes looking for the crashed ship, he does so to absolve himself, i. e., if he finds the crashed ship and the replicants inside it will prove he is not a replicant. He finds the ship, his wife's body inside - and his own, too - but suddenly this means their both replicants. So the replicants kill them, put their dead bodies in the ship and the dead bodies fly the ship and crash. Just plain stupid.OK, we just accept that. But now we have a problem, because the replicants explode when they are close enough to their target to take it out. Why did Spencer Olham explode at that point? Was he close to anything he had not been close to numerous times before? If his target was the GeStaPo type, he would have exploded exactly when he was saying he had acquired his target during his silly interrogation scene (no, we don't know how to do catheder examinations anymore in 207x, or whatever it was).I can tell you why Olham did not explode the first time he met his apparent target but you are not going to like it we would not have had a movie because it would have ended after the first 30 minutes.I think it would have been better that way ... "},{"Title":"Not as bad as mattymatt4ever says.","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It seems to me that a person should do a little bit of research before being allowed to post their opinion.  It was stated in another comment that when a movie has been delayed it is always for sure a clunker.  The main reason this movie was delayed was because it was originally filmed as a short story but got such strong reviews at various film festivals that the production company and the producers decided to make it into a full length movie.  I agree with that decision.I felt that this movie benefited by being made into a full length movie.  I have read the short story by Phillip K. Dick and thought that a 30 minute film would not have done it justice.Aside from the fact that I can name other things Gary Sinise has done besides this movie Ransom, The Stand, CSI New York, The Dress Code. I think he is a very good actor with a boatload of talent who chooses to work on projects that interest him and not on projects that are guaranteed to be top box office draws.  I find that commendable. This movie is one of the most thought provoking science fiction movies I have seen.  I give it 4 1/2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is such a waste of time.  It doesn't have any redeeming qualities at all.  Incredibly boring and the storyline is very uninventive... found myself wanting to leave the theatre but I was unwilling to forfeit the $8.50 I spent for the ticket.  Only see this film if you are particularly enamored with one of the actors,and even then I do not recommend it. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Great adaptation, until  the very  ..... HUGE SPOILER!!!","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" HUGE SPOILER AHEAD LOOK AWAY NOW PLEASE ONLY FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVE ALREADY SEEN THISI really loved the adaptation, with those little details, the extra characters, the black dude, I loved it all. But all the while, I was watching it, something kept on bothering me and at the end I realized it They basically BOTCHED the ending. Because in the original story, it is stressed much more THROUGHOUT the story/film that there is a specific TRIGGER sentence which will set off the bomb. They forgot to mention this in the film. This is the entire crux of the plot. The basic premisse in the story is that the robot DOES NOT REALIZE he IS a robot, so that he will be extra motivated to escape the police ... until he (and we) finds out he IS a robot, he acknowledges this AND THEREBY speaks the fatal sentence but if this Olmert then I must be ...  !I did love the the double twist with his wife, though, that was good, but a little more stress on that trigger phrase would have made the ending so much better. The whole story was set up for that! It was like reading Nightfall without the thing about the stars and the suns.===================================================================== Remember, you're UNIQUE. Just like everyone else. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, Old-fashioned Action Sci Fi Flick","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Imposter is an entertaining, old-fashioned action sci fi flick, based on a Philip Dick story that I had to track down in an out-of-print book because I wasn't 100% sure I got the final twist.Good cast of Gary Sinise, Madeline Stowe in her usual wife role, Vincent D'Onofrio in an unusual sort of bad guy role, and Mekhi Phifer in I think his first non-teen role.The futuristic special effects and constant chase scenes are ably handled by a director formerly of TV's Homicide.The search for a terrorist and images of ruined cities ring differently now than they might have before 9/11.(originally written 1/13/2002; "}{"Title":"It's a trifling footrace and has a plot twist you can see all the way from Mars.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Earth in 2079 is less secure than in 2002.  Our hero, Gary Sinise, is a weapons inventor mistaken for a bomb-carrying alien. Let the chase begin. Most of this lost-opportunity sci/fi is based on a story by Philip K. Dick, better known for his plots of `Total Recall' and the seminal `Blade Runner.'If exploring identity were all director Gary Fleder had in mind, then all would be well. But Fleder loves the special effects and easy plot devices (like a vent in every escape scene). It becomes a trifling footrace and has a plot twist you can see all the way from Mars.The plot holes are as many as dot our own moon Isn't anyone interested in giving Sinise a test to show he's not an alien? Isn't it peculiar that so many vents are needed three quarters of a century from now? Hasn't the XFiles exhausted dark filmmaking by then?Vincent D'Onofrio is a bad good guy enlarged by low angle shots, a devilish goatee, and snarls to help you see he is a bad ass.  Like everything else, he is telegraphed and stereotyped,yet he does complement the identity theme enough to make the only interesting character in the film.If you want a surfeit of strobe shots and slow mo, then go to see this loser.  If you can wait until later this year, maybe Steven Speilberg and Tom Cruise will have a winner adapting Philip K. Dick for their sci-fi film called `Minority Report.' "},{"Title":"OMG AWFUL! 1990's straight to video movie","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" All of the other reviews I read said that this was good. Or at least, OK. I literally had to skip through bits as I found it so awful. Gary Sinise's acting is appalling. His face acting is laughable. NEVER did I believe that he was his character, with his Lieutenant Dan face on permanently. Vincent D'Onofrio's acting is only slightly better. But his character is so clichéd and ott, it was probably hard for him to add too much to it? ACTUALLY, I can't recall anyone acting well throughout this whole movie. Also, I cannot believe that this was EVER going to be a major release movie!? It looks like, and played like a 1990's straight to video movie. The movie did not draw me in AT ALL. And I didn't care who was an impostor or not. The whole film was dire. And I cannot get the time back that I wasted watching it. "},{"Title":"Okay, but more Space Nazis.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I tried watching this film, but instead had it on the background as I found it cliché on a number of levels. A future Earth is in the throes of a military conflict with another world; Alpha Centauri, and the methods of war know no rules; all's fair in love and war, as the saying goes. When conventional means and methods fail to breach Earth defenses, more subtlety is called for.I had a hard time with this film because it portrays one cliché after another; a future fascist like Earthly society where people live a regimented lifestyle where things are either drab gray or in black and white. There is no hope when war is waged, is the message here, and the action sequences to inject energy into this film are taken from all the other formulaic films that have been in the theatres over the last twenty years. Guns, martial arts, super-spy devices, pseudo-SWAT behavior, the list goes on and on of one action film cliché after another. The only thing missing was a car chase.The actors did a fine job. You can't fault them. The story by Phillip K. Dick was an interesting premise, and I think it works too. But the art direction and screenplay needed major adjustments, as well as some of the general direction. In short, the man guiding things behind the camera is not a sci-fi film maker, but an action film maker in Hollywood styleings given a sci-fi script to shoot.To me this film comes across as an elaborate episode of CSI with a dash of a futuristic war to set the stage. I never got the sense that I was experiencing a future society so much as an alternate reality with the notion of a war tacked on as an after thought to give the story plausibility. And, again, we have space Nazis; Hollywood's favorite fetish for bad guys on the big silver screen, including a reference to storm-troopers Might not the Centauris just be aliens who want something we have? That's pretty much why wars are fought. And did future Earth have to have their version of fascist society? Could there not have been lots of free people just wanting to throw off the threat of the aliens? But no. Instead we get the evils of fighting for survival alongside your fellow man against an exterior threat because, hey, what civilization would take things from an innocent people?The director tries to give us an anti-war film with all the espionage intrigue and unhealthy paranoia that he can muster, and in a loose dramatic vein it almost works. I got myself a cut rate used copy, and I'm glad that's all it was. I would have been highly disappointed had I paid a full ticket price to sit in a theatre to watch this thing. Highly disappointed. If you like noire-ish futuristic films, then maybe consider seeing this. But, be warned, where this thing wanted to Blade Runner it winds up being more like Streets of Fire in terms of philosophical vision by the director; i.e. one cliché after another.Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"IMDb is being too kind - this is awful!","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I now have the pleasure of having witnessed Gary Sinese's worst movie and worst acting job! I didn't think he could act this bad, given his incredible performances in other works.This tells the story of a distant future (set too close to our own date at 2075) where we are moving out to colonize other stars (having colonized most of our own solar system btw) and at the first stop (wouldn't ya know it!) we encounter a hostile alien race, that amazingly, is pretty much en par with us technologically other than their advanced biological engineering capabilities, leading to a brutal war with nasty alien battlecruisers dropping by every now and again to drop nukes on us, while we dogfight in space with the enemy in futuristic fighters (they blew about 3/4 of the special effects budget in the opening credits and first 5 minutes of the movie) So, obviously the planet Earth has gotten a bit paranoid and harsh through all this, especially when you throw in that the aliens can send 'biological robots' to impersonate us and conduct sabotage missions. To further stretch this plot device to spider silk thin believability, we are also led to believe that when they copy us, they get all of the person's memories, emotions, behaviors, forget they are even an assassin droid, and can morph into a deadly nuclear bomb in seconds when they are triggered, yet this is only detectable by very advanced medical testing.It takes the hard to believe Cylon human replicants to a whole new level, and your left not believing any of it.This of course, leads the ultra-fascist government to abduct and torture anyone who even hints of being an alien, (perhaps a simple excuse me sir, would you please accompany us to the nearest lab where we can run some routine tests?? would be better than, I heard you might be an alien! So we are going to drill out your chest to see! Hold still please!)and our poor Gary soon finds himself in this boat. He reacts with horrible acting, to counter the villain torturer's horrible acting. The fight and chase scenes are amateur and hilariously bad. The plot is easily figured out except for the silly second-twist at the very end that really doesn't leave you feeling any better about the movie overall.I would take a definite MISS on this, and if the idea of this intrigues you, I'd recommend re-watching Blade Runner and a few of the new Battlestar Galactica shows instead. "},{"Title":"Overstretched Concept Which Should Have Remained Bite-Sized","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A half-baked science fiction plodder in which Gary Sinise tries to convince the authorities he's not actually a body-snatching cyborg with a bomb in his heart. Originally intended as one-third of a short story anthology, the studio called an audible midway through production and stretched it to a feature length by itself. The lack of preparation is crippling, as bad effects, terrible scenery, atrocious dialog and a heavily padded plot are exposed and emphasized by the longer running time. Sinise's character, the intended heart and soul of the picture, is incendiary and unlikeable, a standoffish prick who makes an already-bad position worse for himself in almost every situation. The awful lines he spits (seriously, the worst-written dialog this side of The Room) aren't helped by a hyperactive editor, switching angles several times in a single sentence. Awful in almost every sense, at least it goes out with a bang. "},{"Title":"The husband -thing","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Based on a K.Dick 's short story ,a writer who was fascinated by false doubles.The first story I had read by him was the father-thing where a boy discovered his father had been changed it scared me to death.Impostor is more of the same.An Earthman who might be an Alien.The combination of stunning visual effects ,Gary Sinise's great talent and Madeleine Stowe's beauty is quite awesome at times.It's only when the story turns to a banal chase with the usual quota of violence -and I do not even mention an unbearable scene of torture- that a sense of disappointment pervades.How absorbing the movie could have been ,had the director focused on the husband-and-wife relationship (with such first-class actors such as Sinise and Stowe ,it would have been a winner)!the finale is admittedly surprising enough,but without any psychological side ,it does not make much sense. "},{"Title":"Great P. K Dick film","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This science fiction film based on the Short Story of the same name by the Famous Philip Kindred Dick ( whose stories inspired films Blade Runner, Total Recall, Next, Paycheck, Minority Report and Scanner Darkly) went straight to DVD and is a bit of a sleeper. Some where in the future about 75 years and set in the USA the world is now besieged by a highly advanced alien species, The Centauri, that are capable of producing human clones/ cyborgs that have nukes implanted in them. A scientist/engineer Spencer Olham (Gary Sinise) is on the verge creating a super nuke that will hopefully destroy the persistent Centuari. THe Military Secret service headed by Major Hathaway (Vincent D'Onofrio of Full Metal Jacket and CSI) has been tracking down the Centauri made Cyborg nukes and becomes suspicious that Spencer Olham and his wife Maya ( Madelaine Stowe) may have become victims of the Centauri during a vacation break in the forest and replaced with the nukes. He goes after Spencer and is somehow convinced that Maya is still the original. Spencer goes on the run convinced he is still the real Spencer however the movie falls down here because its almost to obvious his not. Hathaway catches up with Spencer when he rendezvous with his wife and the truth is revealed. Its been on DVD for awhile and its not bad value as a weekly. I recommend it to fans of Philip Kindred Dicks inspired films. "},{"Title":"Futuristic scientist gets accused of being an alien replicant","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a decent movie. The special effects are a bit ersatz, and the overall effect is definitely one of b-movie - you can see the budget was painfully tight at times - and the (rather formulaic) music is frequently way OTT, but the pacing is fast and snappy, the plot is thrilling and Vincent D'Onofrio puts in another great performance. It's a shame that some of Philip K Dick's more imaginative novels haven't yet had the movie treatment - The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch, Galactic Pot Healer and Now Wait For Last Year come to mind; Impostor is certainly not up there with Blade Runner or Total Recall, but it is nevertheless decidedly recommended to PKD fans, who will enjoy encountering here plenty of Dickian elements. "},{"Title":"Huh?!","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Decent plot, with an excellent cast, this movie is the best example of waste that exist today. The writing is bad, and the dialogue at times, seems like it was written by a third grade child. It's rather sad that Stowe, and Gary Sinise got roped into this little b flick, and it's understandable that neither has done much since. It's a moving that's been done before with a better script and direction. The ending with sinse in the woods with Stowe is one of those summed up by the title of this review. You're simply left thinking huh. There are enough plot holes left open they could film Imposter 7. Let's hope they don't as Imposter was bad enough to sit through. I would only recommend this film to fans of the actors involved. Other then that, there's nothing too memorable about the film, and that's quite sad. "},{"Title":"Decent, too thin","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Philip K. Dick's Impostor is a nice short-story with a rather straight plot, one single surprise, not particularly profound, but entertaining for the few minutes one needs to read it. It doesn't have the substance for a full-length feature film, though. And what they added in this movie to reach its length of (depending on version) 92 to 105 minutes - well, it's not interesting at all. The basic story is told reasonably true to the original and it's still fairly entertaining, sadly too stretched. There's nothing gravely wrong with acting, directing, dialogue etc., everything is passable, but not more. That's simply not enough for the stretched story. If this were the short film it was originally meant to be, it would be really good. 40 minutes should be just about the right length for this. "}{"Title":"A good movie with a great ending","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie took me by complete surprise. When I rented this flick with my buddie we expected a total low budget scifi movie. In Sweden the title is Enemy of the earth. Listen to it? It sounds horribly lame. But we came home, put it on and I'm not sure about my friend but I liked it more and more the more I watched it. The basics of the story is quite simple and but yet they have managed to make the story realistic and...well it totally got me caught. Up until the end the movie might have been a 5/10 or so, but the ending is absolutely beautiful. I haven't seen a great ending like this for quite some time. You never see it coming really, you believe you can predict how the movies going to end but you will never guess right, take my word for it. Now, putting the simple, acting, effects, story and so on aside. This movie really gets you thinking about the philosophic perspective of the self and what makes our bodies and souls unique. I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Damn this was good!","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" brilliant acting, I've never read the short story this is based upon (surprisingly being a huge reader of science fiction). The cast were brilliant, it was a case of how many people in this movie have played cops elsewhere? Gary Sinise from C.S.I. new york, Gary Dourdan from classic C.S.I., the bloke playing Garys best mate from monk, Vincent whats his face (aka Gomer Pile from full metal jacket and psycho guy from the cell) from law and order criminal intent. so many police men! i think Gary dourdan was underused and could have had a bigger role, Mr monk ( i don't know his real name, sorry!) also really didn't have very big role - yes, we know he gets killed but that could have happened anywhere in the movie. Gary Sinise is always good to watch in anything (coming soon, the multi-million blockbuster starring Gary Sinise Watching Paint Dry, you know you'd pay to see it!) and the actress playing his wife isn't exactly very good herself. a good plot and a twist within a twist. love that ending. "},{"Title":"Oh you try too hard","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Trying too hard to be gritty and Matrix-like in its fight scenes, this film is blown out of the water by Minority Report. Through its entire running time I was almost shouting at the television, why don't you just scan him for a bomb? Oh yeah... it seems so easy for him to casually run into the hospital and force one of the men to project his 3D image up for personal scrutinising, however, none of the highly intelligent human race seemed to acknowledge this fact on their own desperate man-hunt. They simply assume he is guilty. What kind of crime fighter does that? But then again there'd just be no film without it. So,ignoring this shaky grounding for a sci-fi thriller, its redeeming factors are an entirely watchable visual experience provided by good acting, brilliant sets and a great night-vision setting. The disappointing thing is inevitably the ending; I liked the eyes widening just at the moment of impact. How predictable. It seemed like the director had forgotten exactly where he was going with his film up to that point and so quickly deviated it to the ending. Avoiding the fact that Cale is alive at the end which is a step to far in the wrong side of realism, let's just enjoy the fact that this film at 12am in the morning provides something that will keep you awake till it's finished. "},{"Title":"Underrated film - Quite good actually","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Impostor as you probably have already read in IMDb.com is based on a short story by Phillip K. Dick. For those familiar with Total Recall, the mood in the film feels the same. The only minus that this film has is that one can tell that this is a movie adapted from a short story. There are not many twists and turns and the movie progresses in a straight line. However, it had a lot of suspense and I didn't realize how quickly the time had passed by the end of it. The end is quite original although one can 'predict' it since there are clues left behind for those seeking to investigate...Overall I would suggest this movie to every sci-fi fun although they shouldn't have too much of an expectation (Don't get me wrong it's very good, just not a masterpiece). Those not into sci-fi should be prepared for a film that lies into a war future where the hero can not tell if he is an impostor or not (this is actually quite philosophical now that I come to think of it!!!) Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Excellent science fiction and suspense movie","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The film concerns upon a weapons engineer(Gary Sinese) and his wife(Madeleine Stowe) in the future world . Then he's framed as traitor and serve to Centauri aliens by means of an explosive in his body. He flees and is helped by a young(Meki Phifer)of the slums. They'll take on a clever security agent(Vincent D'Onofrio).From the beginning until the finishing the intrigue and action-packed is unstoppable. Runtime is adequate ,it's fast moving and is neither tiring, nor dull, but bemusing. In the motion picture there are emotion,thriller,pursuits,shootouts and is enough interesting.The final confrontation between the starring and the contenders is stimulating.The movie didn't obtain success and failed at the box office in spite of the big budget.The storyline from original novel by Philip K. Dick ,author of ¨Blade Runner,Screamers and Total recall¨, among others. The argument film is pretty twisted and the ending has an extraordinary surprise.Interpretation by Gary Sinese is riveting, Madeleine Stowe is enjoyable and enticing. Vincent D'Onofrio is outstanding as his acting in ¨Full metal jacket¨.Special effects FX are extraordinaries , they are made by Industrial Light Magic of George Lucas Corporation.Flick will appeal science fiction buffs and action fans. Rating 6,5/10 . Well catching. "},{"Title":"a decent short story adaptation","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I missed this on general release, but caught it on DVD, another Philip K Dick, was it people trying to cash in on Bladerunner again? noWith a cast including Gary Sinese, Vincent D'Onofrio, Tony Shalhoub, Mekhi Phifer (ER) Gary Dourdan (C.S.I.) and directed by Gary Fleder (Runaway Jury) you think, hang on, this is not a one star show by any means..I dark, well paced, classically paranoid, oppressive PKD story. The look of the film captured well, giving a glimpse of a war driven, selfish society, too concerned with the cities to worry about everyone in the unprotected countrysideGary Sinese playing a man who goes through extremes of emotions, until the very end. Vincent D'Onofrio, being the ultimate scary secret policeman, but still showing compassion and empathy towards the end. With additional support from a young talented cast, this could have been increased to develop characters further, but I am sure budget constraints would not allow. Despite that, his was not a one dimensional film and is enjoyable sci fi, with a decent twist in the tail.  "},{"Title":"Best Philip K. Dick Movie Since Total Recall","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Some people claim that a movie is bad simply because it wasn't written the way they saw it. I advice you not to be discouraged by others on whether a movie is a flop or not. Watch the movie yourself, If you're interested enough to read a review, then just go watch it. I thought this movie was great, but why should you take my word for it. I can tell you why it was great while others tell you why they thought it wasn't. This wasn't a big budget movie and it passed by unnoticed by the public. And like many movies it was underrated. The director puts you right in the place of the character. You know only what the character knows, and this is what made this movie great to me. I will say no more, now go forth and watch the movie.  "},{"Title":"PLOT HOLE PLOT SPOILER DON'T READ IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN FILM","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How can they explain being at war with a planet light years away?  If Spencer Olin's duplicate was set to go off if he was discovered to be a duplicate, why didn't his wife's duplicate go off when she was discovered as a duplicate? How come Major D.H. Hathaway was not able to decipher that there were two duplicates sent and not one? Would it not make sense to check both husband and wife out in the first place? (Vincent D'Onofrio seems so much smarter in Law and Order Criminal Intent) Call me slow but why couldn't Spencer Olin treat Cale's knife wounds in the futuristic hospital? Surely he could have found something to stop the bleeding and even heal the wound. I would have preferred that they show much more of the futuristic world the characters lived in before they ended the film. "},{"Title":"Great movie, sci-fi fans indulge yourselves!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Awesome story...The future is not what it seems in this outstanding on-screen portrayal of the destiny of our planet earth.  Great acting by Gary Sinise and Vincent D'Onofrio and they make the movie worthwhile.  The scenario in this movie is very original, but at times unbelievable, but absolutely captivating.  I would relate this movie to any of the science fiction movies out there that deal with betrayal or misdirection because this movie is full of it. I seriously recommend this movie to any science fiction fans or intense thriller fans because this movie has a great ending that will have you spin around and say to yourself wait a minute. I give IMPOSTOR 7/10 stars! "},{"Title":"Better than expected.","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  And so it was,better than expected,that is.Having just watched it on TV (now I get the low budget thingie,nonthematter),I'd say the end definitely surprised me,as I haven't had the chance to read the short story by P.K.Dick.So,good start,like the interrogation scenes and ofcourse,the ending----booom!Not so long ago,I wrote a ultra short story myself as homework,and the end was a nice big boom,and the story was set in futuristic enviroment as well,so 'twas weird to see I had been televised -))  "}{"Title":"Imposter ; Minority Report","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie more atmospheric & less predictable than the other Philip K Dick adaptation released at about the same time.The performances were convincing (especially D'Onofrio) & the plot was quite solid. I particularly liked the ending as I didn't see it coming (unlike Minority report). It's a shame it didn't do better at the box office. In fact I wouldn't have known about it at all if I wasn't browsing the sci-fi section of my local video store at the time. "},{"Title":"Cheesy and mostly poorly acted","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If there's one type of movie I hate, it's this type. The premise itself is not too terrible; I like scifi. But the sets are too grandiose, the actors visibly trying, and the plot full of gaping holes. The surprise ending is really surprising, that's one thing to the film's credit. The only performances that I can actually watch without cringing belong to D'Onofrio and Mekhi Pfifer. Gary Sinise is so talented, but that simply does not show in this film, and Madeline Stowe's performance is simply awful.How else can I describe how much I disliked this movie? It crawls in some places, and moves too quickly to make sense in others. It's worth watching, but only if you do so for free. "},{"Title":"Good.. but not great...","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Philip K. Dick has written some of the most compelling short stories to ever be expanded into features.  Total Recall and Minority Report are two prime examples.  In both films, the screenplays start with the nexus of Dick's short story, and expand it into a full feature.  Plot elements, characters and other elements from Dick's body of work were liberally applied to both films to flesh them out.  Unfortunately in this film, none of that happened.  For the most part, the film stayed very close to the short story.  Since it was a short story, there is no character development.  There are no subplots. Which is why Imposter could be a great short film.  Unfortunately, it is a boring feature, lacking the brilliant direction that Dick's work requires (think Verhoeven, Scott & Speilberg - they made Dick's shorts into great cinema).  It has everything Dick put into 20 pages, stretched into 90 minutes of brilliant boredom.  With only a single character to worry about, a single plot twist and easy to follow plot development, the film loses the cerebral nature of Dick's quirky fiction.  Enjoy it once (that's all its good for!) "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    Damn, I said.  I saw a few bad reviews after I had rented the movie Don't watch it!   I went in with lowered expectations, but found this movie to be a decent ride.  I'll spare your time; it could be compared to The Fugitive, but not as high caliber.  There are plenty of plot twists and interesting chases, and the final scene actually caught me off guard without being total crock (like some so called twists are).  7/10  *****SPOILER*****        I did actually figure out that his wife was what she was (just a high guesstimate), but I didn't see the double twist that came. "},{"Title":"Complete and utter spoilers follow.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The hero is accused of being a robot bomb. It turns out (we're fed this information bit by bit) that if he is a robot, he will (a) appear to be organic, (b) actually BE organic, (c) be physiologically identical in every way to the person he's imitating, apart from the fact that his heart is a cleverly disguised explosive, (d) have access to every single memory of the person he's imitating, (e) behave exactly as the person he's imitating would behave, apart from exploding on cue, and (f) sincerely believe himself to BE the person he's imitating.The hero sets out to prove that he's not an impostor. What do you think happens at the end? Do you think he turns out to be an impostor after all? Yeah. Me too.A more profound twist would be for our hero to be perfectly correct &#150; for him to turn out to be a perfectly ordinary flesh-and-blood human like everyone else. What evidence do we have that these android bombs even exist? Just the testimony of a few government officials. But consider that all the government officials we are power-hungry, needlessly cruel, repressive, uncivil and amoral; that there's a war on; that (whichever side happens to win the war) it looks as though fascism has triumphed once and for all; and consider, also, that this appears to be one of those futures in which the United States has finally taken over the world. Under the circumstances, perhaps the revelation that the propaganda is in fact the truth, and that the enemy HAS infiltrated Earth with exploding androids, comes as a surprising twist after all. That's not to say that Gary Fleder manages to make it the least bit surprising. How can we FEEL surprised that the hero is an android, when all along he, like everyone else, had shown no particular evidence of being a human being?I strongly suspect that the Earth government of the day (and remember, it is probably a direct descendent of the current US government) is the party responsible for starting the war, either so that it would have an excuse to turn the Earth into a fascist camp, or to disguise the fact that it had already done so. Certainly, the government forces seem to be far less admirable than those they are fighting. When they suspect that the hero is an android assassin they try to kill it immediately. They don't think to merely imprison it, out of reach of its target, in case they're wrong, which would in any case be every bit as effective. If imprisonment would give the android time to make the best of a bad job by detonating away from its target, well, so does their actual plan put the creature in a room with no possibility of escape (the fact that he in fact escapes is one of those impossible things we simply have to accept for the sake of the story, such as it is), deliver a pointless and rambling lecture, THEN kill it. Why doesn't the android detonate then and there? After all, he does detonate in similar circumstances later, killing exactly the same people he would have killed had he detonated earlier &#133; ah, but FEWER OF THEM; and by waiting before exploding he manages to destroy, not a crowded city, not a vital hospital, but an uninhabited region that had already been severely damaged by forest fires just a few days before. If only the US government, and its successors in this film, were so humane.Another thing nobody simply TALKS to the hero, to say something like this We have good evidence that the person you think you are has been murdered and that you are an android bomb. I know this sounds silly but we really do have the evidence. Presents evidence. Of course, we could be wrong. We know that you have no more way of knowing for sure than we do. Do you know of any definitive tests we could run? And would you mind  submitting to custody, in an isolated prison, for the next week, while we check up on this? I'm afraid we may even have to kill you. The thing is, many other lives are at risk. You see? If they'd been CIVILISED about it, the hero might have agreed to cooperate, perhaps even to lay down his life, just in case he WAS dangerous &#133; or at least, he might have agreed to do so if he hadn't known he was playing the lead in a cheap, shallow and unimaginative Hollywood film and that everyone else in the world was merely an extra.I need hardly add that the film is completely unaware of its own ironies. It doesn't have a clue WHAT it's on about, and it's a stylistic mess to boot all squalid colour, hyperactive camerawork and maniacal editing. The future isn't interesting and neither is anybody in it. "},{"Title":"a stripped down Minority Report","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was your basic sci-fi movie about a guy who may or may not be who he seems to be.  The plot follows closely Minority Report, but it looks cheaper and like it was made for TV rather than the theater.  It was OK for what it was.  Gary Sinese plays the guy who may or may not be an impostor sent to kill a human target.  We learn that the man chasing him killed 10 humans before finally finding the true impostor on  a previous assignment. So the question is, is Major Hathaway wrong this time and trying to kill an innocent man?So, a lot of the movie is Gary Sinese running around being chased from apartment buildings to underground tunnels to a hospital.  It all sounds sort of like Minority Report but with less special effects. He turns to his wife, a doctor, to prove he is human.  She meets him in the woods, and at the end of the film, we learn the shocking truth inside a crashed space ship.  It had me fooled.FINAL VERDICT OK, for a TV movie.  A waterdowned version of Minority Report.  I would recommend it if you like movies with shocking endings. "},{"Title":"This was such a cool movie.","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow..this movie was so cool...the plot twist at the end (the last thirty seconds) made the entire movie.I don't know what else to write...this movie kicks ass. The people who pick it apart and put negative comments to it have too much time on their hands...seriously.I don't know why this film didn't stay long in the theatres...because there is so much crap that sits at the theatres for months on end and this film only was here for two weeks or so. This is far far far better than many movies that are still in the theatres and wasting my 10$ and two hours twenty minutes.I would like to see more films like this. Awesome script guys and cool performances. "},{"Title":"An awesome film! The music in Impostor!","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I love this film! Gary Sinise is great in Impostor! Vincent D'Onofrio was very good. Madeleine Stowe looked good and the rest of the cast was good. The chase and action scenes are good and I really like the camera effort in this film. This film has a very surprising end! The music is very cool and it has one of the best themes in My opinion! You can really enjoy it through out the credits! Anybody who likes Gary Sinise and sci-fi alien films will like Impostor!Movie Nuttball's NOTEIf you like alien movies and/or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films The Thing from another World, The Day the Earth Stood Still, War of the Worlds (1953 & 2005), Horror Express, The UFO Incident, Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1978), E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, John Carpenter's The Thing, Krull, The Return of the Aliens The Deadly Spawn, Time Walker, My Science Project, Howard the Duck, John, Carpenter's Starman, John Carpenter's They Live, Mac and Me, Explorers, Invaders from Mars, Alien Seed, The Abyss, Communion, Suburban Commando, Fire in the Sky, The Arrival, Mars Attacks! Contact, Men in Black I & 2, Stephen King's Dreamcatcher, Xtro 3 Watch the Skies, Battlefield Earth A Saga for the year 3000, Stargate, The Puppet Masters, John Carpenter's Village of the Damned, Independence Day, Life Form, The X-Files Fight the Future, Roswell The Aliens Attack, The Faculty, Mission to Mars, Evolution, K-Pax, Signs, Silent Warnings, The Forgotten, Alien Hunter, Spaceballs, Alien, Aliens, Alien 3, Predator & Predator 2, AVP Alien Vs. Predator, The entire Star Wars saga (A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, The Return of the Jedi (Original and Special Editions!), The Phantom Menace, Attack of the Clones, & Revenge of the Sith), the entire Star Trek movie saga (Star Trek The Motion Picture, The Wrath of Khan, The Search for Spock, The Voyage Home, The Final Frontier, The Undiscovered Country, Generations, First Contact, Insurrection, & Nemesis) and Stephen King's IT! "},{"Title":"Less chase, more tech","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Too bad they couldn't have upped the budget on this production.  The premise is good, and it had such potential as a techno/psychological thriller. The sets and effects were rather unspectacular, more like a made for TV movie. I admired the tragedy and futility of the main characters, but more could have been done to raise them to three dimensional.The whole extraction process seemed like unnecessary gore.  After Spence was drugged, why not keep him under and perform exploratory surgery?  It would yield the same results, and if he was a replicant, they could have quietly put him down him on the spot.  A turn-of-the-century potato peeler in 2079? Ridiculous.  Of course, then you wouldn't have the whole chase sequence either.I am curious just how deep the infiltration of Earth might have been.  To know the personal schedules of Spence and Maya, where they were vacationing, and to have the replicants at that exact spot?  You could have cut down on the chase sequences and built on this and many other 'what ifs' to keep the audience engaged.And why would the alter-Spence chose that moment to detonate?  He wasn't any where near his target, yet he provided quite a spectacular fireball. Wouldn't the other replicants, knowing they had been found out,  also choose a similar route?  Even Maya had a few seconds of clarity where she could have blown.  I must say, though, the dilation of his eyes just prior to the explosion was very cool!5/10 - wait for it to appear as a movie-of-the-week.  "},{"Title":"Made for TV","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was an ok movie. The action seemed to be stretched. I kept seeing this as an episode in the new Outer Limits. It has good actors in it but the script wasn't up to their par.The ending made the movie worth watching. If they kept the length down to one hour and broadcast it as an OT episode, then this would have been their greatest to date. But they didn't and it turns into a slow feature length movie. 7/10.- Zafoid "}{"Title":"A decent Sci-Fi worth a look","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am not going to rant and rave about this being some underappreciated movie that deserves a second chance, because quite frankly it doesn't.  But if you are a big fan of sci-fi like me and are always on the look out for this genre of movie that rarely hits the big screen (or rental shelf by now) I would strongly recommend this movie.  The way I look at it, it is like a futuristic X-File, that has made for TV acting, but also a great ending that makes it all worth it.  And if I may give a tip for the ending....watch his eyes! 6 *'s out of 10 "},{"Title":"Ending is worth the rest","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While the story, characters and development there of is cliched and predictable, the ending is so good that it leaves you with a good feeling about the rest of the picture.  As far as a 1950's sci-fi short story, this was a good adaptation.  I think it should have gotten more recognition and positive reviews than it did.  It probably could have made and excellent Twilight Zone one hour story.  As a feature sci-fi film, it tends to fall into the pitfalls of dragged out cliche.  But given how old Philip K. Dick's story is, I find that this is forgiveable.  PDK wrote it before others copied him...before his style became something we've grown used to by copies ad nauseum.  What I'm trying to say is that this is an original...one others have copied and copied...hence our reaction to it.  Anyway, it's worth a look.  The new protected urban world versus the marginalized zone of refugees is an idea repeated time and time again in sci-fi.  Perhaps this PDK story is one of the beginnings of that juxtaposition.  Like I said, worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Much better than minority report","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the few good adaptations of a Dick story,  this is tight, fast and full of twists and turns right up to the last minute, all the cast are great, i think Sinese makes a good thinking man's action hero, D'Onofrio is excellent, you are never sure if he is a goodie or baddie, in fact as per the whole Dick universe you do not know who the good guys or bad guys are, .  This was probably made on one tenth of the budget of the bloated overrated minority report, but is better in every way.   "},{"Title":"Total Recrap","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Impostor (2002) stars Gary Sinese and Madeline Stowe and some other morons. All I want to say about this film is that I have wasted a good part of my life watching bad movies.  I'd put this movie on a scale of 1 to 10 at a 3.Possible spoilersGary Sinese is a scientist who is accosted by police thinking he is a ticking time bomb alien.  Boring......  He gets help from a young man from the projects and tries to discover the truth.I don't understand certain aspects of this film.  Why are the Centaurians never shown?  Why is their no battle against them except in the first 5 minutes?  Why is this ultimate weapon not shown at all except for a quick shot?  Did the weapon stop the aliens?  If the future is so technically superior than why does Sinese use the *SIMPLEST* ways to surpass 2079 technology?No wonder why the aliens were kicking our butts!Blade Runner it is not. Minority Report it is not.AND YOU DON'T START A MOVIE OUT WITH SEX!  WHAT'S UP WITH THAT? "},{"Title":"A good sci-fi film","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There aren't many science fiction movies made these days. And only a small part of these movies is good. The film is based on a P.K.Dick's novel and I've been surprised to see, that it realy has atmosphere of Dick's books. "},{"Title":"Underrated SF Gem is True to Phil Dick's Vision","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, let's get the negatives out of the way . . . this is not a particularly well-directed movie (e.g., annoying cliched use of slow motion); it has one of the worst fight scenes in the history of cinema; the middle feels a bit padded.Those flaws aside, this is fairly brilliant.  The production design is amazing, probably the best I've ever seen for a movie of this budget.  The story is a very faithful adaptation of a classic (and very short!) early story by the greatest sf writer of them all, Philip K. Dick.You will be very strongly reminded of those other PKD adaptations, BLADE RUNNER and MINORITY REPORT.  The three movies have an amazing amount in common -- in both IMPOSTOR and MINORITY REPORT, for instance, the hero flees into a slum building and is tracked by high-tech devices. IMPOSTOR is not the masterpiece the others are, but there are ways in which it comes closer to capturing PKD's vision than either of them.*** MAJOR SPOILERS ****This is a movie about a hero who is (unjustly, right?  It's always unjustly in these movies) accused of being an enemy spy.  The twist is that he's been programmed to believe that he isn't.  Naturally we expect to see him exonerated.  But our doubts are continuously fed, and about two-thirds of the way in, there is (if you're watching closely) an unmistakable indication that he is, in fact, exactly what they say he is.  (I'm talking about the aborted medical scan.)  We spend the rest of the movie rooting intellectually for the bad guys and against the good guy, but emotionally, of course, we are still stuck with doing the opposite.  That cognitive dissonance is an experience that is pure, 200-proof PKD, and it's an experience that no other film I know of evokes.The final twist (added by the screenwriters), involving the identity of the hero's wife, is also pure PKD.  He's an alien spy but doesn't know it, therefore there's nothing in his behavior to make his wife suspicious.  Of course, she, too, is an alien spy and doesn't know it, so there's nothing in her behavior to make him suspicious.  There's sort of a twisted logic to the whole charade.  It's highly reminiscent of a great, perversely funny scene in Dick's novel THE GAME PLAYERS OF TITAN, where the good guys discover just how throughly their secret anti-alien organization has been infiltrated by the aliens -- it turns out that they're *all* aliens.  (Well, we've lost, then, haven't we?)  "},{"Title":"A better view of this movie","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rated this film an 8. It was very suspenseful. At times very agrivating. I kept saying almost out loud for them to leave him alone. Right up to the end I was fooled. A tough thing to do to me. Give this film a break. It was very good! "},{"Title":"Decent movie","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  **SPOILERS**Whatever anybody tells you, this was a good movie, and I think one of the most underrated movies this year. It went directly to the vid-rental section skipping the cinemas which it does not deserve.I think it has to do with the so loathed ending, which is not-standard hollywood stuff (but more about that later).Basically in the year 2070-someting we are at war with another alien race form Alph Centauri. Sinese's character is targeted to be switched by a duplicate, which has been programed to kill some politician (the have a small nuclear bomb inside their hearts which is set to go off as soon as the target is near -no activating radius is mentioned). the duplicate is therefore the perfect assasin since everyone believes it to be Sinese. The authorities are convinced the switch has already been made... but are they correct? The ship in which the duplicate is found hasn't been found yet, nor is Sinise's body.The trick is that the duplicate is programmed to take over Sineses thoughts, memories and passions.. therefore nothing is as it seems -this is a recurring Philip K. Dick theme, remember Total Recall, see minority report -it has been rumored that Rick Deckard is in fact himself a replicant. Even Sinese's character begins to have serious doubts about himself.The story is fast -no boring intermezzo's- kinda rollercoasterride, the suspence has been kept from Sinise's escape until the climax at the end. The special effects range from decent to good to convincing. The question who is who is kept alive until the very end with all the obligatory hints to either outcome(spoilers from here on)For me the end wasn't a surprise (but then again, I guessed the end of the others halfway during the movie). I realized the how the switch could only have been made without Sinese or his wife (madeline stowe) could have found any dicrepancies in both their intertwined lives (so it was ,in the end the only logical outcome). It took me about 5 mins before the revelation is made to solve the puzzle -so it's not one of those movies where you know the outcome from minute one (like eraser just after seeing 5 mins of James Caan my then 12 y/o brother said that's the bad guy)The end itself was -to me- true to any short story -sci-fi or horror- where happy ends are more scarce than bigfoot sightings. Only in Hollywood a happy-end is obligatory (if you havent guessed it by now, to make the switch undetected both Sinese and his wife have been switched.I think this ending makes the movie so much better (compare spoorloos with it's american remake the vanishing which has a forced happy ending that doesn't work -it takes the essence out of the whole spoorloos climax) Such is the same here. It is the only logical ending that is also credible enough to be accepted (to me a happy ending here would have killed all realism and credibility -see the game)Some malus-points There are of course some guestions left unanswerd, like why did the impostor(s) didn't know that they were (my guess is to make them as inconspicuous as possible) and why did the impostor go off in the end - a self destruct mechanism? a last desperate human act? The impostors have human traits (almost as the themes in blade runner -or do androids dream of electric sheep) And the beginning is rather cheap ... the destruction of certain parts of the earth are scenes from armageddon and the mobilisation of the world armies to fight the Centauri are scens from starship troopersBut all in all I think it is a good movie well worth watching. And I would give it a 8 or 9 out of ten for entertainment quality. (a 7 overall -see malus points) Good special effects, good suspence until the last minute, the question who is who (or who is what) is covered up well enough to leave only the most experienced movie-viewers to guess the end before the revelation in the film itself. Good -and unfortunately underrated movie "},{"Title":"Seen it all before!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  About the only thing I really liked about this film was the ending. Yeah, I know it wasn't fooling to many people but I did like the double trick! But the rest of the film is just another Fugitive, Logans Run and Terminator all mixed together in a predictable storyline. Not very original but like I said, I enjoyed the ending. "},{"Title":"A mix of lots of things youve seen before...","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Overall, it is not that it sucks... It is just revolves around a real predictable plot, while trying to be original. Well, it does surprise you a bit at the very end, but not as much to fill the gap for rating it a good movie. Dont expect a Blade Runnerish blast.The cast helps keep your interest alive along the movie.  "}{"Title":"Another off adaptation of a Philip K. Dick story","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Philip K. Dick stories seem to be the hot new source for moviemakers, but, unfortunately, they seem to be going to that well a few times too often.  In Impostor, there are some intriguing special effects, a few fun ideas are explored, but generally I ended up wondering why anyone bothered.After seeing the surprise ending, you may end up, as I did, wondering exactly why the real impostors didn't know they were impostors. You're also likely to wonder, as I did, how the world managed such amazing changes in such a short time, considering that the story is set only marginally into the future.Moviemakers considering adapting Philip K. Dick's works might be well-advised to read the works of Kurt Vonnegut, paying particular notice to the descriptions of Kilgore Trout's stories.  They might also cast their minds back to the awful movies made of Vonnegut's books.  Maybe someday a genius filmmaker will figure out a way to make these mental musings into terrific movies, but, so far, the best of the lot have used the books and stories only as jumping off points (Bladerunner, for instance). "},{"Title":"Another lame chase movie","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK, started out cool, but after 15 minutes it became clear this was another lame chase movie... Not that I don't like chase movies, but most of them are plain boring... as is this one. Also, the excessive use of unnecessary cuts in shots was very irritating. Not worth the watch "},{"Title":"Excellent Ending! *** spoiler ***","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *** spoiler ***If you're used to watching movies like *Minority Report* or *AI*, then this movie is highly recommended, for it has something that most U.S.-made sci-fi films don't have an unhappy ending.It is in some ways a refreshing change from the usual sugar-coated Hollywood movies.  "},{"Title":"Not too bad but only worth a rental.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I decided to use a free rental on this one the other night. I have to say it has good points and bad. Your basic identity crisis/I'm innocent type of movie. Some of it is predictable though. The only thing that really rubbed me the wrong way is that in the beginning sequence when they are showing scenes from a war they show footage from Starwhip Troopers. In fact, the military through the whole movie are wearing the costumes of the Space Marines from Starship Troopers as well. Strange to think that they seemed to have a pretty decent budget however they recycle costumes. "},{"Title":"ENDING KILLED MOVIE","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  **CONTAINS SPOILER** Up until the end, the movie was good. Sinise was a very believable character, but a few hints along the way definetely gave away the fact that he is carrying the bomb.At the end, it was predictable, but I won't be nearly as critical as the above account. The end, IMO, really killed this movie.Why bomb ~that~ guy!? Why then? Guess they had to end this movie at that point, eh?The plot on a 'global' level wasn't very sinister. Maybe the movie should have portrayed better the fact that this was just another day on earth in their war against the Centaurians.Maybe we're jaded in believing every big action movie must have a huge sinister epic 'feel' to it. This movie didn't. If you like that, then you'll like this movie "},{"Title":"Not Original","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I tend to choose movies depending on who's playing in.  I like Gary Sinise and Madeleine Stowe.  That's the bottom line.   Although I enjoyed the movie fine besides I like the actors, I as well felt it was not an original story at all.  I don't mean it is boring, but if you are seeking something that really makes you feel something new, I wouldn't recommend it.  In another word, YES, it IS predictable. And I should mention those torture/execution scenes are so gory. "},{"Title":"A great movie witch made me speechless for hours!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  nonesense what other people say that this is a bad movie. it is real that it feels like The fugitive but i say this was much better. at first i thought that it might be some stupid alien movie with a lot of battleship fighting in space and stuff. but no this is a hard edged movie with lot of cool stuff in it.SPOILER!!In the end (and it seems that only small amouth of people got the final idea) when Spencer is holding maya... so some people said that the combination of spancer and maya clones triggered the bomb but that's stupid cause it must been a big boom earlier then no? the other part sayz that when spancer realized who he is he boom up. my opinion is that the main target was spancer but when the centarian took he's body he did not recognize him and when the clone spancer saw the real body of spancer (confusing ehh?) then he realized the target and kaabooom up. so in the end the main target was Spancer and the alines wanted to kill this weapon master.End of Spoiler!sorry for my spelling but im not to good at this language)THE MOVIE WORTH IS A 10 !!!!! "},{"Title":"Nice...but..","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Nice movie but well a bit confusing plot,well see for your self that all i see if you want to see a nice movie with some action and a bit a story ,look it and put your mind on zero ;o),just look it and have fun,you want an interesting movie with a good plot?,1 you have to think ? interesting watch it will make you boring. "},{"Title":"A good short movie streched WAY too thin by feature length","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie makes me think, It's too bad.... It's too bad they didn't make the anthology movie this was to be a part of. It's too bad that this movie impressed Dimension so much that they decided to make it feature length. It's too bad they couldn't better develop the added storyline. It's all too bad, because it made something good into something else.What it ends up being is a story similar to Minority Report without being quite as interesting. I will not say this movie steals from MR because 1) this movie was made long before MR and 2) both stories are based on the same writer. Nothing wrong with the actors (you can't go too far wrong with the likes of Sinese and Stowe), it's just that you can tell that another story line was grafted onto this one to stretch it out, and it's not that interesting to boot.Good thing they put the original short on the DVD so you could see how good the movie originally was. 5/10 (mainly for the short). "},{"Title":"Plain boring...","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There's not a lot in the story.  The chase drags on for one obvious reason -- to add length to the film.  Gary Sinise's talent is wasted on this one. I was hoping that the agony of watching the film will be rewarded by the ending, but I was left disappointed.  Waste of time.  This movie is plain boring. "}{"Title":"Plain boring...","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There's not a lot in the story.  The chase drags on for one obvious reason -- to add length to the film.  Gary Sinise's talent is wasted on this one. I was hoping that the agony of watching the film will be rewarded by the ending, but I was left disappointed.  Waste of time.  This movie is plain boring. "},{"Title":"This was better when it was called Minority Report","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps if I had seen this movie before I saw Minority Report my viewing experience would have been better. Essentially Imposter is Minority Report with a weaker plot, a smaller budget and a futuristic society that is drab and has gadgets that are significantly less cool than those in Minority Report.The plot was formulaic and utterly predictable. I left the room for ten minutes, told the person I was watching with what would happen, only to discover when I returned that I was exactly right.  I suppose the argument could be made that this film is meant to be a sort of philosophical examination of the self- how do we know ourselves, what makes us human, blah blah blah. Maybe that would have worked if the character's actions did not totally contradict the personalities they fought so hard to maintain.And finally this movie broke one of my cardinal rules of bad movie-making. Sex within the first five minutes. I have never seen a movie begin with a sex scene and then go on to do great things. And this movie did nothing to change my mind.  "},{"Title":"Another failed attempt to make something out of the overrated work of the appropriately named Philip K. Dick.","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is an unbelievably contrived sci-fi chase movie padded out interminably from a short film portion of a proposed trilogy. The fact the the short film is also included on the DVD makes the studio's decision to extend it come across as a silly waste of money. Like all of the filmed Philip K. Dick stories before it, the production design is the best thing about it.  Besides, Phil's overt philosophy on man and machines has pretty well run it's course with BLADE RUNNER and A.I.  Sinise and company struck out big time with this mess.  "},{"Title":"conventional sci-fi thriller","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If `Imposter' &#150; the first official release of 2002 &#150; is any indication of what we have to expect from this movie year, then we may find ourselves spending an inordinate amount of time perusing video store shelves searching for our cinematic entertainment in the upcoming twelve months.`Imposter' is based on a short story by Philip K. Dick (`Blade Runner,' `Total Recall'), published in 1953.  In this sci-fi tale set in 2079, the world has been enduring a decades-long bombardment by hostile aliens from the Alpha Centauri star system.  To shield themselves from the incessant barrage of threatening missiles, the people of earth have erected huge protective domes over most of their major cities.  One day, Spenser Olham (Gary Sinise), a highly respected scientist, finds himself suspected of being an alien replicant, one who has been sent by the Centauris to usurp the body and mind of the real Spenser and to assassinate a major government official.  The chase is on, with Spenser being pursued, through the murky streets of a bombed-out city, by the government forces bent on annihilating him.We've certainly seen this man-on-the-run scenario numerous times before.  It always seems to involve some poor schmuck having to race again the clock in an effort to prove his true identity before someone less sympathetic to his plight manages to take him out.  `Imposter' is briefly interesting in its early stretches as the complexity of the plot is slowly revealed to us (as it is to Spenser).  But, in very short order, the film turns into little more than an extended exercise in hide-and-go-seek, marking time till the turnabout `surprise' ending which, when it does finally arrive, fails to compensate for the tedium of much of what has come before.   Actually, material similar to this was explored to much greater effectiveness a few years back in `The 6th Day,' a film that actually engaged the audience in its is-he-or-isn't-he-a-replicant dilemma.  Here we really don't care.Visually, the film is quite impressive at times but why-oh-why must the future always be depicted in such dank, murky terms?  Has there ever been a film set in the future that DIDN'T feature a burnt out city populated by grungy, dirty-faced societal outcasts?  Certainly, there hasn't been one since `Blade Runner' set the standard twenty long years ago.Except for the ending, `Imposter' offers precious little that is new or interesting.  "},{"Title":"Do not watch this movie!!!!","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Gary Sinise is undoubtedly one of our best character actors, who definitely deserves more recognition than he gets.  Of course, everyone remembers him as Lieutenant Dan, the paraplegic role that made him famous in Forrest Gump, but I'm sure very few can name the many other roles he's done.  Needless to say, his talent is wasted in this ugly, dreary, boring sci-fi thriller that you should definitely avoid!  I guess Gary just felt he needed an escape from heavy drama, so he decided he'll just exercise his muscles and play the Mel Gibson part for a change in this brainless action flick.  He definitely has the built of an action star--I never realized how muscular he was prior to this film.  And I'm glad he doesn't succumb to doing stupid B-grade action flicks like this on a normal basis, because as Robert DeNiro's character said in A Bronx Tale, There is nothing worse than wasted talent.  I saw the previews for this movie God knows how long ago.  Usually, when a movie's release date has to be delayed over a significant period of time, that close to guarantees it's gonna be a clunker.  So I didn't go into this movie with high expectations.  However, I didn't think it was gonna be this bad either.  But my main motivation for checking out Impostor was Gary.  Unfortunately, good character acting can't save a trite, cliched, horribly written film like this.  The set designs are dark, grotesque and unpleasant to look at, unlike the lush, eye-popping futuristic sets in a film like The Fifth Element.  It's almost as if Gary Fleder was setting up for a neo-noir--only the noir is nowhere to be found.  The atmosphere is identical to that of Ridley Scott's Blade Runner, but I didn't like that movie either.  I have to admit, I didn't anticipate the final plot twist.  So that really took me by surprise, and it's the only moment where my eyes were wide open, clutching the seat, anxiously awaiting what would happen next.    If you're an avid fan of Gary Sinise like myself, I still highly suggest you avoid this film!  This is simply another forgettable, B-grade science-fiction flick that was meant to go straight to video.  In fact, I wouldn't be surprised if I find a straight-to-video sequel, Impostor 2, on the racks in a couple of months.  I can just see it coming!My score  3 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"This was BAD","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" With wobbly sets and dismal over-acting, it is a movie that would shame even we Boll. Flashy computer graphics are no substitute for plot, and development of characters who were fortunate to even reach one-dimension.By the time Gary Sinse is running through a cyberpunk underworld city that looks like a bad Duran Duran pop video, you give up pleading with whoever put the video on. By then, regardless of the threat of arrest, you just can't stop yourself chucking their VCR and all out the 4th floor window to escape watching any more.$6.11 million gross? If I were into selling timeshares or insurance by phone what I wouldn't give for a list of the suckers who actually laid out cash to see this! "},{"Title":"Moderately interesting plot concept, ruined","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Philip's early works are often based on Red Under the Bed scare stories, a theme that's well explored in practically all of the movie adaptations of his works. So in spite of the interesting concept, considered in a vacuum, it's already been done to death. There's only so much story here, enough for the 30 minute product it was originally meant to be, but for a feature it's seriously stretched.So if this was going to fly, Impostor would have to be a finely crafted work. And it's not. Quite the opposite, it's a low-budget shoot that looks like B-channel movie of the week garbage.Most of the film takes place in one of three poorly-set locations, making it seem oddly airless. To add to its woes, the director seemed to have serious problems getting the actors on the same level. With D'Onofrio overacting every line, and Stowe disappearing into the background, even Sinise's passable performance has no hope of making this film work.Admittedly the ending wasn't quite as predictable as I thought, but the hail-mary doesn't save it. Skip. "},{"Title":"Wow, this movie was bad-wrong","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 2 for getting 2 pretty decent actors to be in a limply written, painfully dull 'movie'. I don't even have the strength to write all that is wrong and bad and bad-wrong about it. But, since I'm here, how about the monotonous dialogue or the over acting? And by the way, don't they pay people to edit movies so unnecessary parts get chopped out so we don't have to sit through them wondering when they're going to actually offer something interesting? OK, so first Find a good screenwriter that isn't being paid with heroin (cause I'm assuming he was focusing on a fix and not the script), second If you don't care about how your actors are 'acting', just save your money and hire Steven Seagal, he'll mumble his way through and kick butt with a bored look on his face. Third (and most importantly) edit, edit the movie like your job depended on it. Hintnot important? cut the sucker. If you want to see a good sci-fi movie, watch Pitch Black or Bladerunner, just stay away from this straight to video crap. Blech! Ahh, I feel a little better now. "},{"Title":"100 minutes of your life you dont get back","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the all time worst movies ever made. Just terrible. What is it about phillip K. Dick, (an author I really like and admire) that makes hollywood treat him with such utter disdain? They have taken a nice little O'henry story and filled it with every trite, hackneyed, and plain dumb cliche that you can imagine, and then, since it was still too short added an extra half hour of chase scenes so convenient as to be beyond belief. Can the cops of the future really be that inept?This is another example of hollywood thinking that sci-fi fans are stupid. Vote with your wallet. Consign this one to the trash heap of  movies. It is bad, it is insulting, and it is over. (thank god)Other than that, the production design was quite good.  "},{"Title":"Very Over Directed and Disappointing Over All","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" IMPOSTER is based on a short story by Philip K Dick whose stories have been used for the rather underrated TOTAL RECALL and the rather overrated BLADE RUNNER amongst others so hopefully we'd have if not a classic movie then a memorable and thought provoking one . And the story does get off to a good start as Earth is attacked by a superior alien civilisation ala STARSHIP TROOPERS or SPACE ABOVE AND BEYOND . While Earth wages a war for its survival scientist Spencer Olham is arrested and interrogated as being a suspected traitor working for the other side and we've got got all the makings of a very good sci-fi psychological drama Oh dear , this is not how IMPOSTOR works out at all because the story soon turns into a sci-fi version of THE FUGITIVE with Spencer Olham on the run from his interrogator who looks far too much like George Michael for my liking . At least none of the action takes place in a LA public toilet and for what have could have been a very involving , intelligent story we're left with a runaround plot that we've seen far too often before Yeah the screenwriter Stuart Rosenberg should carry much of the blame but it's the directing style of Gary Fleder that spoils much of the movie . For a start he has the failings of a lot of directors in making the future look too futuristic and compare this to Paul Verhoeven and TOTAL RECALL where the director brings so much more on screen credibility by having the characters wear clothes and using technology that a present day audience can connect to . It should also be pointed out Fleder seems to have been inspired by Michael Bay since he uses a ridiculous amount of cross cuts and slo mo filming techniques many of which seem to have been used simply because it seemed like a good idea at the time So what had the potential to have been a good movie is ruined by the screenwriter and director . The ending was not what I expected but even then this isn't a good thing because it leads to a rather large plot hole . I do wish movie producers would treat fans of this genre with a bit more respect "}{"Title":"In 2079, the Dome is Home!","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Boy, am I glad I'll be long dead and rotten by the time it's 2079, because these adaptations of Philip K. Dick stories really don't make it seem like it will be a pleasant era to be alive! In the year 2079, the people of earth live in a dome (like in The Simpsons Movie only much larger) and there's the constant threat that evil aliens kill you and replace you with a walking, talking time bomb replica. Charismatic and still severely underrated actor Gary Sinise stars as the successful and happily married (to Madeleine Stowe) weapon designer Spencer Olham, who's about to discuss a major warfare breakthrough with one of the earth's most important leaders. Hours before the meeting, however, army major Hathaway (Vincent D'Onofrio, another underrated class actor) arrests him under the suspicion of being an alien replica. Olham escapes into the ghetto wastelands, strongly motivated to convince to his wife, his opponents and even to himself that he's still his old human self instead of an explosive android. Impostor is an overall mediocre and unmemorable Sci-Fi movie, presumably because it was originally just intended to be 40 minutes segment in an anthology film. The stretching of Philip Dick's SHORT story premise is undoubtedly what ruined the intensity & disturbance-element of the concept, as the whole escape-and-quest-for-truth plot feels too overly familiar and derivative. The set designs and decors are impressive (although sometimes borrowed from contemporary Sci-Fi flicks) and often nightmarish, including brightly lit futuristic transportation vehicles and nifty new surgery techniques. Then, on other occasions, it seems like earth's technology and the human mind set hasn't developed at all. In the shower, for example, Spencer sings along with golden oldies like John Lee Hooker's Boom Boom that &#150; in 2079 &#150; must be more than 120 years old. It's possible, of course, but very unlikely considering the way musical tastes are evolving nowadays. Also, in some of the houses you can still find old-fashioned bathroom tabs and simplistic toothbrushes! Don't Sci-Fi movies usually go to any length to come up with crazy gimmicks? Impostor doesn't even try, apart from the obvious stuff. Generally, this is a disappointing and forgettable film; nothing even remotely as classic as some of the other Philip K. Dick adaptations available on the market, like Minority Report, Total Recall and of course Blade Runner. I watched Impostor shortly after its theatrical release in 2002 but didn't remember anything about the story when it aired on TV this week. Too bad for Sinise and the rest of the cast, as their vivid performances deserved a slightly better screenplay. "},{"Title":"Maybe you are a bomb... just don't blow up in my face. Entertaining enough Sci-Fi thriller.","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Impostor is set in 2079 & starts with a narration by Spencer Olham (co-producer Gary Sinise) informing us that the planet Earth is now at war with a race of hostile aliens called the Centauri. There now exists a Global Government run by a Chancellor (Lindsay Crouse) & all our cities are protected by 'electromagnetic domes' from Centauri air raids, Spencer also informs us that his Father was killed by the Centauri & that he has devoted his life to the fight against the alien invasion. Spencer works for the defence bureau & has helped develop a weapon which will potentially help win the war, together with his best friend Nelson Gittes (Tony Shalhoub) Spencer is ready to meet & present the weapon to the Chancellor. However, before he has the chance he is arrested by Major Hathaway (Vincent D'Onofrio) of the ESA, the Earth Security Agency. Hathaway claims that Spencer is now an impostor sent by the Centauri to assassinate the Chancellor, a flesh & blood genetic cyborg created from DNA that is perfect in every detail & has a bomb inside his heart ready to explode when the Chancellor is in range. Hathaway points out there is only one way to find out for sure & that's to surgically remove Spencer's heart & have a look, Spencer believing he is still human & that a mistake has been made doesn't like that idea much & manages to escape into the 'Dead Zone' with Hathaway & his soldiers in hot pursuit. Spencer's wife, Maya (Madeleine Stowe) works as a doctor at 'Veterans Hospital' & could possibly hold the key to proving his innocence with a special medical test she can run. Spencer teams up with Cale (Mekhi Phifer) to escape the Dead Zone, infiltrate the Hospital & hopefully prove he is human. But will they succeed & will Spencer like what he finds out...Co-produced & directed by Gary Felder I thought Impostor was an OK time waster that had more potential than what it delivered. The script by Caroline Case, Ehren Kruger & David Twohy based on the story by Philip K. Dick starts strongly with the Sci-Fi mystery elements of whether Spencer is indeed a impostor & playing around with the basic human emotion of who we can & can't trust really working well & engrossing me, but it quickly degenerates into a cheap looking Sci-Fi action film with Spencer avoiding the authorities & having the odd fight until things become interesting again with a pretty cool twist ending that you may or may not see coming, I must admit that I didn't. Most of the secondary characters aren't developed in the slightest, for example we never learn the relationship between Cale & the woman in the Hospital who he's risking his life to get medication for. Impostor has a nice look throughout with decent enough special effects, it's just a shame the action scenes are dull, lifeless, unoriginal & unexciting as a few good chases & shoot-outs would have helped no end during the slow middle section between the initial accusation & the eventual resolution. I was surprised to learn that Impostor had a budget of $40,000,000 as I'd never heard of it before I actually saw it, I presume it was a flop at the box office & didn't get much attention, certainly not here in the UK anyway. It doesn't have the look of a big budget film either, it has nice production values for sure but not outstanding. The acting is pretty good & Sinise does a fine job as a man who doesn't know if he can even trust himself. Onofrio plays the supposed villain alright even if he doesn't turn out to be such a bad guy after all. Unfortunately & somewhat strangely we never actually see what the Centurai aliens look like, how can you make an alien invasion film & not show a single alien? Stowe as the token wife is rather flat & uninspired. Overall I thought Impostor was a decent way to spend 90 odd minutes but I also felt it could have been so much more if it had carried the paranoia & more interesting elements of the fist 20 odd minutes right through the rest of the film rather than piling on lots of dull Sci-Fi chase scenes which mean very little & are far to bland & forgettable. Worth watching for sure as it ain't a bad film by any means but maybe you could read a book during the middle third, say a Philip K. Dick story or something like that... "},{"Title":"Futuristic movie is not as deep as it wants us to think it is.","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Imposter tells a pretty simple story. In fact, it was originally a 38-minute film short destined to be part of a trilogy, but the makers liked it so much they decided to add uninteresting script to make it feature length.  I like the 38-minute short, included in the DVD extras, much more than the full movie. It only has time to stick to the main story so doesn't have all the extraneous stuff contained in the feature film. I enjoyed Imposter OK, but it all distils down to mistaken identities and the quest to figure them out. Your standard whodunnit caper, but set in 2079 when alien invaders are trying to take over Earth and a protective electromagnetic shield covers the whole sky.The big flaw in doing a far-future setting is that no one can guess with any reliability what our world and technology will look like, so part of our attention is taken away from the story and towards will that really be feasible? kinds of thought. The DVD has a fine soundtrack, and uses surround sound and the LFE channel to fine advantage, better than most recent films.SPOILERS follow in comments for my own recollection, you may want to read no further. Sinise is going to work in a top-secret job and out of nowhere his ID checks come up suspicious. Then circumstantial information convinces D'Onofrio that he has in fact been killed, and a human-like android containing a powerful bomb has replaced him, so advanced that even the best medical tests cannot easily tell. Some rather complicated and sometimes silly chasing ensues, we start to suspect it is really his wife (Mastrantonio) who has been replaced, the hunting gang corners them in a remote place, find a crashed spaceship, with Sinise's body inside. But, his wife's dead body were also inside, a terrific explosion levels everything for miles around, but the city is safe. Somewhat interesting mystery, but overall, what's the point???  "},{"Title":"UUUUUUUUGGGGh! Don't waste your time or money!  IIIcck!","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Don't waste your time or money on this flop! This movie should have went straight to video and then a week later showed on the Sci-Fi Channel! There's not much positive to say about the movie except, well, actually I can't think of anything! Go see Lord OF The Rings for the third time instead of this horrible thing!  "},{"Title":"Who's Who?","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I watched it mainly because of Philip K. Dick's reputation as an SF writer and because Madeleine Stowe was in it. She's like some kind of gem, maybe black onyx, only capable of bursting into flame. Yet, what a disappointment the movie is.It begins with a complicated voice-over by Gary Sinese, describing a planet covered by a semi-permeable shield, reminding one of Metaluna in This Island Earth. Except that, somehow, the hostile aliens are getting through and imitating earthlings expertly enough that it's hard to tell the difference.Sinese goes to work one morning, after an enviable bout with the sleepy Stowe, and is taken under arrest as one of the phony aliens. He's taken to the Interrogation Room where he's strapped into a chair, teased and tortured, and forced to watch some kind of Mixmaster device with whirring blades lowered into another suspect's chest, splattering blood and tissue all over, and extracting the beating heart.When Sinese himself is placed on the table and is shrieking, staring up at the Mixmaster, I shut it off.You can keep watching if you like. It might have improved as the story was developed. If so, I missed it. To me, it was more like torture porn than science fiction. Some people get a thrill out of it. "},{"Title":"Very unimpressed with film","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (Spoilers)Sorry to burst any bubbles, but I found Impostor (2002) to be highly boring and unimaginative. I love Philip K. Dick, but the decision to use rehashed footage and give us the worst run for your life movie ever has forced me to say this.I didn't understand some of the idiotic premises. First off, we are being attacked by aliens. OK. They have killed our own and replaced them with ultra-sophisticated cyborgs to force them to explode in cities or kill leaders?If the alien technology was not a factor, I would say this is highly implausible. However, I wish there was a much different storyline to it instead of like I said before, run for your life movie.It had no special moments. It had nothing of value to remember or even contemplate on afterwards. By the definition of the film, we all could be bombs. It doesn't make us feel human or discuss what is human like Blade Runner. In fact, I believe this movie was supposed to mirror Blade Runner's image.It certainly didn't!  "},{"Title":"Mediocre adaptation of a minor Philip K. Dick story.","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Philip K. Dick's original short story 'Impostor' was entertaining enough, but not one of his most accomplished or exciting achievements. Written in the 1950s when he was literally churning out pulp stories to keep his head above water, it was little more than a throwaway. Just why anyone decided it would be worth adapting into a major motion picture, instead of say a 50 minute episode of 'The Twilight Zone' or 'The Outer Limits' is difficult to fathom. This is a one idea innocent-man-on-the-run chase movie that quickly runs out of steam halfway through and never really gets back on track despite a kick ass ending. Gary Sinise ('Albino Alligator') is a talented actor but is given very little to work with here, and the supports Vincent D'Onofrio ('Full Metal Jacket') and especially Madeline Stowe ('12 Monkeys') even less. Director Fleder made the uneven but interesting noir 'Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead', and a couple of so-so thrillers before this. He frequently seems unsure of what he trying to achieve with this disappointing movie, but that may have a lot to do with four script writers credited, always a bad sign. 'Impostor' feels like a case of too many cooks, and is worth a rental as a no brainer popcorn movie, but little else. File under 'Screamers'. "},{"Title":"A not so successful Phillip K Dick's movie","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Imposter seemed to swing back and forth between an am I or am I not an clone movie and a chase movie.  The chase part seems to be a useless addition that only prolonged the outcome.  I saw the short version of this film and there was practically no chase sequence, I guess it seemed too jumpy for the main character to be in on second escaping from his captors and next second going to the crash scene knowing who he is, so they added this whole middle section for him to try to prove to them that he is not a clone by the way of the body scan, and at the last second, piece out why he definitely is not.  But that addition of over an hour to this movie seems futile and pointless.I don't know how a futuristic society have these implants near the spinal cord that could be removed with such a crude instrument, and w/o even having to look at where they are pulling it out from.  And if it is so easily removed, you would think there would be systems that detects a body mass but no implant.  With the crudeness of their detection system, Gary Sinise's character didn't have to risk being caught just to drop his implant in Vincent D'Onofrio's character's pocket.  He could have dropped it in anyone's pocket and the security force would have been running in circle forever.  Plus the big building scanner, it seems bizarre they knew whom they were scanning based on the body profile, but then at the end, they ignored that parameter completely when closing in on that person.The acting isn't anything to write home about.  Vincent D'Onofrio's character seems to be more of a menace instead of someone with authority.The scenery seemed futuristic, with its impression of big brother, but it just didn't feel like big brother with its cheesy colorful posters.  1984 it ain't.The bomb extractor seems definitely low tech, created more for the gore than anything else.  Plus with the obviously different shape and look of the clone's heart, how hard is it to do a CT scan to see how it looks like?The ending is where the crux of the story lies.  I wasn't expecting the double whammy, so I was kind of surprised.  But I don't know why the final explosion took place, and if it took place because the clone was revealed, why did it not occur when he was ready to be drilled to death?  It could have done much more damage with much higher casualties.   Or why didn't the previous clone self destruct if he knew he was to be discovered.  Some things don't completely add up.But the story still offers a compelling look of what-if's that Phillip K Dick always writes about.  "},{"Title":"sci-fi addicts fodder","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Run of the mill sci-fi action adventure based on a short story by Philip K Dick. Earth has been at war with aliens for ages (we never see the aliens but they send lots of missiles at earth and the plastic domes that the luckier earth people live under). Spencer Olham is a top scientist who is suddenly arrested and accused of being an alien clone. He escapes and tries to prove his identity in time as the manhunt closes in on him. Lots of nice futuristic landscapes and edge of the seat action but still lacking substance. The continuously manufactured adrenalin chases, repetitively enhanced with `thriller' music, means that the movie lacks pace as it tries to stay in top gear all the way. A few quiet scenes would have allowed for better characterisation development of the plot in a less obvious way, but many sci-fi cine addicts won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Worst Ending I've ever Seen (spoilers all over this one)","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Pure crap, that's all this was. I do not even know the best place to begin. I will give the special effects a nod for believability, and the settings were well-designed, but I find it very hard to believe that someone actually filmed this.I try not to take anything away from Gary Sinise (who is a very good actor), but I am disappointed in his choice to make this movie.Here is the spoiler, stop looking if you are dumb enough (as I was) to rent this!The good-guy of the movie dies, so does his best friend, so does his wife, and so does the bad-guy who turns out to be the good-guy at the end! What the hell! The enemy wins the battle 100%. I am not in favor of the hero dying in the first place, but at least let them achieve some good from their death.Has Hollywood completely turn away from the familiar good-guy wins in the end motto? Why would I watch a movie where the guy I'm rooting for loses everything at the end (and even loses more then we expect) without achieving any lasting goal?I rate this a 2 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Good start lead off to bad movie.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     The beginning of IMPOSTOR I must admit I liked. But as soon as the whole interogation room thing started, the movie just got bad. It's filmed with many of the same angle , film shots and darkness about it of which Battlefield Earth was filmed with, but thank goodness it's not that bad. Gary Sinise doesn't deliver much of a performance. I think in this film the good-bad guy played by Vincent D' Onfrio was the best character, and best acted character.   IMPOSTOR is not worth seeing unless it's on tv. Even then you may decline it. Too bad someone messed up Phillip K. Dick's book. Fortunately, he's got some great story adaptions too (TOTAL RECALL, BLADERUNNER, MINORITY REPORT), so at least there're more good adaptions than bad.  Overall, don't see IMPOSTOR unless you really liked Battlefield Earth. I think with this in mind, no one's going to see this movie. 1.5/5 stars "},{"Title":"One of the usual lot of early year losers","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Impostor is by itself a crummy movie and has been apropriately placed in the beggining of the year bad film category.  It is an adaptation of a Philip K. Dick story, but there have been (and I'm sure there will be) better adaptations than this.  Gary Sinise is fair in the lead role and Vincent D'Onofrio tries to do what he can with the role, but the film sinks with lame plot moves, mediocre photography and visual effects that are at best trying.  In other words, it's a good movie to fall asleep to, even in the movie theater.  D "},{"Title":"One of 2002 worst movies of the year! Should of gone straight to DVD & video! Lame! Stupid!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was shelfed for over a year until Disney could find a dumping date to bring this to movie theaters. It should gone straight to DVD and video! This movie was very much a paint by numbers film for bad science fiction and movies in general.Not to mention it ripped off several other science fiction movies like Total Recall,The Thing,Invasion of the Body Snatchers. and Blade Runner'.I saw this movie today at the last matinee after I find it out it did not get into the Box Office top ten.Perhaps a bad marketing killed it at the movie theaters. The cast does what little they have in terms of a script. There even a cat and mouse game in the movie. I suspect that this movie will be on DVD very fast. Needless to say the audience was laughing out loud at this flop!I find hard to belive that with 2002 being only 6 days old,I'm already writing a review for one the worst films of the year. The cast all has done better work than this pathetic movie. This movie also a very close boardline R movie. The amount of swearing ,violence , and nudity almost make it a R movie.Maybe the MPAA was asleep when they rated this box office turkey?This film is just as bad as the movie Supernova.Wait for this turkey on DVD or better yet wait for it hit the cheap theaters. "},{"Title":"THE GREAT PRETENDER","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  IMPOSTOR (2002) * Gary Sinise, Madeleine Stowe, Vincent D'Onofrio, Tony Shalhoub, Mekhi Phifer, Tim Guinee, Elizabeth Pena, Lindsay Crouse. Lackluster sci-fi flick ala The Fugitive with Sinise as a well-respected military research scientist targeted as an infiltrating robotic time bomb persued by D'Onofrio and out to clear his good name.  Dreadfully boring and irritating camerawork doesn't wake one up from very predictable adaptation of Philip K. Dick's 1953 story.  Forgettable. "}]