[{"Title":"A shameless butchering of a great classic","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Warner Brothers has seen fit to butcher this masterpiece with a new animated version that is thoroughly awful.  The producers have attempted to bring the story down to a kid's level by eliminating key elements from the original and introducing new characters that would make Richard Rogers and Oscar Hammerstein both turn over in their graves.  The King no longer has a harem here, and his 106 children have been reduced to a mere 8.  The Prime Minister has been transformed into an evil wizard who uses a magic gong in an attempt to overthrow the King, and he is aided by a bumbling fat midget who keeps having his teeth knocked out.  Then there is the onslaught of cute animals including a monkey, an elephant and a panther that constantly save the King by hurling mangoes at the villains.  Many of these new characters are directly stolen from Disney films, especially from `Aladdin.'  If all this was not enough, we even get a scene where the King rides in a hot air balloon that is powered by a panther riding a bicycle mounted to a propeller.  And just to make sure that we have a happy ending, absolutely NOBODY dies in this version.  Admittedly, seeing this was an animated feature I was fully expecting some liberties to be taken, but I was not expecting a rewriting of the entire story.The film's worst moments come during the musical scenes.  Some of Rogers and Hammerstein's music manages to make it onto the screen but it is handled in such a way that it makes your stomach turn.  For example, the movie begins with Anna singing `I Whistle a Happy Tune' while a sea monster attacks her.   The King sings `A Puzzlement' while being attacked by giant statues that have suddenly come to life.  Then there are the kids that sing `Getting to Know You' while being stalked by the fat midget.  At the screening of this film I kept sinking deeper into my seat and saying, `Tell me this isn't happening!'  "},{"Title":"pointless, silly, dumbed-down remake","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  We know the limitations of animation, or do we? Animation can be great, especially if it allows us to see something that we otherwise wouldn't, but this effort is a disaster. Just because Warner had the rights to reshape the story doesn't mean that it was wise to do so. I suggest either the original drama >Anna and the King<, a rather adult approach with much darkness that fits the original story, or the more accessible live-action musical >The King and I<, which has the benefits of Richard Rogers' musical score. It looks much like an attempt to capitalize upon either >Beauty and the Beast< or >Aladdin<, both infinitely better.This animated film is a disaster from the start. It tries to make a fairy tale out of a story from the nineteenth century by adding sorcery and magical devices that mock the norms of nineteenth-century thought. Sorcery and the hyper-rational nineteenth century do not mix.Some of the animated sets, I concede, are attractive. That said, the treatment inexcusably confuses Chinese and Thai culture. (To be sure, Thailand has a large Chinese diaspora, and it is quite influential, but not dominant).Many of the characters are over the top, including the devious Prime minister who exploits a big-screen magic mirror and wears a Colonel Klink-like monocle and has a stereotypical stooge as his confederate. The animals are excessively cute and unrealistic, including the sterotypical 'mischievous monkey' and the King's cuddly pet panther(?), not to mention some of the most unrealistic elephants that we have ever seen and the snakes that the evil Prime Minister conjures out of vines. We've seen it all before, and this time it doesn't work.Forget this one. Too many valid alternatives exist for this general story. If you want magic in an animated flick, then seek something in a more mystical time (such as >Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs< or place (the beautiful-but-creepy world of >Spirited Away<.Don't debase your video collection with this derivative rubbish. This movie's story is too dumb for adults and too dark for children. "},{"Title":"Is this a joke?","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In the past year I saw a parody of Titanic on Saturday Night Live's TV Funhouse, entitled Titey, the joke being that Disney had turned the story into a big joke, with a singing ship, an evil ice berg, and sea animals that come together to rescue the poor sinking ship, helping it land safely in America.The funny part is, if those writers gave the same treatment to The King and I the result would have been this movie. Except, in the SNL skit, they had Whoopi Goldberg voicing the iceberg. That was funny. Here, the best they could do for comedy was... Darrell Hammond, an SNL cast member.Whoever made this movie doesn't have kids, nor much of a brain either. 1 out of 10, but only because it wouldn't let me type in a lower number. "},{"Title":"Oh...","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to watch this cartoon because I'm Thai.  I wanted to see how it is. And I found that it's too terrible for me.  I mean I couldn't accept some lines in the story.  It's not true for the magic.  I don't want to see western children think that Thailand is a mysterious country which Kla-holm used magic to harm people.  And we haven't had that kind of animal in the sea, look like a dragon, I'm really sure. All I say doesn't mean that I don't accept in the story which Anna wrote for long long time ago.  The Western didn't know about our culture.  And the story is just Anna's view point which no one knows that it's all true or something she made from her own idea.  That's what I can accept.  However, I can't believe the director and script writer of this globalization period do this with Thai culture.  Magic and love story of our Prince Chulalongkorn with Tubtim are not true at all.  Do you know that Thai people love and respect our royal family, especially Prince Chulalongkorn was our King Rama V who did many good things for Thailand?  Do you feel ashamed to do like this?  (I just wanna ask the director and script writer.) Thus, I think I can accept the classic one more than this cartoon.  And I hope the film which Jo-yun Fat performes will be better.  Please don't play with my history in the film. The director of the next film, at least, please do what Anna wrote.  Or it will be better to do the research of Thai history.And I think this cartoon isn't good.  I don't have bias but I don't think the picture is really beautiful. Many cartoons are much better.Hope you all understand my English. "},{"Title":"Crayola Classics","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It has been said that a thousand monkeys working on a thousand typewriters would eventually come up with the script for Hamlet.  If that's so, then this was obviously one of their earlier attempts.  Why else would a monkey take center stage in this remake of Rodgers and Hammerstein's listless musical of the same name?  And while they were using their hands to write the stumbling and obvious plotline (including an evil wizard (?!) with the typical maniacal laugh and bumbling sidekick), the monkeys were busy creating poorly drawn images with their feet.  The best I can say about the animation is that it was probably done as paint-by-numbers using crayons, although monkeys are commonly known for drawing with their... wastes.How do movies like this get made?  Do people in hollywood actually think that children are dumb enough to watch this drivel?  Just thinking about this flick makes me want to stab my brain with a q-tip, hopefully causing blissful amnesia, or maybe even a coma.  Either way, the thought of this film would no longer haunt my worst nightmares. "},{"Title":"What a Waste of Time and Money","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Having two younger children, I try to take them to movies like this, sight or review unseen, when I can.  They, like most kids, have seen the violence, heard the profanity, and fell into the lowest common denominator of most movies being made today.  That's what makes this such a disappointment.  I like to observe their reactions and their responses and not rain on their parades.  But all they talked about when the thing was over was the guy who kept losing his teeth (remember that from the original broadway musical?), and the mango throwing monkey.  This is their memory of The King and I.  Both my kids have visited Thailand and I thought perhaps this would bring up some of the spirit of that world.  Instead, we have this exploitative mess that throws out most of the cultural issues and the dramatic impact for a supernatural villain (where did he get these powers?  The King didn't have any, other than incredible athleticism).  And, of course, is there a movie around that doesn't have a Martial Arts component?  I know that kickboxing is big in Thailand but....  I am generally very accepting of the things that are put out there for the kids, but this was terrible.  A message to the producers  Please, please, please, leave Rodgers and Hammerstein alone.  I don't want to watch an interplanetary war version of Oklahoma! "},{"Title":"Awful adaptation of The King and I","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Here's the story When I was a toddler, I went over to my Grandfather's house and he had a copy of the old classic King and I. He set me off to watch it and I loved it through out. Well, in the presence, I watched this on STARZ and I didn't know what to do but sit through it and think about it. I had to rate it a 1/10 because of how awful this was. Look, I don't remember if the original King and I had this, but this was waay too frightening to look at for young viewers. There is a villain named whatshisname who puts on an evil scheme to distract the village with scary dragons, scary animals, a bloody-colored river, and there is a near death experience with the king. This movie is way to scary too look at with your kids. There is this woman who almost drowned at the part where she gets carried away in the river. I don't think this is nothing copied off of the original classic King and I but here are some subjects about itThe animation was beautiful (almost like a Disney animation film). The script was flat. And the storyline was mostly predictable. The songs were forgettable. The characters are unfavorable.Skip this floppy animated version and watch the original King and I. "},{"Title":"horrifying","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Easily the worst movie I've ever seen. Disastrous attempt to copy the Disney formula of adding magical bad guys and silly animal sidekicks -- TO A TRUE STORY?  This story actually happened to an English teacher who went to Siam in the 1800's! And was made into a hit Broadway musical with the same Rodgers and Hammerstein songs.  And they didn't just add ridiculous characters, but REWROTE major parts of history? Watch King and I starring Yul Brynner before watching this, and your jaw will drop from beginning to end. Worth watching, although it's not so bad it's good, but because of a near perfect constant stream of over the top errors. "},{"Title":"GRRR!!!!!!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was extremely disappointed in this cartoon.  I was recently in the play, and the 'King's kids' from the play and I went to see it today.  I knew that there were some changes, but these were ridiculous! Why have Tuptim fall in love with Chululongkorn and not Lung-Thai?  Why have the Kralahome be a stupid, evil guy when he actually had some intelligence in the play and movie? Why have some guy who can play mind tricks -- what purpose in the movie does he have?  Also, the ballet, one of the best parts, was left out. I don't see why they had to add a monkey that seemed to be taken from Aladdin, a jaguar, and elephants, when the plot would have been so much better w/o them.  I definitely don't think that the king should have lived at the end.....I don't care if its Disney or not.  The real movie/play is much better.  And as I said at the end, We were SO much better!  It's true. Don't plan on seeing it if you are faithful to the real story.  "},{"Title":"What was the target audience for this movie?","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is certainly too sinister for kids, I remember it scaring me when I was about six years old. It has vines that turn into snakes, a scene with a sea dragon trying to tip a boat and eat the passengers, a verbally abusive king and inaccurate history. One scene in particular features a young man falling in love with a servant girl. The man's father orders the girl to be whipped to death in front of everyone. The King and I definitely isn't a family-friendly animated movie at all.It's too stupid for any adults unfortunate enough to have to watch it. Full of cultural and racial stereotypes, disgustingly cute and unrealistic animals, lame singing and an array of unlikable characters, this is one movie you won't want to sit through with your kids, believe me. Anna is supposed to be a logical, brave schoolteacher from America (or England, Canada? I can't remember), but she ends up coming across as this annoyingly assertive dope. Her son is just a wimpy little dork dressed in weird stretch pants , sailor hat and blazer. The king, who doesn't seem to have a name, has exaggerated and bizarre anger issues. Master Little is a morbidly obsese, Buddha-esque guy with stereotypically slanted eyes and a weird voice. Most of the characters are flat, with no originality or personalities at all; they stick to their story roles but have no outside interests, nothing to make them memorable. Since the producers already tried turning the story into something out of a Disney movie or Scooby-Doo episode, they could at least try to make the characters interesting! My advice? Don't even bother with this, and don't subject your children to it. It's almost as bad as that stupid Ferngully movie and is probably one of the worst animated movies I've seen in some time. "}{"Title":"Literally a nightmare","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I am embarrassed to admit this was one of my favorites as a kid. I mainly enjoyed it for the relationship between the King and Anna, and I always thought they were a great couple and should have married. Now watching it, the people who made this film should have just not bothered.This 1999 version of The King and I is abominable on almost every level. The animation is pretty good, but that's it. Several elements are borderline racist (some of this comes from the source material, but they added their own little doses of problematic elements too). There are downright stupid story choices (turning the villain into a goody wizard) and the way they watered down the dark elements of the story is truly silly. The less said about those awful animal sidekicks the better.It tries so hard to compete with the Disney films of the time without possessing any respect for the audience. A waste of time; do not inflict this on yourself or your children. "},{"Title":"Should have been done by Disney not some other studio trying to imitate Disney","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this film on TV one late night, it seemed like a harmless, under-appreciated flick but I realized why it's under-appreciated, it's boring! At first, I thought I was just tired even dozing off during the climax but when I watched it with my mom on DVD through Netflix rental, I realized I was right, it is a very boring film. Even my mom dozed off during the climax. I know it's meant for kids and Disney knock-offs were a major fad in the 90's, but even they had some sort of entertaining potential, but with this, they barely put any effort into it. Ironically, the director did The Fox and the Hound and The Black Cauldron.So yeah, a major disappointment from this film, the animation doesn't have much detail, the story has no plot and the characters had the personality of sandpaper. No story structure, no character development, nothing. They butcher the song segments making them look pointless and stupid. The comedy relief was more annoying and less funny. Particularly the monkey named Moonshee whom is ripped off from, er I mean inspired by Abu, every other second, I wanted to kill Moonshee, he was that annoying. Also, the villain's assistant Master Little looks like Chien-Po's (Mulan) midget brother whom has the curse of unfunny running gag by getting his teeth knocked out. What was also stupid was replacing Lun Tha with an adult Chulalongkorn. the story of Tuptim and her lover was a really sad, tragic story and I see they tried to clean it up but they did a really bad job at it. However, the King's panther Rama was the only character I found likable.Well, to wrap this up, this is a really boring film, like the summary says, it should have been adapted by the real Disney, not some other company trying to imitate Disney. "},{"Title":"Not Bad!","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My kids (preschool and first grade) wanted to see this movie ever since the promos started running. I read all the comments here, and in spite of them, we went to see it.The kids loved it. They were glued to the screen every second and talked about it for the rest of the day. In that regard, the movie reached its target.I was a bit disappointed, but certainly not to the passionate degree I've seen here. I certainly was not expecting a line-for-line remake of the Brynner-Kerr film, nor a remake of any of the dozen or so live productions of the play that I've seen. This clearly was an attempt to reach a new audience, a late-1990s audience that's seen years of _Aladdin_, _The Little Mermaid_, _Pocahontas_ (oddly enough, all long-lived stories that were messed with at some level in the interest of making a movie about them) and I think they connected on that level.The animation was average at best, and Quicktime-Movie-running-on-a-386-bad at worst. Perhaps I've been spoiled by Disney features or the wonderful Fleischer material of the 1930s.The musical numbers were buried under visuals that didn't match-- I agree with the other posters who complained about the scene in which Whistle a Happy Tune was sung-- and some of the 1990s devices such as the cute animals and the martial arts demonstrations simply left me longing to see the original film again.But that's me.I'm renting the original movie for my kids to see which they prefer; this is more an experiment in learning what reaches them as opposed to the appalled father saying Good Lord, what an abomination! Watch this instead! After all, they prefer Froot Loops to cantaloupe, and we all know what's better for them. -) What we can do is introduce them to quality and see if it takes.If you are reading this before seeing the movie, take all the comments in these postings in the proper spirit; don't expect a remake of something that's too wonderful to be remade properly (so why would a studio even consider bothering with a line-by-line/scene-by-scene animated mirror version?) but don't expect something lower than horrible.  It's actually quite entertaining. My rating 6 "},{"Title":"The King and I Both Hate This Film.","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The King and I (1999) Dir Richard Rich / Voices Miranda Richardson, Ian Richardson, Darrell Hammond, Christiane Noll, Adam Wylie Animation that expresses something extraordinary through the experiences of a teacher with a King. Story regards an English governess who is summoned to teach the many children of the King of Siam. He lays heavy emphasis on tradition, which results in many foolish rules. Of course the governess will win him over and his son will marry the servant girl that the King nearly whipped. Animation is rich with detail but the story is boring and about as exciting as watching golf. Directed by Richard Rich who remains faithful to the story, which appears in many forms including the 1956 version starring Yul Brynner and Deborah Kerr. Voice talents are unable to bring life into the empty personalities. Miranda Richardson voices the governess as straight forward and as uninteresting as a person can be. Others talents lending their voices to shame are Ian Richardson, Darrell Hammond, and Christiane Noll. The characters are flat and even its message of tradition and adaptation is lost in its dreary storytelling. This is the sort of storyline that has been done countless times and whether it is animated or not, it is still no less boring. Bland animated remake of no great significance that falls into a rotten tradition called formula. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"If you have seen the 1956 version, you will be disappointed!","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have both versions on video, and I'll admit the 1956 version is much better. I had mixed feelings on this version, but I hated most of the plot changes. Many important bits that worked so well in the 1956 version were changed and replaced with hackneyed plot-holes. The saving grace is the songs, and the singing is passable. The best is Christianne Noll, and Barbara Streisand singing in the end credits was a treat. Back to the bad. The voice talents were OK, but there were a lot of dodgy accents. Miranda Richardson does well, and her character animation is good too. Martin Vidnovic was trying to replicate Yul Brynner, and in no way did he succeed. Adam Wylie has a false English accent, that was shown when he was singing, because his American accent was heard. Ian Richardson is a really good actor, but I was expecting more from him. He had lots of really good lines, but his delivery just felt a bit OTT. The worst character was Master Little, who was funny for only ten minutes, and then the occurring joke about teeth wore thin far too early. Don't get me started on the animals. they were cute at first, but they served no purpose at all to the plot, especially Moonshee. As for the animation, most of it was good, but why on earth did they animate a sea dragon and moving statues that were only there for a couple of seconds, I didn't get it! As for the romance between Tuptim and the Prince it was so unnecessary, and the romance between Anna and the king was painfully underdeveloped. And why did they change the ending? The ending in the 1956 version was so poignant, and this one was pointless. In conclusion, only watch it if you haven't seen the fantastic Yul Brynner version, otherwise you'll be disappointed. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"One of the worst animated films I have seen in a long time","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" First off I want to say two things about this topic. One, I saw this in the cinemas with my family when I was little and I enjoyed it a lot. And secondly when I'm doing this review, I am not going to compare this film to the 1956 film because i have not seen that version.So after a long time, I decided, why not, let's give the king and I (1999) a try. In the first 20 minutes, I instantly turned off the film, finding it funny as hell but really thinking what the hell at the same time. The next day, I watched the other half which bored me to death. After seeing the whole film being much older now, I think of it in a totally different way. As a kid, I liked it. But now more grown up, I think this film was animated garbage and it was awful. Very rotten as well. It was so messy. And here's why First, I think the story is far too simple and I wish they could have gone into great detail throughout the film. I also think that most of the characters are unbelievably stupid, annoying, laughable and dull in every scene. There definitely wasn't much going on with these characters that I just couldn't care about them after wards. The King is like an anti-action would be hero who continually blab-bas on repeating some of the same crap WHAT, WHAT, WHAT!. Seriously, and even the main villain was cheap. He was just there sneaking and running around trying to scheme his little plan. His objective was stupid as hell. There were a lot of stupid moments as well.Some of these stupid moments consist throughout but I think the most silliest was when this dragon tries to attack this woman, her boy, a monkey and a crew on their boat. The crew and all have no idea what to do until the mother and her boy start whistling. The dragon then disappears into smoke. Really dumb and quite laughable. I know this is a kid's cartoon but come on, there could have been a better way to kill that thing.The sing alongs also don't save it and the music throughout could have been so much more. It was merely the only decent part of the film but because of messed up characters, story, bad moments and plot gaps, the music is poorly contrasted with random scenes and it becomes a shamble which doesn't even get the film to it's full peak. And the thing which really bugged me throughout was the animation and change of scenes.For example in one scene, we see the main villain and this fat guy who is his assist are seen talking near a bridge. At first we see the main villain with his normal clothing. That being a red shirt and some shorts. And then quickly in the next shot, he is seen wearing his suit and then it cuts to another shot where a glass eye piece full off of his head and then another quick shot flies in quickly and we see that he hasn't even put it on. It's just there on him. There are many other poor animation tactics which go on about throughout this film, but I'm not going to go into it.The only two things I thought were done OK is these two moments with the main villain and the king. If you've seen this garbage where the villain is whipped on the bum by the panther at the end of the king and his discussion and the part with the villain telling the king about the so called teacher leading the kids outside the palace. They were the only parts in the entire film I thought that weren't done badly. Although that is my only positive notion for it, doesn't change my mind that I didn't like this film at all.I just don't believe it myself that I watched this in the cinemas when it came out, and I liked it. Now going back to it just recently, I suddenly think it's one of the worst films I have seen in quite some time. The other thing which was weird throughout was that I found this film hilariously dumb and stupid. I mean I just made fun of this film after the first ten minutes. And then the middle sunk lower and then the ending was predictable and went absolutely nowhere. I mean throughout nothing exciting happened either. It was just a very boring film.It's pure animated garbage which should be avoided.1.5/10 "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Offensive Film","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I could not believe my eyes when I saw that WXMI (a FOX station) would be showing this horrible creation! yet here it is, noon, 15 March 2009, and it is actually being shown.The Rodgers and Hammerstein musical is brilliant theatre, but is still revisionist history at best. The musical was based on Margaret Landon's novel Anna and the King of Siam (1944), a work of fiction.This animated piece of c*@P is not only an insult to anyone with a brain that can read a history book, it pours mud on the work of a talented team that created the original musical.Anna Leon-Owens was a shameless self-promoter and outright liar (I read all her disrespectful error filled books). Perhaps the producers of this monstrosity thought that they would simply carry-on her outrageous flights of fantasy. "},{"Title":"Richard Washington on The King and I (1999) What went wrong?","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It was undoubtedly an historic team-up. James G. Robinson's Morgan Creek Productions joining forces with classic TV's immortal holiday icons, Rankin/Bass Productions, to fulfill a lifelong dream of R/B's co-founder, Arthur Rankin, Jr.that of bringing one of Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II's most legendary Broadway hits to the screen --- as an animated motion picture. Alas! The result turned out to be The King and I; and in its 1999 version, produced at Richard Rich's Rich Animation Studios in partnership with Nest Entertainment --- the creative team behind The Swan Princess --- there were quite serious flaws, the most important of which was unquestionably the simple truth that The King and I has, almost from the moment 20th Century-Fox's movie version of the Rodgers & Hammerstein legend was first released, pretty much been doomed to remain anathema among the people of Thailand, for whom the King of Siam is an historic figure worthy of being held sacrosanct. What, then, went wrong? Well, first things first, I believe that moviegoers went into this animated King and I expecting the awesome, unique, one-of-a-kind animation which for nearly forty years was at the heart of every Rankin/Bass Production. What the audience got instead, sadly, was a farmed-out, overly stereotypical, 90-minute exercise in badly done children's animation. Moreover, R/B's other co-founder had no involvement in this production. A Rankin/Bass Production without Jules Bass? Unthinkable! Even worse, Morgan Creek's recent filmography since Robin Hood Prince of Thieves, its biggest blockbuster ever (and, one would surmise, its ONLY such blockbuster), has spawned a series of less than incredible titles --- making one question why Warner Bros. continues to distribute Morgan Creek's films at all. But I have had access to the real story behind this failed 'toon; and, truth be told, it is at best a cautionary tale, and at worst a lesson in how not to bring a Broadway soundtrack to life on the screen. It seems to me that The Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization, by arrangement with whom this film had been prepared, had wanted to support Mr. Rankin's dream; once the animated King and I flopped, unfortunately, it was clear that they could not support such a concept for any reason. Subsequent plans to animate other R & H stage legends --- Oklahoma! and The Sound of Music among them --- were ultimately scrapped, leaving Arthur Rankin, Jr.'s dream in tatters. To me, that's a shame --- because here was a unique opportunity to introduce younger audiences to the epic power and beauty that only a live stage show can provide.... an opportunity squandered through the addition of overly-cliched, racially stereotypical characters and Saturday morning-esque dialogue. I would guess, in the end, that the moral of this story is If you can dream it, don't always necessarily do it.... because you never know what kind of film-related traps you may stumble into in the end.   "},{"Title":"I think you should skip this.","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" `The King And I' It's weird to me that Warner Brothers, after seeing competitors like Disney and Dreamworks raise the bar of animation so high, would sit there and be content that their films look like Saturday morning cartoon rejects.  The drawing is so choppy and unfinished that it takes you right out of any contact high you might receive from the wonderful Rodgers and Hammerstein music.This, like the WB's last offering `Quest For Camelot', is just another drab excuse to sell some coloring books and bad cd-roms.--------- 3 "},{"Title":"Total Plot Change","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  You can read from my first comment that it wasn't very positive.  I'm still upset that the plot was changed so much.  I read some of the other reviews, and I totally agree w/ most of them.  Why make the most memorable songs have some stupid twist?  Like in Getting to Know You, they went outside, something NONE of the kids had ever done.  During the song, they were able to go to village, have the ballet performed, go back to the castle, and walk through a rainstorm, for which they conveniently had umbrellas.  Also, Chululongkorn seemed to be much older than what I expected.  From my play, he was about 10 or 11.  In this, the Prince seemed to be at least 18.  I agree w/ Mr. Totten - Rogers and Hammerstein ARE turning over in their graves.  While my younger friends from the show and I were laughing and having fun of finally being together again, we snarled and groaned at the changes.  If the producers ever make another animation from R & H or another wonderful movie, I'm not going to see it.  I think that the changes are way too wild and beyond reality to make it a well directed and performed cartoon.  I agree that I give it a 1....no, a 2 because they at least kept in the most memorable songs. "}{"Title":"Very poor cartoon remake, better avoided","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This cartoon remake of the 1956 musical 'The King and I' is frankly not worth watching. The animation quality is substandard, hardly fit for home viewing let alone a theatrical release. There are lots of songs, sung rather poorly and will bore the viewer. The pacing is poor with several unnecessary subplots. The story simply doesn't work and there are some insulting stereotypes. Those who have seen the Yul Brynner film will feel insulted. But the rest will be pretty disappointed as well. It's better avoided unless you have kids who have NOTHING better to do.Overall 2/10 "},{"Title":"Might be OK if there had never been a live version","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I saw Yul Brynner play the king about four months before he died. As long ago as that was, his version is etched in my mind. For that reason I may have approached this abomination with my mind already made up.That notwithstanding, the following the animation was only passable. That has come to be the norm in cheap TV cartoons for five-year-olds, but a full-length feature based on a well-known story deserves better. Today's computer animation leaves no excuse for a two-dimensional, poorly-drawn screenplay.The voices are at odds with the drama -- either overplayed or under, rarely right on. Brynner could parody himself and get away with it. Vidnovic isn't up to the job. That said, his accent was enough like The King that it got me a couple of times. The singing is passable, but I swear I could hear the electronics occasionally.The liberties taken with the plot are unacceptable. They not only detract from and confuse the story line, they grate on the nerves. I suppose they thought only kids would watch this thing. In my own case, I wish they had been right.Rent the original. See what a real musical with real people is all about. Give this version a pass. "},{"Title":"It's a Puzzlement","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Warner Brothers' third attempt at dragging animation film making back into the Disney-Wanna-Be Ditch (the first two being Space Jam and Quest for Camelot) is an abomination. It has management's fingerprints all over it. Jim Miller, executive producer, is the person responsible for bringing this mess to life.  The committee approach he's taken to shepherd this production robs the story of any coherent meaning or even consistent meaning. It would be kind to say it talks down to children, but that would mean adults would be able to understand it as well.  Impossible.   The characterizations are bland, and the animation is on par with the average TV episode of He-Man. The choices of vocal talent might have been OK if they'd been given anything interesting to say.  It leaves me to ask the obvious  WHY??  Let's hope Warners gets their act together and sets a release date for Iron Giant soon. "},{"Title":"A shameless butchering of a great classic!","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Warner Brothers animated version of `The King and I' is nothing more than a shameless butchering of Rogers and Hammerstine's musical masterpiece.  The producers of this travesty have seen fit to bring this classic story down to a child's level with very little of the original work making it to the screen. Much of the original has been replaced with a senseless story of a wizard and his fat henchman trying to kill the King so they can rule Siam.  All sorts of  `cute' characters have also been added here and we have plenty of scenes were monkeys and baby elephants hurl mangoes at the villains.   The movie has a number of astonishingly bad moments such as the scenes where the King flies over the kingdom in a balloon that is powered by a panther peddling a bicycle attached to a propeller.  Even worse is Anna singing `Whistle a Happy Tune' while being attacked by a sea monster!  With each scene I kept sinking deeper into my seat murmuring, `Tell me this isn't happening!' One could just hear Richard and Oscar turning over in their graves!Now some may simply say, `Hey!  This is a kid's movie!  So what!'   To such a mentality I ask why not raise the children to the level of the art instead of lowering the art to the level of kids?  With this animated film, Warner Brothers have vandalized a great musical for the sake of making a quick buck from parents who care nothing about the quality of entertainment they take their kids to see.  "},{"Title":"Insulting cultural stereo-types and not very entertaining.","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I found many of the (cartoon) portrayals in this movie to be  insulting cultural stereo-types. The plot took some major  liberties with the original plot, too. I saw this at a Warner  Brothers advance screening and there were a lot of families in  the audience. I did not get the impression that the kids were particularly entertained. In fact, I think they were bored by  it. All in all, quite uninspiring.  "},{"Title":"Original still the best","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Poor Yul must be spinning in his grave; this movie is terrible.  The only two things that kept me watching was the panther, and curiousity on how they would handle the ending (I must admit the I do prefer this happier ending, though).  Other than that it was shameful.  When Whistle a Happy Tune came on during the sea serpent attack I could not believe the stupidity I was witnessing.  Some scenes were word-for-word from the original, and you can tell that the guy who's the voice of the king was desperately trying to sound like Yul Brynner (and failed big time).  Now I can understand that some little items needed to be changed for kids to be able to follow (there is hardly any mention of there being more than one royal wife, Tuptim is presented as a slave flower arranger rather than an unwilling wife-to-be).  The animation was fair, but not top quality.  I'm glad I made my mother rent this instead of buying it, she saved her money that way.  My simplest advice for those who want their kids to see a version of The King and I show them Yul, they'll thank you when they're older. "},{"Title":"Praising this very well beautiful animation work","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Despite that this storyline is against the history origin and a slight different remake version of both musical and live-action 1956 film adaptations until this animated remake film received lots of bad reviews, as a critic, I just felt like praising this film's animation whether it is Disney-like or not. So if you are into animation and drawing body proportions and movements, at least this movie is enjoyable and I love this happy ending where nobody died and they turn this animated adaptation into a fairy tale with that kind of happy endings where Tuptim and the Prince lived happily ever after and got married and the King lived instead of dying of illness.I love the reflection and animation effects and as well as the 3D-like hot air balloon which I thought it looks cel-shaded computer-like animation since it moves smoothly like it was 3D computer animated and looking cel-shaded.I love all of the background settings details and they look very well rendered.If you don't like this movie, don't unless if you are into happy endings and into animation and stuff. "},{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is great. It has very good music, lovely ambiance, likable characters and cute story. I read a dumb comment where a Thai was complaining about the magic and crap because it's not real. This is not a documentary...It's a movie for kids and it's meant to entertain. This movie is great. It has very good music, lovely ambiance, likable characters and cute story. I read a dumb comment where a Thai was complaining about the magic and crap because it's not real. This is not a documentary...It's a movie for kids and it's meant to entertain. It has very good music, lovely ambiance, likable characters and cute story. I read a dumb comment where a Thai was complaining about the magic and crap because it's not real. This is not a documentary...It's a movie for kids and it's meant to entertain. "},{"Title":"Was kind of bland for me.","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This story is rather loosely based off of the book 'The King and I.' A woman comes to Siam to teach the kings children while someone who doesn't like the king tries to overthrow him. It's practically the normal idea of a kingdom trying to be overpowered and a king overthrown. There are some things though that just feels really stupid. For example, songs that are sung at the wrong times and the stupid evil sidekick who loses teeth. I never really liked the story of 'the king and I' because it was set with a lot of drama with a clash of cultures. I know it happens a lot and happened back then but they made it into a musical which is another reason I didn't like it. Now it being a cartoon helped me watch it for the rather fun comic affects.The animation is rather interesting, very similar to Asian style but with American cartoon flare. Sadly, the animation although fluid is a bit overboard on movement. Characters seem to move unnaturally most of the time, with flailing about and sometimes acting rather strangely for a human. It's funny to see the stupid sidekick with the belly that would move about but the rest of them were not supposed to be funny so I don't understand why everyone else had that same sort of style too. It just made the show feel awkward in that.The music is a little old fashioned and based on the live action movie with the same name. We have very stereotypical characters from way back when the book was made. It's not just the people who are Asian, it also goes for the old English characters. Just once I would like to see this done for our time frame where woman didn't wear hoop skirts and people were a little more educational (Just to let you know, I know they are smart but in a different manner. I am not racist.). The voices were alright though, fitting the characters well.Overall, I just didn't care for this movie much. While it is a fun show, it's not for everyone and felt bland to me. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable-enough film with great songs!","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The King and I was one of the films we had in VCD that I grew up with. I decided to watch this movie again since I had nothing else to do and I felt like taking a trip back down memory lane. Before watching this movie, I went on IMDb and did a quick search on it. When I saw the 3.3 rating, I was really surprised! That may be my biased self talking, but really! I was surprised since this was one of my favorite films when I was younger. But after rewatching it, I don't think this movie was THAT bad! Cut it some slack!Most people are complaining on how they killed the original movie with this remake. I think this movie was targeted for children. Those who haven't seen the original version. In my opinion, I think this film stands well on its own, with its great songs. I found myself singing along with a few of the songs ('I Whistle A Happy Tune', 'Getting to Know You' and 'Shall We Dance') which I remember from my younger days.Some of the characters may have been unnecessary like Master Little, the elephant and the monkey, but its their antics that keep the young ones entertained. This film certainly isn't the best one out there, but the songs are really great! The animation isn't that bad, either! I can't believe this movie got a 3.3 rating. Really.Viewed on April 14, 2011 "}{"Title":"Light-hearted musical sequences, but the rest's a bore.","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Without a doubt, the music of The King & I is as it was publicized...a classic.  However, the musical sequences are about all the film can flaunt. The colors are brilliant and vibrant and the animation pushing the music along is, for the most part, quite creative.  With the usage of dream sequences during I Have Dreamed... and colorful streamers in Getting To Know You, the animation takes a turn for a simplistic, yet entertaining presentation.  The advertised pieces are catchy, (although not as memorable as they used to be back in 1956 with Yul Brynner), but the glamorous Shall We Dance seems all too familiar to the Oscar-winning classic.Without the music, the film is a drab, poorly-written, mangled remake. The characters provide no motive for several of their actions, especially the villain who produces a menacing sea serpent which vanishes as Anna, the heroine, Whistles A Happy Tune.  The most devaluating element of the film, however, must be the villain's sidekick, an ignorant, tooth-losing sycophant.  He barely made the children within the theater chuckle, but rather made the audience embarrassed to have participated in such a catastrophe.  As in most animated features, the studios feel that there MUST be the addition of computer generated images to enhance the movie or to prove that they are as technologically advanced as the rest of the industry.  CGI hardly adds to this movie, in fact, it stands out like a sore thumb.  The ships and moving marble statues, all created by computers, are quite distracting and detract from the film's remaining dignity.Overall, the film deserves a RATING OF 5 based on its attempt at animating the classic musical sequences, no matter how poor the rest of the film developed.  It does, however, surpass the pathetic attempts of the recent DreamWork's The Prince of Egypt and 20th Century Fox's Anastasia.   "},{"Title":"As any other animated remake...","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I suppose what they had in mind when they remade 'The King and I' was to keep the music alive, while killing off the essence of the original musical. Truthfully, the best way to enjoy this movie is if you've never seen the original 'The King and I'. "},{"Title":"Better animation on Scooby Doo and South Park.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  What a complete and total piece of junk. From top to bottom this  movie is a waste of time and money. I feel very cheated. The animation is horrendous. The soundtrack is botchy. The story is all wrong. Tell me why the little fat guy who's losing his teeth sounds more latino than Asian. I just have to know.My son who is 2 could draw a better looking film. The story was a butchered copy of the original. The only real resemblance that I found other than some familiar melodies was the bald head of the Yul Brynner wannabe king. It's as though the storyboards were not merely used as a reference but placed in a centrifuge, spun around and then photographed.Don't see it at the theater, don't rent it and for the love of God, do NOT BUY THIS FILM.We can't encourage Warner Brothers to do this again. Quest For Camelot had a much higher production value. I don't know what happened here but it was all wrong.What ever happened to the Warner Brothers that made high quality cartoons? Aren't they the ones who make BatmanThe Animated Series, Animaniacs and Tiny Toons? My son, at 2 years old saw the WB logo at the beginning of the film and shouted, BATMAN!!! He recognized the logo and applied it to something he was familiar with. Unfortunatley, he didn't get the same value he might have expected.He has gone to movies with me since he was just a few months old. We've seen Retun of The JediSpecial Edition, Ants, A Bug's Life and the Prince of Egypt. He has remained still and watched each one from beginning to end. He was very entertained. One hour into the King and I, my son looked at me and said, Want go home, Daddy. We did.  "},{"Title":"What A Disappointment!","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Had they simply followed the original story, this probably would have been a lovely film.  The animation is occasionally excellent, the singing enjoyable.Unfortunately, someone decided that they couldn't have an animated feature without a sidekick and a few cute animals.  Oh, and we have to have magic (Hey - it worked in Aladdin, didn't it?)And you thought that the king died?  Not in this version.  You wouldn't want to traumatize the little dears with anything other than dreadful writing, would you?Sigh. "},{"Title":"Mind-numbing","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Being a fan of the old Rankin-Bass specials on TV, I was expecting more from this film than I got.  The first musical number was a happy-go-lucky thing that took place during a dragon attack in the middle of a terrible storm at sea.  It made my head hurt.  Bad.Unfortunately, it didn't get any better.  The characters where inconsistent, particularly the King.  He waffled between being progressive and recessive, without any clear reasons.Comments that have been made about stereotypes in this film are right on the money.  The villain's right-hand man might have been thought of as humorous in the 1950's, but this is a more enlightened time.  The idea of someone being funny just because they're foreign is incredibly outdated.I hope the next time R-B puts out a picture, they'll be more sensitive. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your valuable money!!!","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Believe me. This film is one of the worst. You won't like it. Your kids won't like it. No one will ever like it.The animation is shoddy, cheap and resembles that of a 70's Saturday morning show. The voice actors are terrible, the kid who Louis tries to put on an English accent, but fails terribly. Anna and the King is annoying too.The movie starts when they are on the way to Siam, the the Kralahome is now an evil sorcerer with magic powers for evil and conjures up a serpent. The serpent isn't even scary, the animation ruins it. They also jump into song with stupid hand movements. They all whistle and the serpent is gone. Wow, I was drowsy by this time. Master Little is also an annoying, dental crazed thing that tries to be funny but just plainly doesn't.They all arrive, the only good bit is when they show you the actually good castles. You see the king, with his friendly panther. Who is also plastically played and hardly has so personality.Then is introduces the love between Tuptim and Prince Chululongkorn, which is all wrong!!! It tries to give a forbidden love feel to it, but all it gives is a teenage crush feel.Don't get me started on those annoying animals! A monkey, panther and elephant. The monkey is terrible, you almost want to ring it's neck, the panther is the sly tame panther ( *cough*JungleBook*cough*) and that elephant Tusker, grr!!!Then it goes through, I want my house faze. Which is really boring, throw in a few cheesy songs and thats really it. There is no real climax in this. Oh yeah, and a huge moody from Anna to the king.Tuptim is thrown into a huge river to await her death, unfortunately the king has to save her. The balloon starts to burn and Prince Chululongkorn and Tuptim jump in the water. Why didn't the king, he just sat there inhaling toxic gases.The balloon goes down and here comes the main character death, but then comes back to life part. Haven't we had enough!!! Everyone is happy and Anna gets her own house (surprise surprise). The Kralahome is captured and sentenced to poop scooping.Overall, terrible film. Don't go near it, if you have to watch it, watch it on TV don't waste your money renting it or buying it. I give this 0/10. "},{"Title":"Worse cartoon ever!","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My wife and I decided to take our son to see this movie in the theater, hoping that it would somehow resemble the original movie (I've never seen the play performed, so I can't use that as a basis).  We were at least hoping for a movie that our son would enjoy.As it turns out, the movie was so horrible - weak animation, weak singing, weak story line adaptation, that our son actually asked if we could go home only 30 minutes into the movie.We gladly did so, and warned everyone we knew about the movie.  Those few who still decided to brave the film only turned out to become fanatical supporters of our stance.  Don't waste your money, and if you get it for free, don't waste your time or valuable brain cells. "},{"Title":"This King should be crowned ... not to mention drawn and quartered","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" There's Rodgers and Hammerstein's beautiful music, which is just as lovely as ever, and that's about it for this totally unnecessary cartoon adaptation of this beloved show.First, they've all but junked the plot. Any resemblance to the original film essentially ends with a young English widow coming to Siam to become a tutor to the King's children. Thinking that 90's kids would accept a more action-oriented story, they put all sorts of TV cartoon adventure contrivances into the pot, the result satisfying neither kids nor adults.Then there are the (voice) performances. Face it, people, Yul Brynner OWNED the part of the King, and any other in the part seems just this side of sacrilege. In the case of Martin Vindovic, it also casts a polliwog in a role that requires a full-grown shark. Miranda Richardson's Anna is just a little too arch for my taste. Julie Andrews, before her vocal crisis, would have been ideal for this assignment. The rest of the casting, alas, is on about the same level.I'm sure that kids, and parents, too, would react a lot more favorably to the classic 1956 film, with Brynner and Deborah Kerr, than they would to this ridiculous, multi-colored mess which has the audacity to call itself The King and I. If the families of Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II ever decide to sue the producers of this odious mess, I am definitely in their corner. "},{"Title":"Pleasing Film. I liked the animals.","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Obviously this does not measure up to the original musical but there is still plenty to enjoy. The songs are there and I also enjoyed the three animals. I'll admit that some sequences were ludicrous (especially the sea serpent) and they gave it a happy ending and glossed over some issues but they didn't bother me that much. 8/10   "},{"Title":"Blimey what do people expect from a cartoon...........","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" People, this is a cartoon. The comment from the site got me looking further. Dear oh dear. What did they expect. Thank goodness some thought it OK. 1999? That late.. and I still thought Anna was based on Julie Andrews.. Miranda Richardson, OK. As we in the u.k. have had a recent ad on TV with the Julie Andrews version of Getting to Know You on it, something I didn't even know she had done, yes she has, who could mistake those sliding notes, on a soundtrack with Ben Kinglsey apparently. The company admitted to me in a return mail it got the clip from i-tunes? Good grief, an advertising agency uses an almost unknown clip from i-tunes. Well, I'm not even a third through the cartoon and its OK.. I never have expectations, in fact I'm usually scared to watch a sequel in case it doesn't live up, but.. whats not to like about THIS cartoon. Warner Brothers used to make a different version of.. another cartoon character, than the original, and one could always tell. Why cant I remember,Bugs? It was long ago. I should know, I'm a film buff. Someone said ideas from the stage show were copied, oh surprise? COME ON.. get those eyes/noses out of expectations gained from other formats... THIS IS a good cartoon.. has licence to do nearly anything they wanted it to. Maybe the same artist drew Anna as did Mary Poppins somewhere along the line. SO WHAT? Take it for what it is. "}{"Title":"We enjoyed it!","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" My 4 year old granddaughter & I watched this movie tonight. I'm so glad I didn't look at these ratings before watching the movie or we wouldn't have gotten it. Very seldom does she sit and watch a whole movie, but she did with this one. First time she has ever sat on Grammy's lap through a whole movie (without falling asleep). We had a great night watching this sweet movie and a memory that will last a lifetime.This family friendly animated film shouldn't be compared with the 1956 version. I'm rating this The King and I a 7 for the movie but a +10 for the enjoyment it brought us. "},{"Title":"Richie Rich has murdered this timeless classic with...shock horror! An animated remake!","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Don't even put the kiddies in front of the TV screen without them getting a headache from this movie for insulting their intelligence. The King and I is a classic musical that should never be remade, and not with the most offensive weapon in the industry animal sidekicks and characters only plonked over for comic relief. The monkey is a stupid imitation of Abu that I wish I could batter to death, the fat guy, or Master Little, is a stereotypical retard who constantly loses his teeth (hahaha! that's so funny! NOT), and the panther and elephants, while cuter than the insufferable monkey and fat guy, really belong in another movie. Jungle Book, anyone? Oh yes, they had to make the prime minister evil, a Jafar knockoff. The animation, while better than Richie's later murdering of The Trumpet of the Swan, is bland, and the colours are so ugly your eyes stiffen. Basically, there's nothing good or great in this movie, avoid at all costs, even a rental. "},{"Title":"I've seen Lucky Charms commercials that were better than this.","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie on the television today. All I have to say is I'm glad computer generated movies are taking over. Now there will be less movies like this.The animation was choppy and off, the voices were horrid, the dialog was so standard it killed me (try counting how many times that kid said father in a dramatic voice), and the humor was too lame even for kids.I think we should all go Fahrenheight 451 on this movie and burn them all so this story will never be viewed in its butchered form.Please do not ever see this movie, not even for free. "},{"Title":"What an appalling cartoon","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Unfortunately this movie only serves to reinforce the negative stereotypes and simplistic views that exist in relation to the reign of King Mongkut and this cartoon must rank as one of the worst films I have ever seen.The musical The King And I is historically misleading and can be perceived by some as culturally negative but at least it gave King Mongkut some admirable qualities and was of an extremely high quality. The Yul Brunner version of this story was at least entertaining and well-performed. Which is more than I can say for this cartoon.This cartoon seems to depict King Mongkut as an uneducated savage who needs to be trained to behave normally. Its somewhat amazing that the Thais seemingly don't know how to behave in the cartoon until the English come along. All the good things that King Mongkut achieved for his country and the fact that he actually was a human being seems to be missing from this movie.And of course Anne Leonowens is perfect in every way and brings just what these savages need to be educated in this film.Plus we now have a bad guy who has magical powers with his rather stereotypical and rather offensive portrayal and a whole lot of assorted animals that can talk and so on. I presume the animals were added to distract from what seems otherwise to be a rather poorly done story.Ugh...! Stay away from this one "},{"Title":"a definite non-committal grunt","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My sons (5 and 3) liked it but even they weren't wowed. a couple of cute moments but mostly shotty production values.Wait for video "},{"Title":"WB Publicizes yet another trashy animated classic!","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  In this colossal waste of time, Warner Brothers studios removes the dramatic sequences in this classic musical and shortens the songs, a minor trade-in, replaced by pages of useless action (amazing how the 50-year-old king can hang upside down on his toenails and still manage to save a wispy slave girl he was previously in hatred about.  Well, i hate to say it, but it was better than the episode 1 of star wars, though not much! "},{"Title":"entertaining for young and old","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought it was a good kid's portrayal of the original. Enjoyable for the old song's and some new ones. My child thought it was good.  Good family entertainment. "},{"Title":"Don't blame on them because they're just playing it safe.","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I thought this cartoon version was okay. I guess whoever produce it or put this together was trying to make this version to be as much appropriate for children viewers or as I would say kiddy as possible. If your children would have seen the 1956 version which I would definitely recommend later, I think that version would have seem inappropriate because it had a lot of adult themes and contents. What I see that I considered as the adult themes and contents in the 1956 version are 1.) Anna and The King (both portrayed by Deborah Kerr and Yul Brynner) friendship turned into a complicated love affair. Plus, Tuptim cheating behind the King's back. TOO MUCH FOR CHILDREN! 2.) In the movie both Anna and The King talked about sexuality and other adult issues. Here's proof The King explains how he is the bee and the women are his blossoming flowers and Anna told The King to him, she is just another bowl of rice (like every other woman) well it's a long story . This is definitely Rated R.3.) The King has very many wives plus concubines and whole head of children (which explains you don't have to be a polygamous Mormon). For parents how would you explain that to your children  Ummm, The King likes to sleep around and ends up having a bunch of kids?. Huh.4.) No matter how much I enjoy this movie, I always thought that Yul Brynner was such a hunk.... When I was little kid before they even thought about the cartoon version (flashbacks, again) and remembering how much I drooled over Brynner. They kinda put Brynner out as a sex object( Here's proof, Brynner was half naked throughout film, you what I mean). I had never seen so many women and girls who come up to me and tell me about their crushes and fantasies on Brynner in this film (it's not even funny). Would you want your young daughter to say  Oh momma, the guy who plays the king, he's hot! and you shockingly answer back What did you say, Linda?(like I said flashbacks, again). I thought Tuptim's man LunTha was a cutie pie too. You don't want your kids to have these weird thoughts about the characters, it is too early to think that way. Let them be young and not to grow them up to soon. 5.) Even though I am not a guy but I do have friends who are males that do enjoy this movie and some of them do say that Deborah Kerr and Rita Moreno were very beautiful and elegant and other things I don't want to explain. To see 1956 version I suggest you wait until your children hits 20 or 30 or probably 40, they can wait. I'm just kidding just as long as they are not eight or five (too early).This is good for the kids and kids only I thought this production (1999 version aka cartoon version) was playing it safe. They did a good job by changing some of the plots.Peanut Butter with Oreos are great, not! Drink Milk Last. Part Time and too much to Love "},{"Title":"i enjoyed it.","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" ah come on! i loved it as a child and i still can enjoy watching it again. i have seen the original version and yes they have changed it a lot! but so what? but let's not forget that this is a children's movie and that children will not see the original version from 1956 until they are grown. if you want to watch a lovely movie filled with fantasy and a bit of romance in Siam this is perfect. i can't stand the way people hate on this movie, the story is nice, the artwork is nice, so is the music and setting. people who say the characters are overboard are used to safe played characters. i love the way they made the king so extravagant! i say it again; i like this movie and i will defend it if necessary because it's worth it. i mean come on people, it's not a Disney movie. "},{"Title":"Underrated remake!","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Genre Animated remake, slapstick and wit humour, Siam, 1800's.Actors The actors who do the main characters are Miranda Richardson (Anna the teacher), Martin Vidnovic (the king), Adam Wylie (Louis) and Ian Richardson (the Kralahome).Main characters Anna the teacher, the king, Louis and the Kralahome .What happens A woman from England has come on a ship ALL the way to Siam in Asia. This woman, Anna, is a schoolteacher and has been sent to teach the king's children there. Someone has his eye on the throne, the Kralahome and his plan involves Anna, as well as the unsuspecting king&#133;Message You do not know everything.My thoughts I have watched this twice since we bought it recently and I like it about as much as I did when I was younger (when we borrowed it). I think this is underrated. Yes, it does have some slapstick and yes, it is a little untrue to the original film (which I also like but can't remember very well) and the real occasion two hundred years ago, but it is a well-animated, pleasant film with good songs from the original film! My favourite of all the songs is I Have Dreamed or whatever it's called. In the film, I also like the characters and the relationships between them, especially the prince's and servant's as well as Anna's and the king's. -) Recommended to People who would like a remake slightly more harmless than the original, people who like remakes and for people who like cartoon musicals! Enjoy! -) P.S I have just realised something weird. There are two cartoon musical remakes with a boy and a monkey, this and The Mighty Kong. Do the two directors have a connection between them of liking monkeys..? "}{"Title":"It was such a clich","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" That was what I told my parents after I saw the movie. EVERYTHING was a clich.The Characters were clichs. Let's see, you've got The Noble But Nave Man-In-Charge, The Evil Scheming Second-In-Command, The Evil Scheming Second-In-Command's Convenient Toady, the Know-It-All Lady (White, of course), the Witless Kid clichs, stereotypes, cookie-cutter characters ALL.The plot line was as predictable as a paint-by-numbers, connect-the-dots, or a jigsaw puzzle, except more so.As for the romance, you couldn't get more predictable than that. Set apart by class, family disapproval... again, complete clich.Please, do me a favor. Surprise me. Have the king best the white lady once in a while. Have HER show some interest in what is right about Thai culture, rather than trying to correct it. Come to think of it, this movie was rather racist, with the white lady teaching the foreigners how to behave properly.The animation, well, it was comparable to animated films in days gone by... something in the 60s or earlier, to be exact. But 1999? Give me a BREAK.By the way, I think this movie was banned in Thailand because it made the King look ridiculous (A serious social sin over there, and I'm not being sarcastic or mocking). I don't blame them one bit. "},{"Title":"Western People Funny","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, some of the decisions in this animated anathema are legit.  Good idea to have the King's son a studly young Prince instead of another adolescent, like Anna's foppish brat Louis.  That frees up Prince C. to romance Tuptim instead of the dull Lun Tha, which makes the story a bit more personal and inter-related.  Banished, too, is the mopey matron Lady Thiang.  And the ballet Small House of Uncle Thomas tends to stop the show dead anyway.  Poor Eliza!  And of course (in Disney tradition) the King can't flatline, so the adventure finale is fine...But that's where my admiration ends and the litany of complaints begin...First, all those magical powers and mischievous animals are just plain idiotic.  Same with the Kralahome's bumbling assistant.  It's great that Anna's Whistle A Happy Tune quells the storm - but why does the storm have to be a magical curse?  And why, oh why, interpolate all that anachronistic dialogue (oddly reserved for the comic subplot only).  Cool?  Not!  In true Rankin/Bass style the animation is flat.  While most all R&H tunes survive (thanks to a huge 80 piece orchestra and a game cast), Anna's speaking and singing voices are obviously not the same.  And while it's a neat idea to open up Getting To Know You outside the palace gates, how does Anna (new to Siam) know her way around?  Presumably, kids don't use logic. It's interesting to think that the writings of a conniving widow named Anna Owens (her husband's name was Leon; she thought the new name more regal) has evolved from a diary indulged with fiction, to a non-musical film, to a sentimental stage musical, to a sentimental film musical, to this!  King Mongkut and Mr. Leon should be spinning in their graves. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie!","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Contrary to other comments, I think this is a great movie. It's true that liberties have been taken, and I'ts true that they've re-written parts of the story to allow for a happy ending. I have absolutely no problem with that, since we must remember that this is a movie intended for children, who can't understand many of the adult themes in the original story, like the harem, the 109 children, and the death of the king. For a story like this to work for children, you have to have new and exciting characters, and you absolutely have to have a great villain too. I thought the movie was just wonderful, and I loved the fact that they've used most of the music from the original. I firmly believe that this movie is not getting the credit it rightfully deserves. Two thumbs up for The King and I! "},{"Title":"Cute...got a bad rap!","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The King and I is a cute movie.  The songs are catchy and bring a sense of the original King and I to a cartoon.  If you do not like musicals, then you will probably not like this musical cartoon.  I loved all the old musicals, Seven Brides for Seven Brothers, etc. and I truly enjoyed this movie.  My children absolutely adore it also.  Very funny.  Give it a fair chance and you will be a fan of it.   "},{"Title":"Excellent version of the classic film!","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This was even better than the original classic and I would definitely go and see this again and again! The animators have created a classic that as far as I am concerned could easily compete with any of Disney's animation! I would seriously recommend that everyone go see this movie. "}]