[{"Title":"PRICELESS....","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  First, I liked the script and it benefitted because of the casting too. LL Cool J gives a good performance as God a ruthless crime lord as well as Omar Epps in a very different role but still manages to keep that street charisma that he has.  Nia Long's character Myra was perfect to draw the line between his police work and his personal life. this also starts Stanley Tucci, Pam Grier, Hassan Johnson and Veronica Webb.one of my all-time favorites...9.5/10 "},{"Title":"imperfect but rewarding film","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Those looking for a rousing shoot-em-up action picture will probably be disappointed by `In Too Deep.'  Those looking for a more low-keyed, subdued and thoughtful study of the realities of life as an undercover cop will, however, find much in this film to admire and appreciate.  Omar Epps stars as a Cincinnati-based rookie cop, Officer Jeff Cole, who goes undercover to nab a major cocaine dealer from New Jersey who calls himself `God,' (played by rapper LL Cool J) and who, Godfather-like, involves himself heavily in familial values and efforts to `help' the struggling members of his blighted neighborhood.  In its exploration of its subject, the film wisely eschews the over-the-top fantasy heroics that afflict so many action films and, instead, tethers itself to the harsh, often ugly realities of the dangerous criminal world in which it is set.  The movie builds much of its drama and suspense by bringing to the foreground the fascinating logistics that go into undercover police work, forcing us to witness first hand the risks, the moral compromises (to be convincing, Cole has to snort cocaine himself, for example) and the psychological ambiguities that invariably accompany the job. Cole is a man who has been obsessed from the early days of his underprivileged, slum-ridden childhood with making a difference in a crime-infested world he knows all too well from first hand experience.  This makes him a natural choice for infiltrating this underworld existence since his background has given him the understanding he needs as a point-of-entry.  Thus, as he embarks on this new and dangerous career, we see the innate compassion he extends to those caught in the same environment from which he has sprung, an empathy that, in the context of his job, often leads him into a `softness' that clouds his judgment and ends up endangering his life further.  In addition, as he is accepted more deeply into the inner circle of trust that God has set up around himself, Cole begins to question his own loyalties &#150; or so, at least, the offers in charge of him begin to believe.  (This, I imagine, is the undercover agent version of the Stockholm Syndrome that afflicts so many kidnap victims, often leading them to transfer their loyalties from their rescuers to their abductors).  The screenplay, though it could be sharper and more incisive at times, occasionally achieves substance in its examination of just what happens to an undercover agent's mind when he does indeed get `in too deep.'  In addition, the film frequently achieves moments of genuine suspense, in truly scary scenes involving God's uncontrolled displays of manic violence and torture and in moments when Cole's entire cover seems to have been `blown.'  In those moments, LL Cool J hits all the right notes in his performance but, both he and Epps, unfortunately, lack the dramatic and emotional range as actors necessary to make their quieter, more intimate moments effectively credible.  In addition, the dialogue often rings untrue, especially in the conversations among the commanding officers played by Stanley Tucci and, in another weak portrayal, Pam Grier among others.With better performances, harder-edged dialogue and slightly more energetic direction, `In Too Deep' might have been a great study of moral conflict set within the context of an exciting policier.   On the other hand, the film could also have been much worse.  As it is, `In Too Deep' respects the seriousness of both its subject matter and its audience and provides a number of powerful scenes - factors for which we are grateful but which also make us yearn for the high quality film that might have been.  "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  In Too Deep is a urban drama that was overlooked in 1999. Omar Epps is good in the lead role a J. Reid/Jeffery Cole an undercover cop who begins to lose his mind while trying to get close to God ( a drug lord) played very effectively by LL Cool in one of his best performances ever. The direction and cinematography are very good and the film features cameos from rappers Nas, Stickay Fingaz and Jeramine Dupri. While the film isn't as good as Deep Cover it's still worth a look. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  First of all I'll start by saying that In Too Deep is a watered down version of Deep Cover, but that's not really a bad thing.The movie looks, sounds and is acted in a very well put together way. The characters are even memorable, even LL COOL J's God, is really effective. He's a family man, but a notorious and mean gangster all at once.The look at what going undercover can do to one's mental well being is a really sharp and involving look. Stanley Tucci, excellent, Nia Long, let her have her own movie,PLEASE!!, Omar Epps as J. Reid, very impressive. And look for Pam Grier, NAS, and a few others.A really good African American crime thriller, with heart. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  This movie is excellent. It has everything; lovable characters, crude humor, brief nudity, popular actors, well-written story, a ruthless but nice crimelord who calls himself GOD. Omar Epps plays Cole, an undercover cop who goes in too deep to stop God. At first he suspects he's a cop but after certain encounters with God's enimes; Cole proves himself. He takes it to far sometimes, then his boss stops him from undercover work but he quickly put back in. There nasty but funny scenes n this movie such as God cutting off the tongue of 1 of his enimes, then another, he shoves a pool stick in his butt. Defenitely a must-see film. Although the ending is not expected but nonetheless go see it! "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  This movie wasn't bad at all, in fact, I never rented when it was new because it just *looked* bad. It was actually almost an exact remake of Deep Cover, with many of the same elements. I suggest watching them back to back to see what I mean. There's the cop who starts to like, somewhat, his target, there's the beating up of a once trusted confidant on a pool table, there's the frequent meetings in out of the way places with his superiors. The only real drawback of this film is the love story, which did nothing but destroy all momentum the film had going, each and every time that subject came up. Edit that out and you'd have a great movie. "},{"Title":"Gripping thriller","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Very realistic portrayal of the Ohio drug crime scene and the tense tightrope walk an undercover officer had to do to nab the local drug-lord. The street talk and violence ring true. Reasonable performance by Omar Epps and a good one by LLCJ. I found the part of the movie where he takes a forced hiatus from his undercover role a little draggy though. The other members of the police force are lacking in conviction, but in my opinion, they are extras and their performance has very little relevance to the story. The criminal extras on the other hand, excel. And that is where it matters. , Overall, the movie compares well with the 2006 Leo Di Caprio- Matt Damon - Scorcese thriller. Definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"In Too Deep makes the grade.","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Despite the negative criticism leveled at In Too Deep for the notoriety of its violence, this superficial but entertaining urban police thriller is considerably less gory and graphic than Belly, last year's stylishly overwrought narcotics yarn. Anybody who remembers classic undercover cop capers, like Serpico, Rush, Deep Cover, New Jack City, Donnie Brasco, or even a Wiseguy or Miami Vice TV episode, should find In Too Deep ranks as a tolerably exciting but hopelessly derivative variation on a well-worn theme. Although Australian director Michael Angel Heart Rymer and Dead Presidents writer Michael Henry Brown and The Octagon scribe Paul Aaron stick to the formula, they have provided enough new material so that In Too Deep doesn't overdose on clichés.In Too Deep chronicles the predicament that undercover Cincinnati cop Jeff Cole (Omar Epps of The Mod Squad) confronts when he must prove he is not the heat but a home boy to a suspicious, big-time coke dealer. Worse, after he infiltrates the organization, Coe must never let the camaraderie that develops between the hoodlums and him interfere with his goal of busting him. Rymer and his scenarists dilute some of the suspense by unfolding the story in flashbacks as our hero lectures a class of Chicago rookies about the dangers of undercover work. Obviously, Cole will survive the ordeal intact no matter how treacherous the obstacles, because we see him after the fact rapping to rookies! Anti-climactic and predictable as In Too Deep remains, Rymer and his writers cobble together a serviceable actioneer with layers of atmosphere.Cole is fresh out of the police academy when he volunteers to go undercover for Captain Preston Boyd (Stanley Tucci of Big Night). Initially, Boyd is leery, but he lets Cole make a buy, and nothing terrible happens. The next time out things go haywire when Cole tries to bust two Latino coke dealers. Their imposing, steely-eyed mother grabs his crotch where the latest surveillance technology is nestled to hang the dealers. Cole dismisses this close shave and pleads for bigger game Dwayne Gittens. A refugee from New Jersey who has settled in Cincinnati, Gittens (L.L. Cool J) runs 80 per cent of the coke in town and calls himself 'God. According to Boyd, nobody has ever gotten close enough to Gittens to nail him. Posing as a drug dealer from Akron, Coe pursues Gittens, but he nearly dies when a duo of renegade dealers working for Gittens try to take him out.As J. Reid, Coe defends himself and caps one of the dealers, and then turns himself in to Boyd. Promptly taking Coe off the case, Boyd packs him off to a safe house in the sticks. While Cole cools his heels, Boyd signs him up for photography classes at a nearby university. Coe meets Myra (Nia Long of Love Jones) during a photo modeling session and the sparks fly. After a rip-roaring, gangsta-busting opening, In Too Deep shifts gears from an inner city shoot'em up to a chick flick in the country. Antsy as Coe is to bust 'God,' he goes over Boyd's head and cuts a deal with the D.E.A. Before you can say 'reload,' Coe shows up back in Cincinnati. 'God' is overjoyed to see him and apologizes for the slip-up. Jeff Cole grows so obsessed with arresting 'God' that he crosses the line between good and evil and his undercover gangsta persona overshadows who he really is. Eventually, the transformation becomes complete. When he tries to see Myra, she vows to have nothing to do with him.Although In Too Deep imitates many earlier undercover cop movies, several things differentiate it. Happily, the producers selected a city other than New York, Los Angeles, Miami, Chicago, or San Francisco as the setting for their film. The Cincinnati police uniforms with their white kepis make the cops look like AFJROTC cadets. Even though he doesn't say much as Coe's superior, Stanley Tucci delivers his lines with none of the usual loud-mouthed antics of the stereotypical police captain. Tucci's voice is so crisp and commanding that you hang on his every word that way you might with Anthony Hopkins. The filmmakers know when to turn up the hip-hop music and when to turn it off, especially during the obligatory romance between Coe and Myra where the music lightens up to reflect the intimacy of the situation. Finally, Rymer and company conclude the action with a less-than-gratuitous gunfight that leaves the villain standing so that he can be convicted and sentenced to two life terms in prison. Typically, the villains die a horrible death in these movies.Omar Epps has more to do as an undercover cop in In Too Deep than he had in The Mod Squad. At times, when he dons an obvious wig, he resembles a young Yaphet Kotto. Nevertheless, he creates a sympathetic cop, and he doesn't perform any fake heroics or stunts that an ordinary man couldn't match. Epps convincingly captures the dilemma that his psychologically warped out detective succumbs to when his bad guy persona gains control of him. Meanwhile, rapper L.L. Cool J forges a memorable villain in Dwayne 'God' Gittens. . In Too Deep qualifies as an above-average entry in the drug bust genre, though it pales by comparison with New Jack City, Donnie Brasco, or Serpico. Sloppy scripting sometimes mars the overall sense of believability. After Cole busts the Latino drug dealers, he waltzes out of his house amid a swarm of cops, and a friend of the family spots him. Later, she tells one of 'God's' henchmen, and Coe has to prove himself again. The measure of Cole's success is reflected in 'God's' decision to ignore this cry of warning. Fluid, kinetic helming by Michael Rymer keeps the action moving ahead at a swift clip that rarely slackens off, except in the romantic moments. The villains aren't cupcakes, and the hero's plight is no picnic. If you enjoy slam-bang cop thrillers, In Too Deep makes the grade. "},{"Title":"Donnie Brasco for the 1990s","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  A superb, tense thriller that can be placed alongside Donnie Brasco (I mean, of course, Agent Joseph Pistone's book, not the dreadful movie, full of lies and awful changes, that was based on it). In Too Deep is powerful, dark, gripping and keeps you in uncertainty of what's going to happen till the very end. A very realistic experience, with attention paid to the tiniest details and legalities - this isn't your average stupid Tarantino flick where undercover cops go around happily shooting anyone they want whenever they feel like it; this feels almost *real*! I doubt if the movie was actually based on a true story of an undercover policeman (unless the story is the obvious fact that thousands of policemen risk their lives every month working undercover all over the world), but if anything like it ever happened, you can safely bet that it happened exactly the way the movie tells it. Highly recommended, especially for anyone interested in true crime. I hope it comes out on DVD, with extras and specials - this movie deserves it. If while reading Donnie Brasco (NOT while watching its stupid film version...) you ever wondered what it would be like if moved to the 1990s, In Too Deep will answer your questions! (By the way, have you noticed that God looks somewhat like a thin Suge Knight, while J-Reed looks a bit like an older version of Tupac Shakur...?) "},{"Title":"Great Soundtrack!","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" This is actually a very good film. A great watch, and tense all they way through. It was an incredible mix of scripting, acting, dialogue and cinematography that uncovered an understanding of truth on both sides of the issue.In this film, Omar Epps plays a rookie, undercover cop, whose first small assignment actually leads him into the number one crime syndicate in all of Cincinnati. The inexperienced cop uses his urban upbringing and street smarts to get him to the top, where he really has to decide which side he wants to be on. Also LL Cool J showed that he had much talent in acting as in Hip-Hop music. Omar Epps is also great, and Nia Long, nice eye candy from fresh prince of Bel Air and Stanley Tucci, who added further weight to the cast. The soundtrack is great too, especially at the end with the Mobb Deep track, it's a perfect fit.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Like Deep Cover &#150; not as good but a bit more hip and pretty good","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Starting out his undercover career with small scale drug busts, Jef Cole is soon enlisted to go after the main dealer, known locally as God.  When he gets in too deep and kills a dealer who moves up on him, Jeff is sent away to a remote spot to recover.  When a chance meeting with a FBI agent reveals that no other officer has got close to God since then, Jeff offers to go back under &#150; but can he avoid going native?I taped this simply because of the cast and I must admit I didn't expect much from it.  I knew from the plot summary that it was going to be a version of Deep Cover, but with more rappers!  However I did actually quite enjoy it.  The plot, while not original, is actually pretty good fun to watch.  The only thing that slowed it down was the seemingly pointless addition of the romance subplot which took the wind out of the film without adding anything to it.  The main plot though is quite energetic and exciting &#150; the question of whether Jeff will go `in too deep' or not is pretty moot simply due to the nature of the film but it is still good.Although in many films, rappers stand out as giving poor cameos etc, here they all do well.  In fact the soundtrack is a good mix of hip hop all used to good effect.  The opening credits are stylishly shot and the director does a pretty good job of mixing a gritty street feel with some stylish flourishes.  The film feels very polished and professional rather the sort of cheap rubbish that many predominately-rapper cast films have been in the past few years.Speaking of cast, Epps does a good job as a leading man, he is a solid black actor who could be somewhere between Washington and Snipes in terms of abilities and genre.  LL Cool J does a good job, enjoying himself playing a bad guy.  He is actually quite a good actor simply because he picks projects that don't stretch his abilities.  Long is a beautiful woman but is wasted in a pointless role here &#150; she is worthy of more.  Support cast includes a long line of rappers & cameos etc who do reasonable jobs &#150; Sticky Fingaz is perfect in this type of role (albeit perpetuating a stereotype) and other faces include Pam Grier, Nas, Dupri and Mya.Overall this is a surprisingly enjoyable film that is criminally underwatched.  While not original it is solidly good fun and well made with the cast giving enjoyable performances. "},{"Title":"Omar Epps and the Rapper","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Since Ice T and Ice Cube successfully made the transition from rap music to feature films, Queen Latifah and LL Cool J have followed in their footsteps. LL Cool J makes a successful transition in this film alongside Omar Epps where he plays a gangster that runs a neighbourhood that Omar has to go under cover to bring to justice. "},{"Title":"A satisfying action drama","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie very satisfying and suspenseful.  Omar Epps is surprising and masterful as the lead playing an undercover cop.  Nia Long's presences, although window-dressing, is just as effective on screen.  Also, LL Cool J does a very convincing job as a drug lord. And Stanly Tucci brings the 'gravitas' and skill that's makes the core story work. "},{"Title":"Superb acting L.L. Cool J. and Omar Epps were outstanding!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  This movie delves deeply into the mind state and life of an undercover police officer. This movie can be compared to other movies such as; The Donnie Brasco Story, and Deep Cover.  This movie did a great job at showing the painful side of being an undercover police agent.  In Too Deep is a great action-packed movie with a resounding punch. The acting was great, from the actors who played as the main characters to the supporting actors and actresses. I give thumb ups to Omar Epps, L.L. Cool J. and Nia Long for a job well done.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad, But Not Great","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  This movie was pretty good i guess. There were a couple of things I didn't like1. They didn't give enough information about what was going the first two years he was undercover trying to take down GOD. He was undercover and then all of a sudden it's two years later in the film and he's gotten in too deep and has to hide out. They needed two spend more time on what happened in those two years i think.2. Felt like it the film dragged on/loose momentum just a little.2. Would have been nice to know what happened to the actual persons this story was inspired by.3. Omar Epps, although i think he's a great young actor, felt that his performance was kind of lame and flat except when he was playing the part of the undercover Jay Reid. "},{"Title":"It was ok...","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  But I think I liked this movie better, the first time I saw it. . .  When it was called New Jack City.  LL Cool J was good, but he's no Nino Brown (Wesley Snipes).  Almost everything we see here, was first seen in that 1991 classic.  From feeding the local poor, to the undercover cop getting close to the top, to the baby references (God had a kid, Nino's woman couldn't).Been there Done that.  "},{"Title":"This God shows no mercy","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  If you are looking for a non-stop movie full of tense moments and shady, back stabbing criminals, then by all means GO and see this movie.  LL Cool J has expanded his acting skills with this one; he definitely is NOT a good guy, and his performance as a drug lord named GOD is first rate.  Omar Epps is intriguing as the undercover cop who feels duty bound to bring him to justice while his boss(Stanley Tucci) just wants to take him off of the case because of fears for his safety.  Nia Long, sort of in a castoff role, is the on and off love interest of J.Reid(Omar Epps).  Overall, this movie has good performances and an especially chilling scene involving LL Cool J handing out severe punishment to one of his boys.  No disappointment here. Score it 8.9 out of 10.     "},{"Title":"Mediocre film with a lot of idle talent.","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Someday this will be the sort of movie that gets rented because Omar Epps is a big star and his fans didn't see this when it was released.There wasn't much WRONG with the movie, but there wasn't much to praise either.  I found it fairly slow and tedious at parts, and it never really built much tension around going undercover.  I compared it unfavorably to Reservoir Dogs it that aspect.I'm a big fan of Stanley Tucci, but he hasn't got much to work with here. That goes double for Pam Grier - her character isn't much more than a target for a few of Omar's attacks after he goes too deep. "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  This is a good, well constructed action film which involves an all black cast that is more than worth seeing. Actually, Stanley Tucci is in this - but he is always a pleasure to see. Omar Epps is the lead and shows a lot of promise, as a ghetto undercover cop who gets a little too entangled with his job.I have to say, LL Cool J is the best. It is a pleasure to see this man acting. He is scary as hell in this movie.I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Only an Average flick about Drugs and Crime...","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Michael Rymers look at an undercover cop infiltrating a east coast drug lord is unrealistic, at times entertaining but all-together only average. omar Epps is decent in the lead role, but LL Cool J's performance as the drug lord wasn't the best. Nia Long was nice eye candy and Stanley Tucci and Pam Grier were good enough in there roles. THis film isn't the most realistic though at times obviously drastic. THe screenplay is decent but the sequences of events indicated in it are just not what goes on. There's better films out there in this genre such as New Jack City and great stuff like Donnie Brasco. THis movie is only avearge 7/10 "}{"Title":"Pretty good but with flaws.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  An undercover cop is assigned to bust the biggest gang lord. That's pretty much the plot. Other than that, the focus of the movie is on the lifestyle of the gang and their leader, who literally names himself as God. The other part of the movie focuses on the undercover cop, who tries his best not to get torn between his job and actually joining the gang. IN TOO DEEP has its boring moments. Struggling to stay awake because it's either too unreal or too dull is understandable. But L L Cool J does a good job acting and so does Omar Epps. It's neat seeing those two interact, but would you spend your hard earned money on just that? "},{"Title":"Standard undercover cop drama done well but ends without much drama","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Rookie cop Jeffrey Cole (Omar Epps) works in the narco unit and shows skills posing in the drug world. Preston D'Ambrosio (Stanley Tucci) is the captain. Dwayne Gittens (LL Cool J) is the leader of a drug gang calling himself God. Jeff goes undercover as J.Reid to take down God. He gets introduced by Breezy T (Hill Harper) and befriends the headman. He proves himself in a drive-by and deliberately missing shooting seemingly wildly. Things don't go smoothly when God's men try to rob him. Jeff fights back and shoots them.It's not flashy. It's not original. I like Omar Epps. I like Stanley Tucci. I especially like the fact that Jeff's handler Preston is much more by the book. I like that the story takes place in Cincinnati rather the normal NYC or other bigger iconic cities. The pose-a-thon normal for this genre is kept down... except for LL Cool J. There is something about him that always seems Hollywood. He never seems like a real gangster to me but rather posing as one. That's OK to a point. I can't fault a gangster who calls himself God for some Hollywood posing. Omar Epps is great and he shows that he has the acting skills. This is a gritty urban black version of many movies everybody has seen before. It would even be better if the ending was more compelling and more gritty. It ends without much drama. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Action is a genre that is known for being way out there in terms of realism, with ridiculous special effects, shotty dialouge, and bad acting. Seldom is an action movie really focused on the story, instead it's always about the man who can do the impossible. In Too Deep was different though because it was based on a true story and there really weren't any expensive special effects. In this film, Omar Epps plays a rookie, undercover cop, whose first small assignment actually leads him into the number one crime syndicate in all of Cincinnati. The inexperienced cop uses his urban upbringing and street smarts to get him to the top, where he really has to decide which side he wants to be on. In Too Deep featured a great, real life story, that was on the level, I really enjoyed this film. On top of that Epps and LL Cool J were terrific opposing each other and giving strong performances. What I didn't care for was the blatant racism from Director Michael Rymer. Everything was very well done, but it is very obvious that the Writer/Director of this film was white, while the majority of the cast was black. What I witnessed was a film where all the people in charge were white, all the thugs were black, but it didn't end there. The white people spoke eloquently, while even the black officers and other non-affiliated cast members all spoke street. Every person from the rookie cops aging father to the man who ran the convenience store were dropping F bombs left and right, adding man to every other word, and constantly saying the N word. I understand the point of this movie was to be real, but part of that realism was that this gang had never been infiltrated because of how smart they were. Instead of being portrayed as smooth and savvy, the leaders of the gang were portrayed as ignorant thugs and that really takes away from the film. "},{"Title":"Very Very legit movie!","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" First off I would like to say what a hell of a movie and story plot. Second for anyone who craves all them great movies like menace 2 society, Boyz in the hood, Juice, Training day.... Will love this movie. I will start of by saying LL Cool J is a very legit gangster and drug lord. Second off i knew Omar Epps was a very talented actor... But I never knew he was this talented! This movie starts of really slow but the realism starts right at the beginning. I don't really wanna say much there is no spoilers on this its just a review for people who still have not watch this masterpiece! Pretty much this is all i gotta say for the most part! I mean i know this is not too helpful its my first review so I'm sorry if I'm rough around the edges ill get better as i go along... its just one of them movies that is worth writing about and reviewing. If I have wasted anyones time I'm very sorry in every way! "},{"Title":"Superior narc movie","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Omar Epps plays an undercover cop trying to catch a drug lord played by LL Cool J. He wins the trust of the drug lord and that's when the trouble starts as he gets in too deep and starts identifying with the crooks. Both the leads are great especially Cool J who plays his bad guy character as an intelligent reasonable guy who can nevertheless be extremely vicious when he has to be.Two complaints. This movie is almost entirely black people and they all talk with that Hollywood jive talk and it just sounds unnatural to me. Lots of is you cool with that, bro? and get that outta my face, bitch. Do blacks really talk like that all the time? Another problem is the hero cop has a girl friend and the movie spends lots of time on that silly romance even though it has nothing to do with the real story. "},{"Title":"NOT IN OVER ITS HEAD","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  IN TOO DEEP is a movie that packs a good punch, violence wise. This film may shock you if you are not a seasoned movie vet(like myself). Aside from the violence and bad language, IN TOO DEEP gives us a nice look at what undercover police work might look like. This film is well acted by the whole cast(especially LL COOL J) and includes a hip sound track that adds to the films look and feel. The point of the film is about an undercover cop that tries to work his way into a drug king pin's dealing business in order to bring him down. This is a well done movie and I recommend it to those who like action and rap. I give it one thumb up. Rated R for STRONG VIOLENCE, A SCENE OF TORTURE, STRONG LANGUAGE, A SCENE OF SEXUALITY, AND BRIEF NUDITY. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  In Too Deep is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  God and J Ried are so perfectly developed charactors, when he looks into that mirror and stares for a second, you can almost feel him losing himself, his reality.  The symbolism is great, along with two charactors are deep and emotional. The ending line with god, youre not a cop j reid, youre a sellout.  thats inspiration as is the last line of the movie.  'Were talking about your life here.  Youre life.'  Great quotes like this along with an exceptional storyline make this one of the most under-rated movies in US history. "},{"Title":"Familiar cop drama.","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  The title is a misnomer; In Too Deep is shallow and rushed. There isn't one original idea to be found anywhere in this film; you'll recognize scenes taken from movies you haven't even seen! The beginning-at-the-end structure eliminates most of the suspense as well. But if you insist on watching the film, be sure to rent the DVD version with optional English subtitles, because only about 50% of the dialogue is comprehensible.     (**) "},{"Title":"Hardly Original But Watchable Enough","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Originally tonight's late night movie on BBC 1 was going to be the pierce Brosnan thriller DEATH TRAIN but because of a terrible train crash down in England a few days ago the BBC must have changed their mind in a similar way to some US stations changing their mind about showing SAVING PRIVATE RYAN while there's a war on so instead the BBC showed this gritty urban thriller .  The film contains very strong language , violence and scenes viewers may find disturbing  said the announcer which led me to believe the station might have been better of showing a comedy if they were going to change the schedule Yes indeed IN TOO DEEP does contain strong language and scenes of violence , I sure hope the bad guy chalked his pool stick before taking his shot . From the outset it's obvious what the story is about and where it's heading , an undercover cop infiltrates a drugs gang and ends up going native so right away you're reminded of NEW JACK CITY , DONNIE BRASCO and the little seen British thriller I.D . It's hardly ground breaking but it is entertaining enough if you like streetwise urban thrillers . If I have two criticisms it's the clichéd dialogue which sound like the opening sequence of the Aphex Twin music video WINDOW LICKER ( Do all homies talk like this ? ) and the very abrupt ending Six out of Ten "}]