[{"Title":"A good ride, good actors, some flaws.","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"58 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Last week, as I considered ordering this DVD, I checked the IMDB rating and saw a fair 6.5.  Since I like Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson, I placed the order. Like most roller coasters, I found it to be a good ride and Jones and Jackson did very credible jobs.  The flaws in the movie have been correctly pointed out by numerous other reviewers.  I was somewhat surprised that some of the most critical reviews were by US viewers.  I fully understand how non-US citizens would be irritated by the stereotypes. I found it to be a very exciting movie from my particular perspective (US citizen, military family, male over 45). The scenes of combat when the marines are ordered to the US embassy in Yemen to safeguard our state department personnel were VERY well done, even to the point of gripping.  The court scenes and conflicts of evidence or lack of evidence were interesting to me and I also understood, but did not agree with, the aims of the State Department.  I don't think some of the reviewers are aware of what a person might do in such an extremely stressful situation as that of Colonel Childers (Jackson).  It was fascinating to me to see what he did do and how he and others looked back on it.  I would have given Rules of Engagement a 9 or 10, but for the flaws.  It's a good movie though and well worth renting.  It's an 8. "},{"Title":"History as told by the victors","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"50 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING!!!While this film has some good moments and strong performances from Samuel Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones (and a disappointing one from Ben Kingsley), I couldn't help but remember the Chewbacca Defence from South Park while watching the courtroom scenes This makes no sense!.A marine colonel claims he gave the order to fire on a crowd, killing 83 people and wounding more than 100, ALL of whom were supposedly firing at his people with sub-machine guns and pistols - yet NOBODY else saw these weapons, not even the other marines who were returning fire (except, possibly, the three who died). Supposedly, none of them saw the weapons even AFTER the crowd was mown down.The Yemenis then supposedly came in and removed every weapon, every spent cartridge, and - and this is REALLY ridiculous - every bullet and bullet-hole (the defence lawyer is told that all the shots came from snipers with rifles, and photographs a few bullet holes, but finds nothing to contradict this, throwing grave doubt on the colonel's judgement that the crowd was more dangerous than the snipers).A videotape (destroyed by the National Security Advisor) shows the crowd shooting, but not one slug from any of those weapons is ever discovered. Were they all firing blanks? And why would the NSA and the ambassador (whose life was saved by the colonel) rather see a war hero executed than an aging ambassador lose his job and the Yemeni government embarrassed? (Maybe if it was Saudi Arabia, or Iraq in the 1980s, but Yemen?)The court-martial then decides to believe that a videotape that they haven't seen, the existence of which can not be proven, vindicates their officer. Despite the glaring lack of any evidence to support his story and a mass that contradicts it, they acquit him. To believe this, you have to believe that the military will believe EVERYTHING they're told by one of their own, or protect them from the consequences even if they don't. The NSA and the ambassador are then blamed (okay, that's believeable if there was a change of government in between. They're political appointees, after all).If this had been told RASHOMON style, without us seeing the videotape (or if the tape had been inconclusive), we could choose who to believe. Or if Jones's character had uncovered ANY evidence that supported the colonel's story or contradicted the official version, rather than making it a matter of faith. Instead, it's impossible to believe the film at all. "},{"Title":"Insight and Drama","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Headed by two unnerving performances, this film takes us on a journey through the gray area that is our military morality today.  We live in a society insulated from realistic depictions of war.  We get censored CNN and FOX news.  We rarely get anything insightful, so it is a pleasure to have HOLLYWOOD offer up one of the most moving anti-military films in the past ten years.  While the courtroom drama is by all means standard, the most unique attention is paid to the changing  perception of TLJ's character. In his journy to defend, he comes to an all too real understanding of a culture whose leaders have no problem sending our boys to die, yet they themselves are either ignorant of the reality, or to politically motivated to be moved by it.  In conclusion, this is an alienating film because it presents an alien culture that lives by its own moral code.  That alien culture isn't middle eastern... it is our own military.One more point; Watching this film post 911 gives it an all too creepy reality. "},{"Title":"Not as good as A Few Good Men but well worth watching","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"32 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This is a military court martial movie with a few similarities to A Few Good Men. It did not have as much suspense, but overall it was still quite good. I thought the situation in Yemen made it very applicable to current day problems in Arab-American relations. The movie was released before the USS Cole attack, which reinforces the possibility of the event in question in the court-martial. I don't think the massacre that occurred would have been quite so bloody in a real world situation though.The performances of Tommy Lee Jones, Samuel L. Jackson and Guy Pearce were very good. Probably no Oscars here, but well worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Disengaged","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"28 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  SPOILERS COMING UP DO NOT READ THIS REVIEW IF YOU'RE INTENDING TO SEE THIS MOVIENew to UK satellite television's Box Office pay-to-view channel, this movie comes with a cautionary warning from the channel that 'in view of recent events', viewers may find 'certain scenes upsetting'.  Well yes. Almost all of 'em, in fact. But they're upsetting less on account of any contemporary resonance that might echo in the wake of 9/11 -- truth to tell, there isn't any such resonance, anyway -- and rather more because of the realisation that one has coughed up £3 25p in order to view a movie with so little idea of the rules of engagement where audiences are concerned that writer and director ought to get back (or possibly,enroll) in the nearest neighbourhood film school as soon as possible.The plot is downright daft, the characterisation awful, and the script, dire. Jackson's military hero is self evidently anything but, and Jones's about-to-retire-in-two-weeks-lawyer straight from a cupboard in central casting (the shelf below the about-to-retire-in-two-weeks detective).For Jones in particular, the about-to-retire bit is inadvertently cruel in the preliminary 1968 flashback shot he already looks as though he was born with the century, his noble visage defeating all of Friedkin's technical wizardry -- i.e., getting the actor to wear an oversize hat to cover most of his face -- to assert otherwise.When it isn't daft, it's risible a couple of weeks after being machine-gunned and having one of her legs amputated, the six-year-old victim is out of hospital and miraculously adept with her crutches (whilst other victims of the same blood bath still lay in their hospital beds with the same bullet holes and blood stains).An evil National Security Adviser (well yes, he would have to be evil, wouldn't he?) steals a video tape that wouldn't have excused Jackson's behaviour anyway, even though the film plainly thinks so.Lawyer and hero have a Wayne/McGaglan-style fight after the lawyer realises how indefensible his client truly is, and then having rolled around smashing each other up and the studio set, bond together in macho male laughter. Appealing? Right. Nothing like having a laugh with a mass murderer to cement an audience's sympathy.And so it goes on incredbility piled on incredibility, the film with neither a moral core nor even a moral fix on its cardboard characters.Someone, somewhere though, evidently thought audiences would be engaged by this dross and leave their brains behind an excruciatingly awful end credit sequence actually has the temerity to chronicle the post-film fate of the movie's characters -- National Security adviser arrested, Ambassador arrested, military hero acquitted of all charges --as if for one moment anyone could ever believe them to approximate to real people.Unfortunately, the only reality of Rules of Engagement is its utter awfulness. Amidst so much gunfire and blood letting, the loudest sound is of Friedkin shooting himself in the foot. "},{"Title":"Can't believe they did it.","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Film opens with US marines in an embassy surrounded by aggressive protesters, trying to rescue diplomatic staff in a random Arabian country (Yemen). Marines are entrenched on the roof while crowd is raging beyond, targeted by some sporadic fire. Till now, nothing wrong. Certainly a quite realistic situation getting out diplomatic staff in dangerous areas is not always a peaceful job, particularly when surrounded by hostile population often manipulated by propaganda. Period. So marines are caught under fire, in uncomfortable position. Colonel played by S.L.Jackson is doing his best to have situation run smoothly. He asks soldiers to wave down the US flag. In the process about 3 marines get shot (some wounded, some dead, can't remember exactly) by some snipers we can't locate in the whole turmoil. That's some kind of war, and not exactly a clean one. Period.Then the madness thing begin Jackson's character orders soldiers to... WIPE OUT THE CROWD!!!! WOMEN AND CHILDS!!! Not firing warning shots, not push them back firing rifles and machine-guns on full auto mode ON THE CROWD!!!Could hardly believe it. From that point, I was thinking of the film being about a good soldier, with morals, being doomed for having made wrong choice in a situation he simply lost control. Explaining that soldiers often are in situation they have to take crucial decisions in critical situation, while being, in the end, only human beings and so committing mistakes. A kind of tragedy in Greek sense.No way. The rest of the film will be about the colonel being a true hero, and will even try to convince us that he was right when giving the orders for that slaughter. So the trial begins. Can't say it's objective. First Jackson's character is a former Vietnam hero, and he's a good guy as he saved TL Jones' character there, another Vietnam veteran who will be his lawyer. On the other hand, opposing military attorney is a young aggressive, ambitious white collar without any battle experience. Too smart to be trusted. All the people prosecuting Jackson are depicted as cowards, and dishonest persons whose only objective is making Jackson a scapegoat (while gov has actually nothing to do with col's decision as he never got any order from above). Government agents even hide evidences that may give credit to Jackson. There I need some explanation why would government make disappear some evidences that their soldiers acted in the right way, yeah why?Anyway after some dull trial movie bits, incredible story holes and laughable pieces of speech, Jackson will receive absolution from a retired Vietnamese general (which in the same run solves all those pesky problems of guilt about Vietnam, thanks). Jury will buy it immediately and Jackson will be immediately freed without any serious charges and remorse.Actually director will even let us think that col was right, implying that some people in the crowd were certainly armed. Looks like he managed to refrain adding something like and anyway, if they had had weapons, they surely would have used them against our soldiers so that's the same.Lesson from this movie an American hero's honor worths more than 83 anonymous arabian lives. Thanks but we already knew that, just watch news. "},{"Title":"Interesting but too simplistic and lacking in courtroom sparks","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"23 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Years have past since Col Hodges and Col Childers were comrades in combat.  Hodges is now retired while Childers is still on active service in the Middle East.  When he is called in to help protect and evacuate the US Embassy in the middle of a riot, Childers orders his men to return fire despite not having any definite targets.  With a crowd of 80 dead, many women and children, the authorities are forced to go after Childers to have someone to blame.  Childers turns to his old friend to help defend him.With a pair of real heavyweights in lead roles I was quite looking forward to this film.  It is quite easy to get into the film as the opening 40 minutes are pretty exciting and shocking in equal measure &#150; it forces you to think where you stand on the action taken by Childers in both past and present.  However as the film goes on the moral debate becomes simplified and it is clear where we are being steered, as opposed to being allowed to think things out for ourselves.  The `debate' or thoughtful side is lost and we are left with the courtroom drama side of things.I'm not a big fan of courtroom thrillers as they often rely on unlikely twists at the end and lots of shouting in place of substance.  However I do enjoy the odd one if it hangs together and has energy.  However, the courtroom scenes here never really get off the ground and surprisingly (given the emotive subject) really lack energy and twists.  Even the conclusion of the film is a real damp squid, the verdict is simply delivered, so if you're expecting twists and turns and big revelations forget it.  Inexplicably, the film puts up two or three captions over the final shot to tell us more information &#150; for some of these the film would have been much more exciting if it had worked these into the final 20 minutes of the film.  To have them as flat words on a screen is pointless (especially since this isn't a true story!).Jones and Jackson both do good work, as you'd expect for a pair of tough nuts such as they.  Jackson has the better character (until the script weakens itself).  Pearce is OK in support but the script doesn't give him too much to work with, his side of the case is easy of course, so the film stops him overpowering the court case at the same time as it simplifies it's stance.  Support from faces such as Kingsley, Archer, Greenwood and Underwood is OK but in some cases are so brief to be cameos.Overall this starts well, but it fairs to really involve once the moral debate side of the film is simplified and phased out.  The question `what would you do' is rendered null and void with each flashback Jackson has.  The courtroom scenes barely fizzle let alone ignite the screen and the film putters to a poor ending that is badly done.  Worth seeing with good performances from the leads but still a pretty big disappointment. "},{"Title":"Despite a Classy Cast, Not Much Doing","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement fits comfortably into that genre of military film in which the motivations inherant in the human character are subverted for the motivates of the The United States Marines. Assinine personal decisions can just be tossed off as being part of The Code. Unlike A Few Good Men, still the best of its kind, Rules of Engagement falls flat because even as none of the character actions make sense, nothing is surprising either, and that is the biggest sin of all.This is all unfortunate, since Rules of Engagement was made by a lot of people who should know better. Or who at least once knew better. The recent rerelease of The Exorcist and a repeat viewing of The French Connection contrasted with this film can only lead viewer to a simple conclusion At one point William Friedkin was a master of his craft, knowing how to tell a compelling story with a unique visual style. He can't do that anymore. It's shocking just how dull the early scenes in Vietnam and Yemen feel. There's no tension and at a certain point you just want the characters to move on. Friedkin isn't helped by the fact that usually reliable cinematographer William Fraker (a five-time Oscar nominee) has given the film a murky look, often mislighting actors, unless the purpose was to make everybody look bruised.When all is said and done, only Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson are given fully developed characters. Even though they're often forced to say stupid things (Out of nowhere Jackson has an overly expositional insult about Jones's alcoholism,  a problem that hadn't been mentioned previously and was never relevant afterwards),  these actors are always reliable. The film's other interesting performance come from Guy Pearce, whose American accent is frequently preposterous, but unlike LA Confidential (where Pearce gave a fuller overall performance), the accent remains mostly consistant throughout.The film's other actors are stranded without resolutions for their characters. Ben Kingsley and Anne Archer, as the weak Yemeni ambassador and his wife,  are left stranded. Ditto Bruce Greenwood (so consistantly excellent as wounded heroes in Atom Egoyan films, and so badly wasted as one dimensional heavies in American movies), whose narrative arc involving a videotape is woefully without payoff.In the end,  Rules of the Game offers nothing new, and nothing surprising. The solid acting by the leads fits into this rubric of normality, but as does the absolute apathy the film produces.I give it a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Break these Rules","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  What a mess.  Sleepwalking performances by two otherwise very fine actors (Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson), impossible plot holes, the use of every military and courtroom cliche imaginable, an awful script, and a continual need to suspend the viewer's disbelief.  It's hard to believe such a good cast (including Guy Pearce, Ben Kingsley, Bruce Greenwood, Ann Archer) give performances that are either sad or so brief you wonder if they left much of this film on the cutting room floor.  Not that it would have mattered--very little could have saved this disaster. "},{"Title":"A Bit Contrived, But Very Entertaining","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"28 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" This story gets the viewer involved with it right away never lets up, with good performances all around, although Tommy Lee Jones stands out a bit above the rest. There are some outstanding action scenes in the first 30 minutes and if you have a 5.1surround system, it gets quite a workout. After that, the story settles down into a court battle. Its politics are typical Hollywood the government is corrupt with the main villain the National Security Adviser who burns a video tape that would clear a U.S. Marine colonel from being framed for murder. That colonel also is a black man which makes the story even more politically correct. Samuel J. Jackson plays that role, a Col. Terrry Childers. Jones plays his attorney, Col. Hayes Hodges. The two veteran actors play off each other very well.It gets even more dramatic when two other witnesses lie and make justice look almost impossible to attain in the case. But, dramatics aside, it's a good story and certainly an entertaining one. Once again, William Friedkin has directed a good movie. "}{"Title":"Morally disgusting, fundamentally confused, poorly constructed, blatantly manipulative.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Let's take those points in turn.(1)  Okay, killing 83 civilians and injuring 100 more is something that can happen to anyone; what's amazing is that Terry Childers feels neither remorse nor regret.  He's surprised that he's even being tried.  (He's not, it must be said, the brightest of men.)  His defence?  When he deigns to justify his actions to people who haven't themselves killed anyone, all he can say - although he says it with an amazing tone of wounded moral outrage - is, They killed ... THREE ... MARINES!  Oh, well, in THAT case ... I mean, it's not as if the 83 Yemenites were MARINES.  (By the way, I wish the Americans would drop that ridiculous word, marine.  It makes it sound as of some of their soldiers have gills.)  It's obvious that the film shares Childers's attitude.(2)  And yet, and yet ... Friedkin doesn't hesitate to give us lingering shots of all the dead and wounded civilians.  What is he saying?  Yes, this is tragic, but...  But what?  He doesn't have anything to say after the but.  It's as if he thinks he can show the people of Yemen respect by offering them screen time - the more screen time, the more respect.  -And another thing if Friedkin has any idea what he thinks the trial was ABOUT, I wish he'd let us know.  Does he think that Childers is technically innocent on all three charges?  I'm glad someone is in a position to tell; we're certainly not, since we never find out in enough detail what the legal issues are (what kind of conduct IS conduct unbecoming a marine?), and anyway, this is one of those grandstanding trials in which neither side makes a coherent case, or wants to.(3)  Do we care what happened 28 years earlier in Vietnam?  Do we have reason to care?  Of course not.  This lengthy prologue is there simply to make the film seem twice as ridiculous (Tommy Lee Jones looks, if anything, older in 1968 than in 1996; the statement If you call off your men, you can go free; you have my word.  If you don't, I swear I'll kill you where you stand! gets translated into just five syllables of Vietnamese), and to give characters a past, as if any old past will do.  The trial begins at precisely the wrong time just when our exhaustion with all the setting-up has led us to believe that the end of the film can't be far off, but early enough so that it feels in retrospect as if the film is all trial.  It would be better if it really were.(4)  As for blatantly manipulative, where do I begin?  With the soundtrack?  You know the kind - muted snare drums, more-in-sorrow-than-in-anger solo trumpets ...it never varies from one piece of American military sentimentalism to the next.  (This particular score is due to Mark Isham, but I can't blame him.  I'm sure he had no choice.)  Or how about the ambassador, who we see snapping petulantly into the phone, hiding under the table, and - gasp! - forgetting to take the American flag with him when he leaves.  Gee, I wonder if he'll turn out to be a coward?  And what about his son, who steals screen time solely in order to look up with his big puppydog eyes and ask some, faux naïve, mummy-why-are-those-people-shouting-at-us questions?  Then there's the trial, with a charm-laden Tommy Lee Jones defending and some bug-eyed weevil prosecuting....  How much more effective this trial would have been if the prosecutor had had, at the very least, silkiness - if he hadn't been someone who could be counted upon to lose the case simply by rubbing the jury the wrong way.  Bah. "},{"Title":"flawed","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I loved it. But at a second viewing, I realized with dismay that there was a major discrepancy in it that invalidated the entire point of the film. Almost every movie has a goof or an inconsistency, and while that annoys me sometimes it usually doesn't take away from the overall value of the film Silence of the Lambs, a great movie, has no fewer than four major inconsistent or contradictory moments in it. The problem with this movie is that the contradiction goes to the very essence of the movie's theme. Briefly, the plot goes thusly Samuel Jackson is in charge of a unit of Marines which is sent to an unspecified US embassy to protect it from increasingly hostile mobs. At some point, the mob becomes violent and, more, begins attacking the embassy. Jackson spirits out the ambassador and his wife, along with other staff, and then defends the embassy. Finally, he gives the order to fire into the crowd that is stoning and shooting at the building, and the unit does so with devastating results. When the smoke clears, dozens lie dead and many more wounded, including many women and children, and not a weapon is in sight. The resulting furor and outrage leads to a court-martial for Jackson. The central thesis of the film is that Jackson and Jackson alone saw the weapons. For reasons which are explained but are not totally convincing, a State Department employee destroys the surveillance tape from the embassy which clearly shows the weapons being fired by the mob. The rest of the movie describes how Jackson is defended by Tommy Lee Jones, who undertakes his own investigation.This whole thesis falls apart, however, when you watch the scene where the Marines begin firing into the crowd. There are two impossibilities here that Friedkin (the director) asks us to swallow 1, that an entire platoon of Marines --roughly thirty men-- rise up over the wall, aim their weapons and fire for ten to fifteen seconds --and not a single one of them sees a weapon. Impossible. Even less possible 2, after the firing stops, all the weapons that were in the crowd (and shown on the surveillance tape) disappear --just like that! Where did they go? Thirty marines are standing on a rooftop not fifty feet away from the square, looking down at it, and all those weapons are taken away without them (or the tape) seeing it. Absolutely impossible.If this were a minor (or even major) discrepancy, but had no relation to the rest of the action, then I wouldn't even comment on it. But the entire movie rests on the idea that only Jackson saw what he did --and that is a flat impossibility. For me, that ruined what would have otherwise been a fine film. That is very poor writing. Too bad. "},{"Title":"Rules of Retardation","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I cannot say I fully comprehend precisely what the writers were thinking... well, in fact it is just plain puzzling. They wanted to write a courtroom drama but when it came time to actually think of a point for the court case they apparently just drew a blank and decided to massacre a load of civilians for no conceivable reason.The scene is just... ridiculous. So ridiculous I simply gave up watching. Samuel L Jackson (why is it every character he plays is called 'Samuel L Jackson'?) clearly sees the gunmen are on the roof when they fly in. The marines decide the best way of dealing with this situation is to run about on top of the ramparts and give the enemy a nice little game of duck hunt... rather than say, returning fire. Even if they had some standing order not to fire I think this rather gets superseded when half your men have just been shot...Then when it comes time to engage Sam decides the best thing to do is to fire into a crowd of people throwing rocks as opposed to actually shooting the people shooting him... just... why? It seems there are genuinely a hundred other ways they could have had their civilian massacre plot short of just having the guy order his troops to pointless massacre them. He could have called in some inaccurate fire on a position, a building could have collapsed into the crowd from taking suppressive fire... even if he had just slipped whilst trying to throw a grenade it would have been more plausible. Ultimately I would have carried on watching it if this scene made the slightest bit of sense. If he had ordered his marines to fire on the snipers on the rooftops and had some of the women and children that were visibly clustered amongst them take some hits they still could have racked up the inordinate body count they so craved. Perhaps we could even see one or two rookie marines shoot into the crowd after mistaking a rock for incoming fire only for Sam to order them to stop. The prosecution would then be that of a looking for a scapegoat to avoid an international incident and the audience would be on the side of the war veteran defendant.I gave up before the court case even started because frankly it would have been more plausible if they were trying to sue a unicorn from space for causing World War Three...I am annoyed that I watched the first half hour of preamble in what looked to be a good film with a good cast only to find that the writer is a goddamn retard. "},{"Title":"Vile Reprehensible Propaganda","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Without doubt this has to rate not only as one the worst films I've ever had the misfortune to view but also as one of the most disgusting. The moral basis of this movie is so unbelievably stomach churning and inhumane that it beggars belief. In my innocence I never believed such views and perspectives could actually make it onto the big screen where they could poison the minds of the impressionable. The whole movie amounted to a demonization of the evil nasty Yemenese people who seem to be quite a mindless bunch of rock-throwing gun-toting terrorists if you believe the spin this movie throws at you, and at the same time a rationalisation of a mindless bloody massacre by the U.S. marines. Surely any U.S. marines out there who have seen this movie must have been deeply offended at how they were portrayed. I reckon Dr Joseph Goebbels and his ministry of propaganda could have learned a lesson or two from this movie(propaganda flick). It defies belief that two fine actors such as Samuel L. Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones would consent to appear in rubbish like this, even though they gave quite good performances, despite the hole-ridden plot. Have they fallen on hard times or what is their excuse? The only reason I could possibly recommend this movie would be to illustrate how one goes about producing propaganda. There are so many flaws with this movie that I won't even begin to list them. One can't really appreciate how bad and vile it is until it is actually viewed, but do yourself a favour and avoid it like the plague. Terrible - morally reprehensible - vile!  "},{"Title":"Typical but well acted","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Rules of Engagement from 2000 is a fairly derivative film. Directed by William Friedkin, it's the story of two men, Colonel Terry Childers (Samuel L. Jackson), a 30-year Marine veteran and decorated officer; and Colonel Hayes Hodges (Tommy Lee Jones), now an attorney, a man with whom he fought and whose life he saved in Vietnam and has retired.Childers is sent on a rescue mission in Yemen that goes awry when the protesting crowd outside the embassy starts shooting at the Marines. Childers, who already has men down, orders his soldiers to fire into the crowd. He is able to evacuate the embassy but finds himself in trouble due to the fact that no one believes the protesters had weapons. He is put on trial and asks Hodges to defend him. Hodges doesn't feel he's a good enough attorney, but he agrees to take the case.There is a tape of what happened, but the head of security (Bruce Greenwood) who doesn't want the United States to take the rap for killing civilians and would rather have it fall on a soldier, burns it. And Childers gets no support from the Ambassador (Ben Kingsley) or his wife (Anne Archer), and the attorney on the other side (Guy Pearce) is out for blood.We've seen this film in various guises before, and the good versus evil is typical Hollywood. The acting is good but I have difficulty understanding the casting of Ben Kingsley, a great Oscar-winning actor, who is completely wasted in what is not even really a supporting role. Anne Archer plays his wife. The two have a small son and have been married for ten years. May I suggest that though it's entirely feasible that Archer at 43 had a child, the casting seems a little off. Often, when directors want a certain actor, the agency representing them agrees on the condition that the director take other people on his roster. I suspect this is what happened here; the casting is not quite right for these distinguished actors.Tommy Lee Jones in particular is good as Hodges, though he has the showier role. Samuel Jackson is always very good and gives a strong performance as well, but there's something very stereotypical about both parts. Bruce Greenwood at least is interesting casting - he seems pretty mild-mannered as the Head of Security, but there's a treachery underneath.All in all, this is an okay film, one where you know how it's going to end and basically what's going to happen while it's going on. We see two stars who have done their roles before in other circumstances. So in the end, while it has its moments, it's somewhat routine. One of those if you've seen one, you've seen them all type films. "},{"Title":"Manipulative","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Having just watched Rules Of Engagement, I have to say that although Samuel L. Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones are a joy to watch, I have to make some negative comments about this movie.The movie is extremely manipulative, and comes from the equally manipulative director of The French Connection, William Friedkin. The movie's bad guys, oddly enough, are a crowd of irrational arabs, together with career politicians who won't just let military men do what they have to do.The problem with the entire scenario is that the entire massacre could have been prevented with a couple of well aimed teargass grenades. Secondly, not a lot of time is spent on the character development of the 'bad guys', namely the Yemenis (in this case), who all seem to be very eager to die killing Americans, including their (the Yemeni's) toddlers. The later images of the little girl shooting a pistol is very manipulative indeed (oh, see, she deserved to get her leg shot off after all!).And thirdly, the incident most like it, namely the US Army Rangers debacle in Mogadishu, caused the death of 18 Rangers but 1000 Somali Mogadishuans, most of which were non-combatants. No-one seems to have been called to task for that event, let alone be thrown to the lions to appease public opinion, like Samuel Jackson's character is over a mere 83 deaths. (The same thing can be said for the invasion of Panama, where there was a similar death toll among civilians - the truth of the matter is that since WWII, conventional weapons have become infinitely more efficient, with the result that if conflict breaks out in built-up areas, _lots_ of civilians are killed.)However, the one redeeming value (other than the acting) is that it shines a light on the changed nature of the political war that is required of the modern soldier in places like Somalia, Bosnia, etc., and that started in Vietnam.  "},{"Title":"Worst Ending EVER","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT This movie had a lot of promise, great acting, great story, but the ending was pathetic. If it just would have ended after the verdict, it would have still been a bad ending, but to try to explain away the lack of closure, i.e. any of the crooked politicians getting their just due, by writing notes on the screen about what they want you to believe happened to them was ridiculous. You know the movie tested poorly, and so they had to scramble for something to help the story. I have an idea. How about FILMING the complete movie instead of offhandedly writing Oh, by the way, the NSA guy was fired. It would be like Star Wars ending as Luke flies into the Death Star, and then some writing saying,Luke got off a lucky shot, and the Death Star blew up, and Darth Vadar went spinning off into space, but then he gained control and flew away. The End. What a disappointment. I expected better. "},{"Title":"Terrific action but not good everything else","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" During the Vietnam War, Marine Terry Childers (Samuel L. Jackson) executes a prisoner to intimidate a North Vietnamese officer into calling off an attack on his unit and thereby saving the life of Hays Hodges (Tommy Lee Jones). Years later, Hodges is retired and Childers leads a group of Marines sent to relief the embassy in Yemen. Ambassador Mourain (Ben Kingsley) is begging to evacuate and Childers loses 3 men. He orders return fire and 83 civilians are killed. National Security Adviser Bill Sokal (Bruce Greenwood) is angry and intends to make Childers the scapegoat. Childers faces court martial and he asks Hodges to defend him. Maj. Mark Biggs (Guy Pearce) prosecutes.The first thing director William Friedkin has to decide is whether we root for Childers or not. Every step forward is followed by a step backwards. He's working at cross purposes with himself. The action scenes at the embassy are terrific. Friedkin is still at his best doing action. However he should hold those scenes for later in the movie. That way the movie can play with his guilt and innocence. Also the movie skimps on the CSI aspects. It's really questionable how everybody just skips over the snipers across the way. There were snipers but nobody cares. Also Greenwood is basically a cartoon villain. The politics is simplified to a ridiculous amount. The whole thing feels manufactured and not well done. Then the closing credits force a happy ending wrapped up in a nice little bow. That's almost as ridiculous as everything else. "},{"Title":"political movie","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" clearly a political movie that seeks to portrait all Arabs as potential terrorists, even the little girl. wonder what critics would have said if it had been a little Jewish girl being portrayed as a terrorist. probably would have been uproar. this however went unnoticed. the Israeli government couldn't have scripted the movie better themselves. an embarrassment to Samuel l. Jackson. ill be sure to research all his movies before watching more junk like this. written by the US army, says it all. cannot believe this junk was in movie theaters all over the world. should be banned. makes me sick to my stomach. three years after this pile of crap was released American soldiers invaded Iraq. "},{"Title":"Better than 6.3 currently given","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Although this has been called contrived the factual basis, is not only possible, it is probable given all the deployments of our military personnel for the time frame depicted. Moreover, this piece of trivia would go against that assessmentJames Webb provided the story for the film, based partly on his own military experience in Vietnam and his tenure as the Secretary of the Navy under President Ronald Reagan; in 2006, Webb was elected as Virginia's newest U.S. Senator.I am not sure why it was given a bad rap, but the courtroom scenes, especially with the prosecutor Guy Pearce, are some of the best I have seen depicted of a general court martial (I am an ex-JAG from the Navy). Moreover, the GCM result is also probable.The NSA who hides evidence is VERY believable. Loved the flick - it's now a guilty pleasure. I recommend it as capturing a scenario which could happen in at embassy in a Muslim country. As for production and direction, William Friedkin is a more than able director having won an Oscar for The French Connection and being nominated for another in The Exorcist. The cast includes notables Oscar winner Ben Kingsley, Oscar nominated Anne Archer, and the ubiquitous warrior Dale Dye to go along with Oscar winner Tommy Lee Jones and Oscar nominated Samuel L. Jackson. All in all, it was given short shrift perhaps because of politics. The story was more than exciting for the purpose. "}{"Title":"John Wayne would roll over in his grave if he saw Rules of Engagement","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" John (Sands of Iwo Jima) Wayne would roll over in his grave if he saw what director William Friedkin's Rules of Engagement does to the Marine Corp. This anti-climactic but patriotic 'Semper Fi' Rules concerns a heroic, 30-year veteran, Col. Terry Childers (Samuel L. Jackson), charged with murder when he orders his leathernecks to fire at an armed and angry mob threatening the U.S. Embassy in Yemen is gung-ho hokum. Not only do we know from the start that Childers did the right thing, but also scenarist Stephen (TV's The Practice) Gaghan never gives the prosecution much of a case. Spineless villains, shoddy scripting, and uninspired directing demote this epic. Compared with top-notch military courtroom dramas, such as Breaker Morant, Courage Under Fire, and Paths of Glory, (and even lesser ones like A Few Good Men), Rules qualifies as drab fatigue duty.This 'from the combat to courtroom' flashback-rippled G.I. issue saga opens in Vietnam in 1968 with Lt. Hayes Hodges and Childers on patrol when all hell breaks loose. North Vietnamese troops ambush Hodges' men and wipe them out. Meanwhile, Childers and his platoon capture the enemy radio operator and compel the commander at gunpoint to send the NVA packing. Childers shoots an unarmed enemy soldier in cold blood to show his resolve. The enemy officer relents and gives the order. Hodges owes Childers his life.In 1996, when the U.S. Embassy in Yemen comes under fire, the Pentagon sends in Childers and the Marines. What might have begun as a protest has escalated into a siege when the three choppers ferrying Childers and company arrive. Gunners on nearby balconies are firing into the embassy. Interspersed in the crowd are people with guns blazing away indiscriminately at the building. (Jingoistic as this movie is, all of the Muslims are naturally stereotypes.)The Marines storm the grounds under a hail of gunfire. Childers rescues a cowardly ambassador (Ben Kingsley of Species) cowering under his desk and escort him, his wife (Anne Archer in a tight-lipped performance), and son to safety. Eventually, the wild-eyed, unshaven Arab gunners stop missing and start hitting the Marines. Reeling from a near-miss bullet, Childers gives the order to mow down those mothers ! The Marines stand up and unleash a withering barrage of gunfire. Nothing moves afterward and everything is quiet. Eighty-three people die while another 100 are wounded. Predictably, the Yemen government denounces the shooting as an international incident. A despicable National Security Adviser Bill Sokal (Bruce Greenwood, Ashley Judd's reptilian husband in Double Jeopardy) destroys the only evidence that would indisputably exonerate Childers and brings in a martinet prosecutor (L.A. Confidential's Guy Pearce with a pugnacious five o'clock shadow) to hang Childers from the yard arm.Meanwhile, Hodges gets flak from his father and son about defending Childers, but he sticks with his friend and sees him through to the end. The happy ending is never in doubt in Stephen Gaghan's screenplay. When he isn't polishing The Hodges character is sketchy and all we have to go on is Jones interpretation. Basically, Tommy Lee is playing a guy who is going to fall apart at any minute. Hodges wins the case but not because he is a good lawyer, instead because Rules is such a feeble-minded melodrama. Added to all this is the low-key non-ending that wraps up the action.Gone are the days for William Friedkin. He once made solid, exciting movies with a pulse. The Exorcist, The French Connection, To Live & Die in L.A. and Sorcerer rank as his best. Friedkin hacks his way through a jungle of nonsense in Rules. The Vietnam firefight has none of Saving Private Ryan's riveting violence, while the embassy attack resembles a bad TV thriller where the body count must be low. The only thing remotely original about Rules is the way that the courtroom has been designed so that more actors can be seen in the same shot.As always, Samuel L. Jackson is first-rate. This jar-headed thriller doesn't deserve his charisma. Since Jackson originated his angry black man routine in Pulp Fiction, he has become the African-American version of Christopher Walken. He wears the role well, and you're convinced that he could put a cap into you. Jackson is a live wire, and he energizes Rules with his wattage. His performance blinds you to the flaws in his character and the script. If the Marine Corp is looking for a few good recruits, Rules of Engagement may scare them off. "},{"Title":"Absolutely dire film","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" One of the most laughably bad films I've seen in a long time. I watched this film on the basis that Jones and Jackson were in it and it offered the chance to realistically depict a politically sensitive event. The mowing down of a crowd of apparently unarmed Yemeni civilians by US Marines. Unfortunately, it was an opportunity missed. When the survivors of the massacre in the hospital were shown - including a young girl who'd lost her leg - I really believed that this was going to turn into a controversial thriller. I mean surely there could be absolutely no reason for killing and maiming children, women and old men? Oh hang on though, when the missing video tape is found...there we have a scene showing an old man, a woman and (just to show that they all deserved it) the young girl, firing their AK47's at the marines. Sickening! "},{"Title":"**This review may contain spoilers**","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I would rate this movie a 0/10 if I could! Rules of engagement written by John Webb ( former secretary of the navy) is obviously a political movie that portrays Arabs of both gender and all ages as terrorists. This movie is simply an instrument used to demons and dehumanize Arabs, and anyone who applauds to this movie is either null of intellect or is a racist who enjoys watching movies that demonetizes Arabs!At the beginning of the movie, US marines are in the US embassy in Yemen which is surrounded by aggressive and barbaric protesters. Here we see Arabs portrayed as a mindless barbaric race as they are attacking the embassy. The US marines then rescue the diplomatic staff, and afterward they are entrenched on the roof while the protesters are raging beyond. However when the Colonel (Samuel. L. Jackson) orders the marines to wave down the US flag, 3 US marines get gunned down by snipers. After the Colonel has lost 3 of his men, he then orders his men to open fire on the crowd, but one of his men claims that there are women and children amongst the crowd, but this didn't give the Colonel any second thoughts, he then shouts Waste those mother f****s!!'', and they eventually opened fire on the crowd causing the death of 83 civilians, including the innocent children and women. Here I was shocked. I didn't believe what I was watching. I was disgusted.After this horrific and bloody scene, investigations take place. The Colonel appoints his old friend Hodges (fought side by side with him in Vietnam) as his lawyer. Hodges then travels to Yemen in the hope of finding witnesses. Afterward, he was told there that the US marines have opened fired first. As he was roaming around, he finds a young Yemeni girl that has lost her leg due to the massacre, and follows her into a hospital. In the hospital he finds many children who are in the same bad condition as her. As he is leaving the hospital, he finds an audiotape on the floor which he have already seen many copies of the same tape in the streets of Yemen. During the trial, the audiotape gets translated it and we then discover that it is a tape distributed by the Islamic Jihad which orders Yemenis to obey God's command by killing every American in the embassy. Here, the movie continues to create a bad image for Arabs and Muslims, as they portray them as cold hearted killing machines that obey a political group that promotes terrorism.Even though Hodges has gotten himself a solid evidence, it was not enough to prove that the Colonel has did the right thing. By the end of the movie Hodges has gotten himself a solid evidence, he has found a tape that shows that the protesters attacked the US marines first, and it showed that the whole crowd were attacking the US marines, including women and children!! We suddenly learn that the little we were sympathizing with is no better than the other Yemeni terrorists. The Colonel is then freed from charges even though he has caused the death of 83 Yemenis!!! Basically, this movie is trying to tell us that an American hero's honor is worth more than the lives of 83 Arabs, and that the lives of 3 US marines are equal to the lives of 83 Arabs, and this movie also shows that Arabs of all ages and genders are terrorist.One thing that disturbs me the most is that in the age whereas the US government are fighting off offensive stereotypes of other groups, they have encouraged the stereotypes of Arabs. Since 1896 till the present, Hollywood are demonetizing Arabs and depicting them as terrorists, and as we are becoming more technologically advanced anti-Arab movies has increased massively in the last three decades just as more news reports in the print media, radio, and TV have focused on radical Arabs and bad guys since 1948. This has impacted on the way people see Arabs, people living in the Western world who have never been to the middle east would consider the two words Arab and terrorist synonyms as they constantly watch movies that depict Arabs as terrorists. Movies like Rules of Engagement that dehumanize Arabs can also cause many people to have Islamophobia, whereas people would feel unsafe and horrified in the presence of Muslims as they perceive them as terrorists, and the constant and repeated use of the structured images that vilifies Arabs may influence aggressive perceptions, actions, and emotions towards Arabs. Posterior to the 9/11 attacks, movies that vilifies Arabs have increased dramatically which means that the number of people that hate and fear Arabs have also increased, and unfortunately movies that contain the same old consistent pattern of hateful Arabs stereotypes that rob an entire population of their humanity is still present as Washington and Hollywood spring come from the same DNA(Jack Valenti). "},{"Title":"Worst soldiers I ever saw!","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" This movie had a great cast, could have been a good story, as Judge Judy says ..... Coulda - Woulda - Shouda! The marines arriving at the embassy had no idea how to deploy when under fire, they continued to run hither and thither across the parapet reminding me of the sideshow shooting gallery, not one of the marines actually tried to engage the shooters on the rooftops opposite, even though they were in plain sight and causing casualties. But the big problem with the movie in my opinion was the double filming of the crowd in the square fronting the embassy. FIRST) All the crowd shown were throwing rocks, an occasional Molotov cocktail, waving flags etc. not a gun in sight......... THEN) All of a sudden we are shown all of the crowd (even children & women) shooting with an assortment of arms up at the marines on the roof. Why did the director show us two different scenarios, either they had guns or they didn't, why show two completely different situations? If they had been shooting up from the square there would have been many bullet holes in the ceilings of the ambassadors rooms instead of bullet holes in the walls opposite the snipers positions (even though these gun men were the worst positioned snipers ever seen). Then when the orders are given to open fire the marines all of a sudden mow down the people in the square, not the gun men on the rooftops opposite. I can't imagine a real USA Marine watching this movie and believing the ridiculous actions of the soldiers at the embassy, at least I hope not. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" After serving a career in the Military, I definitely relate to every soldier in the story. I consider this a very honest portrayal, especially civilians misunderstanding the reality of 'Rules of Engagement'. These previous reviewers have no concept of the reality of combatA Flag is more important than Marine's life ? (This person should read about Francis Scott Key, Ft McHenry and those who died to keep the flag standing) http//www.historybuff.com/newsletter/july08.htmlThe ending was absurd! (The Corps, the Corps, the Corps - not understood by civilians.Propaganda at its best (Closer to truth than you know..!!) "},{"Title":"A rare, but rather clichéd, pro-military drama","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Often, in Hollywood films, the military and its interventions overseas are slandered or shown in a negative light it is common, today, for almost every war film to carry anti-military messages, for its soldiers to start questioning their actions and ideals and whether they are doing something good (heck, even WWII films seem to do it). That is not taking into consideration the many films involving government/military cover-ups, or flat-out abuses of power. Only action films tend to show pro-military stances today, and even then accompanied by some of the aforementioned contradictory messages.'A Few Good Men', a very good military court drama, is an example of my point. A military lawyer investigating a try at military cover-up, involving a severe (but implicitly 'common') military abuse of power? It pretty personifies what I mean about anti-military stances in today's films.'Rules of Engagement' is surprising in that it is the exact opposite of 'A Few Good Men'. A military officer is being charged for ordering fire on a group of 'civilians' during the evacuation of a Middle-Eastern US Embassy, and it is a military officer who must defend him as the government wishes to 'crucify' him to appease the world media.This is far from the kind of film you usually see today. A film that does not try to convey the idea that 'terrorism comes from the US's past actions!', like most 'liberal' directors/actors prefer to do, or that the military is just a bloodlusted organization that only wants an excuse to drop bombs everywhere. It is still the typical 'good vs evil' of Hollywood, but in a way it rarely employs.When you are a soldier, or police officer, or in any law enforcement position; when you are in the line of action, with your life in danger (of course, there is always a way to try and make such a situation subjective, which a character in the film tries to do by the way), THEN you will understand and comprehend one's actions, THEN you might criticize such actions. Criticizing what you don't know about is easy, not to say cowardly (another character says something similar to a critic at one point).Anyway, few people would agree to make a film like this. William Friedkin, a very competent and not usually biased director, is to be praised for his courage; as are, surprisingly, Samuel L. Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones, who tackle their roles with conviction and a good deal of quality. Both usually support the other side of the issue, so the fact they both agreed to work here and did it well is impressive. Other highlights are Bruce Greenwood and Guy Pearce.The action scenes in the beginning, when Samuel L. Jackson's character leads the Middle-Eastern operation, are good but a bit clumsy. Tommy Lee Jones steals the show for most of the film, and the courtroom confrontations with Guy Pearce are very good. However, the film more than indulges in the usual underdog, 'justice looks impossible but wins in the last second!' Hollywood cliché.This is not racist or anti-Arab at all; people are so used to the watered-down anti-terrorism Hollywood usually offers, when they see a movie being more incisive in its anti-terrorism stance they immediately cry foul (or, in this case, propaganda). It is commendable that they had the courage to make a film like this, and that they managed to make it entertaining as well. "},{"Title":"This film is anything but engaging.","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  After reading glowing review after glowing review, I thought I would be in for a treat.  This movie cheapens the spirit of the Marine Corps with its ham-fisted approach to the ideas of personal courage and honor.  The idea of a vindictive government out to silence those with a sense of duty is not foreign, however, and for that reason the film deserves some merit. "},{"Title":"the trial was over too quickly...pity the film wasn't","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  this film had a lot of potential but never fully got off the ground. (spoiler) the trial was over quickly which meant the conspiracy was never discovered, so the innocence of samuel l jackson was never really proven.the trial lasted a week which meant that is never created enough tension.it was a shame that the film was a bit of a flop as it did have some potential for being a good court room drama.don't waste your money on it, but if someone is paying it is definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"The main plot point is too tough to swallow","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Apart from The Exorcist, this is the only thing by Friedkin I've seen. Is it just me, or are these two the only particularly recognizable titles he's helmed? Why? His direction isn't half bad. The battle sequences manage to be intense and gripping, without disorienting the viewer; seldom is such a balance reached, and this does pretty well at it. Editing and cinematography are also great. The roles are well-cast, if Baker Hall is somewhat wasted with so little screen-time, and Kingsley, well, he does rather well for what he's given to work with. Teaming up Jackson and Lee Jones is a cool idea, and it really pays off. The two have nice chemistry, and they're both completely convincing. Acting is almost all impeccable. After a promising start, however, this turns out to take a simplistic approach to the conflict, abandoning all opportunity for exploration of the moral dilemma. Furthermore, the audience has a hard time accepting the problem presented to our leads. I won't detail it, you'll know what I mean when you see it, if you do. It is a gaping hole in the script, and credibility falls out of it. I guess the fault lies with the writers, or at least one of them. The courtroom scenes are average, never completely captivating the viewer, and the ending is downright poor. There is gruesome, bloody violence in this, as well as strong language. I recommend this solely to the biggest fans of those who made it. 6/10 "},{"Title":"More Real Than Real","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" You will not find another reviewer who realizes Sen Webb's book, on which the movie is based, uses a different, but similar incident that actually did occur. He denies it, now, but there are early interviews which argue strongly for this point of view. Like so much which occurred in the Clinton administration, papers have disappeared and evidence is now missing. But to say that such things have not or do not occur, is to deny the evidence of Vietnam, Campuchia (Red Cambodia), and North Korea. Women, children, men dressed as women, do fire on troops and do kill people. Cynical foes of American freedom do count on the soft-heartedness of the people who let others fight for them to do their defaming for them.With that said, the plot is not only believable, but portrayed accurately as we have seen over and over again from the savagery of sectarian extremists in Iraq. Friedkin was prescient.The battle scenes are every bit as accurate as those of BLACKHAWK DOWN. The courtroom scenes are riveting. Every step of the way, the audience is led to a conclusion that to be an honorable Marine is to be a hopeless puppet of the government.Even the ending (which we will not give away) forces you to understand the precariousness of the position of people under those with great power. This helplessness, I believe, is what gave most reviewers the uncomfortableness which directed their critiques. Yet it is the very theme of the movie On an anagogical level, the highest level of allegory, it shouts Acton's Axiom of power and absolute power and the corruption it demands. And no matter which party is in power, the forces of that power make puppets of honor.The movie has its flaws - the script leaves little for the presiding judge, who is a defacto voice of power, to say, although the editing makes up for it, keeping the courtroom scene ablaze with action.The catharsis which wrings from the uncomfortableness of the film is paramount to its understanding. We feel better, knowing that rough justice has been served. "}{"Title":"Manipulative and senseless","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Besides the right wing slant of the film and its you hurt me, I'll destroy your family attitude, I found the film not very believable.  Why Childers (played by Samuel Jackson) insists on a loser lawyer like Hodges (played by Tommy Lee Jones) just because he has been out there is beyond reasoning.  A lawyer's defense is about strategy, and any lawyer would find ways to justify his clients action, especially if the client insists on it.  Also, if Childers absolutely insisted on a lawyer with combat experience, he could have at least found one that was also good at being a lawyer.***SPOILER***** I would say the ending is a surprise to me, because the defense had absolute no strategy.  Their method of casting doubt to the prosecutor's witness seems to be incredible, like making the doctor translate the audiotape or asking the Vietnamese officer, who is a prosecutor's witness, if he would have done the same thing in his case. How would the doctor translating the tape discredit his prior testimony, and why was the prosecutor anxiously waiting for the answer from the vietnamese officer, who was being cross examination instead of objecting?  And why would the Vietnames officer, whose communication officer was executed by Childers right in front of him, be saluting Childers?  Would the US veterans from WWII ever solute to a surviving Japanese or Nazi officer?  And to top it off, the defendant himself proved that he was a hothead that cannot control his rage.   But not to worry, since they have their secret weapon, which was to thrown the missing tape theory into the air as if it was a conspiracy.  There are plenty of cases out there in real life where witness suddenly dies or crucial evidence disappears, but no prosecutor in their right mind would say My witness which would have proved the defendant is guilty has suddenly been killed.  We all know even though the defendant is locked up in jail, his evil cronies on the outside did the dirty work for him, so please convict the defendant because of that.The battle scenes did not make sense either.  Since they've decided to abandon the embassy, why not just withdrawal?  Or maybe take the snipers out, but to wipe out the whole crowd?   I guess it was that a family's life for an eye mentality.  I would have thought that Childers would forward the demonstrator's co-ordinates to the ship so that they could fire a cruise missle at them.Plus this went beyond the one dimensional stereotyping of ethnic groups, along with the blatant attempt at manipulation of our feelings toward them that are usually in those mindless action movies.  As seen in the case of the really little girl whose leg was amputated from the shooting turns out to have been firing a weapon at the marines from the crowd, as were many of the women, children and old folks.   Or the scenes where the women with babies were hanging around with their sniper husbands on rooftops. Somehow the film is trying to convey the message that wiping out everyone, including every elderly, crippled, child and woman is justified.I don't know how Hodge's son, who was so against Childer's action, turn around and hugs his father for his rightous belief and defense of Childers, even though there was no evidence to make anybody feel that this action was justified.What worked was the production of the fight scenes, with the tense feeling it invoked, that's about it. "},{"Title":"The plot has more holes than the American Embassy","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Spoilers!This movie has the worst script ever. - The seaplane tender gets orders to go the gulf of *something* and not 5 seconds later the choppers go in the air? - There are only 3 people in the embassy? - The soldiers don't shoot at the snipers, even when they get casualties? - The soldiers shoot 83 people down and none of them sees them holding a gun (afterwards)? - Nobody notices the gun holes in the wall with an upwards angle? - Burning a video tape leaves you with thick toxic gasses. - How did they identify the Vietcong officer? - How does a Vietcong officer get in the USA? Etc, etc. "},{"Title":"Not a bad portrayal.","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Whether the the film did or did not portray actual event, the characters were not developed & so on & so forth is beside the point. It showed how ungrateful Americans can be when it comes to attempting to discard America in order to appease other terrorists countries. We trash the very people who guarantee their continued freedom. These are the very people(Americans)who refuse to step up to the plate & serve their country in the armed forces yet they so freely, without the slightest bit of thanks or gratitude, cast the military aside. These Americans want their freedom, their Rights & their privileges BUT, they choose not to serve in order to help preserve those valued freedoms; & worse yet, they treat the very people who risk their own lives in order to insure Americans are safe, like garbage. Cheryle C. Teague US Army & disabled American veteran "},{"Title":"Utter Rubbish","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I couldn't get past the first 1/2 hour or so. The plot was not even remotely believable. Let's make up a scenario that would NEVER EVER happen and make a serious film about it. Please. Jackson and Jones should have known better. This film was miles beneath them. 2 / 10 stars. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"No thought, made only for the actors to make money.","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Absolutely, one of the worst movies EVER made. The Vietnam scenes looked like they were filmed in my backyard. These are supposedly war heroes, you'd think they would have confidence overflowing, but when Jackson asks Tommy Lee to defend him he says I'm not a good lawyer??? The writing sounded like it was done by a 12 year old, the plot was stupid & the acting was junk. People who liked this movie probably loved Ishtar. Complete & utter crap. "},{"Title":"Loads of great actors, good action scenes, shame about the plot.","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Rules of engagement, on a purely entertainment level, is a great film about cowardly injustice to the brave men and women who put there lives on the line for honour and country. Unfortunately the writers have decided that the men, women and children Yemen, are all barbaric gun toting murders.The American embassy in Yemen is under attack from gunmen who have taken up positions in and around local civilians protesting the American presence. The marines are called in to protect the ambassador and his family while they are evacuated. This is all well and good until the marines start taking fire and the commanding officer, Samuel L. Jackson, orders his men to return fire. Seems only fair, considering they themselves did not start the fight, they are just finishing it. The problem arises when the fighting stops and it turns out they have slaughtered dozens of of the civilians in the process. Here starts the courtroom drama with repeated flashbacks as eye witness accounts are heard throughout the proceedings. Each recount of the events slowly changes the setting from innocent civilians being used as body armour for unscrupulous killers, to complicit members of the attack. Eventually Culminating with the scene of a little girl with a crutch now wielding a machine gun. Basically saying anyone is fair game.If the American embassy in Yemen had been attacked, which it wasn't, and a small girl on a crutch had picked up a machine gun, wouldn't it be more interesting film making to delve into the reasons she was on a crutch and felt compelled to pick up the gun, let alone use it. When teenage American kids go into schools guns blazing the question on everyones lips is why how could this happen. There is often a TV movie made about it. So why can't Hollywood make intelligent enquiring pieces that rather than uphold and promote cultural stereotypes, investigate poignant present day concerns and actually inform its audiences rather than blindfold them. "},{"Title":"US soldiers NEVER shoot unarmed civilians!","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Truly excellent warmovie, a fine example of the American frame of mind.Samuel Jackson is superb in his angry ´black man´ routine (bad-mouthing, eyes-a-rolling), giving joy and delight to many a white supremacist both home and abroad.Don´t believe the liberal media when they tell you US soldiers have shot unarmed civilians. US soldiers NEVER shoot unarmed civilians!They was VC, every one of them! "},{"Title":"Whoah Nelly!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" *SPOILERS SPOILERS*Before I comment on this film let me just say that I have absolutely no problem with movies about Arab terrorists. Unlike some of the pinkos here, I do not want to see all Arabs portrayed as noble dilligent peaceful people for the sake of political correctness.But Rules of Engagement sinks to new lows.The opening sequence clearly establishes that the snipers in the adjacent buildings are shooting at the Marines. Hence, when the Marines open fire on the crowd in response to three of their number being shot the scene is supposed to invoke pathos for the 80+ (!) unarmed men, women and children that are brutally slaughtered.  But unfortunately, this is not what the director had in mind. And lest we feel *any* compassion for these screaming turbaned religious fanatics a later shot establishes that every other person in the crowd is armed! Where did they get all those guns? And why did the Yemeni government allow this to happen? Did the director even know that the Yemeni government is an ally of the United States? Why were they being so unresponsive? And WHY WERE THOSE PEOPLE PROTESTING? Did the film even hint at what why they may have been protesting? Does the director, who obviously has a fourth grade education, believe that Arabs spontaneously start violent protests for NO CONCEIVABLE REASON? And if there was a reason why was it not even mentioned?The audience is meant to believe and sympathize with Sam L. Jackson as he explains why he ordered his men to open fire THEY KILLED THREE OF MY MARINES! he bellows. Oh, that makes it OK! And of course the whole darn crowd was armed. USA! USA!Ugh. Avoid this film.  "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I've never given a comment on a movie before on IMDB, and I've never given rating on a movie before IMDB, but this movie SUCKED SO BAD, I just had to say something. I bought it on dvd, and I m gonna sell it as soon as possible. The only word to describe the storyline, and especially the conclusions, is RIDICULOUS! It pretends to be a true story, and if it is, it's just sad, if this is the moral and ethics of the US Army, its just sad... Anyway, whatever you do, DONT rent this movie, DONT buy this movie, DONT even read the summary behind the cover... "},{"Title":"simplistic, dishonest, manipulative blather","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  (Spoilers here, so don't read if you don't want plot details) This movie manipulates the audience by showing one version of events before the trial and another (in very short flashes) during it.  I suppose we are meant to think that no one knows the truth about what really happened so we have to accept the officer's conclusion that he had to protect his men by firing on the crowd.  The justification of he did what he had to do and any other real military man would have done the same thing under the same circumstances has a surface plausibility, but could justify *any* behavior. We need to make distinctions and draw lines, not have a cheap patriotism used to cover over exploring whether someone made a mistake.  I have rarely felt this angry after viewing a film.  To use, for example, the little girl with one leg as a pathetic victim and then to show her with a weapon (is it what happened or is it what the officer thought he saw?) is the worst sort of manipulation.  Since I was watching on DVD, I could go back and examine the first version of the crowd scenes, which had absolutely no evidence of weapons.  Finally, only the Marines are decent people, much less heroic. The ambassador, the national security guy and even the ambassador's wife are shown to be moral midgets, so our hero looks pretty good even if he did order the killing of dozens of civilians.  As several reviewers have noted, there was an opportunity to make some difficult moral points and to explore complex issues, but the film settled for simple lies and one-dimensional characters.  A waste of actors. "}{"Title":"Not Engaging","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Thanks to the many other comments, you already know this is jingoistic tripe that misses the dramatic mark.The two leads -- this is Jones' best role, not because he is a good actor, but because the role squarely hits the one thing he can do. Jackson is more interesting. He is a serious actor, one of several good black men in film. What's interesting is to see him play a role that doesn't exploit black stereotypes. That's rare enough, but here he exploits an equally deep American stereotype instead. It is equally entrenched in society, equally corrosive and equally accepted. I think of it as a perspective on racism by self-referentially focusing on stereotypes at a deeper level.Not what they intended. "},{"Title":"Perhaps fun - for marines. Others beware.","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  What do you know about Soldier's Morale? Now I don't mean the kind as explained in the Geneva Convention or other sissy international conventions. I'm talking about the real stuff. Well, this movie could be described as a crash-course in it. It is impossible to see the logic in what the people in the movie do, but the essence it boils down to can be summarized as1) There is a true Soldier's Morale which all Real soldiers (American and otherwise) adhere to 2) People who have never been In The Field (i.e. politicians, lawyers etc) can never understand the Soldier's Morale 3) Soldier's Morale grants the right to do whatever it takes to solve problems In The Field, usually killing anybody (man, woman, child, dog or otherwise) in the wayThe plot boils down to demonstrating 1, showing the consequences of 2 (war trial when non-soldiers interfere in Soldier's businesses) but problem gets resolved when non-soldiers realize 3.Not even a marine can like this mideival load of Saddam Hussein morale. "},{"Title":"A disgraceful film","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  A disgraceful film. The message is its OK to slaughter a crowd of arab civilians, including women and children, because some of them have guns. They posed no serious threat to the marines who could have withdrawn and evacuated the building. If I were a marine I would be disgusted by this slur on their reputation "},{"Title":"A disgrace","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This movie is shameful. America's ongoing islamopobia is  given the full Hollywood treatment. After the collapse of the USSR it appears that the studios are picking out new anti-American targets to satisfy their craving a big, bad enemy. It was hard enough to put up with the veiled racism of movies such as &#145;The Siege', but &#145;Rules of Engagement' positively flaunts its prejudices.Once again, Arabs and Muslims are depicted as fanatics intent on destroying America whilst US soldiers are blameless and heroic upholders of Western civilisation betrayed by cowardly politicians.No other ethnic group could be treated in the same manner as Muslims, Hollywood has sunk to the levels last seen in the 1950s anti-Communist movies, that big name stars and directors attach their name to such features is truly appalling.The old excuse that this was fiction is trotted out by apologists, but surely studios must realise that the politics of the Middle East are not to be trifled with. Producing such a feature can only antagonise people's deeply held beliefs. How would they feel if their own religious convictions were trivialised and simplified to make suitable villains to be gunned down by all-American heroes?It's hard to imagine who was the target audience for this disgrace. One would hope that the average viewer could see what a biased and disingenuous story was being told. Perhaps the dismal box office for this film is an indication that people can see through the lies. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen.","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Not a lot to say. It made no sense from start to finish. One expects a little reality in a movie.  Do we really believe that the marines defending the embassy before the helicopters arrived took no action to deal with the crowd or, more importantly, guys shooting from a nearby roof top?  Give me a break.  How about a couple of tear gas or smoke canisters to take care of the crowd in front of the embassy?  Did the marines leave them at home? From there it just gets worse. My only excuse to watching this sorry excuse for entertainment is someone else selected it. "},{"Title":"Dramatic warfare in the jungle, the desert and the courtroom.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  There is an anti-American uprising in Yemen. Col. Terry Childers, played by Samuel L. Jackson, is sent to evacuate the U.S. embassy. Childers gives his Marines the order to fire back at hostile, armed civilians. This action results into a framed court martial. Defending Childers is Col. Hays Hodges, played by Tommy Lee Jones. Childers saved Hodges' life in Nam and the elder Marine lawyer feels obligated to return the good deed.The scenes of engagement are very powerful and gruesome. Childers and Hodges have a knock down, drag out of a fist fight. The films climax kind of fizzles. The movie seems so potent up until the end. Don't underestimate a Marine's ethics or this movie. This is a winner, even if the plot seems so familiar.William Friedkin directs and there is a decent supporting cast that includes Bruce Greenwood, Ben Kingsley and Ann Archer. "},{"Title":"Simply odious","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Not only is this military propaganda film unnecessary and poorly plotted, but it is also the most flagrantly racist film I've seen in quite some time. At a time in human history when we, as a global community should be moving together towards enlightenment, this film encourages out and out barbarism as the right way.  I am ashamed that Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson are even associated with this pile of dung. "},{"Title":" There is an unwritten rule in the military, you do not leave an injured soldier behind ","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Soldiers have been fighting since time immemorial. Equally long has been their history of military conduct in the field. Among the stories of men in combat is, at some point the established proper rules of behavior. As a result, a nation's flag becomes a symbol of the soldier's code of conduct. Too many men have paid the price to disgrace it in our modern era. Among the various branches of service, the U.S. Marine Corps, has created a plethora of heroic memories which exemplify their valiant attributes. Their courage have bequeathed to their country a magnificence unparalleled among the nations. That is the stage for this movie called  Rules of Engagement.  A decorated Marine Col. Hayes Hodges (Tommy Lee Jones) has retired after an illustrious career and now seeks peace and quiet for his retiring years. Unfortunately, a fellow Marine, one Col. Terry Childers (Samuel L. Jackson) has been ordered to rescue an American Ambassador (Ben Kingsley) from a besieged embassy in Yemen which is under hostile and armed mob attack. When his men come under direct fire from snipers and an armed crowd, some his men are killed. Without hesitation Childres orders return fire and eighty civilians are killed. When he returns to the U.S. Childers is arrested on charges of murder. Now Maj. Mark Biggs (Guy Pearce) is ordered by the National Security Adviser (Bruce Greenwood) to make an example of what he called a maniacal murdering marine with a hair trigger. If convicted, Childers faces a harsh 15 years in prison or execution. The courtroom drama is superior as is the gathered cast. An excellent film which gives due credit to our Servicemen and establishes the foundation of a military Classic. **** "},{"Title":"Oscar Winning Cast Can't Save the Silly Script","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Tommy Lee Jones and Ben Kingsly are Oscar winners. Samuel Jackson is an Oscar nominee,and Guy Pierce has many nominations and wins in his future. None of these actors, nor the excellent supporting cast can fix the confusion and unbelievability of this film. In fact, the whole point of the film is easily lost because the filmmakers deliberately keep the audience ignorant of what the main character,Col. Terry Childers sees in the battle that sets the whole story in motion.Meanwhile, a lot of plot development time is wasted on making sure the audience understands that the colonel, played by Samuel Jackson is tough and a good Marine, as is his buddy, Tommy Lee Jones. And, the continuity problems are so confusing that any viewer would lose the plot. (Begin spoiler)There is an important sequence which clearly shows kids in amongst a protesting crowd that is becoming more agitated. But later, there appear to be many score more wounded children than were ever established to be in the crowd in the first place AND with wounds that don't seem like they could have come from small arms fire.Leave aside completely that the Colonel is charged with murder and photos of the scene show that pretty much everyone was killed...so again, you are left to wonder who are all these surviving wounded? (End spoiler) It would be worth the effort to just watch it for the acting, but it's pretty hard to get through. Basically, the whole thing suffers from trying to be plausible fiction, but failing in so many key areas that it falls dangerously near farce. "},{"Title":"Horrible! Here's why...","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Who is the main Character? I'm still not quite sure if the Samuel Jackson character or the Tommy Lee character is the person I'm supposed to be following.Bad Acting/Boring Characters! It's usually the job of the director to get good performances out of the actors.  Didn't happen here.  Good characters would have been a nice starting point for good acting.  Didn't exist here (one is an ex-drunk with a famous father whose shoes he doesn't fill; another is hyper-patriotic and... yeah, that's about all).Tried too hard! Vietnam sequence was way too long and not at all up to it's wanna-be-a-Spielberg, Saving-Private-Ryan intro.  Then I had to suspend disbelief for the entire pump-up-my-male-ego Yemen sequence when of what must have been a million gun shots is heard and seen ricocheting.  What platoon of Marines would run up on a roof in a hail of bullets and stay there, pinned down, while 3 of their comrads are killed doing the same thing when there is no purpose for being on the roof?Kangaroo Court? In what court is the burden of proof on the accused?  The prosecuting attorney says there is no evidence to exonerate the accused....--------  Discusses the Ending ------------Just get it over with! Two hours and 15 minutes and they still couldn't wrap it up.  It would have been nice to leave the bad guys unpunished -- like in real life -- but since they couldn't show them getting their just desserts, they had to tell us in dragnet type So and so went on to great fame titles explanation. "}{"Title":"2 stars - VERY Disappointing","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Performances were good yet inconsequential.  My biggest problem with the film was the (REALLY FLAT) ending, which tacked on what happened to them titles.THE PROBLEM IS THE STORY ISN'T TRUE.What was the point of having what happened to... this character or that character if these characters weren't real to begin with?  I went to check to see if the story was true (which would have made me forgive the lead balloon ending) but surprise, it was all made up!Good performances give it one star, and the siege on the embassy WAS a well done action sequence, giving it another star. "},{"Title":"crap","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  i went to see the late show of this film at my local theatre because ghost dog was sold out.  i walked out after an hour because i was bored stiff and realized i would way rather be spending my time in bed sleeping than sitting through this tedious film.the only redeeming feature in the film is samuel jackson, but the film mars his name in my book - i can't imagine why he chose to make it unless it looked pretty good on paper.  in reality it is a godawful mess. "},{"Title":"awful propaganda","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  The tenor of this film is simply If the US Army opens fire on civilian, they will surely have a reason for it. Films like that have an terrible impact on the public opinion about the so called rogue states. Even the sweet little arab children are evil to the bones and shoot on the integer soldiers. they have deserved it. oh lord! "},{"Title":"We're coming to get you!","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Should American marines kill 84 civilians or should they not? The main point of this movie is that they should, whenever they can and wherever they find themselves. Unfortunately, they can be found almost everywhere, sowing civilian collateral casualties in the name of American national interests. So watch out if you pass by an American marine, u might get shot. But of course, there's always an excuse for it. And by the way, the killer marine has to be a black guy. Coincidence? I hope there'll be less movies like this in the future, cos this is really a thumb down for William Friedkin and the dullest role I've ever seen for Samuel Jackson. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable piece of military propaganda","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I decided to see this movie hoping that it would be like A Few Good Men, a good story about duty and honor. The trailers tricked me - I thought that Jackson was a scapegoat for some mission gone bad and that he had to fight some government agent/superior officer to demonstrate that he was innocent. Instead - surprise! - he is a lying murdering b****rd who is quite surprised when he is faced with 83 charges of homicide. He doesn't feel guilt or remorse when his soldiers massacre children and women, but we are supposed to like him because he cries every time he sees an American flag. This movie teaches us that it's right, moral and even honorable to kill unarmed prisoners; that you can break or ignore the rules of engagement so long as you know them by heart; that a Yemenite life is worth 0,036 times an American life; that it's normal to kill women, old men and children when you have several other options available (warning shots or retreat). The delicate subject of child-soldiers is treated with alarming lightness, civilian casualties are brushed away as irrelevant. Even more worrying, I read the comments of the other users and most of them considered Jackson innocent (Hey, that small girl was SHOOTING him! She deserved to die!). I advise those people to go out and buy some moral sense. I didn't walk out of the theater only because I hoped to see Jackson convicted - or at least that he understood what he had done. There actually was a surprise in the end - something so unbelievable that I was disgusted. It's incredible that this piece of trash was distributed outside the United States. "},{"Title":"moronic militaristic propaganda","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"46 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Big missed opportunity This could have been an intelligent movie about the fine line between self-defense and murder, the ambiguity in perception and judgement faced by people in dangerous situations(real life example A Chicago police officer killed a woman who made a false move with a metallic object in her hand--it turned out to be a lock, not a weapon. Was the policewoman guilty of murder? Would we have done the same in her situation?) Instead the director turned this into jingoistic drivel. The portrayal of Arabs/Muslims is a really offensive stereotype Gun-totin, rock-throwin, jihad-lovin, towel-head fanatics, every last one of them, man, woman, and child. Most disturbing thing about it "},{"Title":"Quality war-drama, better than A Few Good Men","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Released in 2000, Rules of Engagement is about two Marine officers, Childers (Samuel L. Jackson) and Hodge (Tommy Lee Jones), who have a relationship going back to Vietnam. Childers is charged with murder after leading a team to the Yemen embassy to save the Ambassador and his family during a violent demonstration (more like an all-out attack) and calls on Hodge to defend him. To save face, the National Security Adviser (Bruce Greenwood) wants Childers to be the scapegoat at all costs, disregarding blatant evidence to the contrary. Can Hodge, an alcoholic and mediocre lawyer at best, save his buddy who once saved his life? Guy Pierce plays the prosecutor while Ben Kingsley & Anne Archer play the Ambassador and his wife.This is a war-drama by the maker of 1973's The Exorcist and 1977's Sorcerer similar in tone/plot to 1992's A Few Good Men. I like Rules better, despite some flaws (like being contrived). It may not have an iconic line like You can't handle the truth! but it has quality combat action (which A Few didn't have) and the story of the protagonists is just more compelling IMHO. The movie's effectiveness hinges on Jackson and Jones convincing us of their characters, their relationship and their crisis, which they easily do. Some critics have decried the film as racist (naturally), but it's more like telling the awful truth with 2012's infamous Benghazigate scandal lending support. Director Friedkin said the movie's not anti-Arab, anti-Muslim and certainly not anti-Yemen, it's anti-terrorist. Bear in mind that the King of Morocco had to read and approve the script before the filmmakers could use Morocco for locations and nobody participating from the Arab side of things felt the film was anti-Arab.One critic complained about a peripheral character not resurfacing at the end, but why pan a story for NOT being predictable?The blurb at the end makes it seem like the movie was based on a true story, but it's not. It simply reveals what happens to the characters after the story ends so the viewers aren't left in the air.The movie runs 128 minutes and was shot in Morocco (substituting for Yemen), South Carolina (Vietnam), Virginia and Washington DC.GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"Rules to Not Engage.","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Rules of Engagement (2000) Dir William Friedkin / Cast Tommy Lee Jones, Samuel L. Jackson, Guy Pearce, Ben Kingsley, Bruce Greenwood Retread formula that seems to reference the delicate reality of life and how one decision can end it. It has a powerful plot concept that seems spliced together from other films. It begins in Vietnam 1968 where Tommy Lee Jones is rescued by Samuel L. Jackson. Central plot regards an attack on the American Embassy by snipers in an Arab city. Jackson orders retaliation when weapons appear among civilians resulting in the slaughter of women and children. Jackson is brought to trial and seeks Jones to represent him. There is nothing surprising about this recycled plot. Director William Friedkin does a skillful job at staging the civilian chaos but with The Exorcist and The French Connection he had tighter screenplays to back him up. Jackson and Jones have played these roles countless times and the drill is getting tiring. Jackson played this out in A Time to Kill and The Negotiator, and Jones seems poised to get people out of trouble. Guy Pearce is playing the typical opposing lawyer. Ben Kingsley is featured in the opening chaotic scenes but he seems merely typecast. This is a well made political thriller that is bombarded with familiarity. Bottom line is that Friedkin is too far above this engagement in familiarity. Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Despite a Lot of Huffing and Puffing, This Feels Neutered and Tame","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" A military action / courtroom drama combo platter that promises to pay special attention to the thin gray line separating morality and duty for occupying troops. It knows how to best use its stars - Tommy Lee Jones gets plenty of time to chew screen as a grizzled retiring Marine attorney, while Sam Jackson is given free reign to scream and shout both on and off the battlefield - but is somewhat less sure how to arrive at the conclusion it wants to leave us with. A forced attempt to cram an evil mastermind into the fray disagrees with the otherwise-universal theme that there is no black and white picture in a situation as difficult and politically charged as this one, and that's not the only scene that should have been shown the cutting room floor. Despite a few heated exchanges between Jones and the prosecuting attorney (a fiery turn by Guy Pearce), it's a great load of topical potential that never amounts to more than a weak fizzle and a sudden, puzzling jury decision. "},{"Title":"Must be viewed NOW in the context of 10 years of war","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I am appalled at the low marks given. Such must be judged in the context of what happened recently in Afghanistan when there was negligent burning of Korans by Americans followed by apologies. If ever there was a film which captures and accurately sums up the forces at work, wherever we may tread in the Middle East, this IS IT. Now please note it was written and released PRIOR to 09-11-2001. Moreover, the performance by Guy Pierce was one of the best I have seen depicting a prosecutor at work in the military. I served in the Naval Legal Service Office in Norfolk, VA in the 1980s and he captured with accuracy the zeal of Marine prosecutors I have known. (It should be noted that he did an outstanding job in L.A. Confidential.) I was duly impressed. As for the performances of Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson, they were first rate as well. Ben Kingsley was also at the top of his game,too. The production values were high and William Friedkin who directed both The French Connection and The Exorcist is more than able in this film. He captured effectively what we face whenever we have political dealings in the Middle East. I would counsel all who submitted critical reviews of this film to ask themselves, in light of current events, Do you still hold that view? "}{"Title":"Very good military courtroom drama","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Samuel L Jackson plays an experienced US Marine officer who is in charge of evacuating the US Embassy in the Yemen. When the crowd opens fire and Marines are killed, Jackson orders retaliation. It subsequently appears as if he has opened fire on unarmed civilians, and it is expedient for the government to hang him out to try. He calls upon Tommy Lee Jones (whose life he saved in Vietnam) to defend him, and the stage is set for a courtroom drama.As courtroom dramas go, this is quite a good one. Jackson and Jones are heavyweights and punch their weight here, aided by Guy Pearce as the prosecution advocate, Ben Kingsley as the Ambassador, and Bruce Greenwood as the duplicitous State Department official who wants a scapegoat in order to safeguard his own position.The story is good, the performances are good and, apart from one unnecessary and improbable punch up, the film is well presented.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Movie","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Outstanding movie. Although there are some flaws, pay attention to the interesting story line as it outlines the disorder and confusion of conflict. It does not glamorize war but more so points out of chaos of was. Those with more time on their hands can nitpick glitches in the plot. Some who have never had the bravery or fortitude to serve can continue to criticize the United States Military while they sit on their comfy couch and read their conspiracy theory blogs. This is a great movie that points out the gray areas of the actual rules of engagement. Conflict is not easy. I guess it would be easier if everyone could just duck and run away. "},{"Title":"Can you forget the (too many to mention) plot holes? Not really. Still, Jones and Jackson are great","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I had wanted to see this because of the two stars Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson and their first, and as far as I can tell, only collaboration.Tommy Lee Jones plays very much against type as a man consumed by guilt and with a serious inferiority complex. He plays it just as well as some of his baddies, like the Joker or Clay Shaw from JFK. Jackson and Jones (or as they are named here, Childers and Hodges) served in Vietnam together, and while Childers continued to serve in the field, Hodges was put behind a desk. This sound like a grade Z cop flick, doesn't it? What to remember is that neither of them feel good about what they are doing.All I can say is that I was very puzzled by it the first time I saw this. This is definitely a film you have to see more than once. The actors make it what it is. The film, as mentioned by others, isn't that logical. I couldn't figure out how an incident could be handled the way it is shown here. Particularly, the tampering of evidence, which seems to be just swept under the carpet without anyone questioning what happened, except Hodges.Anyway, logic is thrown out the window but this is still worth watching just to see Jackson and Jones together. The fight they have is really, really hilarious, yet still kind of disturbing. Jones delivers a closing that is both touching and believable. How could anyone find Childers guilty after that? Even to save their own behinds. The movie should have ended right there. Instead we get an epilogue where we see that all the guilty get what's coming to them. "},{"Title":"Breaking the Rules of Engagement","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" In 1968 Vietnam, young Samuel L. Jackson (as Terry Childers) saves young Marine buddy Tommy Lee Jones (as Hayes Hodges) from certain death by ordering the execution of a Viet Cong POW. They, and a witness (who'll appear later) age gracefully for 28 years; then, the film's main incident occurs - protesters, supported by sniper fire, attack the in United States embassy in Yemen. With Mr. Jackson in command, the crowd of rioters is slaughtered. To avoid a bloody political mess, National Security Adviser Bruce Greenwood (as Bill Sokal) decides to scapegoat Jackson.Mr. Jones, who has become an ineffective military attorney, is asked to represent Jackson. Jones has also gone through a messy divorce and has a drinking problem, but Jackson feels he needs a warrior in court. Jones goes up against prosecutor Guy Pearce (as Mark Biggs). Before the trial, Jackson also takes to drinking&#x85; Anytime you have Jones and Jackson, directed by William Friedkin, you're starting off with something substantial. By the way, Mr. Greenwood hasn't been regarded as well, but should be; and, Mr. Pearce looks to be in their league.Although Rules of Engagement is basically a good Jim Webb story, much of it is disappointing on film; put simply, it doesn't add up. The central incident starts off suggesting the protesters are rock-throwers; but, later, they are armed to the teeth. The drunken brawl between Jackson and Jones is downright dumb. The ending exchange between Jackson and Baoan Coleman (as Binh Le Cao) is a great moment; but, it isn't what the film was about.****** Rules of Engagement (3/31/00) William Friedkin ~ Samuel L. Jackson, Tommy Lee Jones, Guy Pearce, Bruce Greenwood "},{"Title":"What happened to smoke?","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" When I saw how the mission unfolded, and how they were almost sitting ducks for the terrorists, I just thought Well, if they can't shoot back, whatever happened to smoke? Smoke could have made it impossible for the terrorists to see what they were aiming for, but instead they kept taking bullets. And when enough was enough, they ended up with a massacre.So I missed this aspect of the film. There was never questions how they could have done the job without exchanging bullets. It was as if Childers had only two options kill or be killed. And then you end up thinking that the crowd had it coming, and it becomes another propaganda movie with crazy Arabs, sleazy politicians and spotless marines.Having said this, it was an OK movie, and Samuel L. Jackson is always a fave of mine. "},{"Title":"For once - a good Tommy Lee Jones movie","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I don't like TLJ cause he usually plays redneck moron types who think they know everything and don't know nothing'. But here he plays an attorney with a very low level of self confidence who defends a colonel (Samuel L. Jackson) charged with killing 83 civilians. As always jackson does an outstanding job and it was great to see his character -SPOILER - vindicated in the end what with all the slimy govt officials out to stab him in the back.One thing that bothered me was that after the colonel was charged with 83 counts of murder, he was released on his own recognizance since the military said he was not a flight risk!!!!!!!! In real life no one charged with murder gets ROR. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea, but used all wrong","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Rules of Engagement has an interesting plot. The fact that the US start to take responsibility for what they've done out in the world could make an interesting movie, but this turns out to be just another one of the Col.Col. Terry Childers, a dedicated war hero from Vietnam, Beirut and the Gulf, is sent to defend and if necessary evacuate the American embassy in Yemen due to an demonstration gone wild. He believes the crowd is shooting and opens fire, killing 83 people. In order to preserve peace between Yemen and the US he is put on trial and his long time friend Col. Hayes Hodges is the one who's defending him.The story has it's ups and downs. It gives the characters a past and personality and does so good, but there are logical errors in there. For instance, I find it odd that there are so many children and women in a political demonstration. I also find the ending of the film and the way certain characters are portrayed very wrong. This movie had potential. It could have focused on the psychical effects of combat and how this affects a judgment or on how soldiers might break the rules of engagement during combat and show that the Devil can be unleashed even within the best man, but instead this turns out to be just another tale about a heroic soldier.The acting is rather good. Jackson and Jones makes a good team and delivers a good performance. Jones makes a good soldier and really got the attitude. Jackson is good in the courtroom and in the embassy and makes his character a little psychopath. The others are good as well.The cinematography is good. There are hand-held camera in some scenes there shouldn't be or it's a little too shaky. The over all impression of the cinematography is, however good.As for the score, Mark Isham's done a nice job. It's a nice dramatic score and it supports and strengthens the mood.All in all the movie is OK. It's a nice and entertaining story, but nothing get worked up about. The film is technically good, but it could've been better written. In my opinion it's focusing too much on the government conspiracy to blame Childers, making it just another conspiracy movie, but by all means a good and watchable movie. "},{"Title":"Overall good film with some unfortunate clichés","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" This is a well-made gripping movie -- with a great cast. Its central issue is quite timely.**** SPOILERS **** The film concerns the firing upon an American Embassy in Yemen by dozens and dozens, perhaps hundreds of people - some on the roof of a building across the courtyard, more in the courtyard itself. Audio tapes of speeches or sermons (it's not clear which) in which the people are informed it is their duty to God to kill Americans are later found at the Embassy and by the bedsides of some of the people.After three Marines rescuing the Ambassador have been shot, the furious fire from the Yemenis is returned by a Marine detachment that has rescued the American Ambassador and his wife to safety. The return fire kills 83, wounds another 100, and successfully stops the attack.The courtyard is immediately cleaned by Yemenis of all the weapons dropped by the dead and wounded -- and then photographs are taken of the dead and wounded lying there. The governments in Yemen, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Jordan all decry the action taken by the Marines and Ambassadors are withdrawn.The photographs are published in newspapers. The Embassy's outside television camera has recorded the dozens of old people, children and others who were firing machine guns at the Embassy and the Marines -- but in order to blame the Marine colonel in charge of the rescue, the National Security Adviser destroys the tape.The central drama is the court martial of the Marine colonel in charge -- defended by a former comrade from the Vietnam War. The Marines who were present at the incident had been under cover and unable to see the courtyard and the dozens firing upon the Marines. Only the Colonel in charge and another Marine who died on the spot were in a position to see the crowd.There are three unfortunate matters in the movie i) the cliché of higher ups being utterly evil and willing to do anything to blame others - in this case, it's just so difficult to believe that someone as senior as the National Security Adviser who had absolutely nothing to hide -- would deliberately destroy evidence that would exculpate the colonel.ii) the cliché of the North Vietnamese having been somehow honorable -- and available to testify in courts martial in Washington D.C. The salutes exchanged between the Marine colonel and the former North Vietnamese soldier at the end of the film -- made me cringe.iii) the entire motivation of the National Security Adviser - there's no reason whatever to think that the conviction of a Marine colonel is going to lessen anger at the United States for the incident. If anything, I would think (a false) establishment of the Marines' guilt for these deaths would increase, rather than diminish anger at the U.S. So the motivation of the National Security Adviser that if this man isn't convicted, the U.S. will be blamed makes no sense to me -- yet that is the entire motivation for the destruction of the exculpatory evidence.The action sequences are absolutely gripping - and seem very realistic. So are the scenes that take place when the Marine's lawyer journeys to Yemen to search for any further evidence.Another matter I liked as a litigator, was seeing the judge make correct judicial rulings throughout the trial. The courtroom scenes are fine stuff - similar to A Few Good Men in drama.**** SPOILERS END **** The cast is astounding - Blair Underwood, Anne Archer, Tommy Lee Jones, Samuel L. Jackson, Sir Ben Kingsley, Guy Pearce. They're all quite fine - Jackson and Jones are superb. I was surprised that actors of the caliber of Archer, Underwood and Kingsley would take such small parts - they don't have terribly much to do. And I found the Australian Pearce's extremely thick New York accent quite off-putting - he sounded American, but phew - what an ugly sound.This is a gripping film that will certainly hold your interest throughout - and despite a few clicheed improbabilities, is quite well done. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Samuel L Jackson is pretty good actor.this movie was propaganda movie of course and distasteful propaganda,but this movie wasn't bad.i saw it in Estonian cinema Sõprus.Rules Of Engagement is a powerful movie i think.i don't remember all the things what happened in the movie but i remember brutal spots where some children's were injured.Actually propaganda movies are not the worst movies.they can be good movies. Tommy Lee Jones played normally too i think and all actors were good there.i'm not big fan of propaganda movies,but i like some parts of Rules Of Engagement.this movie was very conflicting in the year of 2000.i still liked it.i mean some spots and parts not all,because propaganda is not useful always i think. "},{"Title":"Deeply flawed, but enjoyable nonetheless","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" CONTAINS ONLY MILD SPOILERS, NOT THE VERDICT Surprisingly, I did not really know which way the verdict would go at the end of this film. I suppose that if it had been more popular, then everyone would have known.This film was deeply flawed, yet still enjoyable to watch. There were enormous plot holes, such as the speed of the trial, (nobody has a trial in two weeks from the event, not even in the military), and the fact that no one else was called to testify about the removal of the flag from the embassy, which many of the men saw, which would have completely proved the lies of the ambassador. Although I have no personal knowledge, my understanding of courts-martial was that they usually do not take place in actual courtrooms, but large offices, or wherever there is sufficient space. (See The Caine Mutiny) Also, the one-legged little girl, while it wasn't stated explicitly, I sort of assumed that they wanted us to think that she was one of the wounded from the embassy, but she had a bare, un-bandaged, totally healed stump. There are more, but you get the idea.However, in spite of these flaws, the film was carried by the sheer star power of Samuel L. Jackson, Tommy Lee Jones, and, to a lesser extent, Ben Kingsley. (Not that Kingsley wasn't just as good, but he often plays unsympathetic characters, probably due to his looks) So even though it was hard to overlook the bad stuff, this film is still worth a look. "}{"Title":"Watchable drama takes the easy route to nowhere","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" RULES OF ENGAGEMENT Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTSFollowing a horrific incident outside the US embassy in Yemen, during which US marines opened fire on a crowd of 'innocent' civilians, killing 83 of them, a former Army lawyer (Tommy Lee Jones) emerges from retirement to defend the colonel (Samuel L. Jackson) blamed for the massacre.OK courtroom drama, directed with routine proficiency by former Hollywood wunderkind William Friedkin. Stephen Gaghan's script stacks the odds against Jones and Jackson from the outset, though the happy ending is something of a foregone conclusion. There's a few silly diversions along the way (including an ill-advised punch-up between Jones and Jackson at the midway point), but nothing too disastrous. Production values are solid, and the opening scenes depicting events at the US embassy in Yemen are genuinely potent, but the film paints everything in black and white and refuses to take risks with the material. A gaunt-looking Guy Pearce plays the lead prosecutor (ruthless, but humane), and Bruce Greenwood is the senatorial villain who would like to see Jackson buried for political reasons, but the starry supporting cast - including Ben Kingsley, Anne Archer, Blair Underwood and Philip Baker Hall - are largely wasted in virtual cameo roles. "},{"Title":"this movie was okay","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" --first, I would like to comment on the above comment. just to clarify Americans are NOT the only ones to use the term marines. it is historically used to describe soldiers that serve on the ships in the navy. this is used to distinguish between the sailors and the fights aboard the ship. they were called marine sailors that was then shortened to marines. and i would like to point out that this term began in Britain not America. So please do not complain about simple terminology that has been used for hundreds of years. (And is still used by most countries that have a working Navy).--Second, this movie was meant to show that workings of the military legal system. While the situation is deplorable, it is unreasonable to blame a soldier for preforming as he was trained, to protect his company of men while defending his country. I am not in anyway condoning the actions of the main character but i won't deny that things like that happen and we as a society need to try and change so that they don't. the answer is not to complain about a truthful of the situation. "},{"Title":"Engage yourself in this movie","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson in one of the best films I have seen all year.Rules Of Engagement is a powerful film with strong performances from a very talented cast from Jones and Jackson to Guy Pearce and Bruce Greenwood. In my opinion the roles that Jones, Jackson, Pearce and Greenwood had were best suited to play their characters. From the opening scene William Friedkin got me interested with a flashback to the Vietnam War incident that played a pivotal part of the film and continued throughout with excellent dialogue and realistic plots. I can't believe how wonderful the film turned out.Though, Rules Of Engagement may have similar elements as Courage Under Fire and A Few Good Men, this is also unique and holds up well.This film has strength in characters, power in performances and substance in the story. These elements combine to make Rules Of Engagement a unique and must see for everyone.  "},{"Title":"strange tactics","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  As the helicopters are arriving they are already taking fire. Certainly, when they are on the roof they are under heavy fire and taking casualties. Surely, the machine-gunners in the choppers should have blown away the snipers on the buildings opposite. The pilots could have told the Colonel where the bulk of the fire was coming from and he could have told them to make a sweep a la Black Hawk Down-end of problem and quite justifiable afterward I would have thought. Definitely easier to wriggle out of than wasting 83 civilians. "},{"Title":"Court evidence","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I have seen this movie twice now, and the first time I really liked it. I still think it's a decent movie, but two things really bother me1 One of the pictures presented in the courtroom shows scorchmarks from molotov cocktails 10-15 feet up on the embassy's walls. It shouldn't be too hard to prove that those molotov cocktails could not have been thrown from buildings that are at least 50 yards away. This means that they would have been thrown from the crowd. In other words; the tape that becomes one of the main turning points of the movie isn't really necessary to prove the case.2 Don't you just hate it when they tell you what happens to the characters afterwards to give the impression that it's an authentic story when it's not? "},{"Title":"Solid Film, even despite the rather mundane ending","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  (some spoilers) Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson  were quite good together in this film,  producing a rather interesting dynamic  between their two personalities. However,  the one person that really took over the  show was Guy Pearce. Not only was he  ruthlessly unlikeable, the last scene with  Jones was perfect. The only thing I didn't  like was the rather predictable twists that  involved the hands of a few smarmy characters  and the eventual exoneration. A good popcorn  thriller to watch and keep you interested, but  don't expect something deep and powerful. "},{"Title":"The film is much more relevant today than two years ago...","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I saw the film last night on cable and was caught up with the theme of terrorism in the Middle East.  Two years ago 9/11 hadn't happened and the Arab-Israeli conflict was not white-hot.  Today, the film bristles with the energy of the mortal conflict between the West and East. The story is about one Marine colonel trying to defend another, an old war buddy from Vietnam, from a wrongful charge of murder for firing into a crowd of so-called civilians, killing a large number of men, women and children.  Today we call it 'collateral damage.'  The movie shows that the attack was necessary, as the raging crowd was armed and firing at the embassy, killing three marines.  The colonel on trial finally ordered his men to fire on the crowd, which to the viewing audience seemed the only sensible and logical thing to do.  The following day there were all these bodies and no weapons, but the story was that the weapons were removed to give the impression that the 'peaceful' demonstrators were unarmed.  The head of the National Security Agency was more interested in catering to world opinion than in backing up the American armed forces, which risked their lives to rescue the embassy personnel, which they successfully did.The film is about how cynical politicians don't care a fig about the men who risk their lives to save them and keep them secure, only caring about their own image and reputation.  And so it is a movie about the betrayal of fighting men by amoral politicians.  The prosecuting marine attorney is rabid and ruthless in pursuing the murder charge, claiming the colonel violated the 'rules of engagement.' Tommy Lee Jones gallantly tries to defend his war buddy friend, with whom he had a prior bloody fisticuffs battle when he realizes there are no witnesses, contrary to what he had been told.  The case was tougher than he expected, and he didn't feel up to the job in the first place, but he took on this life or death legal contest out of friendship and loyalty and a strong feeling of responsibility.  So the film turns out to be a morality tale, the good guys versus the bad guys.Similarly, with echoes to the present Middle East and terrorist conflict of today, the Muslims are depicted as clever, lying and barbaric, covering up their own role in inciting the massacre.  When Tommy Lee Jones was in Yemen, looking for witnesses and evidence, he was surrounded by an angry crowd and almost beaten to death.  They hated Americans and called him a murderer.Fast forward to the trial, the defense attorney knew there was a video camera pointing at the place where the crowd was, that would have shown if they had weapons or not.  The movie shows that the videotape was deliberately destroyed by the National Security chief, a slick and smooth talker, who convinced the ambassador to lie about being rescued by the marines.  He and his wife were both eyewitnesses and the defense attorney never subpoenaed them because he knew they would perjure themselves.Ebert and Berardinelli criticized the ending as weak and inconclusive, but the ending did not bother me.  What did bother me after the fact was learning that the captions at the end, stating that the colonel was vindicated and the National Security chief caught with his coverup and suspended, was false and fictional, giving the wrong impression that this was a true story.  That is unforgiveable because I thought it was a true story, but I'm glad the story was concocted in the first place, because these things do happen, and we need to know about them.  Better to be informed by facts than fiction, but sometimes fiction informs where facts are lacking.Shakespeare's historical plays were full of factual inaccuracies, but the basic facts of greed, lust for power, betrayal of trust, self-aggrandizement, uncontrolled rage and waging war for stupid reasons remain universal truths of the human condition and dramas about them are both informative and entertaining, reminding us of things we would just as soon forget.So I'll raise Ebert's and Berardinelli's 2 1/2* to *** and recommend the film for those who enjoy courtroom dramas and those who long to see truth, honor and justice prevail over cynicism, betrayal and dishonor. "},{"Title":"Write ups don't do this film justice","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Saw it only last night,after having seen a few previews. I then read the writeup, which didn't sound brilliant. However, the combat scenes are in general quite lifelike (or so I would imagine), and the psychological tension is brilliant. In my book, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Jingoistic claptrap or Moral Masterpiece (very mild spoilers)","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I'm concerned both about the people who love this movie as well as the people who hate it. Either way I think Friedkin should be satisfied because ultimately he achieves his stated goal (DVD commentary); he gets us talking about the issues and moral questions the film touches upon. His intention is not to meld our views to his. Some of the more interesting issues followDoes the U.S. have a moral obligation to sacrifice its military members when not to do so would mean war for the U.S. and more killing? (Utilitarian dilemma) What is the nature of the obligation that our nation's politicians have toward our military members? Should we underwrite their mistakes or hang them out to dry? Abandon them, like we did subsequent to Viet Nam? Underwrite their questionable deeds the way we did in Somalia?What is the nature of men in arm's moral responsibility when under fire? Can we civilians hold military men morally culpable for crimes committed, with the best of intentions, in the heat of battle? Is there something here that military men understand, yet civilians do not? Is it always as simple as establishing a set of rules? Why does Islamic world seem to hate the U.S.? Are there radical factions that plot against us? Who would take advantage of an incident to turn a friendly country into one that hates the U.S. by plotting to 1) Stage a peaceful demonstration 2) Make sure the security cameras record a peaceful situation, then blow out the cameras and provoke the Americans to kill a crowd that is firing against them? This seems far fetched, but it's the standard terrorist modus operandi, e.g., Shining Path in Peru.Finally, many have criticized plot holes that simply are not there if one thinks the situations through. The politicians motive, the engagement of the crowd, the importance of the flag, the lack of witnesses, the Viet Namese Colonel's salute, why Jackson's character chooses Lee to defend him, the friends at the farewell, Jackson's character standing up while warning the rest of snipers all have plausible explanations. See the movie with some friends and discuss.   "},{"Title":"Worth it for two scenes","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I liked the initial battle when the marines wasted the armed crowd.  83 dead and 100 wounded sounds a bit excessive...but what the heck?  Samuel L. Jackson was good for his getting mad in the courtroom scene.  Otherwise, the movie wasn't really that good.  There's even post-scripts saying what happened to the other characters - as if this was a true story!  Who cares?Oh, and I laughed during the scene where Skokal threatens the ambassador's career.  He was the ambassador to YEMEN!!!  What kind of career is THAT?  Oh, watch out or your career as an ambassador to back-water cess-pools is over.  Yeah, sure.  I'd have replied Punish me by making me stay here and eat real food. "}{"Title":"jones and jackson make the movie","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  	The U.S. military has clearly defined rules for firing upon the enemy. You have to clearly state your position and feel that you are under immediate threat of danger. In this courtroom thriller, William Friedkin directs a slate of Oscar winners and nominees all facing the question of; would the U.S. Government try to shaft one man to save face to the world at large? 	Samuel L. Jackson plays Colonel Terry Childers. He was in charge of a rescue mission in Yemen that went terribly out of control. It seems the U.S. Embassy in Yemen was facing a `peaceful' demonstration of rock throwing, molatov cocktails, and sniper fire. This directly led to Ambassador Mourain, Ben Kingsley, screaming for an evacuation team, as he feared for his family's lives.  	Childers team arrives and sees Mourain and his family to safety. Before leaving the Embassy Colonel Childers orders his team to open fire on the protesters with the result being 83 dead&#133;many of them women and children. Naturally this creates an international incident and Childers is ordered to stand ready for a court-martial. 	Bruce Greenwood plays the government official William Sokal who has the one piece of evidence which could exonerate Childers. He has the only tape which survived the demonstration and it shows all the protesters, women and children included, pulling out guns and firing on the embassy, However Sokal feels it would look better to the world to show them crucifying the `evil' American who murdered these innocents. He has Major Mark Biggs, played by Guy Pearce, lead the prosecution. 	Childers hires his long time friend, Colonel Hayes Hodges, to defend him. Tommy Lee Jones plays Hodges as a washed up old lawyer with a drinking problem. Years earlier in Vietnam, Hodges and Childers had been leading a team, which came under enemy fire. Because of Childers, Hodges lived but injuries forced him to sit behind a desk, as he was unable to face combat for the rest of his term in the military. Hodges realizes that this is a Kangaroo court designed to convict Childers but begins to feel the fire of combat and dives to Childers defense with gusto. 	Overall this was a very good movie. It is hard to find two better actors than Tommy Lee and Samuel L. and these men deliver once again. Childers is the consummate Military man. He has no life outside of the Military and would not be able to survive if forced out. Not only is he facing the outrage of the prosecution but also he is beginning to wonder if everything he has ever done for the Military has been wrong. Hodges on the other hand just wants to retire and learn to fly fish. He has served his 30 years and managed to stay away from major problems during that time. Now he is being forced in front of his biggest opponent and it is up to him to protect the man he quite literally owes his life. 	The plot has some wholes however the acting pushes you right through them, Friedkin directs the combat scenes masterfully. The tension builds throughout until the actually blaze of gunfire is almost a relief. The courtroom scenes are almost as tense but we have seen as good if not better in other movies. Would the movie have succeeded as well with other actors in the lead role? Probably not. Jones and Jackson carry this through with their dialogue-devouring prowess.  "},{"Title":"(6) worth a peek","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Some good action scenes, some gruesome scenes - definitely suffers and pales in contrast to the grim reality of our post 9-11 world. This film fails to make one really care about what happens to the characters in the film. The courtroom war of words comes off like a theater group just going through the motions. It is one of those undertakings that says hey you! look what happened to these guys!. Then leaves us no wiser from the experience. No moral or new awarness to take with you. Good cast, good story, but an unfortunately lame production.  "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  CAUTION CONTAINS LOTS OF SPOILERS! Rules of Engagement is not a great film, and it does contain some bits which should have been thought through better, but overall it's very competent and very... well, engaging. I can't understand why so many people are so passionately and irrationally opposed to it.Ignoring the many reviewers who have completely misinterpreted the film and quite honestly don't know what they're talking about, let's look at the more serious criticisms. For instance, why do so many people call it predictable? The predictable thing would have been for the Ambassador (or, more likely, his wife) to have qualms of conscience and come in and save the day at the last minute, or else to prove in court that he was lying and the National Security Advisor was blackmailing him. The predictable thing would have been for the captain being interviewed to admit that he was under such heavy fire that he couldn't tell where the bullets were coming from. The predictable thing would have been to have the video tape magically appear, or for Tommy Lee Jones to come in with such a convincing defense that all charges would be squashed, or to make a dozen other obvious changes. As it is, yes it's obvious that Jackson's character won't fry, but apart from that the movie keeps us guessing the whole way. Predictable? Come on.And then, why do they say that the trial scenes were boring? I know boredom is only a matter of opinion, but the trial had me on the edge of my seat a lot of the time.And then, there are the people who find it all ridiculous and unbelievable. Unbelievable that a trouble-maker might try to stir up feeling against Americans? That a hate-filled protest could get completely out of hand? That somewhere in the Middle East, women and children could possibly be armed? Unbelievable that a Government official could possibly destroy evidence? At least the film didn't depict anything completely ridiculous,  like terrorists hijacking American planes and using them to kill thousands of American civilians. Then it really would have been unbelievable.  "},{"Title":"The rules of Jones and Jackson!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of engagement is a military film about courage, duty and honor. Sadly enough this film doesn't live up to the expectations. Personally, I think there are only two great scenes in it the Vietnam-scene at the very beginning of the film and the evacuation-scene in which many demonstrators are killed by the American troops. Everything else is either predictable (because it's been done before) or monotonous (because certain scenes last too long). Overall, this is not a bad film though (despite its brainless ending). It's just a pity that only the first 15 to 20 minutes are so good and that the rest of the film is less original and interesting.  Also, it reminded me a lot of A few good men sometimes.But director William Friedkin wanted to ensure the success of his film and therefore he got himself two of today's greatest actors JFK-Fugitive Tommy Lee Jones and Pulp Fiction-Negotiator Samuel L. Jackson. Both do a great job (as usual) and for that reason only this film is worth watching. Because without Jones & Jackson there wouldn't be any ... Rules of engagement. "},{"Title":"Enojoyable drama","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I'll admit that I had high expectations knowing that Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L Jackson were in this film prior to viewing it. Thanks in part to their strong performances, I was not disappointed.  I thought the plot was interesting and gave the viewer an opportunity to reflect on the horrors of war and how sometimes no matter what decision is made, that there will be dire consequences.   "},{"Title":"Interesting and thought provoking, but fails to really investigate the issues it raises.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  As always, Samuel L. Jackson is intense and powerful, his performance demonstrates his superb acting ability in portraying his characters stubborn and honourable ways. Unfortunately, I couldn't help but feel that Tommy Lee Jones was out of place within his role. He almost seems as though he should be placed in a similar role to Samuel L. Jackson. Then again maybe I missed the point, his character begins life that way, and being forced to be an army lawyer creates this placing unease.The film is exciting and thought provoking, yet I can't help think that there is a lot of film left lying on the cutting room floor. Not that the story is incomplete, but more that it lacks focus on some crucial points throughout.Although slightly different to A few good men, another cracking good army courtroom drama is made, and this one attempts to cover some serious issues and our views of the people we send out to fight for us. It's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Worth your consideration, and not jingoistic.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  (This review contains SPOILERS throughout!)RULES OF ENGAGEMENT is by no means a fantastic film. Nor is it particularly memorable when compared to military thrillers over the past 20 years. However, the film is well directed, well acted, and presents some interesting issues regarding military practice.The film concerns a colonel (Samuel Jackson) who orders his troops to fire on a hostile crowd of demonstrators during the evacuation of an American embassy in Yemen. ***** MAJOR SPOILERS***** At the time, the crowd is shown to be unarmed. However, by the end of the film, we are shown the truth these innocent civilians were indeed armed to the teeth--even the women and children.Friedkin does an amazing job generating a feeling of confusion and danger in the initial embassy scenes. At times, one feels as though they are under attack along with the characters. Combat is not something I've seen Friedkin attempt, and I'm glad he's pulled it off here with great skill. He also continues to be an expert at presenting memorable imagery--maybe not on the level of the Exorcist, but well placed imagery, nonetheless.The meat of the film involves a courtroom drama that will inevitably draw comparisons to A FEW GOOD MEN and COURAGE UNDER FIRE (which is a great film). Unfortunatey, it never really rises to level that we expect. ****SPOILERS**** In fact, the closing scene (when Jackson's character is found not guilty) we feel rushed --it's almost treated as an aside. In fact, I felt that the speed at which we reached the trial in general, and then the END of the trial, was too fast. It doesn't give us quite enough time become engaged (no pun intended)Friedkin also has a bad habit of teasing the viewer with dramatic elements, and then never delivering. Examples ****SPOILERS**** Even though it is destroyed, one always feels that a copy of that video tape will turn up... We also feel that MAYBE Anne Archer's character will help the case... but she doesn't.What saves this movie from becoming completely forgettable are the courtroom twists, and the cast. It's rare and refreshing to see Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones so subdued. Many people think that good acting = yelling. The best roles these actors (and ANY actors) have ever had have been the ones when they are NOT yelling, but emoting everyday, tangible feelings. While not worthy of academy awards, the actors here make their characters somewhat believable and engaging.The film also presents us with some interesting things to think about regarding military practice and how a combat situation is perceived. For instance  ****SPOILERS**** Even though Jackson's character was correct to fire on the crowd--should he have instantly? Should a soldier question his commanding officer when his commanding officer is the only one who sees the reality of the situation? Another interesting question Snipers are shown to be intentionally shooting out 2 of the three cameras focused on the crowd. By the end of the film, we realize the demonstrators were working WITH the snipers, but this little detail reveals that maybe the people in the crowd were willing to be killed as long as there was no proof to show that fact...Two last notes about this film you should know Many people have said this film makes no sense and Jackson's character is exonerated for doing something horrific. I have to assume these people missed the last third of the movie. ****SPOILERS**** the plot makes perfect sense Jackson did NOT fire on unarmed people! The people WERE ARMED! There's nothing horrific except the fate these people brought upon themselves. When a civilian brandishes an armed weapon on a soldier, he/she becomes an enemy. That's a fact, pure and simple.In addition, many have dismissed this film as jingoistic.I do not agree. Friedkin depicts a very believable occurrence--the attack on the embassy is something that could have actually happened WHERE it happened. The film does not paint the attackers/protesters in any worse light than they have painted themselves in today's real political climate. What's more, the U.S. doesn't come off as being infallible, perfect or wonderful, either. It's sad that jingoism seems to be a popular, trendy crutch for many reviewers lately.Should you see this film? I think it's worth seeing on cable if you have a chance. Anyone who is a fan of military/courtroom dramas will find something to like about it. The acting is good, and Friedkin shows his skill as a director. However, don't expect COURAGE UNDER FIRE or A FEW GOOD MEN. The film never reaches the dramatic heights it could have, and it feels rather truncated at the end... but it is watchable if nothing else. "},{"Title":"a 5 star cast with a 3 star script","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  So much of this movie was so good and so much of it was cringemaking.  I mean, where do you get off in the Vietnam jungle under fire with a colour co-ordinated funky tied kerchief on your head instead of a regulation helmet ? The photography was splendid, some of the shots from the helicopters were awesome and the entire atmosphere of Kabul and the US embassy under fire was marvellously done. Poor Jackson had to labour with some awful lines, and the whole outcome of the plot and court case was ambiguous to say the least, a lot of plot holes. TL Jones' portrayal of a washed up alcoholic lawyer was excellent, but I was never clear on why some crucial evidence was destroyed and why. It would have felt more satisfying if the verdict had gone the other way than what was portrayed here, more believable, somehow.  Friedkin's direction as portrayed in the DVD was dedicated and realistic.However,  I am always baffled when an army/military/marine movie portrays so many friendless, or just one-friend-in-the-whole-wide-world officers. Surely in all their years in service they would have picked up pals in the mess, the bridge club, the bar or the gym. Just solitary men with literally a whole army of companionship not availed of. Odd blokes, those military movie men. 7 out of 10 for the magnificent effort by all the hard working actors and director and raspberries for the script. "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Having had a successful decade in the 90's, Samuel L. Jackson went into the 21st century acting alongside Tommy Lee Jones in 'Rules of Engagement'. Jones, having previously acted with Will Smith in 'Men in Black' and Wesley Snipes in 'US Marshalls', was now familiar with working with black actors. The film is entertaining and engaging from beginning to end, and is a must see for contemporary audiences. "},{"Title":"Tell It To The Marines!","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I have a lot of mixed feelings about this film.  I agree with the side that hates it, and I agree, with reservations, with the right-wingers who love it. Let's start with what I don't like. Sure, Jackson and Jones are both strong, honest, and intense in their roles. But honestly, haven't we seen them in the same roles a few times too often already? The film is also very predictable and by the numbers.  There's really nothing in this story line that hasn't already been done a hundred times before in different movies of the week, paperback novels, stage plays, TV episodes... There are a couple of good performances in this film, though.  Ben Kingsley is compelling as always.  How he manages to save his work even in terrible films(remember Species?) is a reminder to actors that a bad film doesn't mean you have to do bad work.  Guy Pierce is also strong as the prosecution lawyer making his case against Jackson.  Even though you know he's going to lose(come on, is that really a spoiler? Did you really think Samuel L Jackson was going to go to jail by the end of the movie?), Pierce fights like hell to prove his point.  And it is a strong point. The trouble is, both those roles are underused.  And as the story between Jackson and Jones goes on, I really wanted to know more about Kingsley and Pierce, and what they were thinking.  I never found out, though. What tipped my thumb up on this film, then? The combat sequences and Captain Dale Dye, USMC. Dye is the leader of a movie-combat group called Warriors, Inc.  A Vietnam veteran himself, he choreographed the combat scenes in Platoon, Forrest Gump and Saving Private Ryan, among others.  And his work in the massacre sequence made the whole movie work for me.  It's realistic and very frightening to watch, especially considering the times we live in, and that American troops in Afghanistan will be in situations just like this.  Or worse, horrible as that thought may be. Is it propaganda?  Yes.  But that's Hollywood. Is it mediocre?  Yes.  But again, that's Hollywood, mostly. Is it irrelevant?  No.  Watch the combat scene, take your problems with it, and tell it to the Marines. "}{"Title":"Well done!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Wow! I am absolutely thrilled! There isn't much I can say about RULES OF ENGAGEMENT, except, Well done! I thought that Colonel Hodges (Tommy Lee Jones) was a good lawyer-friend to Colonel Childers (Samuel L. Jackson). This was because they had been good friends for a long time, and, he (Hodges) was a military attorney with lots of experience. When the peace-keeping mission in Yemen went wrong, I got scared. This was because of the war violence, guns, and injuries. The one person whom I thought was kind of evil was Sokal (Bruce Greenwood). I'm not going to say why. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did a superb job. Now, in conclusion, I recommend this film to all you Tommy Lee Jones or Samuel L. Jackson fans who have not seen it. When you see it, prepare to have a good time and be thrilled.  "},{"Title":"A waste of time (POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!)","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  When I saw the previews for this movie, I really wanted to see it.  I sure was disappointed when I finally saw it.  I understand that movies don't have to be totally realistic, but I expect at least SOME believability.  Here are some examples of huge plot holes and inconstistentcies in this movie (SPOILERS BELOW)1. Why did that guy burn the tape?  I mean, what reason could he possibly have for hating Jackson's character.  Shouldn't a judge or jury decide what they want to believe after viewing the tape?2. Who hid all the weapons?  They never did explain what happened to all those guns.  I find it difficult to believe that people could have covered that up so easily.3. With all those forensics experts they sent over, couldn't they figure out the angle of the bulletholes in the embassy, thus proving that the crowd indeed had guns.4. Why was Samuel L. Jackson's character the only one who saw guns in the crowd?  Weren't there quite a few people there with him.5. How come the marines did not use tear gas or some other non-lethal means of crowd control?  Did they really have to kill all those people?6. Where did they find that Vietnamese guy?  After 30+ years, it would seem like it would have been hard to find him, but they had no trouble locating him.Because of all this, I found it difficult to watch and I'm confused as to what the message is.  I think this movie could have been so much better if there weren't so many plot holes, inconsistentcies, and confusing actions by the characters (like burning a tape. WTF?) "},{"Title":"Straight Forward Movie","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Well acted, authentic looking film. No fluff or frills outside the battle scenes, but a well written story that gets you to ask questions about oneself if placed in the same situations and being surprised at the answers. While sorting through the black and white of military code, grey will always be the dominant color. "},{"Title":"Instantly Forgettable Movie (review contains spoiler)","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Don't waste your money on this one, not even rental fees.A lot of people will be attracted by the combination of Mr Ultimate Badass Samuel L. Jackson (hereinafter SLJ) and Tommy Lee Jones, with star of the future Guy Pearce thrown in.  However, the problem with this movie is very simple.  It sets up a lot of interesting issues, but wimps out of considering them!The premise is that SLJ leads a marine corps rescue mission to Yemen to rescue the US ambassador.  Ambassador, played by Ben Kingsley, is a coward, which contrasts nicely with SLJ's manliness!  The trouble is, in the heat of the battle, SLJ gives the order to fire on the angry crowd, and leaves them pretty much all dead.  Should he be punished or was it an honest mistake in the heat of battle?  Can we tolerate mistakes like that?**SPOILER BEGINS**Well, we don't have to examine such deep issues!  By the miracle of moviemaking, we can have an entirely different angry crowd in the embassy scene at the start (angry) to the one at the end (angry and armed, right down to the 6 year old girl - nice one Friedkin)!  SLJ was right all along and all those liberal politicos trying to put him on trial were, as per usual, doing the bidding of their foreign masters!  What a world we live in!**SPOILER ENDS**Well...I would prefer to take my nationalism neat, thanks - not weighed down with conspiracy theory bull.  The Jack Ryan film sequence is much more *honest* and fun than this tosh!  "},{"Title":"Cheap Shot","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Now, I've got nothing against propaganda, whether or not I agree with its objective, so long as it is done well. Unfortunately, Rules of Engagement is not done well. As action it meanders, as drama it drags, and as a thriller it cheats egregiously. Too bad, since it's chock full of good actors, and even a few interesting scenes. Overall, though, there's insufficient artistic merit to justify its jingoism. "},{"Title":"Two forceful performances in a good war film","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Two A-List stars don't add up to a blockbuster,  they need a better script.Samuel L Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones make their characters creditable and interesting even though they are paper thin.After directing the great courtroom remake of  twelve angry men (1997) you'd think William  Friedkin would be able to bring tension to  these courtroom scenes.Instead its heavyweight acting but the pay off  of courtroom scenes have no punch.Fortunately pros like Ben Kingsley and Anne Archer lend fine support. The actual attack scene is well staged. ***/**** "},{"Title":"Good concept, horrible execution.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie, and then heard the positive reviews, I was eager to see it.  I thought it would be a movie that showed the hypocrisy between politicians (civilians) ordering something being done by the military, and then persecuting the military personnel for following those same orders when the political heat is going to fall upon them for giving those orders. Instead, this movie turned into a parody of itself.  The Marines taking fire from the snipers without returning it even though they had lost 3 men.  The CH-46s magically turning into CH-47s (army helicopters) somewhere between the LHA and the embassy.  VC having multiple radios in units as small as the one shown in the Vietnam scenes.  I could go on, but the most important problem of all was the Marine commander telling his men to fire into the crowd while completely ignoring the snipers across the street who were the ones actually taking down his Marines.  As a Marine, I applaud Hollywood's attempt to show us in a positive light in military courtrooms after the Few Good Men debacle, but this movie should have received a thorough rewrite before filming began. "},{"Title":"The story is not new, The acting makes this a must see film","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"     The superb acting of  Tommy Lee Jones, Samuel L. Jackson & Guy Pierce makes this courtroom drama a MUST SEE.    We all have seen this type story before, Well decorated hero goes overboard on a mission & is being court-martialed.  The performance of the above 3 are so skillfully directed by William Friedkin, that we easily can overlook certain deficiencies in the story. The action sequences both in the beginning (Vietnam) and at the besieged embassy  are very well handled. A worth while 2 hours well spent as alwaysJay Harris  "},{"Title":"Just makes no sense","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  (warning plot elements, such as they are, revealed)This movie was contrived to an extreme; basically none of the seminal plot events make the least bit of sense.1) What happened to the Marines already stationed in the embassy?2) Where were the rest of the embassy staff? When, in the history of the State Department, have the ambassador's spouse and child remained at a post which had already been evacuated of other staff?3) Where were the Sana'a police?4) Where was the Yemeni army?5) The shooters were obviously not in the crowd on the street; they were hitting people who were running low on a flat roof. How can a Marine officer with 30 years of combat experience fail to realize that? How can that fail to have come up during the court martial proceedings?6) The U.S. Embassy to Yemen, which according to the film is rowdily protested on a weekly basis, has a wooden door that gives in at the first attempt with a makeshift battering ram? Come on.7) Even the most caricatured slimeball bureaucrat would not stick a tape in a drawer without first watching it to see whether it vindicated his position.So this makes it all the more a shame that the movie was, in sum, so reprehensible. It amounts to an hour-and-a-half of glorification and justification of a barbarous and indefensible act. The outcome made no sense, the penultimate scene (the salute) made absolutely no sense, and the film made no sense. Two thumbs amputated. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but good performances save it","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement is certainly a flawed movie--not a flawed masterpiece, but still there's enough here to recommend.  The flaws are pretty easy to identify--at better than two hours, it's too long, and yet the resolution seems tacked on.  There are too many superfluous scenes--and when you use child actors, it has to be done deftly or it's an invitation to eye rolling.  Hence Ben Kingsly, as the weakling Ambassador to Yemen, puts in a good performance, but his young son should have been left out entirely. In addition, the Court rooms scenes suffer from the usual Hollywood problems--they mangle actual court procedure, though in a military court it's harder to know.  Though here you don't have the bad guy explaining in excrutiatingly ludicrous detail how he's really guilty (a la Perry Mason and A Few Good Men).  But having said all that, this is a pretty strong movie.  For those who seem to think this an anti-Islamic movie, maybe they should take in some old footage showing Iranian mobs sacking the American embassy in 1979.  The context is pretty convincing.  And the basic question, as to why Sam Jackson fired at the protesting crowd, isn't really answered until mid way through the movie--providing some tension, though it still begs the question as to why it took them so long to fire back at all those snipers cutting them up. This is hardly a jingoistic propaganda piece, though it might seem that way to some of the more extreme anti-American types.  It has a familiar set of bad guys--the politicians looking for a fall guy, also somewhat depressingly convincing.  The movie would have been vastly improved by some better editing and some filling of plot holes, but all said, a strong showing.  By the way, I thought the beginning sequence set in Vietnam helped define and set the context for Jackson's character and his relation to Tommy Lee Jones.  And bravo to the writers and director for totally ignoring the fact that Jackson happens to be black.  It made no difference in how the movie progressed, a refreshing attitude.  It allowed you to see Jackson, a very able actor, as simply an American Marine.     "}{"Title":"Predictable Tosh","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I can't really review this properly without giving away most of the plot, so I'll simply say that this is completely predictable re-hash of a tired old formula.Yes, there were some good performances from the leads, and the main action sequence in the Yemen was pretty good, but where was the tension? Where was the plot development/twist?If you have two hours to kill, and don't wish to be challenged in any way, shape or form, then see this movie. "},{"Title":"flawed but fascinating film","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Had William Friedken's `Rules of Engagement' had the courage to travel down a different route, it might have emerged as a great film rather than merely the good one it turns out to be.  Credit this big budget action film with at least attempting to address a morally complex issue in a morally complex way.  That the film doesn't succeed completely is probably due to the restraints imposed on it by both studio and box office considerations.The film poses a number of long-debated military questions  when used in the context of an endeavor like war - whose primary aim is to take away the lives of one's enemy - is the term rules of engagement itself an untenable paradox?    Does it even makes sense to have rules when it comes to war?  And can there be such a thing as an `innocent victim' killed in the heat of battle?  And can a commander who orders the deaths of such people in a wartime situation be convicted of `murder'?Samuel L. Jackson stars as Colonel Terry Childers, a decorated Vietnam War hero who suddenly finds himself on trial for court martial for ordering his men to open fire on an allegedly unarmed group of Islamic protesters demonstrating outside the United States embassy in Yemen.  Tommy Lee Jones co-stars as Hays Hodges, the man whom Childers saved in a battle in Vietnam who now, as a self-described mediocre lawyer, has the chance to pay back his buddy by clearing his name in court.  `Rules of Engagement' raises a number of fascinating issues, but I contend that the film would have been even more interesting than it is (and it IS interesting) if it had left the audience in doubt as to Childers' innocence or guilt.  Instead, we know from the beginning that Childers' version of the events in question is the accurate one, which robs the film of the kind of gripping human drama that can be achieved only through an examination of the ambiguities that make up human motives and actions.  This means that we know who the heroes and villains are right away.  There is even a tell-all video of the event to be secreted and ultimately destroyed by an unctuous government official.  Thus, we end up with yet another David vs. Goliath story, yet another soldier-at-the-mercy-of-the-U.S.-military-industrial-complex scenario, when what we really crave is something more challenging, more ambiguous, more morally complex.These elements are what keep `Rules of Engagement' from being an extraordinary achievement.  Yet, there are many positive aspects of the film as well.  For one thing, it avoids the temptation to become a xenophobic, flag-waving pro-American/anti-Islamic diatribe.  It certainly doesn't shy away from portraying the tragic toll inflicted by the shooting on the protestors present.   In addition, it allows its two male leads to display honest emotions like regret, confusion and self-doubt.  They are even permitted to cry from time to time.  In a way, both actors have been cast a bit against type, since neither is portraying the self-assured, almost cocky brand of hero he is usually called on to play.Most important is that, despite the feeling of compromise, the film does raise some fascinating moral issues that too few major films even bother to consider.  If this review comes across as more negative than it should, it is merely because the potential for greatness is always regrettable when it is not achieved.  Nevertheless, `Rules of Engagement' deserves to be seen and admired for what did make it to the screen.  For all its imperfections, this  really is a very good film.  "},{"Title":"Eye-roller","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I thought the plot was thin and the characters trite.  I didn't care whether they locked him up or let him go.  It was a poor attempt at sentimentality with a completely predictable outcome.  I rolled my eyes six times during the last half of the movie. "},{"Title":"super-charged performances= a standout film","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I knew Rules Of Engagement was special because it had everything I could possibly ask for.Rules Of Engagement is a powerful film with strong performances from a very talented cast from Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson to Guy Pearce and Bruce Greenwood. Together these four actors combine to create one of the finest ensemble casts to come to screen in a very long time. These are four actors who seemed to play their part naturally. Their performances took me away into their world and I felt I was alongside them.From the opening scene William Friedkin got me interested with a flashback to the Vietnam War incident that played a pivotal part of the film and continued throughout with excellent dialogue and realistic plots. I knew how special Rules Of Engagement was; however, I didn't realize how special it ended up to be. The courtroom scenes were the best scenes in the movie and among the best I've seen on television or film. The fierce battle between Jones and Pearce was phenomenal.Rules Of Engagement contains similar elements as Courage Under Fire and A Few Good Men. The best part about this film was the way Friedkin combined these similarities, added new stuff and took it a step further to make Rules Of Engagement engaging, entertaining and involving.Rules Of Engagement is character driven and extremely powerful. Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson turned in oscar worthy performances and William Friedkin has directed a textbook film. Rules Of Engagement is a true testament to how movies should be made. Two thumbs way up. "},{"Title":"Well, it's got Samuel Jackson","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Samuel Jackson raises the bar in any film he's in. This film would have been a much lesser film without him. The premise is the usual stock, he did what he had to do and it was the right thing after all idea.  In fact, the conclusion is actually pretty unsatisfying. The real results are displayed in titles as Jackson's character walks away. And I can't think of anything that takes away from a major film more than when characters are portrayed 28 years earlier and look just as old as they do in the present time. I estimated Tommy Lee Jones was in his early 20s (at best) in the Viet Nam scenes, yet he looks 50. And when Samuel Jackson was on the stand, I kept having flashbacks to A Time to Kill. I was waiting for him to yell yeah, I killed them and I hope they burn in hell.  But with that said, this movie isn't bad, mainly because of a good cast (and SJ of course). Could have been better, but it's still an okay rental. "},{"Title":"Good Movie...to a point","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This movie was a very good movie to watch and keep myself entertained for a couple hours.  It does seem to have it's predictable moments, but the action and fast pace make up for it by keeping you involved in the picture.  Tommy Lee Jones does a wonderful job as the underacheiving military lawyer. Samuel Jackson is again in fine form as the accused Colonel.  The ending comes as no surprise but it is sort of anticlimactic in the sense that some issues that should have been resolved first never really were leaving you wondering that's it.  Despite this small shortcoming, it was an enjoyable movie and I would recommend it.  8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Rather thin plot, very good acting.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Macho US Marine stuff (maybe a minus for non US audiences), a rather thin plot (with enough gaps), but if you are a Tommy Lee Jones and/or  Samuel Jackson fan, you'll enjoy it -it's a two men show! Jackson 's  acting reminds of Nicholson in A Few Good Men but in a more tight and balanced way. The action scenes are good, the jury scenes good be better. Not the kind of directing you would expect from the man who directed The Exorcist and Cruising, though.  "},{"Title":"more macho bravado for your rental $","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  i recently picked this up on dvd and foolishly watched the behind-the-scenes- making of...part before watching the movie, it pretty much gave away the whole film and left nothing to the imagination, yet the dvd features are good, a introspective commentary by friedkin, good cast interviews (does tommy lee act in real life as he does on screen???) and some good picturesque shooting pics. worth it for that alone, now onto the movie.... i really enjoyed the first hour of this, but then once the cover-up was let out of the bag and the bad national security man was exposed - you knows whats gonna happen...tommy lee is his usual grumpy hard-ass self, which is always welcome, but here he seems even more jaded then he did in double jeopardy plus he dragged bruce greenwood into this movie too. greenwood and ben kingsley were frivilously wasted here, all kingsley get to do is to choose between jackson's ass and his own and thats that - more indepth analysis of this decision could of been better. guy pearce looks so gaunt here...hell, i can remember when he was so spritely looking in neighbours (for non-australians that was a 80s soap-opera he was a frequent cast member of..) his noo-yawk accent was believable, yet he too seemed just to be hanging around as part of the background. sam jackson excels in yet another bravado bold performance, has he ever put in a bad performance????? still, this was a well-made yet predictable thriller, yet with a great cast (i just wish phillip baker hall would get more screen time in his roles). there is enough shouting, accusations, macho posturing, and good-ol' american marine spirit to last a lifetime in here, yet i still love films of this ilk...worth using your free new release voucher for anyway "},{"Title":"A flawed, but entertaining 2 hours....","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement just doesn't follow the rules of satisfying film making.  This doesn't mean that it is a bad movie or that it is not worthy of a rental at the video store, it just means that when the credits are rolled, the viewer is not left with the feeling of total satisfaction at having watched an excellent film.  The movies strengths definitely lie in the strong portrayals turned in by the 2 male leads.  Mr. Jackson was more subdued than usual, but extremely effective, as was Mr. Jones.  With the exception of a poorly executed fight scene involving these 2 actors, their performances were the glue which held the movie together at its weakest moments.  The story line, while engaging and interesting, had an extremely choppy feel to it. Almost as if important scenes were left on the cutting room floor by mistake, while less important scenes had made it onto the final reel.  However, this is a relatively minor complaint.The last 10 minutes of the film were completely unforgivable.  It's as if the film makers ran out of time, and instead of showing you how the story ended, we get a series of screens with captions depicting how the rest of the plot unfolded.  There is no catharsis for the viewer. No feeling that justice had been served.  I recall feeling angry as the credits rolled that they had chosen the cop-out way to end the film.  Maybe I am being too picky? I don't know.  The rest film is good enough for me to recommend seeing it and drawing your own conclusions.  "},{"Title":"Grand acting and a common plot...","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  If not for the expected, and solid, grand acting of Jones, Jackson and Pearce, this movie would deserve to sit on the shelves gathering dust next to old Super Bowl clips. Jones and Jackson craft believable and interesting characters within the confines of a common plot-did the Marine exceed his bounds in war? Well, there's a juicy question-always was, always will be. But, I'm not sure more movies should be made about it, at least not without a twist. That's not to say, that we should stop asking the moral question for the ages (how far is too far in war). Even though we viewers are shown, at the onset, what happened at the scene of the alleged crime, we still must opine if the alleged offender went too far. Although the movie answers the question legally, it doesn't answer it, morally. In taking us through this story, Friedkin does not offer up the kind of suspense he did in his grand, French Connection. That's not to say the film is ever boring. It is not boring. This is a guys' movie. Pour a beer, or better yet drink out of the bottle, light up a robusto, put the feet up on the table, and watch Jones, Jackson and Pearce do their swaggering so well. The acting is to be enjoyed, and then it's time to get back to doing the family taxes. I just may watch it again, and push the taxes aside. Oh yes, and I'll continue to ponder the quesion, what's too much in war?  "}{"Title":"A Good movie but does it send out the wrong message?","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement is a very intreging film that is fascinating and makes you ask a lot of questions of the characters and of the actions they take. Samuel L Jackson plays Colonol Terry Childers who goes into the Yemen to bring home the ambassador and is caught up in a violent situation which results in the death of 83 civilians. He is charged with murder by the US government and is taken to court.He enlist the help of life long friend and defence lawyer Hayes Hodges( Tommy Lee Jones)to try to get him off the hook. While this film is very good i do have a problem with the outcome. If i was on the Jury i think the decision would have been very different.! 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining run of the mill action/military/courtroom drama.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I liked this movie and enjoyed it, but i wasn't very impressed, in that it offered nothing fresh or original to an already tired genre.  But the two leads(jackson and jones) did a good job and the story was interesting as well.  With that i'd say that this is a recommendable film that will keep you intrigued throughout, but not leave an impression. **1/2 stars "},{"Title":"The rules of Jones and Jackson!","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of engagement is a military film about courage, duty and honour.  Sadly enough this film doesn't live up to the expectations.  There are only two great scenes in it the Vietnam-scene at the very beginning of the film and the evacuation-scene in which many demonstrators are killed by the American troops.  Everything else is either predictable (because it's been done before) or monotonous (because certain scenes last too long).  Overall, this is not a bad film though (despite its brainless ending).  It's just a pity that only the first 15 to 20 minutes are so good and that the rest of the film is less original and interesting.  Also, it reminds me too much of A few good men sometimes.But director William Friedkin wanted to ensure the success of his film and therefore he got himself two of today's greatest actors JFK-Fugitive Tommy Lee Jones and Pulp Fiction-Negotiator Samuel L. Jackson.  Both do a great job (as usual) and for that reason only this film is worth watching.  Because without Jones & Jackson there would hardly be a Rules of engagement. "},{"Title":"a big thumbs up","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I can't recall seeing such a wide diversity of opinion for a flick in this space, and I can't help thinking that the disagreement probably splits between those who are sympathetic to the military and its traditions, and those who view the military as anathema. I side with the fans of this movie. I found myself thoroughly engrossed, from beginning to end, by a completely plausible story (with one or two weak spots) well acted and told without cheap plot devices. Tommy Lee Jones plays against type here; contrary to his standard screen persona of agressive alpha-male types, here he plays a man plagued by self-doubt and lack of confidence. It is an excellent portrayal. Samuel Jackson acquits himself with honors as well. Also notable are Guy Pearce (an Englishman!) as the prosecutor, Major Biggs, and Dale Dye who makes an awfully convincing Major General Perry (it seems that Dye has an extensive military background himself). As far as the weak spots, there are any number of crowd dispersal techniques - e.g., CS gas - which, in a real confrontation, would be used prior to resorting to live fire. And the little closing tag-lines telling us what happened to the protagonists are indeed a stupid touch in a fictional film, as a previous viewer commented. On the whole, though, this is one of the best rentals I've seen in a while. "},{"Title":"Very cool and suspenseful!!","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I heard some good reviews about this movie from my friends, so I thought that I would check it out. I made the right decision. This movie was action packed from the start right to the finish, weather it be combat scenes , or court room scenes. It really held my interest. I was suprised at how the movie ended, because of the twisting and turning of the events in the movie. At one point I thought one thing, and then I thought something completely different. If you like war-courtroom drama movies then I think that you will like this one. William Friedkin really can direct. All of his movies keep you thinking and on the edge of your seat. Remember Exorcist? It was really scary and it also kept me on the edge of my seat. I suggest that you go out and see this, possibly on DVD. I don't think that you will be dissapointed. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Good acting- Bad Plot","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I think that this movie had many things that could've made for a Great movie Great actors, good theme (A US military Blunder). But then goes for an unexpected twist they try to justify a massacre, this is bull****, Situations like this happen very often by other countries (including mine) and the US is the first to demand Justice to be made to the victims. Here they try to justify the Marines by saying that their life ( the life of marines) is more valuable than dozens of foreigners.  I think this movie would not be liked by anyone who is not an army-loving US Citizen "},{"Title":"a horribly contrived plot","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This is one of those movies that starts out bad, and pretty much plateaus at terrible.  How many (elite) military units out there would stand for getting cut down for several minutes before blindly firing into an unarmed crowd? I'm no military strategist, but I'm guessing that most military units would have some snipers take out the enemy shooters immediately after taking fire. Add in the obligatory beat-the-guy-up-even-though-he's-your-buddy, and it makes you wonder if Sam Jackson and Tommy Jones were hurtin for cash... "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Although it's been a top rental in the stores, I couldn't remember Rules of Engagement being in the theatres. Now I know why. This easily goes into the worst movies of the year list (along with Romeo Must Die). Some specific complaints1. The opening scene where Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson play twenty-something Vietnam War soldiers (Jones by cleverly pulling a hat down on his head). We then join them thirty years later, where they look exactly the same.2. Somehow, we're supposed to feel compassion for a soldier that not only order the killing of soldiers as well as women and children, but also presumably lost the lives of many of his own men. Now, I'm no military expert, but here's my question Why, since they were vacating the embassy anyway, didn't the soldiers take a _safe_ defensive position to protect the workers while escaping via helicopter. Let the Yemen's shoot at the building all they want, for goodness sake. I would guess they would get bored and stop eventually. Ridiculous.3. The plot just seemed to be a random sequence of scenes that only loosely made sense.4. Most of the other criticisms have already been noted. I'll repeat just one How, in God's name did they find the Vietnam guy from 20 or 30 years earlier for the trial?Friedkin, Jones and Jackson should be cause for excitement in a movie, not a constant rolling of the eyes! "},{"Title":"A movie that demands attention.","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Colonel Terry Childers stands accused of murder after ordering his troops to fire on a crowd of Yemen rioters. After enlisting his old buddy Colonel Hodges to be his lawyer, we spend the rest of the movie trying to figure out if the rioters in Yemen were firing at Terry or not. It's actually better than you might expect, and although the first twenty minutes could have been skipped completely, the court room scenes were enjoyable and kept you fully awake for the rest of the movie. Something that many court room movies these days do not do very well. Not to be compared to A FEW GOOD MEN, RULES OF ENGAGEMENT is all Hollywood with something fresh and fun without the expectations of an Oscar. "},{"Title":"bleh","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This movie just started off bad and got worse. There were soooo many problems that I had with the plot that I don't know where to begin.**SPOILER AHEAD**With all the forensics experts sent over there, they couldn't find the angle of all the bullet holes in that building? HOW did they find that Vietnamese guy to testify against SLJ?? They never even knew his name. And I wasn't under the impression that we're real friendly with those people even now. And...what was wrong with TLJ to ruin his military career? He didn't seem to have any noticeable defects, and with a movie this bad, there's generally obvious disfigurement, or at least a limp. This movie threw in a lot of important stuff, but never gave us any details about anything. Next. Who, exactly, hid the guns that were fired by the crowd? Obviously just another one of those evil yemenites, I guess. Probably that darn little girl in the pink dress. But...did they even have a reason to hide the guns?? Why did the prosecuting attorney for the other side keep saying he wasn't going to crucify SLJ in the beginning, and then turn right around and do it?? Why was the sound so bad?? And the cameras shaky? And...why are we supposed to care at all about these people when they don't tell us anything about them?And wasn't that fight scene not only unnecessary, but FUNNY as all get out?????? "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Being of the generation which lost many friends to the war in Vietnam, I am not particularly fond of war films. Actually I rarely see one. I was quite impressed with this film since it covered so many important points regarding conduct and honor. No surprise that the pols were evil. I was impressed with the fellow who played Biggs but the voice is very evocative of someone else from long ago and I spent much of the movie trying to place it. "},{"Title":"worth the cost of a rental ...","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  especially if you're either a samuel l. jackson fan (which i happen to be in a major way) or a fan of tommy lee jones.i agree with some of the other reviewers ... there are a number of holes in the flick, but not enough to take away from its overall entertainment value, especially if you're a fan as i mentioned above.this was a typically great performance by jackson, although there was one outburst of his in the courtroom that was just a bit too similar to his negotiator character ... but again, not enough to take away from his overall performance (look at the job he does when jones comes to visit him and has to let himself in the door ... he pulled that scene off brilliantly). and jones closing argument alone was worth the price of the rental in my book.jones has some other brilliant moments in his visit to yemen ... shows some very good emotion. in fact, if you're expecting a repeat of his sam gerard character a la the fugitive and u.s. marshalls (as i was), you'll be pleasantly surprised by the range of emotion he shows.there were a couple of scenes that had me going back and forth ... i mean, at one point, i was totally behind jackson, at another point i was seriously questioning whether he acted correctly, and then i was back in his court (no pun intended). this type of involvement is what makes a movie enjoyable to me.on the whole, i felt all the characters were very believable, although some (like kingsley's wimpy ambassador-diplomat role and bruce greenwood's evil nsa director) were pretty stereotypical. guy pearce does a very good job as prosecutor (i have to watch l.a. confidential again to remember him in that) ... i'd hate to have him prosecuting me. blair underwood also has a very very nice, but small supporting role.there was a couple of over the top scenes ... was it really necessary to have that fistfight?????? i mean, puhleeease!!!! and jackson's distorted flashback didn't do anything for me.i have to say i was disappointed in the closing comments that come up on the screen at the end of the movie. please understand, i feel i should be vague, because i don't want to reveal anything ... but the closing comments left me feeling incomplete ... they brought to mind questions like well, how did that happen? based on what? but it wasn't enough though, to take away from my overall enjoyment of this flick.overall, i give jackson and jones each a 9 rating for individual performance and the movie a 7. i hope i didn't steer you wrong.jeff "},{"Title":"Sam Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones... There's none better.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  The superb acting of Sam Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones is what makes this movie exciting. It starts out a little slow, but the movie picks up quickly and you stay involved throughout. Very realistic... makes you appreciate the work that are men and women do out in combat.  "},{"Title":"Good performance","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Well, i had no clue this movie existed until i saw a commercial on tv. Well i sat down as usual expecting the best from Sam Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones. I got my Dvd worth and the movie was just as good as I thought. Great movies need great actors and these two including the rest of the cast ( Bruce Greenwood . ... Nowhereman (TV) all delivered the goods to the big screen.Jackson's acting was superb, he is introduced as a fighting machine with greater love for the American army and we the viewers discard his human emotions. The bond between the characters played by Sam and Tommy gives us a whole new perspective of both characters. Good movie, i give it a 8.5 / 10. Go watch it!!!!!!!!!!!Chisenga Mulenga ® "},{"Title":"A movie with a plot that simply does not work","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Interesting idea, but not that well carried out.* SPOILER WARNING AHEAD *I walked out of the cinema just wanting to ask a lot of questions1) Why didn't they interview any of the soldiers? If you are firing on someone, you will know if they  were armed or not. Trust me, you will. Or at least one guy in an entire platoon should have an opinion on it. But the soldiers just didn't have a clue 2) If the colonel was such an experienced soldier, why didn't he just follow the rules of engagement? What was the reason he did not warn the crowd before firing on them? 3) How could the snipers miss at that distance? With all that firing, how could they just hit three marines. I could have shot them all when they ran around on that roof and I have 12 months of military service. 4) That little girl actually fired at the marines - I simply do not believe it 5) If you are a person in an armed crowd and you see a platoon of marines taking position to fire at you, would you just stand in the middle of a square and fire blindly at a roof... I DON'T THINK SO!!!! If all yemenites are such killers, wouldn't they know how to take cover? 6) Whatever happened to the snipers? As soon as the Marines started firing, the snipers simply disappeared...?And as a final point, this movie was plainly very, very rascist. Yemenites should object a lot and I don't think it will be a hit in Yemen or any arabic country. It will just spread the belief that Americans are crazy. "},{"Title":"Waste of Great Talent and a repeat of the Mistakes of GI Jane","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This movie starts off about one thing, and then is transformed (badly) into another.  Like GI Jane, the movie seems to be about choices and challenges for the hero, and how he/she deals with them.  But both movies then fabricate a scumwad-politician, Washington-is-evil plot out of nothing, and try to make the movie about that.  What a waste of fine talent and performances.  Could have been really good. "},{"Title":"Not original but still entertaining","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Despite various flaws, this film succeeds at creating a strong drama with two excellent performances by Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson.  It is an interesting premise in today's world where the lines between politics and warfare become ever fuzzier.  Is a commander justified to engage an enemy to protect his men if there is a high probability of killing innocents?  With increasing frequency, radical groups use human shields to capitalize on this Western dilemma.  This film brought some of these issues to the fore, and though sloppily done in parts, it was an entertaining treatment of the issue.Director William Friedkin (The French Connection) is no stranger to action flicks, and the action scenes were extraordinarily realistic.  The trial was also well done from a dramatic standpoint, but some glaring flaws went unexplained.  For instance, are we to believe that with all the firing that occurred from the ground, forensics experts couldn't find a single bullet hole with a ground-based trajectory?By far the best aspect of this film was the acting.  Tommy Lee Jones was outstanding as the shot-up marine who turned into a second rate lawyer to stay in the service.  Samuel L. Jackson continued to prove himself one of the better dramatic actors around with a stellar performance of the dedicated career officer thrown into an impossible situation and then fed to the wolves.  Guy Pearce also gave a fine performance as the prosecutor for the government, although he tried to hide his British accent by putting on a New York accent and it sounded phony.Though unoriginal (see A Few Good Men), this is a very watchable drama with some credibility problems, but the flaws were more than overcome by the great acting.  I rated it a 7/10.  It offers food for thought regarding the difficult demands we make on our military in the world of post cold war international diplomacy.  "},{"Title":"Nothing new at court","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  You've seen it all before, in much better movies like A few good men. The plot moves rather uninterestingly along the familiar lines best-friends-from-Vietnam-turned-distinguished-officers are subjected to the usual political/military cover up. Let me save you two hours Tommy Lee Jones is the defence attorney, Samuel Jackson is the defendant. Who's gonna win the case? Who cares? Apart from a very good action scene in Yemen, this is a completely forgettable movie. A waste of time (especially mine) and talent. "},{"Title":"Lazy, lazy filmmaking.","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Friedkin has made some great movies (Exorcist, French Connection). This is not one of them. His earlier works were novel, marked by a fresh creative spark; this, on the other hand, is a very tired, predictable, formulaic rehashing of familiar elements. It's not even a familiar tale well told; it's just lazy filmmaking at its worst.Jones and Jackson, two of the most engaging and charismatic actors today, are given the impossible task of bringing depth to characters that are two-dimensional cutouts we've seen a thousand times before. The writers have not created living and breathing humans, but rather a hodgepodge of walking stereotypes devoid of any elements that would make them interesting, much less worthy of our emotional investment. Their behaviors are completely predictable, yet often strained, awkward, and unbelievable. Their relationship leads one to conclude that the writers attended Syd Field's screenwriting workshop and learned What To Include without learning How to Include It. There's the standard You gotta help me, nobody else believes me, the painfully contrived Fight Between Best Buddies That Threatens To Undermine Their Just Cause, and the inevitable Why-didn't-you-tell-me-this-sooner-and-what-else-are-you-keeping-from-me.Secondary characters, such as the National Security Advisor, are also drawn with breathtaking shallowness. This is not a unique individual with strengths and weaknesses, with good and bad, with virtues and vices. Here instead is a stereotypical bureaucrat-villain-really-really-Evil-guy whose great challenge to the very capable Bruce Greenwood is the hiding of the glue holding his cardboard pieces together. The character of the Ambassador similarly wastes the formidable talents of Ben Kingsley. Two-dimensional is too generous a term to be applied to the character as it is written.Sadly, the same clumsiness and laziness that mark the development of the characters also mark the development of the story. The courtroom scenes are breathtaking not only in their lack of originality, but in their arbitrariness. Our mind is kept wondering not what twist or turn the story will next bring, but rather what contrived element the storyteller will next try to foist upon us. The fight scene between Jones' and Jackson's characters is painfully unmotivated, arising not from the characters, but apparently from the screenwriters' sense of the obligatory. Worst of all, the plot twist thrown at the end is offensive not because it could not have happened in real life, but because of the way it was handled by the filmmakers. Like everything else about the film, it does not flow naturally from within; instead, it is imposed from without by the writers. Properly conceived twists--think The Sixth Sense or The Usual Suspects--add richness, complexity, and an entirely new level of fulfillment to already good stories. Then there are twists that leave the viewer feeling cheated. This is one of those, reducing most of the preceding 120-odd minutes to much ado about nothing.Rules of Engagement could have been a fine film about important issues. Instead, it is lazy, lazy storytelling that wastes the talents of the filmmakers and the time of the viewers. "},{"Title":"Questionable morality, mediocre execution","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Taking the movie from a more technical point of view, the movie was merely competent. None of the acting performances really stood out save, perhaps, Guy Pearse. This could be put down to weak characters - was it really necessary to introduce the boring old-drink-problem cliché to Tommy Lee Jones' character? Did the NSA Advisor have to seem so bad when they could have made him far more credible as a believer in human values who with-holds the tape on more humane grounds? Other elements such as Big Brown Eyed Kid feel tacked on, and unnecessary except to fulfill their role in making this film feel decidedly average.However my big problem with this movie was the questionable morale tone it took. The massacre of 83 citizens was deemed acceptable, something to be cheered at - Look! Some of those nasty little kiddies have guns! Well 3 of mine are dead, let's outweigh our death toll by 80! The scenes of everyone, kids and all, waving their guns at the poor-misunderstood-only-trying-to-do-good-American soldiers stuck sorely in my throat. Samuel L.Jackson's character seemed entirely unrepentant that his actions wounded so many - his tears seemed more those of self pity (and rang hollow with me anyway). I understand the rules of engagement, as they were laid out, but the film did not take the opportunity to explore the morale qualms such a drastic action as SLJ took might entail. Additionally it took the tired old route of the Middle East against the US. It's the new Communism it seems. The Yemenese weren't given a chance to redeem themselves, except as corpses to fuel some temporary angst between TLJ and SLJ (which dissipated when the tapes showed how BAD these Yemenese were).In the end the movie added nothing new. The Americans were right! The other people were bad (the Vietnamese soldier salutes to show us his respect!). Same old, seen it before. For a far superior movie of soldiers actions in the Middle-East, which examines some ethical issues, I'd recommend people check out the excellent Three Kings from last year. "}{"Title":"Disappointed with the ending","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film and thought that TLJ came throughwith a strong performance without having to be seen as amacho soldier. SLJ portrayed a career GI very well.  However, I think that the tying-up of loose ends by textmessages at the end of the film was a cop out by the  director. After building up a rage inside the mind of theaudience with the destruction of the tape, this should havebeen resolved in some way.  "},{"Title":"He should not have gotten away with it","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Typical American movie; defends the American political games system. Horrible 3D surround sound with people shouting behind your back. Too much details of the spilled blood when bullets hit the poor soldiers in Vietnam. i wished the movie was over sooner. "},{"Title":"Good but not Great","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement was a good movie, but could have been better. There could have been more action, suspense, and drama. The movie was very predictable. If you have ever read a review before watching it, you already knew what was going to happen even before you walked into the theater. Courtroom dramas that are a lot better are A Few Good Men and Paths of Glory. Both are excellent dramas.This was a  Good Movie nonetheless. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Avoid it!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This was a really bad film. It had a weak beginning, it really slumped during the trip to Yemen, and the 'inspiring' speech at the end wasn't all that convincing. I really regretted spending money on the ticket, as I am sure did the other members of the audience that were laughing during the 'sad' moments. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Fantasy","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  RULES OF ENGAGEMENT is a terrifically enjoyable fantasy of the way things ought to work in Washington.  Samuel Jackson plays a marine colonel accused of mass murder in a sorta reverse Waco assault on Yemeni demonstrators.  Tommy Lee Jones plays Jackson's attorney, a marine almost broken by an ambush which killed the rest of his men and left him maimed.  An ambush HE survived only because Jackson violated the Geneva convention and murdered one of his prisoners.  Guy Pearce does a terrific job as the prosecuting attorney.  In fact, all the performances are solid.  WARNING  SPOILERS AHEAD.  What detracts is the revelation in the middle of the film that Jackson is actually innocent and will be convicted only because the National Security Advisor withholds a key piece of evidence (a video tape).  This missing tape becomes the linchpin of Lee's defense of Jackson and leads to Jackson's acquittal and the eventual prosecution of the National Security Advisor. Anyone familiar with the last eight years of the Clinton Administration (particularly the atrocity at Waco) knows Washington doesn't work this way.  The national media would have have crucified Jackson, and the military jury would have cowered and convicted.Anyway, RULES OF ENGAGEMENT is an enjoyable fantasy, as far as it goes. "},{"Title":"Sammy L. is the only reason to see this movie","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've seen in a long time. The only thing that saved it was Samuel L. Jackson being his bad self. Some of his lines are simply awesome, and there is one scene in which he gets THE best I am the most vengeful man on Earth expression on his face. I'll also give credit to Tommy Lee Jones for his acting ability, but the entire movie just left me in stitches. The main lawyer on the prosecution's side had several lines (meant to be taken seriously) that left the entire theater laughing. The plot of the movie is fairly good, but Jackson and Jones just don't have the supporting cast to pull it off. "},{"Title":"I thought it was good, until the end.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Ok, the movie itself was good until the end.  The friend I was with was cringing throughout the movie because of the lying Ambassador Mourain and the National Security Advisor William Sokal.  I was being patient because, like in all of these movies, the bad guy gets his due in the end.  So here I sit, patiently waiting for the final scenes when both Sokal and Mourain get what's coming to them.  And I'm rewarded with lines of text stating whatever, at that point I didn't care.  They could have added ten minutes to the film to add scenes of them getting their due and taken this movie from the 2 I gave it to I would say at least a 7, due to it's overall lack of originality. As for Samuel Jackson, I thought he played the part fairly well but I was too reminded of Jack Nicholson from A Few Good Men to give him too high a marks.  I am very disappointed with Hollywood over this one, but they are Hollywood and could care less what I think. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I would like to start by saying that this movie sucked. I don't think that I have ever seen Samuel L. Jackson in a worse movie. First of all the plot was completely un-original. Many movies have been made with similar plots and were much more successful in creating a more proper atmosphere. Second of all there were no real emotions expressed. I felt nothing once the movie was over. A movie such as this one is supposed to touch the soul so that the viewers are emotionally effected by its contents. Except for Samuel L. Jackson's constant crying, there were no emotions expressed. Don't get me wrong, Mr. Jackson is one of my favorite actors but this feat was far beyond his control. Oh no, this act of dryness goes all the way back to the script. Finally, this poor attempt at a movie was lacking in dramatic music and scenes, which are usually used to climax the story. There was no visible attempt at this. When I saw this movie I was immediatly reminded of an actual court trial. BORING!!! Over all I give this movie a 1 (one). It deserves two thumbs down in the ground and doesn't even deserve to be rented at the smallest and cheapest of video rental stores in the ghetto. "},{"Title":"lethal weapon meets a few good men; still watchable","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  The film starts strongly with intense combat sequences that shows Director William Friedkin still has cinematic bite. In fact every scene that doesn't take place in America jolts you and almost puts you in the line of fire. The threat of harm at every second is evident, and the energy goes away in almost every scene that takes place on U.S. soil. Tommy Lee Jones gave us vulnerability and openess; a nice contrast to what we would have been stuck with in a typical Hollywood film-a Superman for all occasions. How refreshing. The rest of the cast holds up very well(how nice to see the lovely Anne Archer working again), but is it possible to have anyone more two-dimensional than Bruce Greenwood's villian? All he needs is a mustache to twirl and railroad tracks to tie Sam Jackson down on. I don't really blame Greenwood-I blame the lazy screenwriters. The courtroom scenes seem fresh-if you've never seen A Few Good Men, The Caine Mutiny or ANY other film or tv show that had a courtroom in it. And as for the way the Jones-Jackson relationship was written-any comparison to the Lethal Weapon series or The Last Boy Scout et. all, is purely coincedental. YEAH RIGHT! In the end, you care about the people,just don't think to hard. God knows the writers didn't. For a lazy afternoon, you can still get something out of it. "},{"Title":"Right out of the President Clinton playbook","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I'm sure the whitehouse is not overly amused by this movie given how close it hits to home.  Since Clinton took office in 1993 the US military has been turned into a global police force rather than an elite fighting force.  That is not the role of a soldier, and many missions have gone bad (Somalia for example) where US soldiers have been killed.  Needless to say the buck never reaches Clinton or anyone high up the food chain as some low level schmoe is forced to fall on his sword instead (for example - when the WH security office obtained over 900 FBI files on Republicans it was deemed a snafu, and no one could remember who hired Craig Livingstone despite sworn statements that Hillary Clinton did).  This is just so typical - this movie fits the Clinton Admin's style to a T.  It is no wonder the US military is losing its best in large qty.  Who'd want to serve under these conditions? "}{"Title":"Missed Opportunity","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  A very interesting idea for a film, unfortunately the writer neglected to offer us characters that we cared about, or knew anything about. There were no real surprises in the predictable plot either. Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L Jackson adequately wander through the labored dialogue, lesser actors would have made the whole thing intolerable. Guy Pearce as the prosecuting lawyer has an inexplicable Brooklyn accent. Pearce is an Aussie and should have just stuck to the neutral American accent which he employed effectively in L.A. Confidential. Along the same lines, Ben Kingsley, a Brit, plays the U.S. Ambassador in Yemen. Is there a shortage of American actors? American actors already have American accents don't they? This movie is ultimately a courtroom drama (yet another one), but there is very little suspense in the courtroom, opportunities to introduce some real drama and conflicts are sadly missed, and I left the theater feeling robbed.  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Hi. I read a lot of bad reviews about this movie. I seen it last night, i thought it was put together very good, right from start to finish. The battle scenes reminded me a lot of Saving Private Ryan. I thought S. Jackson and Tommy were both at there best, like they always are. I was confused though when the marines would not take out the snipers?????? But its still a worth watching movie.I gave it 9.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Missing something","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This movie was a good military action flick, BUT, when it comes to drama, I felt there was something missing. First and foremost, the ending came up way too unexpectedly.  The case seemed to develop along very nicely and then all of a sudden they read the verdict off and that's it?  I don't know if that's the writer or the Director that wanted it that way. Second.  Something was missing with the story.  It seemed the tape was a big key to the case, but they never came to a closure on it.  I wanted to see a solution towards that tape.  It left me feeling high and dry because of it. Overall, it was a good movie.  I recommend waiting 'til it's out on video, or it costs u less than two dollars in theaters. But if u REALLY want to see it, don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"Lots of potential but. . .","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW!The performances of most of the characters were pretty good - often you could tell they were doing their best with what they were given.  Overall, however, the movie lacked any real direction.  The Viet Nam sequence seemed like it was going to be important exposition for something but the punch at the end was pretty weak.  Why didn't Tommy Lee Jones (who obviously knew the story) mention in court that Samuel Jackson actually kept his word during battle?The problem was that the real conflict created by the characters was the NSA person withholding the evidence that would condemn a man for having to fall back on a last resort.  The drama should have engaged us in this debate by showing us more of one of these but less of the other two battle scenes, trial scenes or trial prep scenes (on both sides of the trial.)  To have brought up that issue then skirted it was pretty silly.The movie was also driven by events, not by characters (or even a balance of the two.)  In fact, we barely feel we know the characters, the pieces of them which count are cardboard and paint, not the stuff war-heroes are made of.  It's nice to see Samuel Jackson cry over the irony of being left out in the cold - why not focus more on what he went through?  Why not focus more on the difference between S.J. and the national security advisor?  why not show us what the marines, who's lives this decision ultimately effects, were feeling about this whole thing?  and why not show us something of the justice of the security advisor after he was 'caught' instead of a couple words on the screen?So all in all, lots of potential - it raised some good issues - the actors did their best with what they were given - but overall it was weak in delivery. "},{"Title":"Rules of Engagement Was The Pinnacle of Mediocrity In Film, Not Even Samuel L. Jackson Could Save It","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I have just witnessed the William Friedkin (The Exorcist, The French Connection) film Rules of Engagement.  I went in expecting a generic studio-film that would seem so blah and have nothing memorable or of great value in it.  I was hoping I would be proven wrong.  Unfortunately I wasn't.Rules of Engagement starts off relatively strong, although I was confused because I came into the theatre about 3 minutes late.  The opening action scene, as well as the action scenes in Yemen, are all wonderfully done by Friedkin, which should be expected from the director of The French Connection.  At the conclusion of the opening action scene, we begin the actual story of the film.  I don't want to give to much away but let's just say that the film has to do with Samuel L. Jackson being indicted for slaughtering many innocents who are protesting against the American Embassy in Yemen.  This sets into action the courtroom drama that basically is the remainder of the film.  It's unfortunate the film turned out the way it did, but it should be expected.  There really isn't too much promise behind the idea.  It had already been done many, many times before, and much better (A Few Good Men by Reiner comes to mind).I think that while there were alot of things that took away from my enjoyment of Rules of Engagement, there were a couple of plusses.  First of all, as I mentioned earlier, the action scenes in the film were excellently constructed.  They captured the intensity and insanity of the situations as well as any other war movie has, the only exception Saving Private Ryan. Unfortunately there aren't too many of those scenes in this film, which may have upped the entertainment factor in my mind.  The other thing is that the screenplay by Stephen Gaghan isn't that bad at all, although it definitely lacks in character development.  I mean there is nothing that is great about it, but it isn't offensively bad like many of the other commercialized, mass-audience films like these are (i.e. Double Jeopardy is the most recent example.  That brings me to the final reason I didn't give this film a complete zero.  The film at least tries to be entertaining and be a crowd-pleaser.  Now that didn't work with me, but it works with the general audience, which makes sense.  There isn't anything offensively bad, so therefore I can't give it that low of a grade.Now onto the bad things about Rules of Engagement.  First of all I have to say how disappointing every one of the performances in this film are!  I don't think there is one memorable performance out of all of them. Tommy Lee Jones (Colonel Hayes Hodges) plays the same role he has played in the last 4 films he has been in, but he also shows the only intensity in the whole film.  Samuel L. Jackson (Colonel Terry Childers) lacks every amount of intensity that he brings with him in every other film, plus he is barely in the film itself. Guy Pearce (Major Mark Biggs), so good in LA Confidential, gave my favorite performance, which isn't saying much, as the ferocious prosecution.  Bruce Greenwood (William Sokal) gives the exact same performance he did in Double Jeopardy, which isn't a good performance to begin with.  Philip Baker Hall, Blair Underwood and Anne Archer, all capable actors/actresses, barely register because of the 5 minutes allotted to each of them in varying roles.  Ben Kingsley is also disappointing in the small amount of screen time given to him, he basically appears to be a back-stabbing enigma, very hard to figure out.  While it isn't all the actors fault that their performances turn out the way they do, they aren't horrible performances.  It has a little more to do with the screenplays worst flaw, which is the lack of any character development.  All the characters seem to have one note and keep on that note the whole film.  The other problem I had with this movie was the direction by William Friedkin. He still seems to be stuck in the 1970's school of directing on this film, with very old school camera zooms and over indulgent scenes, like the scene in which Jones walks through Yemen and the over-long opening of the Yemen riot scene.  The editing by Augie Hess, is just downright awful in scenes, most evident in a scene where Jones is being chased by the Yemenians and then ends up in a bathroom somewhere.  Just very sub-par effort on the most-part for many who are involved.I guess while I was watching this movie I didn't know how to view it. At first I trying looking at it as a serious drama/thriller held in the ranks of many of the other courtroom classic dramas.  As the film progressesed, I just sat back and tried to soak it all in, but I wasn't really entertained.  I would say that this film would be best seen on VHS or DVD or even on a Premium Channel such as HBO, but it isn't bad enough to skip it entirely.My Rating  4/10 "},{"Title":"Cheesy way to wrap up loose ends.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I felt this movie was worthwhile until the very end. The wrapping up of the loose ends with written explanations ruined the whole movie for me. It's obvious that they didn't want to the movie to run too long by actually depicting the scenes wherein the referred to investigation reveals the National Security Advisor's duplicity being uncovered. I would have preferred to have seen it rather than to read about it. It would have taken another fifteen minutes, tops. Besides, I like longer movies as long as they are entertaining. I can't help but think director Friedkin caved in to studio demands to keep the movie around two hours. "},{"Title":"Weak in the Courtroom","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  this movie left me with an indifferent feeling.  I've always enjoyed Jackson and Jones in most movies they've made.  And in this one, their performances were notable.  However, the weak link in this flick was the courtroom proceedings.  Let's just say there was little drama,  and the outcome was predictable.  The characters were underdeveloped which undermined their credibility to pull off a convincing performance, specifically, Ben Kingsley as the US Ambassador to Yemen.  His perjured testimony was ridiculous.  So many holes in his made-up story, a Sherman tank could have driven through - is story was so out of whack with what really happened...i mean what happened to all of the other soldiers (witnesses) that would easily dispute his account of events.Also, consider the evidence presented during the courtroom proceedings....was full disclosure not considered by the screenwriter as a standard (lawful) practice of pre-trial evidence exchange between prosecutor and defense.  Let's just say the rules were really loose in the courtroom. I would expect more from a high-caliber hollywood courtroom drama.It played out like a bad Perry Mason episode. "},{"Title":"Good but no Cigar","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I liked the opening 50 minutes of this film.  Plenty of action tying the two main characters together.  The courtroom scenes were OK but the jury's verdict was definately anti-climatic.  I was expecting more especially surrounding the video tape.  I was thinking that the verdict would be guilty then we would have some action around the tape.  The two officers saluting each other at the end was a nice touch. "},{"Title":"Wait and rent it at the video store!","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Wait and rent it.  I thought the movie was long, drawn out, and boring! Jones and Jackson, of course, are extremely talented and acted in this movie very well.  However, I think it is just a boring version of A Few Good Men.  So, if you haven't seen A Few Good Men rent it instead.  I think that the movie was good enough to rent at the video store, but not worth paying ten buck a pop to see. THE REASON...the reason it was so boring was simply because nothing happened that you didn't already see in the previews. There was nothing new that surfaced through-out the whole movie, which made it seem like a 5 hour long movie rather than the 2 hours it was.  "},{"Title":"From weakness, strength","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  The facts are these  a well-decorated Marine Corps Colonel is charged with murder by ordering his soldiers to fire randomly into a crowd of demonstrators in Yemen to protect his men as they are evacuating civilians from the U.S. Embassy.  Rules of Engagement dramatizes this actual incident in which Colonel Terry Childers has to defend himself with only his word while the evidence would seemingly suggest the massacre of innocent people.  The film makes abundantly clear that while the 'rules of engagement' are spelled out in black and white, in actual combat those rules must be weighed in light of specific circumstances.  It does so from talented portrayals (in addition to Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones, Guy Pearce, Ben Kingsley, and  Bruce Greenwood) and straightforward storytelling.  It also does something that we would easily miss if it was not so obvious - that race was never an issue.  How truly refreshing in these days when that could easily have been Childers' trump card.  But that would negate the singular message of this film, that honor to country and to men under one's command is supreme.  This is a film that easily matches the skillfully made film, The Verdict, in its 'against all odds' theme - a hopeless court case in which the deck is stacked against a lawyer,      who admitted he was too weak to mount a winning defense and a soldier whose only hope is his Marine Corps devotion.  The overall direction by William Friedkin is blunt and unequivocal although he probably did not need to show the little girl firing a weapon who later loses her leg or the reciprocating salute between Childers and the Vietnamese colonel .  It's too early in the year for Oscar considerations but here's hoping we don't forget Samuel L. Jackson or Tommy Lee Jones when nominations are in order.  "}{"Title":"Been there, seen that, except the offensive part!","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement could of been a great screenplay that played out some important moral issues.  Instead, this movie offended me, and I'm not even Arab.  I thought its fictional depiction of uprising in the Middle East was too harsh and very offensive.  I've never been a P.C. enthusiast, but this movie crossed the line.  I thought the movie was going to be more interesting after the first quarter, but the director threw away a great opportunity to debate the extent of violence we are to assume in these unstable times in the Middle East.  He could of left the audience with several moral questions to ponder.  Instead I left questioning several circumstances within the plot that simply weren't believable.  This movie was a poor man's version of A Few Good Men.  However, no where near as credible or dramatic. "},{"Title":"Done, but done well","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement is probably one of the best courtroom dramas ever made.  It really makes you wonder about the proper moral and legal judgement on the defendant.  The acting is top notch.   The incident itself is original.  Everything else is not.  If the courtroom dramas haven't been done to death over the past ten years, it would have been a highly enjoyable movie.  It even ranks above the ultimate courtroom movie, A Few Good Men, with which it shares more than the courtroom setting.  However, it is simply no longer possible to stay excited about surprise witnesses, cross examinations, the people changing their minds, destruction of evidence, discovering new evidence . . . this is just all so done before.  A 7. "},{"Title":"upsetting to veterans","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Warning possible spoilers in here. I went into this movie full of hope. When I was in Bosnia I saw up close just how dangerous peace keeping missions can be. The ROE is very ambigious and often times can cost you your life since you have to do almost everything but load your enemys gun for them, before you can fire. So I expected to see some reality about what our soldiers are doing right now in foriegn countries. What I saw was a farce. When Jackson first flys in you see his helicopter fly over snipers on the rooftops. His door gunners should have dropped them the second he saw them firing. You have allegedly highly trained soldiers who cant seem to identify where fire is coming from. Also the very first thing you learn in basic is when someone shoots at you, you take cover not keep running and not even looking where your attackers are. The worst part was the common sense factor.  According to Standard ROE you can return fire. But only as last resort if you have to fire towards civilians. Imagine if when bank robbers take hostages and fire at cops the cops just took them all out. Same concept . Also  Jackson had his troops on the high ground. If he pulls back to where they originally entered the roof then he can take out the snipers since those are the ones that killed his men then he can deploy and try to take out the armed people with well placed shots. You are never told to just fire indiscriminately into a crowd. You are supposed to take well placed shots. I know this is nit picking but that is what this movie should be all about. Our soldiers are going through things everyday and people should understand that. We sacrifice our safety trying to help others and then when things go ugly people want to point fingers. But instead of me being able to symphatize with jackson I wound up hating him. He showed no remorse whatsoever. That is just wrong because no soldier enjoys having to kill. That is just our job. He was wrong and there is no other way around it. He should have known better then to open up on the crowd, this was a peace mission and as such tactics that work in combat have to be tweaked just a little. I am just so mad because people can take this movie and point at the military in a bad light.This movie just left me with no one to root for. Jackson was wrong. The politicians were politicians. The other Marines tried to hang jackson out to dry. Good Idea but to many holes for something that has this much importance. Feel free to contact me to discuss further. "},{"Title":"The only way to enjoy is to turn your mind off.","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  You could fill a book about the plot holes in the movie.  What I found obvious was that it was cheaply made.  Take a look at the sets.  Only about 5 different sets were used.  The closing music by Mark Isham is old release (but still good).  So they couldn't even arrange for an original score. Also notice that within a second of the massacre occurring the bodies are covered with buzzing flies.  Must have a bad bug problem in Yemen.  But get a bag of popcorn and enjoy Jackson and Tommy Lee.  One last plot hole not mentioned by anyone yet.  When Tommy goes to the embassy looking for evidence he passes by at least 2 vhs tapes that he ignores.  Why?  Also with a week to prepare for the case how did the Marines find an old vietnam soldier? Incredulous.   "},{"Title":"Fine performances from Jones & Jackson, but seems like a rehash","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Friedkin and Webb did their homework, and it shows! Rules Of Engagement  does an effective job of captivating the audience virtually throughout the film. Adding to the richness of the film are stellar performances from Samuel L. Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones. The film's only significant flaw is this seemingly Been there, done that theme A Few Good Men, Courage Under Fire, and The  General's Daughter. But overall a must see!Rating 9  "},{"Title":"Almost good","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Something happened with the story line.  It feels like a story written by a committee.  Probably started off as a straight honor story, then someone threw in the standard crooked government angle, and it seemed to throw the whole story off track.  Decent acting by Jones and the others, but not great.  I think they all realized the crooked National Security Advisor, and why he was so insistent on being crooked, made no sense at all.  Overall, not very satisfying, but probably worth seeing, in video.  Unnecessarily graphic war scenes, repeated throughout, echoed Private Ryan without being moving or compelling at all.   "},{"Title":"Why the cover up?","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Went on strength of Jones and Jackson, Wasn't disappointed! Movie lacked a credible premise. Why did the NSA man have to cover it up. If the rules were followed and the evidence proved it why hang a man for it. "},{"Title":"poorly written screenplay","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This portrait of a Marine commander who, in extreme combat situations, is inexorably forced into extreme responses is uninteresting and poorly constructed.  Very little about the movie plot seems credible or engrossing. The relationship at the center of the movie, between Samuel L. Jackson's character and Tommy Lee Jones' character, strikes few sparks and Tommy Lee Jones' struggle with self-doubt is dull and  canned.  The flag waving sentiments are set up in such a shallow and caricatured way that they are unlikely to elicit much of a patriotic response in US viewers.  The courtroom drama is not particularly captivating.  The portrayal of the US government's response to events comes across as a most tired cliche.  In short, there is nothing about this movie that stands out or could hold one's interest for very long.  The whole movie, just like many individual scenes, is gratuitous. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Standard Operational Procedures","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  The writer and the director just follow Hollywood Standard Operational Procedures in a hurry.  Early in the film there is hope that it will tackle icky issues (the choices that have to be made when confronted with a hostile crowd with women and children, etc.) either as an intricate legal drama, or through substantive character development.The reason I think this, is the film's premise to show the real deal from a marine commander's perspective.  Compare this, for example, to the perspective in  the movie Gandhi, when a British officer faces civilian authority for his decision to fire on an unarmed crowd I fired to teach a lesson, he says, and if I had a machine gun, I probably would have used it, too.  Rules of Engagement promises that it will not simply have the general say I fired to teach them a lesson.But the film simply avoids a tough job.  The viewer never gets a chance to see the real difficulty in taking decisions under armed hostility.  One simple line (to teach them) is replaced by another (nobody else saw, or can prove, but I knew ...).  The only conclusion left for the viewer is that these are not difficult decisions at all; an implication unfair to the soldier and the civilian alike. "},{"Title":"Please No more courtroom scenes","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" 	I beg some casting director to put Samuel L. Jackson into a role where he doesn't have to be a bad-ass. It seems like every movie he makes has some speech where he takes his Pulp Fiction character with him.	It's not because he's a bad actor. On the contrary, he plays bad-ass better than anyone else in Hollywood. 	It's just getting old.	Jackson's performance in Rules of Engagement is not the only thing that's old, however. Government cover-ups and high drama court scenes also lace this film, and they do so in the most predictable manner.	Jackson plays a marine officer who is charged with murder after ordering his troops to fire into a crowd of civilians outside the U.S. embassy in Yemen. He asks his longtime marine buddy (Tommy Lee Jones) to represent him.	This movie could have made an extremely intelligent war film. The pictures of the crowd after being massacred are terribly frightening, and audience members actually start to question their loyalty to Jackson's character. Such mixed feelings are refreshingly similar to those envoked from Three Kings.	In fact, the entire first half of the movie has extremely well shot war scenes, plus surround sound used as effectively as it has ever been used.	Then predictibility sets in.	The audience becomes convinced that Jackson's character should be a hero, not a criminal. Jones' character delivers an emotional closing argument. The final scene of the movie shows captions of what happened to all of the characters in the movie.	What was so appealing about Erin Brockovich was that, despite being a movie about a court case, there was not one scene from inside the court. There's no such luck in Rules of Engagement.	Plus, why do fictional movies insist on making epilogues? If a movie is based on a true story, it makes sense because the viewer is curious about where the characters are now. However, in Rules of Engagement, some of the most compelling plot developments occur in the epilogue. It becomes a cop-out piece of cinema and is unfair to the viewer.	Despite all of its negatives, Rules of Engagement certainly has its moments. Jackson and Jones have a surprising amount of chemistry - much more than one would think considering their careers. Plus, those who enjoy fake courtroom drama would probably enjoy the cliches carried through in this film.	For the most part, however, Rules of Engagement is what most people find annoying about big-production Hollywood dramas - big name actors, but overwhelming predictibility. 	 "}{"Title":"Highly recommended","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement is a real breath of fresh air from all the mindless drivel polluting theatres nowadays.  Excels on almost every technical level (acting, writing, direction, cinematography are all top-notch) as well as providing an intelligent, thought-provoking scenario.  One really feels for the plight of Samuel Jackson's character and wonders how we might react in such a dilemma.  The same can also be said for Tommy Lee Jones' character.  This movie will no doubt draw comparisons with A Few Good Men, but Rules of Engagement is a much superior film (yes, I know this is a large statement).  More than anything else, this one confirms what I've known for a while - it's almost impossible to create an action/drama as well as William Friedkin when he's at his best.  Rating * * * * out of * * * *  "},{"Title":"This lacked,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,ALOT.","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This movie which was good in action lacked in the court room scenes. Throughout the movie I was waiting for something to  grip me and hold me to my seat, but then there was nothing. It left me with the question, That's it?. The first thing I thought of was when Tommy Lee Jones's character went to the American Embassy and he saw the holes in the wall on the outside of the building. Why couldn't he determine the angle at which the bullets were fired from. There were holes where the bullets did penetrate, so there would have been something to give him hard proof that there were at least some shots that came from the ground. As for the court room scene, I was supprised at the verdict, because there was so little evidence to even help the defense. "},{"Title":"Too many errors to be good","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Its funny that movies coming out of Hollywood don't take the time to get familiar with standard military practices before making a movie taking place within the miliary. The same problem occured in that John Travolta movie last year. If a person is shot with a .45 or a .40 or even a 9 mm pistol with the barrel of the pistol touching the person's forehead, there will be more than just a hole in the victim's head. These are little things I know but each of these little things makes for an takes away from the story. The biography given at the end of the movie gives the pretense that this was a true story. I don't think I ever heard anything like this taking place. If it did, I am fairly certain that US relations with Mideastern countries involved would not be as relatively peaceful as they are. I can't say I enjoyed it. It was very slow and didn't have the tense moments of A Few Good Men. It also didn't have any humor to speak of. Something that SLJ and TLJ do fairly well. This movie could have needed some humorous times. I can't recommend it and I am a fan of both SLJ and TLJ. "},{"Title":"OK movie--nothing new","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Plotwise this is nothing--the U.S. government covering up terrorism and trying to set up an innocent man to take the fall. The plot has been done before many times. Basically it's a guy movie--you know, just for men. There are no female main characters at all and Jones and Jackson have a long fistfight in the middle of the movie---for no reason--just to show how masculine they are! Still this movie is well-directed by William Friedken (especially the battle scenes) and has some good acting. However, Tommy Lee Jones is terrible--he seems to be on remote. The best acting comes from Jackson (even though he has very little to work with) and Guy Pearce. The only thing wrong with Pearce is he tries hard to cover his Australian accent, but he ends up sounding like someone from Brooklyn! So, this is an OK movie but nothing special. The direction and acting held my interest. "},{"Title":"Offsets A Few Good Men","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Not as glitzy as A Few Good Men and the Marine Officer played by Samuel Jackson not as dramatic as Jack Nicholson, but it is nice to see the good guy win one.  Tommy Lee Jones is always good and doesn't disappoint you in this movie.  Ben Kingsley was mediocre, didn't have his heart in this one. Good movie, worth your time and money to see. "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is ...","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Come on people, give it a rest.  I am so sick and tired of people taking an excellent movie and tearing it apart.  Some of you are so bitter.Yes, there were some inconsistencies in the film, I'll grant you that. But, you have two of the best actors around, doing what they do best.  Don't forget, action / thriller movies are intended for entertainment, not art. If you want art, go see a foreign film, not an American courtroom thriller / war movie.Another area many people seem to have a problem with is Tommy Lee and Sam playing themselves as twenty-something marines.  I know it's a stretch, but if they would have cast young actors to play them, everyone would have been screaming that they look nothing like the main actors.There is something inherent in movies and should be recognized by the audience - It is called suspension of disbelief.In other words, shut up, sit back, and enjoy the damn movie !!!This was by far the best movie so far this year, two thumbs way up.Dave. "},{"Title":"Honorable Mention.","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I'm glad to see Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson star in a film like RULES OF ENGAGEMENT.  Because I was beginning to worry, after such duds like DEEP BLUE SEA and DOUBLE JEPORADY, I was wondering if Jones and Jackson were losing their touch with good movies.  But not only Jones and Jackson are back in good form, but so is director William Friedkin, who can place this film on his sucessful list along side with THE FRENCH CONNECTION and THE EXORCIST. RULES starts with two Vietnam soldiers, Hayes Hodges (Tommy Lee Jones) and Terry Childers (Samuel L. Jackson).  They split up thier platoon, only to have Childers capture the Viet Cong colonel and the radio operator, while Hodges gets shot and his men killed.  Childers makes a very horrifying and scary move towards the Viet Cong colonel to call the Viet Cong men off of shooting at Hodges.  The colonel agrees, and Childers saves Hodges' life.  Twenty-eight years later, Hodges and Childers are now both colonels themselves in the Marines.  Hodges is about to retire, until Childers gets himself in a terrible situation.  Childers was rescuing the ambassador of Yemen (Ben Kingsley) and his wife (Anne Archer) and child. But while in Yemen, the crowd was rioting and there were snipers shooting at the Marines and Col. Childers.  Childers orders his men to shoot at the crowd, and the press publicizes it around the world.  The U.S. government, especially the Secertary of Defense, William Sokal (Bruce Greenwood) want to point the blame on Childers, and are willing to take him to trial and court-martial him.  They recruit a young and intelligent Major Mark Biggs (Guy Pearce), to proscute Childers.  While Childers gets the some what law student Hodges to defend him in trial. RULES is like a typical court room thriller.  While I was watching this film, it reminded me of such films as A FEW GOOD MEN, A TIME TO KILL, and even TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD.  But it did matain suspense and intrest, so I did enjoy it.  Friedkin even has the viewer saying to themselves while watching this film, what would you do in Childers' situation? The acting by both Jones and Jackson are very well done. Jones has his Sam Gerrard of the FUGITIVE scarcasim, but he has a sensitive and hurt side, which I haven't seen in him before.  And Jackson is a mixutre of his roles in A TIME TO KILL, and THE NEGOTIATOR, where you're wondering if this is a man or a monster.  And supporting roles from Guy Pearce, Ben Kingsley, and Bruce Greenwood (the slimy husand in DOUBLE JEPORADY), are all good as well. But the credit should go to William Friedkin, who does a great job of keeping the pacing good, the acting great, and the story believable. After such duds like JADE, Friedkin takes a good story and makes it memorable. There are some scenes in RULES that will have scenes stick in viewers minds for weeks. It is at times bloody, but it is combat, and nobody said that combat was pretty. RULES was a good movie, and fairly enjoable.  It's not the best courtroom thriller, it's not the best Jones and Jackson film, but it is a movie the works well from start to finish.  Being that it's the pre-summer season, RULES is a good and entertaining film that will please those action hungry movie fans until GLADITATOR and MISSION IMPOSSIBLE 2 are released. Until then, this film is worth seeing!  ****1/2 (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Standard dull court room drama","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  The movie makes out this court case so the good guy is unambiguously good and right and the bad guys are the typical out-for-their-own-greedy-interest type. It is amazing and how uninteresting, unexciting, and completely predictable the whole thing was. There weren't any attempts at any new, interesting, or provocative ideas at all.On the good side, however, the beginning had some cool fighting scenes, and this movie did serve as another vehicle for Samuel L Jackson to say motherfucker which was cool but that's it. "},{"Title":"botched","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  The movie starts out, implausibly enough, with Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson in Vietnam, looking exactly the same as they will when we are taken to the late 90s. A hat can not make the rugged, aged face of Mr. Jones look like a 20-some year old kid in the bush. And frankly, that was just the beginning of things that didn't add up in this film. It's a shame that so talented a cast is given such middling fare.There were plot holes, dull characters, occasional bad dubs, a poorly done digitally masked missing leg, and an overall sense of artificiality in this film. If you're a fan of any of the actors, wait for it to come out on video, or better, broadcast TV. "},{"Title":"A great movie, but...","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  For my money, Rules of Engagement is the best movie so far this year.  I wish that were saying more, because this film isn't great, but it should have been.Rules of Engagement has a lot going for it, including a perfect cast and superb direction.  Jackson, Jones, Pearce, Kingsley - all give great performances, especially Jackson, who is even more intense than usual (check out his eyes in this movie).  Also, Jackson and Jones have a particularly good onscreen chemistry, neither overshadowing the other when they're in a scene together.  Add to that Friedken, a director with a good sense of atmosphere (the scenes in Yemen are especially well done), and one would think the movie would be perfect.And it almost is.  So what kills it?  The last fifteen minutes or so.  I understand that this script went through several rewrites, and the story's original writer, James Webb, came close to completely denouncing the film.  It shows towards the end of the film, at which point the movie suddenly makes incredible leaps in logic and realism that it has no business making.  It's just another example of Hollywood pandering to its audience when it doesn't need to, and, in my mind, the entire rest of the film points toward an opposite ending.  Rules of Engagement could have been a high 9 or a 10 if the ending had been better, so its good points still make it worth watching.  Still, I can't help but wish the film had stuck to the real world a little bit more.  8/10 "}{"Title":"Worth a watch!!!","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I thought the movie was great.  Many good things going on, especially the acting.  The aerial shots were great, also.  I liked the opening scene, with the war in Vietnam.  There were many events I did not see coming.  I am very happy that the video tape was not recovered, that would have been a little tacky.  Whoever said they have seen this plot before, what in the heck are you talking about may I ask??? "},{"Title":"Not bad... but...","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This film was tortured by the critics, saying that it wasn't engaging and the film collided from all sides and crashed and etc, etc, and etc. I tend to disagree, but not to the extreme. Yes I agree the direction was choppy during certain scenes, and editing also seemed to be choppy and uncertain at moments. But, it did entertain me enough so I would give it 2 1/2 stars. I would have given 3 stars, but the film lost that 1/2 for the choppy direction and editing, and maybe the screenplay. Starting the film with the Vietnam battle scene was a big mistake in my opinion. I thought to myself when I saw the words Vietnam, I thought, Oh, no. Not another story about the typical Vietnam war veteran. The film I think should have started with the Yemen crisis or the celebration of retirement of Colonel Hodges and at the same time edit in the Vietnam sequence. That'd be one of the things I would have wanted to change about the film if I was in charge. So anyway, not bad, but could have been better. ** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A Few Good Actors in One Poor Movie","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This film was a disappointment for me, mainly because I admire both Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson.  This was a movie with a good and timely premise, but a bad script.  Lee, Jackson, and the other players do their best, but can't salvage the film from its basic implausibilities.Irksome technical errors especially military details abound, but far worse are the many basic inconsistencies in the plot itself.  The filmakers try to evoke a sinister government cover-up in the spirit of Clear and Present Danger, but the silliness of this plot point is so transparent that the most rabid conspiracy theorist would laugh at it.  There are a few brief action scenes early in the film to liven things up, but the rest is pretty dull, despite the efforts of the lead actors.If you want a military justice drama, choose Paths of Glory, The Caine Mutiny, A Few Good Men, or Courage Under Fire, in that order of preference.  If you feel the need to see this one for yourself, wait for the video. "},{"Title":"Best movie I've seen in a long time.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I found this movie very typical of any story where the government is involved.  I really liked this movie for a number of reasons.  The first and foremost is that the realism was totally unreal.  (Note  If you don't like blood then there are a number of scenes in this movie that might make you toss your cookies).  I think that the director captured the emotion of every character in the movie and conveyed it to the audience in such a manner that it couldn't be mistaken.The second thing that impressed me about this movie was it made me feel emotion for the characters.  I felt like jumping up and pounding the head government officials in the head.  Ohhh, they angered me.  I also felt very sympathetic for the main good characters in that there was absolutely nothing they could do while the government twisted the facts around them.The third and final thing that really impressed me about the film was the story.  I have felt for years that people have been ignorant to the B.S. that happens in government politics which is mostly brought on by the media. Films like this one give people perspective as to what actually happens in this world.  Obviously this was extremely over dramatised but to think that things even remotely similar to that could happen are disgusting.  I applaud all the film makers who are willing to make known what actually happens behind closed doors.  Thank-you all.In conclusion,  I think this is an excellent movie and something that any drama enthusiast should see.  It's not for the weak of heart or stomach but still very worth while seeing.  The more we see the truths about war the more aware we will be about preventing it. "},{"Title":"A powerful film with strong performances= an excellent movie","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson in one of the best films I have seen all year.Rules Of Engagement is a powerful film with strong performances from a very talented cast from Jones and Jackson to Guy Pearce and Bruce Greenwood. In my opinion the roles that Jones, Jackson, Pearce and Greenwood had were best suited to play their characters.From the opening scene William Friedkin got me interested with a flashback to the Vietnam War incident that played a pivotal part of the film and continued throughout with excellent dialogue and realistic plots. I can't believe how wonderful the film turned out.Though, Rules Of Engagement may have similar elements as Courage Under Fire and A Few Good Men, this is also unique and holds up well.This film has strength in the characters, power in the performances and substance in the story make Rules Of Engagement a unique and must see for everyone.  "},{"Title":"It's not bad, but it's not very good","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I walked into this movie expecting a solid old good soldier being framed by the government for something he didn't do movie. I got most of that, it just wasn't that solid. There seemed to characters who just appeared out of nowhere, said a little something then vanished. The movie has pretty good action sequences and i liked Samuel L. Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones. All in all a 6.  "},{"Title":"What a waste of powerful actors & a great opportunity!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  While I'm all in favor of the suspension of disbelief that the movie-going experience provides, I can't stand it when a movie tries to insult & exploit that opportunity.Who wrote this mess?  This story has more holes in it than ... I'm so mad that I can't even come up with a clever simile.I'm sitting here trying to remember all of the elements to this story that were so implausible that I'm struggling to determine which parts of this story I found to be the most unbelievable of all.Could it be trying to believe that Jones & Jackson could pass themselves off as 22-year old USMC 2nd LTs.? (No offense guys, but a 50+ year old man can't come close to portraying someone in his early 20's).Or maybe it's trying to imagine that the Marines who were already stationed at the embassy would ever allow a situation to degrade so much as to become such a serious threat to the lives of the people that they are charged to protect.  (I only counted 6 Marines as the stationed security force at that embassy; I'm sure 6 Marines works well as the security detachment for an embassy in Iceland, but not Yemen!!).Or perhaps it was the idea that the terrorists would be so willing to use their own women & children as protection from returning fire.  (And just how many poorly organized terrorist organizations would be willing to go toe-to-toe with 50 Marines in a street firefight?)The only saving element to this movie was the scenes during the siege of the embassy and the decent efforts put forth by the cast to try and make this movie... worthwhile.  (The performances were delivered very well, it's just that the story sucked.)I could go on, but I won't.  I don't want to anymore because this movie has already received too much of my attention, efforts, and money.If you feel compelled to see this movie, catch it as a matinee or wait for video/DVD.  Don't waste a Saturday night & $8.00 on this. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film, keeps you wanting more.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I saw this film at 1230 and was tired as I sat down in the chair.  As the previews started, I began to wake up more as scenes for  U-571 and  Shaft palyed, I was waiting for this film to start.  The film has a good story and take what the government actully does into prespective.  Samule L. Jackson gives another great preformance, is there a role he cant play? Tommy Lee Jones is also as good as him, but he acts a different way then Jackson, he takes a different approach toward his role.  And last but not least Guy Pearce and actor who started out in  L.A. Confidentl and left many of fans behind him.  He hasnt done many films since that film, except  Raveonus but that is a forgettalbe one.  He gives another great preformance.  See this film, it desveres everybody's money.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining Hollywood filmmaking.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  When one sits down and begins to watch William Friedkin's (The Exorcist, The French Connection) new flick Rules of Engagement everyone inevitably compares it to the military courtroom drama A Few Good Men.  What can I say to this other than I've never seen A Few Good Men.  What do you mean you've never saw it?  That is what I mean but I wouldn't mind seeing it after watching Rules..., especially if it's better, which is what I hear.Stephan Gaghan rewrote the script over James Webb's original draft.  Webb was furious how much it was changed to make for the Hollywood dramatic effect, so he got the story credit.  It's understandable why he would be mad because this film was strictly made for a commercial audience but really how many movies aren't.Fueled by the leading performances of Samuel L. Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones and backed up by Philip Baker Hall and Guy Pearce among others, the acting is top notch.  So there is nothing wrong with that at all, in fact it may be the best part of the film.Another strong part was the direction of veteran filmmaker William Friedkin, who brought classic, contemporary, and conventional ways of directing into one to make for an overall satisfying feeling to the film.  Especially those great action scenes, which were slowed up to emphasize the horrific and hostile environments the soldiers were actually in.  Friedkin also kept it together in the courtroom where he let his actors go free and erupt in fury adding a bit of realism to the scenes. All in all, what can I say, I was entertained.  Yeah, it was filled with clichés and at times a bit rough in the script but rarely in the delivery, which is usually what counts.  If you don't have good lines might as well deliver the bad ones with taste, style, and charisma.8/10  "},{"Title":"Rules Rules!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This is one powerful and exciting film. Samuel L. Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones are fantastic. This is about a Marine head(Sam) who during a rescue mission in Yemen fires on a crowd killing 83 people including many innocent women and children. He is court-marshaled and hires his best friend (Tom) who he saved during Vietnam to defend him. The first half of the film is a military action film. It has lots of war-style action and slow motion shots. The second half is courtroom drama and very intense. Jackson does is normal job of stealing every scene. The film is great in it's an action drama when you don't know what's going to happen next. Guy Pierce is the hot shot lawyer trying to bring Jackson down. And he's great in the guy you love to hate. This film is hard-hitting, action filled and greatly acted. I give it an 8.5. This is a no-doubt must see.    "}{"Title":"Graphic violence, overall excellent acting and plot.","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Superb performances by both Jones and Jackson, kept you alert at all times. Definitely a movie for adults who like action and have a strong stomach. Enjoyed the movie very much, could compete with Saving Private Ryan "},{"Title":"basic review for Rules of Engagement","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Very good movie, very accurate depiction of the Marine Corps. Very powerful, makes you question who's right and who should take the blame in an accidental massacre. Excellent start to the movie and good throughout, but the ending was a little sudden. "},{"Title":"exciting from the very start","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This is one fun movie....was fortunate enough to view it as a sneak preview last week with a theatre full of young GIs, so you can imagine the amount of audience participation that went with this action thriller.  Realistic in many aspects...hero to zero mentality is alive and well in this movie.  I did not see Kim Delaney's character,  if she's in it, she'll probably be at the surprise party that was only ten minutes into the movie.  If not there, then she's probably on the cutting room floor. "},{"Title":"An excellent courtroom drama based on a government cover-up.","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement is a well-cast military drama set in a courtroom with flashbacks to Vietnam and the horrors of war.  Too many films today lack substance, and this film made me examine how politics can and has controlled the actions of great military leaders.  This is an entertaining movie with a message about political power.  I only wish the ending had been more dramatic. "},{"Title":"Good action, good acting","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Send in the Marines really comes alive when Samuel Jackson's troops swoop in to evacuate the American Embassy in Yemen. The magnificent action, taking some of the techniques from Saving Private Ryan a step further, catches up the viewer and then plunges him or her right into the moral question at the heart of the film as women, children, and old men get blasted apart by Marine bullets. The courtroom drama pales by contrast and only the strong performances of Jackson, Tommy Lee Jones and Guy Pearce carry the weak script. The evil White House aide is too irredeemably evil, the plot device of the missing tape too improbable. The moral question, which cannot be resolved, is too glibly let fall to the ground. "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson is a Marine Officer on trial for his handling of a Yemen uprising.  Tommy Lee Jones is a near-retirement Marine lawyer who owes Jackson a BIG favor.  That is the setup for this finely tuned, above average military picture.  The government is not made out to be grandly evil as it was in General's Daughter (1999) and that is a definite plus.  The courtroom scenes crackle with tension.  The performances are all top notch especially key supporting players like Guy Pearce (LA Confidential) delivering a knockout turn as the prosecuting officer who is also not made out to be irredeemably evil.  He intends to do his job as he sees fit and not try to unjustly destroy the things that get in his way.  While not in the same league as A Few Good Men (1992), Rules of Engagement is extremely satisfying entertainment and it sort of makes you wonder how a very well made, nicely done production like this ended up opening in April!!  It will be unjustly forgotten come 2001 Oscar time but there are quality perofrmances in this quality film.  Rating * * *1/2 out of * * * * "},{"Title":"Not a new plot- seen it before.","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This is not a new plot which involves another federal cover-up. The movie is not boring and it has good action scenes. Watching Sam and Tommy Lee do their Marine mancho thing is fun too. The problem is too many illogical holes in the plot. Things just do not add up. Lets grade it C. Another thing- I can't remember a Major Cynthia Grant played by Kim Delaney. I hope I didn't fall asleep. The only major with a speaking part was the prosecutor who was male.  "},{"Title":"An OK Movie, if you can ignore the holes","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I Like to enjoy a movie, even if it has flaws, and i don't like to nit-pick as a rule, bit i don't like movies to cheat, and this movie does exactly that.Samuel L Jackson, is a highly decorated and Heroic Marine, that is hung out to dry by the American Government, after a siege in Yemen went bad. Under heavy fire, he loses Marines and orders the hostile crowd outside the US Embassey to be slaughtered. Refusing to let the United States take the fall, they destroy evidence and leave him without a chance.With a cast of Samuel L. Jackson, Guy Pearce and Tommy Lee Jones, all delivering fine performances, and the basis for a good story, this movie is somewhat spoilt by the following - WARNING MAJOR SPOILERSDuring the Siege in Yemen, we see the unarmed crowd, before the order to waste the Mother F*****s. Later in the film we see a flashback through Samuel L Jackson Eyes, where everyone, even the women and children were armed and were firing at the marines. There was no reason for this, other than to try and fool us, the viewing audience that he may have been wrong to fire on the crowd.SPOILERS OVER That Said it is an enjoyable movie, but sadly nothing more.6/10 "},{"Title":"Objection, Your Honour!","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This movie has just premiered on British TV. I approached it in a positive frame of mind. I'm not one of those professional whingers who'll lay into a film just because it's about the US military (See the knee-jerk reviews of superior fare like Black Hawk Down, Tears of the Sun etc). But try as I might, I couldn't escape the conclusion that this film is a disgrace to its own country.Spoilers follow.Never mind the idiotic plotting (Okay, let's  track down an anonymous NVA officer in two weeks flat). Never mind that the Marine unit clearly didn't give a damn who they were firing at (Witness their failure to notice a single weapon or muzzle-flash as they massacred the crowd) The `moral' of the opening sequence turns out to be that war crimes are justified if they achieve the desired goal. So that's most of the Waffen SS off the hook, then.Even in a dramatic sense, the film is a botched job. This could have been a `Rashomon' style drama, with different takes on the same event, and a real debate about which one was the true one. Instead we have black & white platitudes, demonised foreigners and an attitude to non-American humanity that is best summed up by the phrase `Kill 'em all, let God sort 'em out.' "},{"Title":"Unconvincing evidence","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"    Good things first Rules of Engagement has some great acting by Jones, Jackson, Kingsley & co and the production values are great. The conflict scene in the beginning is quite exciting. However, just like Tommy Lee Jones' character, this film tries to make a case. An extremely weak case.   Rules of Engagement sets out to make a point about the overseas actions of the US military, and the treatment it gets from the public and the White House. It shows us an imaginary case of Marines getting into a situation where they have NO CHOICE but to kill 80 men, women and children. Unfortunately this example case bears no resemblance to any alleged US war crimes, like My Lai, and is therefore absolutely pointless.  Also, with the mouth of Samuel Jackson, we are told that the US soldiers are orphans. They get no support from the government, instead the White House charges military commanders with murder when anything goes wrong. Well...judging from the news, quite the opposite is true.  This film leaves us with one burning question what on earth was William Friedkin thinking?       "}{"Title":"Misunderstood, but still Monstrous","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" This film puts forward a very interesting moral question, which is apparently misunderstood by a lot of people who have seen it, judging by some of the comments below.This film depicts a situation where a commanding officer believes he and his men are receiving heavy fire from a crowd of civilians.  He therefore orders his men to fire into the crowd.  He is then put on trial.The question raised by this film is whether or not this event occurs because the officer, Childers, is a murderous individual, or because he behaves as any soldier would given his situation, to remove a perceived threat.(That crowd of gun-carrying civilians later in the film is NOT an absolute representation of the reality of the crowd, as some seem to think, but is a representation of the situation Childers believed that he faced at that time - crucially, we see him to have been wounded by a sniper's ricochet, leading him to believe that he has received fire from street level, among the crowd - hence his order to fire in that direction).It is, however, NOT a film that questions whether or not it's okay to shoot at civilians, and it is in this regard that it is misunderstood.  The director has said he believes his film is arguing that whenever armed men exchange fire in the vicinity of civilians, civilians will die and it is for this reason that war should not be undertaken except with a grave awareness of the inevitable consequences.This does not alter the fact that Childers ordered his soldiers to fire into a crowd of civilians.  It is surely self-evident that this act is a war crime, and should not be excused on the grounds that it is simply the way that war is inevitably fought, or that Childers was acting to eliminate a perceived threat and not from some malicious desire for carnage.  I find the argument that any officer in that position would have given the same order to be an interesting and disturbingly plausible one.  But.  This film would be considered utterly and inarguably offensive if it took such a position on the way British Paratroopers fired into a civilian crowd in Northern Ireland on Bloody Sunday because they believed they were receiving fire from among the crowd.  A similar film might be made about the Amritsar massacre, and would deservedly be despised.  When soldiers deliberately kill civilians, (whatever their reasons) it is a crime - we know this, why do we need to debate it?I admire the fact that this film attempted to take a challenging and uncomfortably real moral issue of war - that soldiers are trained and routinely expected to carry out their military objectives at any cost, even the lives of civilians if necessary.  However, I despise the fact that this film appears to present no real case to the effect that just because a war-crime is committed as a result of an understandable military judgement, it does not cease to be a war crime.After all, there are plenty of arguments as to why the deliberate targetting of civilians can further military objectives - this does not mean we should ever cease to find this repugnant and monstrous, even if our generals may sometimes find it necessary.  Childers committed a crime, and however sound his reasons for doing so, it remains a crime.  The soundness of his intent does not mean that the massacre he authored becomes in any way acceptable, or is transformed into some hideous accident.  The incident that establishes the story, much like the film itself, cannot be mitigated by the soundness of motive behind it.It is made very much worse by the fact that while the film may contain a dilemma, it is not presented in such a way that leads us to really consider it.  The dishonourable conduct of the prosecutors lead us inevitably to sympathise with the defence in a very black-and-white way, and the Hero Who Should Not Stand Alone (as the tag-line leads me to see Childers) expresses nothing resembling a glimmer of remorse at the 'collateral damage' from his actions.  If this is a Hero, I'd hate to see a Bad Guy.  Oh no, wait, I did - those were the guys shooting from across the street, the guys who created the situation where Childers had absolutely no choice but to order his men to pour machine gun fire into a crowd of civilians without any warning.  You made me do it wasn't a good excuse in the school playground, and it doesn't get any better when we become old enough to carry guns and fire them at other people.Really, this is a quite fantastically repugnant film. "},{"Title":"What would you have done?","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This film plays out like a TV Columbo episode. First you see what happened, then you watch it all come together via the court room scenes. To those viewers who don't really believe a child could possibly be shooting at the Marines I say how quick you forget what happened in Viet Nam time and again. Put yourself in Samuel L. Jackson's character and ask yourself, what would I have done? If you didn't do the exact same thing chances are you never would have lived through the experience. Powerhouse performances by Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones. This film is raw and emotional. For those with a weak stomach, beware the graphic battle scenes. 5 of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"First-rate, powerful, pro-America war movie that tackles several moral issues","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Evidently, the aptly named Spleen saw a different film from what the rest of us viewed.There are several great moral questions in this movie, which are explicated by Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson in powerhouse performances that deserved better than a snubbing by the Academy at Oscar-nomination time. The action scenes are believable and tense, while the courtroom drama is absent the usual Perry Mason level of histrionics.  No complaints on any part... and you will be kept guessing until the end whether or not Jackson is guilty -- and whether or not he will be FOUND guilty, regardless.Few movies have addressed so many gripping dilemmasWhat is the moral duty of a soldier when he believes his unit to be under hostile fire from enemy combatants hiding within a crowd of Yemeni civilians?Did Jackson's character, Col. Childers, correctly assess what was happening, or was he wrong?  And if wrong, is he then guilty of negligent homicide?What is the role of the government when the moral case collides head-on with an important military alliance in the war against terrorism?The Vietnam scenes were both powerful and necessary to set up two points first, the personal connection between Cols. Hodges (Jones) and Childers; and second, the ethical pall that Vietnam cast over the United States in general, and our soldiers in particular -- a demon that had to be exorcised, lest we face total paralysis in a time of great danger (even more now post 9/11 than when the film was released in 2000).This is a meaty, paradigm-shaking movie that will be remembered decades after everyone has forgotten about Saving Private Spielberg. "},{"Title":"Good drama...best one in a while.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  RULES OF ENGAGEMENT starts off in one of the many battles of Vietnam. The film is slow-moving and takes time to develop itself. The plot is somewhat similar to the earlier A FEW GOOD MEN. Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson are the main stars that play defendant and military lawyer.The supporting cast includes Guy Pearce, Philip Baker Hall, Bruce Greenwood, Blair Underwood, Anne Archer, and Ben Kingsley. The film is very powerful and intense. The war sequences are outstanding. This film is indeed one of the best of its kind. The acting is great and the cinematography is outstanding. This film was, in my opinion, worthy of a few Academy Awards. It may have even gotten some, I'm not sure, I haven't checked yet. But, even after I do, RULES OF ENGAGEMENT will still have gotten 5/5. "},{"Title":"Have I seen this before???","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This is a story that is extremely familiar. This movie reminds me of a Magnum P.I. episode. This movie reminds me of a t.v. movie from the late eighties. This movie reminds me of many things that I have already seen. Despite the lack of imagination in the story, the acting by the two leads is solid.  "},{"Title":"a good on","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I found Rules of Engagement to be very engaging indeed. Samuel L. Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones are both well-cast as military officers, the latter of whom has to defend the former in court. Jackson orders his men to fire upon a hostile crowd in a third world country which he believes is an army. He soon finds himself on trial for firing upon unarmed civilians, and an ensuing drama unfolds, as perjured testimony, hostile witnesses, and covered-up evidence abound. I found the story to be first-rate, and everything about this film was top notch and in fine form.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"A plot like a strainer.  Plain Bad.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  A film with a bad script, bad directing, bad casting, bad editing, and  some ridiculous scenes. Don't waste your time with this one, all those who contributed to it, have done better work elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Almost a nine...","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This is a great movie except for three things. 1)The Vietnam battle effects are poorly done. You can't get by  with 1960 effects in 2000. 2)Obviously I can't reveal the ending because there is a great deal of very effective suspense leading up to it. Let me just say it was disappointingly predictable. 3)This is a work of fiction and a good one. Yet the closing credits use the unethical gimmick of scrolling documentary style titles outlining the (supposedly) subsequent destinies of the main characters as though it were history rather than a Hollywood nail biter. I would have given it a nine (rather than a 7) were it not for these three factors.   "},{"Title":"Horrible Ending","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Typical story book ending that Hollywood loves to stick on to the end of movies.   Wraps up the whole movie in a tidy package in 2 minutes flat. The rest of the movie was OK, but it left a bad taste in my mouth! "},{"Title":"If you liked A Few Good Men, you'll love this one","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This movie is what A Few Good Men should have been. The plot deftly combines war action, courtroom drama and high-level politics to tell a gripping story that is always interesting and never lags. Good performances by Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson, as usual (you might not recognize Guy Pearce, who plays the prosecuting attorney, as the by-the-book Lt. in L.A. Confidential, so different is his character here). You won't be disappointed.  "}{"Title":"I enjoyed it","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Good movie.  Well acted, well directed.  It's probably not Academy Award material but I enjoyed both Jones' and Jackson's performances.  The movie really makes you think about the problems facing today's military with the weasels we have in public office.  Well worth the admission price. "},{"Title":"the other argument","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement is the anti-A Few Good Men. The idea that drives William Friedkin's new film is that a soldier will do what he has to do, depending on the combat situation he is in. Often, the &#145;Rules of Engagement' need to be thrown aside in the interests of saving lives. Colonel Terry Childers (Samuel L. Jackson) is sent to Yemen to evacuate the U.S. embassy where anti-American protesters have turned violent. He and the men under his command take fire from snipers as they evacuate the ambassador (Ben Kingsley) and his family. The evacuation is a success, but three marines die in the process. Childers now has a terrible choice to make in order to prevent more of his men from dying and he makes it. This is basically a courtroom drama, so it will naturally draw comparisons with the Rob Reiner/Aaron Sorkin classic. One contrast between the two is that the &#145;devoted soldier' mentality condemned in A Few Good Men is honored in Rules of Engagement. We want the people commanding our armed forces to have not only skill, but also the ability to sacrifice lives and carry out orders, regardless of the moral dilemma.  This is who Childers is. He's Colonel Jessep, only with his head on straight. So perhaps Rules isn't quite the anti-Few Good Men, but sort of the Other Argument. These men place themselves willingly into situations most of us would never wish for. `You want me on that wall! You NEED me on that wall!' are Jessep's words to Caffey during the home stretch of AFGM. The message in both films is that we expect these men to follow the same moral imperative that civilians do, even as we sit safe at home under their nice blanket of protection.One of many things Rules gets right is the way it lays bare the violence of armed combat to show it for what it is killing without mercy. The best decision that Friedkin (The French Connection, The Exorcist) made here was to limit our perception of the Yemen events by giving us the same view that anyone who wasn't there would have. All we are shown initially is the act, and then the photos of the carnage Childers created with his decision. The director feeds the information to us through a series of flashbacks and other clues. It isn't until the film's third act that we have a full understanding of why Childers acted as he did. This waiting for the other shoe to drop keeps the film perpetually engaging. In Jackson's performance we see a man wrestling with what he has done, desperately needing his duty as a soldier to justify his actions, the only way he can go on breathing like a normal human being.Both Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones perform ably here. Jones was a great choice to play Colonel Hays Hodges, Childers' lawyer and longtime friend. He brings weakness and vulnerability to his character, plus a number of things that were crucial to the role, things we haven't seen in a Tommy Lee Jones character before. Hodges has carried shame around with him for decades and now has something to prove both to himself and his family. Jones' performance captures this inner turmoil.Rules of Engagement isn't a great film, but it is a compelling piece of work with some good performances and characters. Chalk it up as a quality military courtroom drama, but nowhere near as good as A Few Good Men. In fact, there are many other films out there, all available on home video, that illustrate the inner moral struggle of a soldier better than this one does; Saving Private Ryan, Three Kings (the best film of &#145;99), and Courage Under Fire to name just a few.Grade C   "},{"Title":"Excellent film, Great performances by Jones and Jackson","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement was an excellent film, with lots of action and very fiery performances by Samuel L. Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones.  The cinematography and use of sound, made one feel as though they were in the middle of the film.  One of the best movies of the year.  Well worth the money, a must see in a large threatre. "},{"Title":"Insult to intelligence!","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  May have been based on true story, but writer and director did poor research on this one. Also trick viewer during film by presenting two different views. Most, who have not been in the service will not see all the defects, but this one stinks as far as attention to detail. Uniforms are worn wrong and the dialog is poor. If you like this movie then you probably liked siege too. "},{"Title":"Yeah, right!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I haven't this seen this film and I don't want to.  First of all, it has no truth in in shot up script.  Keep in mind, those pilots who were careless  over in Italy and killed 20 innocent Italians were acquitted and the only reason the gorvernment tried them was to make it seem like they cared a little.  It is obvious that these pilots were flying too low and reckless, yet our government blamed it on the map.  Sure the gandola line may have been not on the map, but that is why you have a height regulation!  To be safe.  That and the Chinese Embassy.  I need to say no more.  Any sensible person who doesn't solve life's questions with Yo marine! should stay away.  Everyone else must enjoy; and don't forget to bring your little flags to wave. "},{"Title":"AN EXELLENT TESTAMENT TO AMERICAN MILITARY BRAVERY AND VETERANS","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  WARNING THIS MAY BE A SPOILER **********This movie gets 10 of 10 stars. Unlike the anti-american Thin Red Line, Rules of Engagement is an EXELLENT testamate to the AMERICAN MILITARY BRAVERY and also to american VETERIANS, especially those of the VIETNAM WAR. The performances of all of the actors was exellent, you cant believe every second, every emotion of both Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jacksons performances. And yet again Guy Pearce delivers an exelent performance, and yet again no trace of his usual extreme Austrailan accent is at all noticeable. I recomend this movie to all who love this country and definatly to all VETERANS especially VIETNAM WAR VETS. This movie proves the corruptness and anti military tactics of the Clinton Administration since it is a true story and since Secretary of Defense Mr. Wyatt was put in office by the Clinton administration. Anyways, go and see this movie if you love the good guys to win and if you love this country and to see it visualized and depicted so honorably. My regards to ALL WAR VETERANS. "},{"Title":"Tense, Well-Acted Thriller!","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Rules of Engagement, directed by the great William Friedkin, is a great good, tense thriller. This movie happens to have two film genres working for it. The first half of the film is a war film and the second half is a tense courtroom drama which is very well-made despite many clichés we usually see in courtroom films. Also, this film has two very hard-working actors going for it Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson.This film is about a former Vietnam soldier who is asked to evacuate an American ambassador from Yemen but while he is doing that, all hell breaks loose. This soldier when he gets back home, recruits his friend whose life he saved in Vietnam to be his lawyer, so he can prove his innocence showing that he did not shoot into a crowd of unarmed civilians.Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson are two of the most respected actors in the business today. They do very well in this film and with their abilities, they seemed liked they coasted through this film. They have very good chemistry working together. I also liked Guy Pearce as the prosecutor because he is also a well-respected actor. I wanted to see more of Ben Kingsley and Anne Archer because they were the plot holes of the film. There was one scene involving Jones and Archer where Jones ask her to be a witness, but nothing comes from that. That is the only problem I had with this movie.Overall, this is quite a tense film especially the latter part of it. This movie has many clichés but if they are filmed well, then they usually work. The early war scenes in both Vietnam and Yemen are action-packed. This is a film that relates to government corruption and the military style of today's world. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Rules of Engagement is pretty Engaging","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Rules of Engagement, released in 2000, is a controversial film on some levels but quite a simple story. The rules that a soldier must up hold to save his or her life are also the same rules that can be used to condemn him or her. The film is obviously controversial because of the subject matter concerning the military and the Arabs but the movie is basically about friendship and the thin line between what makes a soldier a hero or a cold hearten murderer. However everyone is entitled to how the movie touches them.This is probably Friedkin's finest film since To Live and Die in L.A. The way the courtroom scenes were filmed completely engaged and sucked me into each parties argument in the case. The scenes reminded me of his earlier movies that involved court case like Rampage(1987) and his brilliant 1997 remake of 12 Angry Men. The scenes were very tense.The performances were top notch and the action sequences were very believable and realistic, just like in any of Friedkin's other movies, he used documentary techniques and making things appear out of control and into complete chaos. The protest scene in the film is quite similar to the riot scene in Sorcerer(1977), the Chinatown car chase in Jade(1995), the bridge sequence in The Hunted(2003). "},{"Title":"Interesting, Thought Provoking..","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I watched this movie because, well it was on TV. It had two of my favorite actors and thought, heck I could watch this and clean my home office. As the movie progressed I stopped cleaning and watched intensely.The movie was very thought-provoking in that what are the rules of engagement? There is a saying all's fair in love and war. Is that true? When fired at do you just sit back and watch? I especially loved the twist on making the situation not black or white, but like reality gray! The Sargent was not completely innocent, or guilty and neither was the crowd.Though what I took as a bigger question mark is, If this a movie of what if, what really happens on the front lines? I don't know the answers, but I certainly liked this movie. "},{"Title":"A Couple of Comments","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that I thought Rules of Engagement was excellent. I'd compare the comments by others to those made about Dirty Harry. Left-wingers hate(d) it; right-wingers love(d) it. I'm a right-winger, so I loved it.Concerning two points that several reviewers have made1. Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson looked the same age in the Vietnam sequence (allegedly taking place 28 years ago) as they did in the later parts of the movie surely this better establishes the characters. If two younger men had been cast to play Childers and Hodges as 20-somethings, it would have been necessary to use some sort of voice-over or title card device to explain that these two 20-somethings are now 50-something.2. How did they find the Vietnamese colonel? I don't have any military experience myself, but it's my impression that the military (in all countries) is as bureaucratic an organization as it is possible to conceive. Since the location of the battle in the first scene was known, surely the prosecutors could have found out from the Vietnamese government who was in charge of that patrol; the Vietnamese government (remember, they won that war, so would have had no need to destroy their records) would have been, one presumes, only too happy to help, since the Jackson character murdered (no doubt about that; when you shoot an unarmed man in the head from up close, it's murder, whether justifiable or not) one of their men.In closing, let me say that I thought the scene at the end where the Vietnamese colonel salutes Childers, who salutes back, was magnificent. Both times I've seen the movie, I get goosebumps at that point. What the movie is saying at that point is that soldiers on opposite sides in a war have more in common with each other than either has with the politicians back home. "}{"Title":"War glorification flop","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsDespite the presence of two major current Hollywood actors,Rules of Engagement was something of a box office disaster.It's time of release at the cinema in around July/August 2000 in amongst all the major,big budget blockbusters might have had a part to play in this.But also this is a fairly slumberous,one dimensional effort.Told with little to no humour and dry,unrelateable characters ,it's a bleak,plodding affair which craters out over 2 hours ungracefully.It's crossing point seems to be that all is owed to war and that honour should go in the way of those that choose to resolve matters in that way.The courtroom scenes are quite invigorating,especially so with a surprising and lifting performance off Guy Pearce,and experienced director William Friedkin tries to glide things along with his usual sternness,but overall the film is just too one sided for it's own good.The rules were obviously meant to be engaging,but the film sadly isn't.** "},{"Title":"First-class acting and realism make this a good movie","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  It may not be a new plot, but Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel Jackson bring top-notch acting to this flick. It's a good movie because it is, first, believable due to the actors job of helping me to suspend my disbelief. I must admit that, as a Vietnam veteran, some bad memories caused me to skip the first scenes of battle in Viet Nam. Second, while this is not part of the plot of the movie, civilian involvement in the decisions of battle caused chaos and tragedy in Vietnam. So, a civilian decision to hold Jackson accountable for the killing in Yemen seems believable. I found myself debating the merits of having embassies in such places and our need to defend them. I wondered about people who seem to have nothing better to do than to be involved in daily protests before an American embassy. I also wondered about places that allow terrorists to walk around with automatic weapons. One wonders if democracy will ever be viable in such countries.I regretted that the movie ended before showing the come-uppance of the evil security advisor and the turn-coat ambassador. I liked the movie.  "},{"Title":"A macho semper fi no brainer with a weak story.","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement is A-Few-Good-Men-wannabee with some excellent acting and production talent which fails because of a weak and flawed story. The film is one third combat, one third trial, and one third wandering around trying to figure out what kind of movie it wants to be. Okay to zone by. "},{"Title":"Two good action sequences, but overall a very poor film","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  The Vietnam scene was enjoyable, and the embassy rescue was enjoyable. But as a whole, this movie was a piece of junk.The biggest problem with this movie is the twisted message of morality it conveys.  The tagline is, A Hero Should Never Have to Stand Alone.  A hero?  SLJackson may be one to the ambassador, but the ambassador may have been an enemy of the Yemenese.  Of course, the grievances of the Yemeni protesters are never established in this movie, because whatever they were, they aren't worth jack**** and the opinions of Americans are always the correct ones.  The movie says The lives of 3 people are worth more than the lives of 80 people.  Remember, the grievances of the Yemenese are never established, so the viewer never knows whether or not they had a right to use force to attempt to expel the American ambassador from their country.There were other problems in this movie, including Tommy Lee Jones, the fact that there are never any ballistics tests and what not, and the ridiculous ending, not to mention that flashback by SLJ in which the little girl raises a weapon.  At that point in the movie I basically began to worry about Hollywood's future.  Will they continue to make movies that present twisted and immoral ideals to the viewer, or will they attempt to convey positive messages that also entertain us? "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the year!","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This movie is one of the better films I have seen in a while.  Sam Jackson was a believable Marine Colonel.  I am in the military myself and I can honestly say that this movie was realistic.  I highly recommend this film to anyone who enjoys military movies and fantastic acting. "},{"Title":"A Few Good Men Go to My Lai","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  For extreme-right-wing, little-brown-person-denigrating, jingoistic, racist, xenophobic major-studio pap, you'd have to go back to the liberal journalist David Janssen following John Wayne around and finally seeing the light in the 1969 GREEN BERETS. The proposition here is that Samuel L. Jackson is sent into the U.S. Embassy in Yemen to save the ambassador (Ben Kingsley, quivering with perfidy) and his family. He does--and even risks his life to run back and save the shot-up American flag. (Shtik like this was considered too corny not just in RAMBO, but in the RAMBO sequels.) As Sam and his Marines are about to make it out, shots--both from nearby snipers, and from a crowd of demonstrators gathered outside the embassy--are taking down Sam's guys. So he issues a command, which can be rendered on the IMDB as Waste those mudder fruggers! And Samuel L.'s jarheads waste not one, not two, not a handful of bad apples, but every last man, woman and child in that pile of mudder fruggers. The next day, the cover of the Washington Post looks like My Lai, or the Guyana suicides.Through the course of the movie, Jackson's character never shows the slightest remorse--he isn't troubled in the least by the fact that at least a few of the people he shot (the six-year-old girls, say) might have been completely innocent. He's convinced he did what he had to do and what he was told to do--and anybody who disagrees is a conspiring, back-stabbing desk jockey keeping the godly warriors of our culture from winning the damn wars.The movie is a Vietnam-compensation fantasy, like RAMBO or UNCOMMON VALOR...but we're in the year 2000, and it plays a little creepy. This is a different world, Jackson tells the Marine lawyer whose life he once saved (Tommy Lee Jones). No enemies, no friends, no lines, no Mom, no Pop. RULES OF ENGAGEMENT tests out an evil new template the Islamic fundamentalist as the stand-in for the Viet Cong (or Soviet) savage. Behind the heroism, the flag worship, the supplicating honor-guard musical score, lies the presumption that American lives are just worth a hell of a lot more than Yemeni lives--or, to use the prologue as an example, Vietnamese lives, either. And though the director, William Friedkin, fastens ghoulishly onto images of charred, limbless or blood-spattered children, the implication is made, as in THE GREEN BERETS, that that cute little crippled girl just might pull out a pistol and blast your American manhood clean off.Is Friedkin just a super-competent dude looking for a comeback, or is he subverting this material? I'd like to buy into the latter. His focus on the injuries done by Jackson to children are not just EXORCIST-style morbidity--Friedkin seems to be making the point that the script refuses to make that Jackson's actions are evil and insane, and arguably deserving of a roomful of gas pellets.Samuel Jackson, Tommy Lee Jones, and the producer, Scott Rudin, one of the most intelligent guys in studio movies, all deserve to hang down their heads in shame for this one. This is the case of smart people--I include Friedkin in this--testing the waters of the post-Clinton era to see if Reaganite jingoism might make a comeback as a story template for pop movies. But none of the Sly or Arnold movies of the eighties was as morally ugly as this one. And using a black actor to sell this patently racist bill of goods is the ultimate insult. The movie leaves you feeling unclean. "},{"Title":"What a waste of good actors","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" There are so many things wrong with this film but let me simply point out the obvious. Let me understand this, marines are being picked off one by one by an obvious sniper and none return fire??!! defies logic. Then all of a sudden Samuel Jackson's character decides he has enough and orders his men to shoot into a crowd of protesters including women, children and men un-armed!!?? How Tommy Lee Jones allowed himself to star in this is unimaginable. I myself am a film producer and it continues to disgusts me when I see such horrible scripts made into films - everyone associated from the studio execs to the producers of this piece of crap are to blame. "},{"Title":"The Decline and Fall of Hurricane Billy Rules of Engagement.","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Rules of Engagement (2000) was a blah movie. I can not believe this movie was directed by the same man who made The Exorcist and The Sorcerer. A lot of film makers fall out of grace. Then there are those who try to receive penance by making pay check films (for either television or major studios). But William Friedkin has done but and they're so lame and tame that this once innovative film maker has been reduced to produced overproduced schlock.The movie is about a soldier who must confront his past to deal with the present (how many times has this been done to death?). Throw in some gratuitous violence, soap opera court room theatrics and a lot of xenophobic attitudes and you have this movie. I wont bore you with details and spoil the movie for you. Let's just say it's mediocre fare from a formerly brilliant film maker.Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Good Suspense + Good Acting + Good Ending = Good Movie","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This is just an excellent film, unlike other crappy films I have seen lately such as 'Whatever it Takes'.  I hardly ever check out this type of movie involving wars, government, and court-room scenes, but this film really makes me change my mind.  The suspense and intensity of this movie are just so great, and it really gets the viewers involved!The film is about two Marine colonels who are friends, Hays Hodges (Tommy Lee Jones) and Terry Childers (Samuel L. Jackson). They fought side by side in Vietnam, where Childers saved Hodges' life.This movie shows you friendship, responsibility, and what a 'real man' and a 'real friend' is all about.  Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L Jackson did a wonderful job as always and they work really well together!  They show very well how two men have to fight through a trial without any evidence while knowing that they are right.Some critics have commented that there is no ending to the scene about the U.S. Ambassador (Ben Kingsley) and his family being rescued but there was no ending to it during the trial after the U.S. Ambassador lied and tried to save his job... well if you do read the words at the end of the movie, it actually tells you VERY CLEARLY what happened to him... not everything has to be shown in the movie, because sometimes it is better for the viewers to fill in the blank themselves.I find this movie to be one of the best movies i have ever seen, so i gave it 10/10 (it is the 2nd movie i have ever given a perfect score), and I believe it is an Oscar-Winning Film!  By the way, I love the ending!!!Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Very Accurate","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I read the first summary in your list, and feel it is totally incorrect. The person believed this was an anti-military movie, nothing could be further from the truth. It was an anti-political control of the military, but supported the military point of view 100%. As a 20 year retired veteran of both Vietnam and the first Gulf War, the politicians continuously hang the military out to dry. They give the military orders, and the lie about what they did and let the military hang if things go wrong. This movie showed this in spades. The fictional account of the marine officer firing on civilians (who were firing on him and his men) was powerful, and showed the type of decisions made by good and not so good officers in the field every day. The only people shown in a bad light by this movie and Hollywood was the director of the NSA and the Ambassador (i.e., politicians). As far as the statement about the under-culture of the us military, well all I can say is if we didn't do this, you wouldn't be here, with the freedoms you enjoy. It wasn't the under-culture of the military that led to 9-11, it was another under-culture in this country, one that destroys other people's cultures. "}{"Title":"Hollywood racism at its best","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I would rate this movie 0 if I could.This movie has no substance, it is merely an instrument to dehumanize Arabs! It is nothing more than utter racism and anybody who praises this movie is either void of intellect or is a racist themselves! Arab civilians including a 6 year old child !! is shown to use a hand-gun to fire on the Americans and thus the indiscriminate firing of the American soldiers on the civilians is justified! This is what the movie is about, it is about demonizing and dehumanizing Arabs including women, children and the elderly! Assume just for one second that the movie portrayed not Arabs as demons but Jews! Is that idea even conceivable without being labeled an anti-semite so how is it that these people, these Hollywood folk who are mainly Jewish are allowed to regurgitate the same anti-Arab propaganda time and time again and get away with this criminal behaviour? In this instance not even a child is safe from their wicked and diabolic imaginations.Utterly appalling and deplorable! "},{"Title":"A Shocking Movie!","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" This is one of the rare movie that you don't see everyday. The movie is very well made thats true but the story ... A Yemni crowd (elders,women,men and children of all ages) shoots American soldiers cause of some sort of Islamic terrorist audio tape tells them to do it and what do you expect? the Americans must protect them selves. America already got a big problems with the Arabs and the Muslims with a very big misunderstand-ed ideas and here came another movie to tell the world how those bad Muslim Arabs (everylast one of them even the kids) are so uncivilized savages and most of all terrorists and they deserve everything that is happening to them. In the movie You see the good Americans protest in the streets for the massacre and shows you how poor are those kids, It shows you how terrible is that massacre so you get some sympathy for those poor people but in the end of the movie it shows you that videotape that shows you that every single on in the crowd was shooting on the poor American soldiers. I was shocked when i saw those kids killing Americans. If you watched that movie and then they sent you to the army in Iraq, How would you feel? How would you look to those Arabs in the streets? Thats what I'm talking about .. hate ... its what that movie gives you .. hate ... And about that Audio tape that spread-ed in all over Yemen (according to the movie of course) that tells every Muslim that believes in God and hope for his paradise to kill all Americans that propaganda about The Muslims hate America They call us the great Satan makes you wish death for all Muslims and leads to crimes like the one we got last week in Claifornia when a Christian killed a Muslim student out of hate. First of all Muslims never listen to any thing that they hear, the person must be a granted sheik and very well known and if a well known sheik said such things in a Muslim country the government take him right to person without even a court (yeah thats true Muslim countries doesn't support free opinions especially if it came to America). Second of all kids can't shoot a desert eagle or auto.9mm D and Yemen as far as I know has police force too and not just that, they got a very strong Anti-Terrorism team, The last year they stopped some maniac for talking over a city with his 1000 armed man and declaring himself a Calif! I say Please we don't want more problems between America and Muslim Arabs that will only lead to more bloodbaths and more acts of terrorism if you were a very peaceful Yemeni and you are not even religious and watched the movie that tells that world how savage uncivilized and animal you are how would you feel about that America? please ask yourself that question "},{"Title":"cliched characterisation, terrible plot, and distasteful propaganda","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Spoiler warning This review gives away the plot (not that this is a great loss!)This may have been a return to box office success for William Friedkin, but it wasn't a return to form.Leaving aside the issue of taste or politics, the film is a cliched courtroom drama. In terms of character and acting, it features the usual defending attorney who doesn't appear to be up to the job (Tommy Lee Jones in a part much better played by Dustin Hoffman in Sleepers or Paul Newman in the  Verdict) acting for a difficult but principled defendant (Samuel Jackson in part better played by...err...Samuel Jackson in Time to kill). Guy Pearce plays the supposedly brilliant, but ruthless and  officious, prosecutor in a manner similar to his portrayal in LA Confidential, but without the balancing aspects of insight or ability to learn from mistakes that made his protagonist in the latter film such a compelling character. There is also the ruthless, calculating politician (Bruce Greenwood), the cowardly, slimy politician (Ben Kingsley) and the military hero father who is disappointed in his son (Phillip Baker Hall as, you guessed it, Jones's dad).The plot points are also badly handled by the writer, director and editor of the film. It was insulting to the intelligence to have to see the Vietnam incidents and the National Security Adviser's burning of the video tape (that must have stunk his Office out!)It would have been better for these points to come out during the cross examination in the court scenes or, in the case of the video tape, during Jones's investigation in Yemen. Similarly Jackson's view of the crowd at the Yemen demonstration would have been better left out so that the viewer, like the jury, has to decide whether to believe him.Both in terms of plot and taste it would have been better to make Jackson's character and his actions more ambiguous. Supposing we had never seen the demonstration in Yemen from Jackson's point of view. We would have been left with a verdict that left the film more ambiguously challenging and less of a right wing flag waving propaganda exercise (not helped by the crass salute that Jackson receives from his Vietnam counterpart at the end of the film).However, as the film stands, it is cliched, simplistic, and somewhat offensive.Finally, what's the point of having written epilogues in a film like this? This is only worthwhile if either, you let viewers know what happened after the story finished in the case of a real life story, or as a joke. On second thoughts, it was pretty funny.  "},{"Title":"Finally a film for us Republicans","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Simply put, a great film! I don't know about you, but I have been sick of seeing left wing messagy movies and left wing actors like Michael Fat Slob Moore spouting off garbage and everyone eating it up. For all those who aren't blinded by this trash, see this movie. Excellent acting, screenplay, and directing. Watch this film while you eat a steak and then throw on Sands of Iwo Jima for the hell of it.  "},{"Title":"A true testament of American Politics.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  As I watched this movie, my emotions were stirred so much I found myself clinching my fist and jutting my jaw.  I wore the uniform of an American Serviceman for many years and saw many of the same injustices brought down on my comrades.  It made me remember why I separated from military service. Some lines from a Sean Connery film comes to mind - It's like the rich fellow who has a big dog to guard his house.  But, when he has guest, he locks up the dog because it's an embarrassment.  Then, after the guest are gone he lets the dog loose again.  When a movie brings out this much emotion, I have to recommend it to others. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Propaganda","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  One of the IMDB guidelines for reviews states not to includeProfanity, obscenities, or spiteful remarks.Funny that, because this is a really spiteful movie. The writer, and Freidkin, seem to have a real hate for Arabs/Muslims. Not surprising really, this is a Hollywood movie after all. As for the movie, you can drive a truck through the plot holes, and the acting is not much better. Tommy Lee Jones is bland as usual and Jackson is by now a walking cliche. Seeing him do his routine once was great, twice was good, now it is verging on becoming a joke. Guy Pearce was solid.0/10 "},{"Title":"Worth Watching.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I'm usually not one for political/court-room movies, but this one is done quite well in my opinion.  The opening sequence in the film is superb and really pulls you into the story.  I thought the film had a very interesting story line.I'm not a huge fan of William Friedkin, the only other movie of his that I've seen is The Exorcist, but I thought this film was directed quite nicely.  I'm definitely going to keep my eyes open for his future work.The cast in this film is quite good.  Tommy Lee Jones plays the usual likeable character.  Samuel L. Jackson pulls off a very nice performance, some of the dialogue of his is very powerful and intense.  Guy Pearce does a good job with his role.  Ben Kingsley, Bruce Greenwood, Anne Archer, Blair Underwood, Philip Baker Hall, Nicky Katt and Ryan Hurst also pull off good performances.If you like films like A Few Good Men or just political/court-room/war films, then I would hope that you'd enjoy this film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"One for a good sit down","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" The main comment in reference to this movie had to be written by an individual with a serious lack of vision and depth. This movie is a good one to sit and watch on a Sunday afternoon or Monday night with out sports. The obvious is pretty simple Childers played by Samuel Jackson is a war harden Marine sent to Yemen to evacuate the Ambassador. If you're a die hard combat action seeker; this movie isn't for you. There are few combat scenes that serve to tease you appetite, but none that scenes like that of Saving Private Ryan. There are some questionable items within the movie, but what movie doesn't leave you with some questions? In this movie, your attention is kept because the writer doesn't tell you what happens until the end and that's how it should be!Overall, I gave this movie an 8. Based on the following factorsPlot realistic... a situation a person could find his/herself in. Action just enough to keep you interested Mystery the writers don't give away the ending; they leave you to your assumptions throughout. "},{"Title":"It's not the most innovative film on the last decade,but it's pretty fun","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Inside the thriller genre,there's a sub-genus called judgment films.Sometimes the result is great(like JFK)and sometimes it is fun and nothing else(like A few good men and The firm).Rules of engagement belongs to the second group and it belongs too,to other sub-genus,the military film.The first combat scenes are the best point of the movie because they are spectacular.The movie is slow,but it kept me fun for a lot of things,especially for Tommy Lee Jones' and Samuel L. Jackson's performances.Rules of engagement isn't a great movie but inside its porpoise(a fun time)it goes out winning.So I recommend this film if you wanna have a good time. "},{"Title":"Overall, a pretty good movie.","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I enjoyed the movie for the story, but this was not why it drew my attention. I was stationed at Vint Hills Farms Station where the movie was filmed at. In the scene where they are driving up to the main gate, I immediately recognized it and was amazed. As an Army MP, I stood many long, lonely nights manning that gate. This immediately gave me a special connection to the movie. I also liked the end where you see them walking away and people running PT in the back. Probably one of very few times organized PT was done on post. I also liked the gym scene as I had played many sports in that gym. I recognized the Post Commanders quarters in that shot. I am only curious to figure out what buildings the trial and residence scenes were shot in. "}{"Title":"Rebuttal to Rovin","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I love what user Rovin put in his review. By the way,Rovin,anti-semitism is being anti Jewish,not anti Arab. And those aren't turbins they are wearing in the movie...those are head scarves,which are still widely worn by Muslims,particularly Arabs...which surprisingly is where the film takes place! Who knew?! And I would only assume that Rovin has never been to the Middle East, so I'll just fill in him and everyone else by letting you all know that,I don't know about Yemen,but Iraq is very similar to how they portray it in the movie. But I guess a Canadian would know better than me,or they like to think so. Other than that,the movie is great! "},{"Title":"Good start","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Great action-filled start of the movie, but after that, its just yakyakyak zzzzzz.... What else is on? Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson does a good job, but I just hate those movies that ends in a courtroom... I find them VERY boring, and makes me wanna do something nasty... Like taking a walk or something even more grotesque...! And the length of the film is a little too long! 128 minutes is pretty much for a movie, thats stuck in a trial. I've seen it 2 times now, and the only thing that lifts it a little above the ground, is the start and a little further into the movie... AKA when all the talking begins.5/10 from me (and thats a very, very SMALL 5!) "},{"Title":"Courage Under Fire meets A Few Good Men","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  RULES OF ENGAGEMENT (2000) *** Samuel L. Jackson, Tommy Lee Jones, Guy Pearce, Bruce Greenwood, Blair Underwood, Philip Baker Hall, Anne Archer, Ben Kingsley, Nicky Katt, Gordon Clapp.  Serviceable military courtroom drama - a cross between `Courage Under Fire' meets `A Few Good Men' - involving heroic Marine colonel Jackson facing murder and court martial charges after his dispatchment to escort the US Ambassador of Yemen from a hostile civilian protest leading to the aforementioned allegations and forcing him to curry a favor from fellow comrade in arms Marine lawyer colonel Jones whom Jackson saved in Vietnam.  Predictable yet lively thanks to the top-notch teaming of stalwart Jackson and no-nonsense granite-faced Jones overlook some of the gaping holes in Stephen Gaghan's screenplay adaptation of a story by James Webb.   (Dir William Friedkin) "},{"Title":"A Must See Movie","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  	While this movie is very contrived and unrealistic it is a must see because it shows that officers must make very hard decisions in combat which are necessary for them to complete their missions. Ironically this movie was made before 9/11 and the Iraq War yet our troops are now constantly being put in positions where terrorists are using innocent civilians as shields.	The story is about a Marine Colonel who is put in such a position. Being a retired Marine officer and a combat veteran who participated in many court martials and who became a lawyer after retirement, I understand the point of the movie but I also see how unrealistic it is. When I was an officer candidate, I went through a screening interview where I was asked what I would do in various combat situations. One involved women and children. If the candidate's final answer was that he would not kill them, he failed the course and was not commissioned. The Marines were looking for officers who could make the hard decisions necessary to successfully complete their missions. 	Later I had to make one of those hard decisions on the battlefield. Fortunately, it did not involve innocent civilians but people had to die because of it. I had to throw away the book and that is what Col Childers had to do when he was a lieutenant in Viet Nam when he killed the radioman. While that scene was unrealistic because killing the radioman would never have caused the Vietnamese Colonel to stop the battle, it illustrated that sometimes it is necessary to throw the book away in order to save the lives of your troops.	The court-martial was a farce. While the movie showed viewers how court martials are formed, it was otherwise bad fiction.  To begin with no general court martial is going to trial two weeks after charges are served on the accused. Another movie High Crimes does the same thing. There is a long pre-trial investigation and hearing in which the accused is represented by counsel. Secondly, Col. Hodges, the defense lawyer would never have taken the photos in Yemen by himself because he cannot testify about the photos at trial. He would have had another person do the photos who could testify at the trial as to their authenticity and as to what they showed.	Samuel Jackson is a very credible actor in this film. "},{"Title":"not quite","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" After a Middle Eastern embassy raid inadvertently turns into the slaughter of numerous civilians, textbook Marine officer Jackson recruits longtime friend and diffident military lawyer Jones (who recently retired) to defend him in a court-martial. Despite two more than capable leads and a solid supporting cast this courtroom drama is only marginally entertaining; there are some good moments as the film raises some interesting questions about the morality of duty and lawful orders in past as well as present warfare, but the film lacks a definitive spark, suffers from dramatic gaps, and has a dishearteningly mediocre finale. Too bad, because the cast alone gave the film potential. **½ "},{"Title":"SAVE IT FOR A SLOW SATURDAY NIGHT","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Some good battle scenes. Wildly over-the-top acting, for those who appreciate a good dose of histrionics. Plays a bit like A FEW GOOD MEN, but not nearly as good. Friedkin at least keeps things moving, even through the huge and plentiful plot holes.  "},{"Title":"right on","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Spoiler        I did not want to go see this film, for I thought it would be a politically correct film, with someone yelling what about the children.  Well I was wrong, instead of a preachy film it was a mystery/courtroom drama story, with believable people.  The one part I did not understand was, how could a bunch of marines not see any guns when they where fired on.  Otherwise this is a 7. "},{"Title":"Great Acting, Enjoyable film","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I would first like to say that you can't go wrong with Tommy and Samuel, they are both great actors and did it again in this movie, which is one of the best i have seen in quite a while (along with Erin Brokovitch). Sure some people might say there were holes in the story or they didn't see the plot, but WHY DOES THERE ALWAYS HAVE TO BE SOME DEEP UNDERLYING PLOT OR TWIST??? Sure, its probably not going to win awards (although i think Tommy and Sammy should get a nod) but if you want to watch a fun, exciting movie (and contrary to a previous post, there was some humour in the film, although subtle) then go see ROE. It is very entertaining. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Action-packed, emotional thriller","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I give it two thumbs up, way up. Samuel Jackson as Childers has his work cut out for him after a planned evacuation goes off-schedule. Tommy-Lee Jones fills the shoes as his ally, Hodges, who must defend him in court. What I liked was that it shows both sides of the story, didn't manipulate the audience. Honest, real.--Theresa "},{"Title":"Great Movie 9/10","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Very good film with Oscar-caliber performances from Jones and Jackson. I was hooked from the moment it started. This is worth your bucks to watch on the big screen. The plot was strong even if it is not original. The action and the acting are what make this movie as well as the presence of the leads. "}{"Title":"Explosive Entertainment! Thought-Provoking! For Intelligent  Audiences Only!","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I have read some of the many reviews for this film and am perplexed at the arrogance and ignorance of some of them. This is a good film! Well written, well directed and well acted. Tommy Lee Jones can really deliver the lines. There are no court room slow-ups here, just direct sharp deliveries. The court room drama at times is fierce and frenetic. I am not going to get into any details about the story but maybe I should. Samuel L Jackson, who I do not like as a rule, is very good in this one. I highly recommend this movie! Get it and experience a world of political corruption, religious fanaticism and military justice. Imagine yourself in combat situations that most of us cannot even begin to fathom, then transport yourself to a fascinating world that is not easily reconcilable with our own. This story is based on James Webb's military experiences during the Viet Nam War. This is good stuff! Interesting story! I think that for some of us the prevailing prejudices would make it near impossible to think straight or to comprehend the actual events and the dilemma that arises from them. "},{"Title":"A New Kind Of Racism?","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I bought this DVD, rather than renting, and am unhappy I paid even five dollars for it. The reason, is not that the flick is poorly acted or produced, rather the script is full of hung-HO American military mythologies.Lets begin, with the Marines in the Nam, doing whatever they can at not protecting the US, rather destroying a people. Later one of the North Viet Namese is seen, now a loyal American and in fact saluting the very man who was his enemy in 1968.That murder is OK, under certain battle engagement conditions. Our hero blows away the brains of a Viet Namese radio operator simply because the commander will not call off his men.Gosh, maybe Nixon and Johnson should have done that. A useless war is then used to back drop a massacre in Yemen. The plot seems to suggest, Marine always right, government officials always lie.Hogwash. A good flick made dirty by a bigoted and racist script.A don't bother flick, unless you're a red neck with an agenda. "},{"Title":"Good action drama","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I have watched this film again recently after a few years and I must say it still holds up well. This isn't a movie that could be classed as ground breaking cinema, and it isn't even the best performance from the two main leads. But it is a good sample of the action drama genre. It also has a fairly under rated performance by Guy Pearce in a supporting role.It is also interesting to note that the story line contained within this film likely wouldn't be made today in a post 911 world. I won't go into it too far with this review, but I urge you to watch this and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"A Very Foggy War","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" The Rules of Engagement got some pretty crummy external reviews, but it's not that bad.The performances are all quite good. Guy Pearce was nailed for his American accent but I don't know why. He comes across as somebody whose regional dialect was subject to some New York City gestation. Let's give him some credit. The Brits used to stick to Southern accents (viz., Scarlett O'Hara, Blanche DuBois) but have lately become more discriminating (viz., Daniel Day-Lewis in Gangs of New York). It's a big improvement over the generic American dialect that Russel Crowe and Charlize Theron come up with.Where was I? Oh, yes. The combat scenes are well done. They owe a great deal to Saving Private Ryan of course. Every combat scene in every movie for the next decade or so will owe a lot to Private Ryan, in particular the abundance of bloody wounds and the sound of bullets clanking off metal surfaces.The locations are well chosen and the photography is up to professional par.If there is a weakness it's in the script. The Tommy Lee Jones character is presented to us as a drunk or a former drunk, but nothing comes of it. By the end he seems to have found the kind of redemption that all drunks find at the end of uplifting movies, except for Paul Newman in The Verdict, who loses faith in friendship even as he finds redemption in good deeds. And he sensibly keeps on drinking.There's a fight between the two macho Marines -- Jones and Jackson -- the point of which eludes me. We really don't need a brawl between two middle-aged men to pump up the middle section of the film.The courtroom scene reeks of drama largely because the director has decided it should. People stand up in the witness box and shout angrily at the pesky prosecutor and admit things they shouldn't just because they're enraged. And there is a touching scene at the end, in which Jackson and a former enemy exchange salutes, but it's corny and there is triumphant music swelling in the background, all by the numbers.I should mention something else that became more clear on second viewing. At the beginning of The Green Berets -- an atrocious John Wayne movie about Vietnam -- a civilian reporter seems to accuse Col. Wayne of militarism. You been in Vietnam?, asks Wayne. No. Ah-HUH, comments Wayne dismissively. A sharp contrast is thereby drawn between the characters we are to meet -- those who have been there and those who have not. A similar distinction is made in this movie, and in the most simple-minded way. There are three strata. From the top downward (1) the heroic men who have been in combat; (2) the well-meaning Marines who haven't; and (3) the lying, perjuring, evidence-destroying suits who have no principles and are out only to further their own careers. Yet, it's a thought-provoking mature movie in a way that, say, A Few Good Men was simply not. I would give Saving Private Ryan a higher rank because of its originality. Nothing in The Rules of Engagement is particularly clear cut. Jackson's character does order his men to fire on civilians, including women and kids, who are firing at him, and the firing from the crowd is covered up by the politicians who want to bury the guy so that the good old USA doesn't have to take the blame for all those deaths. But Jackson is given a good line. That's not murder. It's COMBAT. Sometimes these days it gets a little difficult to distinguish combat from murder, and one of the reasons this movie may irritate some viewers is that the military comes off as both brave and honorable, if not exactly flawless. These Marines are gung ho, reasonably intelligent, and capable of remorse. I would guess there are many people who prefer the kind of idiot played by Jack Nicholson in A Few Good Men, a sadistic, perjuring, stupid, male chauvinist pig. A Few Good Men is a more satisfying movie if you're into self righteousness and anti-militarism.Marines and military people in general tend towards a certain set of common attitudes but there is as much diversity among them as in any other subculture, except maybe devotees of panjandrums of the more extreme stripe. The Marines whom I taught at Camp Lejeune were as bright, curious, and industrious as any students at the nearby University of North Carolina.We all know what we would have done if we'd been Jack Nicholson. We wouldn't have done what he did. We'd have been legal and moral. But this movie asks a different question. What would we have done if we'd been in Jackson's boots? No easy answers there, though the ending kind of betrays the message that the movie itself carries.I should add that it seems to be rare to hang anybody out to dry for making mistakes in combat. A week before this note was entered, Doctors Without Borders accused US forces of deliberately attacking its hospital in Afghanistan, as a top US commander said the deadly air strikes were a mistake. The hospital, also known as Médecins Sans Frontières, claims its medical facility in Kunduz was deliberately bombed three days ago, killing at least 22 people. General John Campbell said he could not provide more details about what happened, including who may have failed to follow procedures for avoiding attacks on hospitals. He said he must await the outcome of multiple investigations. Await the outcome of multiple investigation. "},{"Title":"A Fine suspenseful military thriller, great performances from Tommy lee Jones and Kingsley","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Friedkin's well written- courtroom/army drama is not only interesting, but very entertaining. With decent direction from a very capable storytelling director, the cast carries this film. Filled with great performances from Samuel L. Jackson, Tommy Lee Jones, Guy Pearce and Ben Kingsley, this film is a good look at what can go on when the wrong people have too much power in government. Samuel L. Jackson's performance is good, but my favorite performance of the film came from Tommy Lee Jones and also Ben Kingsley who was great as a US ambassador. Phillip Baker Hall and Bruce Greenwood are also great in supporting performances. The film is well-written, decently directed and well-acted. A suspenseful military thriller worth-seeing. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Movies don't get any better than this","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson in one of the best films I have seen all year.Rules Of Engagement is a powerful film with strong performances from a very talented cast from Jones and Jackson to Guy Pearce and Bruce Greenwood. In my opinion the roles that Jones, Jackson, Pearce and Greenwood had were best suited to play their characters.From the opening scene William Friedkin got me interested with a flashback to the Vietnam War incident that played a pivotal part of the film and continued throughout with excellent dialogue and realistic plots. I can't believe how wonderful the film turned out.Though, Rules Of Engagement may have similar elements as Courage Under Fire and A Few Good Men, this is also unique and holds up well.This film has strength in characters, power in performances and substance in the story. These elements combine to make Rules Of Engagement a unique and must see for everyone.  "},{"Title":"The most racist film ever put forward by Hollywood.","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I saw this film and as soon as the Marines started firing on the crowd of protesters people around me started cheering, whereas I was sickened that a Marine Colonel could do such a terrible thing and then get away with it. The film makes no distinction between the people who were protesting outside the embassy and those who were firing on the Marines. If the Marine Colonel had ordered his men to fire on the gunmen on the rooftops then that is slightly more justifiable than firing on unarmed protesters, including children. Then to show that some of those children were carrying guns and firing was awful. I have to say that this film was so sickening to me that it is not worth rating. "},{"Title":"Gripping Courtroom Drama; Difficult Moral Dilemma; Powerful Movie","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This is an absolutely superb film however you choose to approach it. As a courtroom drama, it is taut with suspense; as a moral statement it raises unsettling questions. There is very little one could identify as being wrong with this movie.Samuel L. Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones offer powerful performances. Jackson plays Marine Col. Terry Childers, who faces a court martial after men under his command kill 83 civilians taking part in a demonstration outside the US Embassy in Yemen. Jones plays his defence attorney, fellow Marine Col. Hayes Hodges, a lawyer with a less than stellar background, whose life was saved by Childers during combat in Vietnam.There are two main storylines in this movie, which weave together perfectly. The first is the actual court martial, which is developed superbly. It is tense and suspenseful and I had no idea which way the verdict would fall until we actually heard it. The moral dilemma involved in the story is very real and very powerful, and can be summed up with a number of questions (1) what standards should be expected of those in combat situations; (2) can those who have never been under fire in a combat situation really judge the actions of those who have to make difficult decisions in the heat of combat; (3) will the US Ambassador (Ben Kingsley) really sell out the man who saved his and his family's life just to curry favour with his superiors in the State Department? Powerful questions, with answers that aren't entirely clear - but surely that's the point! There aren't always easy answers. The underlying subplot of a government cover-up of evidence led by National Security Advisor William Sokal (Bruce Greenwood) fits in nicely with the rest of the movie.Director William Friedkin does a fantastic job of building up suspense, and his flashback scenes to Vietnam are used to good effect. (I don't always like flashbacks, but these were appropriate and helped move the story along without taking over.) Friedkin's decision to focus on the little girl who had lost her leg during Hodge's trip to Yemen to investigate the incident was poignant and powerful.Is there anything wrong with this movie? Some might complain that it presents a too stereotypical view of the bad Moslems, but if this is the storyline, where else would you set the Embassy incident? At one of those really violent demonstrations that are always breaking out around the US Embassy in Ottawa or Stockholm? But I do have a few minor concerns I didn't think Greenwood was that well cast as the National Security Advisor; the fight scene between Childers and Hodges struck me as silly and unnecessary; Friedkin introduces tensions in Hodges' family over the case but then never really develops it beyond the initial family discussion over a meal. But these are relatively minor points. Overall this movie is wonderful. Good story, great acting and directing. There's not much more you could ask for.9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the better movies out there.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  If you liked A Few Good Men then you might like this one.  I truly enjoyed this movie.  Tommy's at his best here.  Perhaps in more ways than one.  I do note though I was going to give it a 10 but something bugs me in whomever it was that edited the movie and tended to distract the attention away.  At times, some of the clips had a black bar at the top.  If yer gonna do a pan and scan version of the film (p/s sux in my opinion but besides DVD where else do I find widescreen at a rental store) please do it right.  There's no excuse for this c**p.  Absolutely none.  If anything it does prove to me why I again like widescreen.  Probably the worst pan and scanning I've seen since Wild Things.  (with Kevin Bacon)9/10 "},{"Title":"Great actors in poor story","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Good performances by Samuel L. Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones are completely overshadowed by a poor and amazingly boring story. The script has several obvious lacks (f.x how did prosecution find the Vietnamese major after 27 years, how did they even know about him?). The story is so predictable it's almost unpredictable.We've seen movies like Rules of Engagement a hundred times, but we seldom see them as bad as this one.  "}{"Title":"It skirted the issues that were important","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This movie had great potential, but often missed the opportunity to address issues that were presented. The ambiguity that happens in battle and confrontation situations was presented. But they glossed over how we actually should deal with the ambiguities of war as a society.  "},{"Title":"An injured Marine and an injured Marine","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" It occurs to me after seeing The Rules of Engagement how one thing can lead to another. 'Point'... things are not always as they would seem to be. For Hayes Hodges,(Tommy Lee Jones) a sort of 'underdog' lawyer, who is taking a case that, he feels he has been pulled into. You can see the doubt in his eyes. National Security Adviser Sokal, played by(Bruce Green)a great 'pick' for that role!! Sokal, is viewing an American embassy security video tape, wants to bury the copy, for his own career appeasement. Sokal offers no help, and seems in all sense to be anti-military as his actions show that he is not there to find the truth, rather to get an answer that will sit well with his boss and in the public's eye.This shows the lack of backing that the government will sometimes give to the troops, or some military situations that tend to be to 'politically hairy', when the media takes over, bringing heat and starting to paint a picture about a story that is not fully accurate. That will get some people in harms way, fast and to some certain death! Samuel L Jackson(Childers) and Tommy Lee Jones' (Hayes Hodges) characters, are close friends. When Terry Childers approaches Hodges, with a crisis on his hands, it makes his friend that has 'chewed jungle' with Terry before, very uneasy and of of center. Hayes in his quest for answers takes a plane trip to the embassy and the surrounding city to investigate further, but ends up not liking what he is learning. Furthermore, Terry looks as if he has painted himself into a corner, by the story he has given to 'Hodge' and with Ambassador Mourain (Ben Kingsley) who Childers was coming to take out (rescue) from a fiery situation, is not any help at this point at all for Terry's defense. Guy Pierce plays an upcoming and hungry prosecutor, (Maj. Mark Biggs) who wants Jackson's character, to do nothing less than prison, for a middle eastern incident at an American base in Yemen. With Hodge getting upset and the upsetting turning to anger, things are starting to get done.This is an excellent military drama that ranks with A Few Good Men only prefer this one, over, Santiago had no code! as far as an enveloping action drama story. Some will disagree, but this one doesn't let you down. Recommended highly!(****) Great direction, William Friedkin "},{"Title":"A powerful movie with great acting","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Readers please note This review may give away some minor details in the movie. If you DO NOT want to know anything about this movie, please stop reading now.The first 20 minutes of the movie really starts it off with a bang. The horrifying sounds, thoughts and actions of the Vietnam War come alive as two Marine groups are engaged in heavy combat. A realistic and truthful scene that probably occurred all over in Vietnam. A definite 5/5 star opening scene.The rest of the movie was a basic government plot to cover up an innocent hero in this case. In the end the Marine on trial is not convicted and is innocent. The Secretary of State (person who is mainly the cause of covering up an innocent Marine) is guilty of throwing away evidence and he retires. An overall good movie with a well written plot, great acting, but yes this type of movie has been seen before. I rate it an overall B+ "},{"Title":"Engaging!  Had the audience talking, clapping, and wondering if the event was based on a real event!!!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Saw the movie the day it opened.  A couple behind me could not stop mini commentaries on the plot!  This was a fun movie that engaged quite a few people based on the number of audience involuntary outbursts! I heard a few people questioning whether or not the plot was based on a real event!  I sure give it a 10.   "},{"Title":"One of the racist movies I've ever watched","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" First of all, Tommy Lee Jones, Ben Kingsley and Samuel Jackson give great performances. I don't understand why they played in such a racist movie but they're great anyway. There is an intense racism against Arabs in this movie. I'm sure the scriptwriter has no idea about Yemeni and people. Not all of Yemeni people are bad guys, violent, terrorists, criminal or something as movie tried to impose to us. Actually Mark Freeman summarized movie, exactly. There is nothing left to say after his words The message of Rules of Engagement is the necessity to kill all those who actively oppose the United States and that the murder of women and children is acceptable in such cases. The only thing I am glad about this movie is that they made this movie before 9/11. Otherwise it would possibly make a huge contribution to the racist and violent acts that Arabs and Muslims faced in U.S. It is worse than Not Without My Daughter about Racism. "},{"Title":"Uneven courtroom drama with strong acting in the final act","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" After a decorated USMC Colonel orders his men to open fire on unarmed demonstrators and results in 83 dead and unarmed people he is faced with a court-martial. He confides in an old friend to defend him and there is more to the case than seen at first glance.Tackling written laws and defining gray areas between them in a strict and regimented organization like the military can serve for great drama. Such a film needs strong performances and well directed scenes to get its point across that sometimes breaking the rules isn't really breaking them, but reacting to unexpected changes. A Few Good Men superbly discussed such issues and Rules of Engagement tries the same with a certain degree of success, but also some crippling flaws.The sequence in the US embassy has weapons magically disappearing and a mysterious tape with crucial evidence never turning up after vanishing from the scene. There are some hints given as to why this happened and you believe you are in for a twist at the conclusion. Politics with the Middle East have been slippery for centuries so it is good material for a political drama and is believable as a starting point for the film's main plot. However, these loose ends are never tied up and the film completely deviates from the big picture with which it starts (an international crisis) to a small picture that deals with one man's honor and ability to lead. This makes the film awfully one sided and not nearly as good of a movie as it could have been. Screenwriter Stephen Gaghan revisited Middle Eastern politics with his film Syriana with much greater effectiveness.However, the performances here are strong and are the film's saving grace from mediocrity. Though they only get really in the film's final courtroom act. Until then, it is a slightly uneven film and it never manages to recover from its angry America hating Muslim stereotype. Too bad that the film could have if it addressed all the issues that it brought up. --- 6/10Rated R for violence and profanity. Ages 13+. "},{"Title":"Jackson and Jones","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  William Friedkin's Rules of Engagement is good, if your a war veteran fan.  I am not, so in this film I looked for some other things, like acting.  I found that and it was good.  Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson work very well together as Vietnam veteran Colonels who are caught in a cross-fire when Col.  Terry Childers (Jackson) is accused of ordering the murder of 83 Yemenese during a confrontation.  He asks Col.  Hodges (Jones) to act as his attorney.  During the trial there is some really great courtroom drama.  This and the acting (and Friedkin's directing) are what make this film OK.  But that's it.  The backplots aren't though out and the supporting characters (i.e. Ben Kingsley) aren't in the movie as much as I wanted.  Still, It's OK.  B "},{"Title":"Switching off the tele after 10 minutes!!!","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" This movie is a real disgrace! I have to admit that I just saw the scene of the assault on the American Embassy, but the unlogical and provoking things happening in this 10 minutes already were enough to let me switch off the TV with a feeling of disgust.Why the hell is Jackson (don't know the movie character'S name)commanding his squad to shoot on the seemingly unarmed demonstrating civilians? Since I read some other reviews I knew that they were in fact armed as it turns out later during the trial, but nobody even Mr. Jackson could have known that they were in fact at moment he instructed to open fire. Unbelievable that he could walk away in the end after having slaughtered such a big crowd. It makes the audience believe that it is OK to shoot Arab people, since the stereotype is always hiding a weapon beneath his robe. That's such a ridiculous prejudice!!!THe other thing, which turns out to be a massive proof of misdirecting is the fact that after having slaughtered all the unarmed Yemen demonstrators gathering in front of the embassy, the evil snipers and riflemen who were allocated on several buildings and shooting non stop on the American soldiers, were gone all of asudden. What the ....???Although I only saw 10 minutes of the movie and many people might blame me for giving an opinion on this, I still think that this movie is absolute crap and deeply inhuman. "},{"Title":"A racist movie, with lots of BS... yet wonderful acting.","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" A horrible movie, depicting Arabs in a very ignorant, racist manner. However, other than the patriotic idea in the movie and the racist opinions, the actors do act pretty well, i am, however, quite surprised that Jones and Jackson accepted to act in such an atrocity. This movie I would assume would create problems and tensions between Americans and Arabs, because it raises American patriotism and raises hate between one and another. The action scenes in this movie are either very charismatic or too violent, but most men out there i believe will enjoy some blood in their viewing. "},{"Title":"Well done!","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Wow! I am absolutely thrilled! There isn't much that I can say about RULES OF ENGAGEMENT except, Well done! If you ask me, Colonel Hodges (Tommy Lee Jones) was a good lawyer and friend to Colonel Childers (Samuel L. Jackson). This was because they had been good friends for a long time, and he (Hodges) was a military attorney with lots of experience. When the peace-keeping mission in Yemen went wrong, I got scared. This was because of the war violence, guns, and injuries. The one person whom I thought was kind of evil was Sokal (Bruce Greenwood). I'm not going to say why. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did a superb job. Now, in conclusion, I recommend this film to all you Tommy Lee Jones or Samuel L. Jackson fans who have not seen it. When you see it, prepare to have a good time and be thrilled. "}{"Title":"I`m Confused At The Lack Of Logic","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Round about the same time as this film was produced there was a new international court of law set up as to how wars are conducted which led me to believe that RULES OF ENGAGEMENT would point out the ( Im ) practicalities and ( A)moralities and possible hypocrisy of such an international court but all these important ideas are totally ignored in a bland courtroom drama that has gaping holes of logic .***** SPOILERS ***** First of all if Col Childers is going to be used as a scapegoat then why on earth is he found not guilty , especially when he`s got such a poor attorney like Hodge ? , even more confusing when he`s being prosecuted by a hotshot prosecueter like Maj Briggs . This doesn`t really make sense . Nor is the fact that several Americans were killed in the action . Does that not prove it was self defence ? And as several reviewers have pointed out American forces have done far worse in real life than the scenario seen here . I suppose the screenwriters were told to write a happy ending then the set the rest of the script round that . It doesn`t feel like the script was well thought out So just to sum up this could have been a really good thought provoking anti-war pro-soldier drama on the nation state Vs international law , but it`s just a dumb court room drama    "},{"Title":"One of the Year's Best!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Rules of Engagement is a thoughtful, excellently directed, film with some great acting by Samuel Jackson and Tommy Lee Jones.  The marine corps is portrayed with pride and realism.  There are no easy answers to the problem faced by Jackson who gives the order killing 83 civilians in a hostage situation.  Ben Kingsley and Ann Archer also give good performances as the timid, self serving Ambassador and his Machiavellian wife.Samuel Jackson is a flawed hero but one who is sympathetic and understandable.  Tommy Lee Jones, as the Marine Corp best friend, who defends Jackson at his Court Martial gives his best performance.Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"No, You have not seen this before, most awesome, eyeopening!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Even though everyone has seen X-file type Federal cover up shows and movies, this movies goes well beyond that. Rules of Engagement shows the paradox that we as civilian Americans are aware of, but that our Soldiers have to deal with most everyday somewhere in the world. You will see the conditions of life under Saddam Hussein, what survival really meant for many Vietnam Veterans, the Paradox of living in the United States also known as the Great Satin , and HONOR survives today in today's United States Military Services. Those of you young children, young adults, those lost with your Sub-Woofers, Neon lighting, and absurd tire and rim setups, should see this film to perhaps appreciate or recognize, all the dead men, OF YOUR SAME AGES and DESIRES, that in fact never realized any dreams, cause they sacrificed in the name of the Truman Doctrine. That doctrine says we must protect our Liberty and Freedom against aggressors, paticularly communist ones.  "},{"Title":"A movie to see with a dozen or so of your drunk platoon buddies","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Predictable. But motivating for a young impressionable private. If you've been to the middle east as a Marine. There are things in this film that you could pick apart. It makes a statement about loyally as a member of the military. And you've got to ask yourself the question when watching this. What would YOU have done in Col.Childer's place? And to my knowledge why would a full bird be on a reaction team? Thats way too Hollywood. But the scene with the crowd demonstrating was right on. Made me stand up in the theater and yell HOOAH, kill those rag headed s.o.b's ! Thats from an soldier's view point. See it, but buy it only if its in the bargain bin. "},{"Title":"A fine movie","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This isn't one of the all-time greats, but this is a fine, and very watchable, movie with some really nice touches.  The sequence in which Jones' character first arrives in and looks around Sanaa is very well done; it's quiet and reflective, an unusual move in a major Hollywood picture.I don't really see the jingoism others complain about.  Any self-respecting nation would depict its fighting men and women the way Americans have depicted themselves and their armed forces in this movie.  Where others see offensive self-absorption and undue self-respect, I see a very normal sense of self-worth. "},{"Title":"When you order a man to do a dirty job, you trust him, since he is doing it for you.","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" This is a brilliant film portraying the trust that citizens need to give their soldiers. The duty of a soldier is hard and involves lots of training and preparation for something there is no real training and preparation for war. Only the hardest and most determined men become good soldiers and the best of that elite become good officers.Colonel Childers is a good officer and solid war veteran who knows what he needs to do to get his job, defending America, done and done well. He pulls of compromises and makes his decisions crisp and clear. However, when faced with the task of protecting an embassy and American soil in a hostile Middle Eastern country he is faced with a dilemma any soldier would face should he order his men to fire into a hostile crowd in order to get them to stop? He decides through agonizing minutes after three of his men are down and he himself is wounded to give the order to fire. Shockingly, instead of being treated as hero who made a tough but necessary decision he is accused of murder on 83 counts.There is an investigation into what happened, but evidence is slim as the embassy security cameras have been destroyed and the soldiers have trouble remembering what happened in the chaos. They were taking cover and only rose up to fire, anyway. One camera was left intact, but the tape to it has vanished as a part of a conspiracy by diplomats to write this off as the mistake of one unstable man. But Childers knows the truth and his friend and brother in arms Hogdes (who represents Childers on court) knows it too. Hodges has his doubts, but realizes that Childers is not a glory hound, he isn't eager to say that he willfully ordered his men to fire into a crowd that had women and children, but the important thing is that Childers did what he decided was best protect America from hostility. It had to be done and was rightfully done so.The courtroom scenes in the films last act are particularly shocking as nit picking diplomats and prosecutors pick apart little details and question the integrity of Colonel Childers, asking him to recall the minutest details. The point is that Childers's decision as a USMC Colonel was made from his heart and gut, not from a measly piece of paper called the rules of engagement. That's what defending America is all about and it comes from the heart of every citizen and the gut of every soldier. It's about time people, mainly liberals, got that. Also the film isn't racist, it treats offenders of America equally. The Viet Cong get it for endangering and killing Americans in the beginning so the Muslims get it too. The point transcends race and is ever more relevant in today's political spectrum. "},{"Title":"Filled with flaws, but still engaging due to strong performances. *** out of ****.","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  RULES OF ENGAGEMENT / (2000) ***Starring Tommy Lee Jones, Samuel L. Jackson, Ben Kingsley, Blair Underwood, Guy Pearce, Bruce Greenwood, Anne Archer, and Philip Baker Hall.Directed by William Friedkin. Written by James Webb. Running time 123 minutes. Rated R (for graphic violence and language).By Blake French 	Rules of Engagement is a thriller of missed opportunities and noticeable failures. The film squeezes out of explanation and conclusive execution; it is riddled with unmistakable flaws are structural miscalculations. I found myself deeply engaged within the profoundness of the somewhat familiar story, however, even after these problems. This drama, directed by William Friedkin, is intense and strongly constructed, proving what accurate conditions the filmmakers accommodate. 	The movie opens fifty years ago during a battle in Vietnam. We meet two main characters, Colonel Terry Childers (Samuel L. Jackson) and Colonel Hayes Hodges (Tommy Lee Jones). The two become good friends after Childers saves the life of Hodges during a brutal siege. Later, Childers is questioned due to a questionably inhuman, although effective, circumstance he embraces to achieve his quickly constructed strategy.	We skip ahead to the retirement of Hodges as a mostly unsuccessful military lawyer. Childers has accepted command of a Marine unit that finds itself at duty in Yemen after an American embassy becomes distressed. The US sends Childers and his forces to the country to recall the Ambassador (Ben Kingsley), his wife, Mrs. Mourain (Anne Archer), and their son, as well as to take charge of the rioting Yemenis. 	Once at the embassy, the rioting crowd becomes too hostile. After a sniper kills one of his men, Childers commands his crew to open fire on the civilians. The Yemeni casualties number well over seventy-five. National Security Adviser William Sokal (Bruce Greenwood) placed charges on Childers because he does not think the U.S. should take blame for what he considers the actions of a one individual. The objection is transgressing the rules of engagement. Other key characters in the film are the highly proclaimed General H. Lawrence Hodges (Philip Baker Hall), military prosecutors Major Biggs (Guy Pearce), and Capt. Tom Chandler (Mark Feuerstein), and Ambassador Mourain.The setup, written by James Webb, takes too long to set up. Although well-depicted and clear, the rest of the movie hinges entirely on it. It may have been more effective if the audience did not know what happened in Yemen. There is also a possibility that it could have been more revealing and tense if the film had spent more time in researching its issues. 	Another conflict in the setup is the fact that we are unaware of important details. Why are the Yemenis rioting? Obviously their reasoning has something to do with the US Ambassador. Such a critical plot point, one in which the rest of the story hinges upon, is never revealed.	The riot and war scenes feature swift and realistically sketchy camera positions and movements. Similar to Saving Private Ryan, this production attempts to make little sense of the seemingly senseless violence. This quality composes Rules of Engagement in a relatively believable and intense style.   William Friedkin takes Rules of Engagement seriously, squeezing little dramatic relief within the film's context. Although focused direction is normally a very effective quality, Friedkin suffers from being too converged. The characters are giving few incidences in which they are able to portray any life apart from their occupations. The filmmakers give the characters a lot of smart and juicy dialogue to gnaw on, generating engaging depth in them. As such, these characters are not one dimensional, just one directional.   	The courtroom scenes are some of the film's most powerful and truthful. Solid performances by Guy Pearce, Tommy Lee Jones, Samuel L. Jackson, and Ben Kingsley make for a rigid-atmosphere behind legal doors. For the first time in a long while I was unsure of what the jury's final decision would be. Maybe that is because we are unsure about our stance on the situations. Some of the actions, such as elements of perjury and withholding evidence, could be more explained. Overall, however, the notions were quite clear.Perhaps the biggest success in Rules of Engagement is its strong narrative theme of action. The movie follows a steady through-line. Although excessively concentrated, each scene advances the story and complicates the initial problem. Despite flaws in numerous areas and a somewhat mixed review, Rules of Engagement is a solid, stark movie marginally worthy of recognition. Rules of Engagement is brought to you by Paramount Pictures.    "}]