[{"Title":"Eye Candy No-Brainer Fun To Watch","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"35 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a stylish and entertaining action film, albeit a stupid one mentality-wise. However, there are a lot of movies in that category, so you just put your brain on hold and enjoy the ludicrous story. Here, it's three gorgeous babes kicking the tar out of everyone.....which IS ridiculous! The story may be lame but the visuals are a real treat, and I don't mean just the girls, Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu. The colors in this movie are vivid and fun to view.The story is cartoon-like in nature and and funny in a number of sots. If you took this story seriously, you'd be insulted. The only warning I would give is for smaller kids because there are a lot of sexual innuendos in here along with a number of closeup shots of cleavage and butts. (Not that I am complaining!) "},{"Title":"High-spirited, infectious ridiculousness","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"41 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Head-spinning collage of technically marvelous effects in theatrical remake of cult late-'70s TV series. Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Lui are attractive, funny, resourceful, sexy and--most importantly (and surprisingly) quite convincing as super-detectives. Their case (involving rival software companies, a kidnapping, and the planned assassination of boss Charlie) doesn't make a whole lot of sense, and Bill Murray is out-of-it as confidante Bosley, but director McG's modern-comic action is so lightning-fast and silky smooth you may be having too much fun to notice. Some of the satire is actually rather smart, and the girls are game for just about anything. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Just Plain Fun !","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"33 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There's no intellectual challenges made in this movie's plot, and that's how it should be; the characters are only slightly more fleshed-out than any of the ones from the TV show, and that's also not a bad thing - if you put too much seriousness into this kind of film, you wind up killing the roaring-good times to be had. What really makes the film work is the charisma ( & physical charms )of the 3 leading ladies, combined with well-choreographed action sequences and the tongue-in-cheek script. If you enjoy Diaz, Barrymore & Liu ( not to mention Bill Murray )when they're on the screen, you'll love this flick. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable piece of fluff","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went to see 'Charlie's Angels' out of interest after all the interesting coverage from the set.The laughably complex plot seems to flow along well with the movie. I found it particularly funny, and enjoyed all the fighting scenes and the fabulous soundtrack.The performances impressed me the most. Everyone looks like they're having fun, but my favourite was Natalie (Cameron Diaz). When she smiles, you can't help but smile along with her. I also admired that the girls also did all their own stunts, something not too common in films. And despite the rumours, Bill Murray and the girls had good chemistry and he proved an able sidekick to the girls.With that said, I'll say four words Bring on the sequel! "},{"Title":"Charlie would approve.","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Take Energetic, mindless summer eye-candy entertainment. It's easy to smirk or be nit-picky at something quite as silly as a $92 million big-screen version of CHARLIE'S ANGELS. Looking back, its roots date back to a successful yet critically-reviled TV series in the 70's. Bring it here, at our modern period, and be sure to be laughed at. Joel Schumacher did it, in his 1997 mega-expensive bomb (if you call any movie grossing more than a hundred million dollars, a bad as it is, a bomb) BATMAN AND ROBIN, which was immensely hated by everyone (including yours truly). Now comes CHARLIE'S ANGELS, another big-budget comedy action film lifted from some age that probably no longer exists (at least not on our generation). It's director is a former MTV director. And the script, forget it! How could they make a movie like this? Or maybe a more interesting question would be, after watching it, how could I have possibly loved it? Yes! Regardless of having to remind myself that it was meant to be ridiculous, I positively loved CHARLIE'S ANGELS, silliness and all. You can nitpick all the dumbness and stupidity of the script, but here's someone (among a surprisingly high number of others) who are happy to defend its silliness. It's pure style-over-substance matter, and the style really won me over. The stunts are completely unbelievable, the story probably never left the 70's and the script, the whole script, injects enough camp to make this piece sit right there with the original TV show (of which I wasn't exposed to). But the great thing about that is it was thrown in for laughs and a whole lot of fun. The entire piece never took itself seriously, throwing it a lot of brainless fun at every turn. Director McG (born Joseph McGinty Nichol) uses his stylish skills as an MTV director to good use. Every bit feels like an exhilarating no-questions-asked playhouse of brainless style, and I mean that in the nicest of ways.The film is one-part MISSION IMPOSSIBLE (and in one instance, after the Angels have described their plan to break in to a room, like that in the MISSION IMPOSSIBLE movie, one of their superiors tells them That's impossible, followed by a Sounds like fun response of excitement from the crime-fighting Angels), another-part John Woo action flick, one-part pure 70's camp and another part spoof of it all, and thrown in, for good measure, some MATRIX-inspired slow-mo stunts. After opening with one of its first few outrageous stunt sequences, the story proceeds, concerning a new set of Angels, including smart and uber-sexy Natalie (Cameron Diaz), tough-cookie but never-not-attractive Dylan (Drew Barrymore) and no-nonsense and no-less sex-appeal Alex (Lucy Liu), as always taking orders from unseen voice-in-a-speakerphone Charlie (voiced by John Fosythe, returning to his voice-acting role form the TV show). Their new mission Retrieve a stolen voice-recognition software from wealthy programmer Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell). They suspect it may be the owner of a rival company (Tim Curry), but the plot thickens. But what plot? This is all but a clothesline for a series of gravity-defying (or at least every form of science imaginable) stunts (an extremely enjoyable array of fight sequences and a slam-bang helicopter finale). There's humor too, provided by the always reliable Bill Murray as Bosley, Charlie's liaison and the Angels' reliable comic-relief sidekick. Bonus points go to the oddball Crispin Glover as the Creepy Thin Man for providing the finest silent villain since Jaws in THE SPY WHO LOVED ME.CHARLIE'S ANGELS is still bound to create a sort of love-hate relationship amongst its viewers. Some will probably hate it for its total disregard of logic and sense. Others will embrace it for what it is A good, fluffy entertainment (a guilty pleasure if you will). I'm joining that club! Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Silly, but quite enjoyable if you're in the mood.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Three little girls have become three little ladies who work as special agents for Charlie (via intermediary Bosley).  When they are contracted in to get evidence of Roger Corwin stealing the kidnapped Eric Knox's voice recognition device.  The agents are successful but Knox turns out to have more sinister motives and the angels find themselves fighting to protect Charlie and Bosley.Yet another in a line of film remake's of old TV shows, in the words of LL Cool J `yet another remake of an old TV show'.  However this just about succeeds for one simple reason &#150; it never tries to take itself seriously.  This works because it can be camp, silly and OTT because we know it's meant to be.  The plot is OK and has some reasonable twists but really the jokes and action move it along.  The silliness can get a bit much at times and is a little tiring.For example we have far too many shots of the girls tossing their hair, and too many scenes that mean nothing.  Eg a high speed car chase ends on a bridge but it has no reason for happening and nothing happens as a result.  The fights are very OTT and are very much a matrix rip off &#150; they are only just saved by the tongue in cheek attitude of the film.  But even then they still silly.The cast are OK but really they are just playing daft.  Rockwell is really good and Bill Murray saves the whole film by being really funny.  Tom Green is in it because his girlfriend felt sorry for him and wanted him to be in a film that got shown in a cinema outside of the US, however his character is stupid and pointless.  Wilson is good and LL Cool J makes a good cameo, but Tim Curry has been better.Overall it's enjoyable if you're in the mood for silly popcorn trash.  If you're not in the mood this will only serve to irritate you at how poor Hollywood blockbusters can be. "},{"Title":"A bubbly and fun popcorn movie with lots of action and lots of laughs","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is not a serious drama. It works as well as it does due to the very colourful, fun and tongue firmly in cheek vibe that permeates throughout the film. This is mainly down to the zany atmosphere created by first time film-maker, but expert pop-promo director McG, In fact the real tribute has to go to him for crafting a film this good out of a very difficult production, which faced an incomplete script, and personality clashes between some of the cast. The film is clearly tongue in cheek, and references a lot of the stereotypical visual elements of action movies. From matrix bullet time to music video like super slow motion shots, the films works slapstick comedy into a serviceable plot. The three leading ladies are good value, ably supported by the rest of the cast, albeit Bill Murray's role seems to almost like a one man stand up show has been worked into the film, and seems a little out of place. Russell Carpenter's photography is vibrant and colourful, and musical choices work well for the story.Overall a lot of enjoyable fun! "},{"Title":"My teenage obsession packed full of action, eye candy and laughs","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I vividly remember this film being publicised and Destiny's Child's 'Independent Women Part 1' being in the charts as well as clips from this film being featured in the video when I was 13. I wanted to see this film when it was out in the cinemas but I couldn't see it then because I was too young due to its 15 certificate in the UK (strangely enough, it's a 12 in Ireland and a PG-13 in America) but when I was 14, my mum hired the DVD and I watched it under her supervision due to its violent content, meaning I was okay. Finally when I turned 15, I received the DVD for my birthday, that complemented my PS2 perfectly, and I'd watch it every day after school to write down the script, much to my sister's annoyance and frustration. I still have that DVD and I also found the film on LoveFilm Instant. After having watched it for the first time in a while, I thoroughly enjoyed watching it just as much as I did as a teenager.I'd already heard of Cameron Diaz and Drew Barrymore when this film came out but this was the first time I'd ever heard of Lucy Liu, all of whom played the Angels perfectly with their high-octane stunts, numerous disguises and active leading roles, especially Diaz as Natalie, my favourite Angel who I found the funniest with her laugh-out-loud lines and superb dance moves, whether in her dream or against a Soul Train replica stage. The story was gripping and dramatic, especially when the Angels discover that Eric Knox's kidnapping was a set-up and have to get their Bosley back. The lines are mostly fun if a bit silly yet memorable while the soundtrack is very good and I also have that on CD. Not only did the film's soundtrack feature songs that were on CD but also songs that were not on it (e.g. Michael Jackson's 'Billie Jean' and Blur's 'Song 2') and snippets of incidental music consisting of various arrangements of the 'Charlie's Angels' theme tune plus some eerie, powerful and tense pieces. A lot of hard work and effort were put in the stunts and action scenes, the film is somewhat fast-paced and some of the special effects are incredible, especially the camera zooming into the cloudy sky of the Columbia logo before cutting to a plane flying against a real sky and the slow-motion bullet Knox fires when the moment he shoots Dylan out of the window is replayed. Afterwards, Dylan rushes towards a house where two boys are playing a computer game and she asks them for help, that house being the one featured in 'E.T. The Extra Terrestrial' in which Barrymore starred when she was a little girl. I was so impressed with the leading ladies' roles in this film that it prompted me to watch other works of theirs such as Diaz in 'There's Something About Mary,' Liu in 'Ally McBeal' and Barrymore in '50 First Dates.' This film also inspired me to write a spin-off television episode that was based on the Simpsons episode 'Trilogy of Error' as well as a crossover story in which the Angels meet Shrek (the titular character of yet another brilliant Diaz movie). While this film has several mistakes as listed on the likes of Slipups.com and Movie Mistakes.com, they were still fun to spot and were saved by the humour and the action sequences. The outtakes at the end were a laugh as well.Overall, this is an amazing girlie action flick that features memorable dialogue, stunning stunts, fantastic special effects and a superb soundtrack. I also recommend the sequel, 'Charlie's Angels Full Throttle,' which is even better. 10/10. "},{"Title":"The angels have fallen (big time)","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was optimistic about this adaptation of the classic 70s and 80s show, but on first viewing, it did nothing but disappoint. This movie is simply too over the top, and the 'funny' moments are quite laboured.Great karate moves and special effects are spoilt by the weak storyline and a ridiculous performance from Bill Murray. Nice to hear John Forsythe reprise the role of Charlie though.A shame that one of the men responsible for the original TV series had a hand in producing a poor adaptation. Why did Leonard Goldberg bother? Original star Kate Jackson also commented on how the film failed to capture the spirit of the TV series I see her point immensely.This movie is a poor excuse for something that is supposed to be based on a legendary TV series. It is simply ridiculous and over the top nonsense that is absolutely nothing to get excited about. "},{"Title":"Ravishing and lethal detectives rescue stolen software.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a clever big-screen adaption of the popular '70s TV series. A trio of martial arts trained detectives with drop dead gorgeous looks work exclusively for an unseen boss 'Charlie' Townsend(John Forsythe). The angels are played by Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu. With the sometimes inept help of Charlie's assistant Bosley(Bill Murray), the striking detectives investigate a kidnapping and retrieve some highly technical software that could lead to the death of their boss.Also in the cast of this fun, run and gun romp areTim Curry, Matt LeBlanc, Kelly Lynch and a very impressive villain played by Crispin Glover. If you have yet to fall in love with Miss Diaz, you deserve no mercy. She proves again to be charming, sexy and very talented. Miss Barrymore also has that way of being funny while not losing an ounce of sex appeal.Although contrived and a bit silly this movie is an action filled escape. There is no doubt that this explosive trio of crime-fighters will be back to use their skills and complete their mission. Thank you, Angels! "}{"Title":"A jet engine blast of a good time.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A great big loud fun filled movie with no moral message except the good guys (girls) win without using guns, the bad guys are bad really bad, Crispin Glover is the main baddy and does not say one word through the entire movie. A wonderful movie that does not take itself seriously. 8 out of 10   "},{"Title":"Lucy Liu's song in the beginning of movie","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When at the beginning of the movie, each of the angels has a past history flash back with their own songs, I cant find out the song that played for Lucy Liu, can you help something like the best things in life are free, you get them from....... Please Help!!!!! "},{"Title":"Good Morning Angels","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After watching Charlie's Angels, there is a brief period of time where a smile is plastered onto your face and will not come off. The movie has everything anybody would want from a film like this. The best part is watching Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu literally kick the crap out of bad guys. Everything else in this film will not matter because after scenes like that, nothing in the film even matters. Throughout, you will forget it was based on the popular television showand just watch it like it was a newly conceived idea by Hollywood producers.If you want a hardcore plot, wrong movie. If you want meaning, wrong movie. If you want reality, wrong movie. Charlie's Angels has none of these qualities throughout the film, and that is what make it so amazing. In the film, people jump out of Boeing 747 jets at twenty-thousand feet and nobody dies. People jump of one hundred foot castles and live to tell the story. Buildings explode sending our heroes into a car windshield and they walk off without a scratch. These parts (even though they are very unreal) gave me the sense of what I call in your face action. The Angels do have a small purpose though in carrying out these beautiful scenes.The Angels, Natalie (Diaz), Alex (Liu) and Dylan (Barrymore), must rescue Eric Knox(Sam Rockwell) after being kidnapped. All signs point to Roger Corwin (Tim Curry), the villain in the film who the Angel's are highly suspicious of in stealing the new voice ID software developed by Knox himself. Along for the ride is a surprisingly not annoying Bill Murray as Bosley, who does prove his worth as both the character and actor. Also joining is Crispin Glover as the creepy thin man who loves pulling women's hair out and smelling it. The Angels's have there hands full and they go through with the actions scenes in the film with so much enthusiasm.The action scenes, as I mentioned before, are very unreal. Even though they are unreal, the film makes the action scenes so great by having the same style as The Matrix. The slow-motion back flips and the half speed car chases give the action scenes that edge that keeps the audience on the edge of their seat. We all know that Lucy Liu can't do a 540 degree turn in midair, or that Drew Barrymore and Cameron Diaz can hang off a helicopter and defuse a missile, but who cares. These scenes will make the movie worthwhile, believe me people.The action scenes are great and the comedy is just as good. I forgot to mention that this is an action-comedy movie and both genres are proved to be great in this film. When there is no action, the movie will be making jokes and making the theater laugh. Like when Alex's boyfriend Jason (Matt LeBlanc), who has a very small cameo, is rehearsing his scene in an action film and drops the girl after she is shot. Or when Natalie is having one of her dream dance fantasies. The film is a hoot.Does Charlie's Angels stay true to the original, who cares. I really don't care about the original because this film is spectacularly done. It is complete with everything real and unreal about Hollywood. Do not worry about plot, dialog or direction, because all of it is great. Just watch it to see Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu and Drew Barrymore kick major butt. Watch it and then watch the smile on your face at the end. "},{"Title":"Mindless fun that delivers.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yet another old television show has been updated for the big screen. The new Charlie's Angels movie is cheesy and comical, and it means to be. What we have here is a mindless but fun outing that will have women cheering and guys laughing. Diaz, Liu and Barrymore portray the extraordinarily skilled team of crime-fighters who seem able to do everything except lead a normal life. Bill Murray plays Bosley, their supervisor, and John Forsythe reprises his role as the voice of the team's boss Charlie. Their latest seemingly routine call involves rescuing and protecting a computer genius whose technology is about to fall into the wrong hands. Of course things wind up to be more complicated than expected, and the Angels must use their talents to save the day. They quickly cross paths with a creepy individual played by Crispin Glover, who some of you my remember as the nerdy George McFly from Back To The Future. He's changed his look a bit since then, and ends up being one of the coolest big screen villains since Darth Maul in Star Wars Episode One, which he was surely patterned after. This film is fun, albeit silly fun, and will entertain you on many levels. First time director McG, pronounced Mick-G, borrows shots and styles from many recent films. The most obvious similarities come from The Matrix, allowing our heroes and villains to defy the laws of physics on numerous occasions. All of the fight scenes are spectacular and nicely choreographed, with the exception of one involving Drew Barrymore towards the end. You would think with all of the fancy wirework and effects capability that they could at least give the illusion of Drew's kicks connecting with the bad guys. Bill Murray adds some nice extra comedy to an already funny film. Don't expect any Academy Award nominations, but definitely expect a sequel. Mind-numbing entertainment can be great if you're in the right mood.  "},{"Title":"Fluff","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Okay, the original Charlie's Angels TV series was (from the few episodes I've seen, I plan to see more) no great shakes in artistic terms, but it had a pleasant lightweight tone - this big-screen transfer is too jokey and self-conscious. The way the heroines can fall from great heights or be blown away by bombs and emerge with barely a scratch, you'd think it was all based on a cartoon series or something. The action is uneven - there are a few very good scenes (Cameron Diaz defending herself against an assassin in a public restroom), but too much obvious wirework and Matrix-like gimmicks elsewhere, which make the film look dated already. It's a shame, really, because Cameron Diaz clearly worked hard to get into top shape for this role, and we already know Lucy Liu can pull off a fight scene. The sexiest woman in the movie is, IMO, Kelly Lynch (amazing body); in fact, all of the villainous characters (Sam Rockwell, Crispin Glover) are more interesting than the generally unfunny supporting good guys (Tom Green, Matt LeBlanc, and yes I would have to include Bill Murray in this list). It's a film that has its moments, but could have been a lot better. ** out of 4. "},{"Title":"Music video entertainment","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Charlies Angels was a semi serious, comedic detective series about three girls, who were working with faceless and mysterious Charlie. And this movie is updated version out of the series, now adding goof ball humour, sex and coolness factor in to the mix.The angels this time are Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu and Drew Barrymore. Their boss still is Charlie and his right man Bosley is played by Bill Murray. The plot line goes in the lines of important software stolen, get it back, who did it. But that matters very little, as the movie has only one aim to be as cool as it is humanly possible. And when it get tired of being cool it just starts throwing goof ball humor left and right.I honestly have trouble of reviewing this film as a real movie, as it obviously doesn't even try to be one, but then again what is a real movie. Charlie's Angels is like one huge music video with action and gimmicks in it. The girls are pretty and do throw a couple of great lines and the action is just fine, but the truth is the movie doesn't hold up for multiple viewings. It is a fast food film. "},{"Title":"Eye candy but fun","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Simple fun.Often movies with a simple and low brow approach fall on their face but this one pokes fun at itself for it so it's not necessarily a requirement.Drew Barrymore was the only mis-cast person I can recall.  I appreciate her as an actress but she hardly seems fit enough for the physicality of the part.Largely eye candy, it's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Silly, hokey, but too stupid to ignore","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At first glance Charlie's Angels is exactly what you would expect, a silly, hokey, over-the-top, and visually pleasing ride.  However I soon realized that there was nothing more to it than that.  Gratituous hair-flipping (pert-plus style), a moronic and predictable storyline, and pitiful fight sequences accentuate this sorry excuse for an action movie.  The story trods along with so many plot holes that I could not just sit back and enjoy this popcorn flick.  Saturday morning cartoon writers put more thought into their work than whoever wrote the script as even small children would question the validity of what takes place during this snooze fest.  Cameron Diaz's jiggling butt, whicht seems to have a life of its own, and a good performance by Bill Murray are the only things that kept me awake for the duration.  Top that off with an average at best villain and you've got the perfect summer movie...for the mentally-challenged. "},{"Title":"Aimless trash, much like the series","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Whatever charm this film has that has so intrigued most of its audience, I appear to have missed.  Three attractive women and a big budget does not a good movie make, especially when Bill Murray is delivering dialogue bettered by the scribblings on a toilet door.Largely aimless, plotless and pointless, the film does earn extra points (I gave it 6) for being quite bizarre in places and at least not being a bland remake of a series episode.Puzzling. "},{"Title":"i've never fallen asleep during a movie before 11 P.M.","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  until now. this was boring, bill murray provided comic releif from time to time but otherwise boring, I expected something hornifying from cameron diaz but I didn't get it. simply boring, plot is ok but that involving. If they want make movies based on TV shows so badly they should give good old Blackadder a chance instead of this "}{"Title":"boring","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only good thing about this movie was seeing the three gorgeous women prance around in various costumes. Other than that, the plot was monotonous, predictable, lifeless and boring, and the action sequences, although somewhat entertaining, heavily ripped off other movies, especially the Matrix. "},{"Title":"All style, no substance...","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has much going for it. Awesome action sequences with high-flying explosions, high-speed chases, fascinating and beautifully choreographed martial art sequences, and excellent special effects all directed with flash and style.And what about those leading ladies?!?! All three (Diaz, Liu, and Barrymore) are so damn cute and appealing in their own unique way that you can't help but like them. Lets not forget the equally wonderful performance by Bill Murray, one of America's greatest comedians. This movie's high production values are present throughout. It has wonderful costume and set design, better-than-average action sequences, directing, and special effects, and topped off with a winning and lovable cast....yes sir this movie has everything...well almost everything...WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED TO THE PLOT?! This movie is held together by the thinest of storyline. Dialogue is absolutely horrendous! The viewer is expected to takes huge leaps of faith and shut down all logical thinking as the mindless plot plods along to the next action sequence. All the film's so-called twists can be seen miles away. The villain dialogue is so horribly cheesy, I can barely listen to it!FINAL RATING  6/10 -  Maybe the studio should have spent at least some of the $92 million dollar budget on a decent script, and this movie could have been very excellent! As it is, it remains nice brainless fun that is best enjoyed with friends over a beer or two (or three)!  Action-lovers will cherish it and casual movie fans of all genres will probably find something to like about it. Noob Aalox "},{"Title":"A TV Update? Wow, this ALREADY sounds good!","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow! An update of a tv program from the seventies! What a great idea! It'll surpass all those other hits, like The Beverly Hillbillies! Oh, the decision to remake Charlie's Angels... what a stroke of genius!Golly! Look at that cast! Drew Barrymore! Lucy Liu! Cameron Diaz! They practically OOZE talent! I can't wait to see them act again! You know Drew was robbed of an Oscar for Never Been Kissed!Gee whiz! What a plot! The laydeez have to recover a secret program from an evil computer company that allows voice recognition! Voice recognition... Ha! What WILL Hollywood conjure up next?Gosh! The ACTION! These women can do all those Matrix moves... but in REAL LIFE! And they DON'T use guns, 'cuz GUNS ARE NOT NICE! The formula-one car chase, the parachuting sequence, the office explosion... well, I don't want to give it ALL away! It's just too brilliant, AND necessary to the flow of the plot, absolutely NOT gratuitous at all!Fab! The director! This McG man (he's so talented he doesn't need a whole name), who haz up until now ownly done brash, superfluously overlowded muzic videoz, downplais hiz styl to takkle hiz furst phillm, dis soopur-intelidgunt akshun korporutt espionazh thrillurr!Whoah! As in WHOAH! STOP! Just WATCHING this film made me feel stupid. I swear they couldn't have done a worse job if they had hired the three stooges. This film is so packed with tacky, kitchy CRAP, product placement, forced humour and awful, AWFUL performances that I would refrain from taking friends to see it for fear of them shunning you in public forever. Imagine a big bucket of syrup, and being forced to eat it for two hours. Then you won't even have to see the film to get the same effect.Goodnight angels...  "},{"Title":"I Can't Find A Word Bad Enough To Describe This Film!","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was at first very reluctant to see Charlie's Angels. It was a smash hit in theatres and all my friends saw it, but still I resisted. Then one of my friends told me it was the best movie she'd ever seen. I figured what the heck? Can't be all that bad. I have never been so wrong before in my life.The acting was extremely poor with the exception of Bill Murray. The writing was horrid. Nome of the three girls were beautiful as they were described at the beginning of the film. Cameron Diaz was the only passably attractive girl there. Lucy Liu should really hear about this new invention we call CLOTHING, and Drew Barrymore is just ugly no matter how much lipstick you put on her or how much you digitally airbrush her figure. The action was not believable and the directing was awful. Leave this crap alone and watch the TV series. 4\10 "},{"Title":"Annoying Cameramen...","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Story's fine but this one gets thumbs down for the truly irritating camera work, FX and technical details.  Impromptu but predictable slow motion, restarting, reslowing, in EVERY single action sequence.. it gets very distracting and takes away any sense of reality. (Angels have to sneak into a room with a floor alarm that will go off if pressure is exerted for more than 3/5ths of a second.  Angel gets in by doing backflips, and they indicate the speed of this, with slow motion all the way?  That's just idiotic abuse of the technology...) Obvious use of flying wires in several scenes, and let's not forget that we MUST have repetitive, raucous music start up EVERY time the angels engage an enemy.  (How many times must the American public be subjected to Woo Hoo during an action sequence? That was old three years ago.)  The soundtrack gets on your nerves.. Charlie's Angels is more like an MTV medley than a film.  Add to this a completely pointless spot by Tom Green, a waste of Bill Murray's talent, and dumb closeups of Angel butts the whole way through..... If That's Entertainment, we're in trouble.  "},{"Title":"Messy, Incoherent, and Occasionally Fun (But Not Often)","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  `Charlie's Angels', for the uninitiated, is about the mysterious, unseen Charlie (voice by John Forsythe) and his band of three glamorous private investigators  Dylan (Drew Barrymore), Natalie (Cameron Diaz), and Alex (Lucy Liu).  The Angels, under the occasional direction of the bumbling Bosley (Bill Murray), solve mysteries and kick the crap out of villains. In this particular film (probably the first of many . . . shudder), the mystery involves computers and some high-tech voice recognition software.  The story never gets much more complicated than that, as the entire plot is simply a MacGuffin to link the comedy scenes and action scenes together into a reasonable facsimile of an actual film.The saving graces of `Charlie's Angels' are Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu.  As Natalie, Diaz exudes the right amounts of bubbly, air-headed charm and toughness to make her genuinely funny &#150; and genuinely appealing.  Diaz is clearly the star of `Charlie's Angels', and she makes the most of what she's given.  Lucy Liu's portrayal of Alex is also dead-on great; she's hell on wheels with a sharp tongue and deadly wit. (The scene where she impersonates a leather-clad corporate trainer is possibly the best in the film).  Once you get past Diaz and Liu, though, there's not much left worth watching. Drew Barrymore is horrible as the supposedly street-tough Dylan; she's not sexy, she's not sympathetic, and she certainly doesn't come across as tough. Barrymore would be doing herself a huge favor as producer if she bowed out of the film and let somebody else take her place (my replacement vote is for Eliza Dushku of `Buffy' and `Bring It On' fame).  Crispin `McFly' Glover is a waste as one of the main villains, Bill Murray doesn't do anything but mug for the cameras, Tom Green is simply annoying . . . the list of bad performances goes on and on.  Toss that in with the witless plot and the action sequences stolen straight out of `The Matrix' and the entire Jet Li film catalog, and the result is a whole exciting lot of nothing.If you're truly compelled to watch this movie, just rent (not buy) the DVD, so you can shoot straight to the few good scenes prominently featuring Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu.  The rest of the movie's not worth watching. It's sad when it seems like a film is dragging . . . and it's only 98 minutes long.  Grade D  "},{"Title":"Heavenly Awesome!!!!!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved it when I was a kid, now that they hit the big screen, who could ask for anything more? Charlie's Angels old school name, new school action. Diaz, Liu, and Barrymore made up the heat in the remake of the '76-81 tv classic. As a kid, I loved the show watching the 3 women kick major bad-guy butt and making Charlie proud as well. The fight scenes in the movie was much better than the TV's. Matrix-like moves were a big factor to the movie's success. And most of all, the movie wouldn't be a total success, without, John Forsythe aka CHARLIE!  I'll give this movie 4 out of five stars, and if David Doyle was watching from above, he would be smiling! "},{"Title":"Heavenly fun","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have watched this movie over and over and its just as wonderful every time.  This is great escapist entertainment of the highest caliber.  It is almost like Raider's Of The Lost Ark in the sense it throws things at you so fast you don't know when to duck!  Cameron Diaz is one of the best actresses in the business, whether she is doing comedy or drama, she absolutely steals the show in this movie.  I read that her and Lucy Lui and Drew Barrymore actually trained full time for eight weeks for the karate fights and it shows, they are phenonmenal. "},{"Title":"Wonderful stuff!","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I enjoyed this movie a lot! Fast paced... great fun... lot's of action... talented & sexy cast... what more can you ask for?!Two thumbs up! I think I may have to see this one again! "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe it's just the Child of the 70s coming out in me, but...I loved this movie!  I went into the movie not expecting much -- like the rest of the country I guess.  But I came out of it, ready to kick some bad guy butt! GO SEE THIS MOVIE! "}{"Title":"Aww come on, you know this movie kicks ass","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Three intelligent, feisty, respectable girls kick ass and save hapless men and still be sexy.This movie is one of the funnest movies I've ever seen, sure it aint no Thelma & Louise but if Thelma & Louise was an event action comedy this would be it.The girls are amazing, they have so much to offer, plus they're human, they're not perfect they're ditzy and silly and geeky and misunderstood. But they can speak several languages and kick 7 guys asses whilst sitting in a chair. And don't get me started on Bill Murray.This movie should be a feminists dream and one for the new man too.And it's hella funny. "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece by far, but still kicks ass","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Let me start off by saying that I just loved Charlie's Angels for the great, cheesy, stereotypical fun it was. I knew it was not going to be the next Godfather when sitting down to watch it, and I am one who can enjoy a lot of films like this for what they are. It was great action-filled excitement from beginning to end with very likable performances, and was an excellent way to spend my spare time. I loved the fighting sequences because they were so tastefully and interestingly done and the acting was really good too, for what it's worth, like I said. I did think the script was poor and it had a lot of plot holes, and I got a bit uninterested and felt the movie became way topo stereotypical at some parts, even though it was enjoyably stereotypical to begin with, but nonetheless this was a really great movie that I enjoyed watching for what it was and that is sheer joy and entertainment. Give it a try, just don't be expecting the best of the best before viewing. "},{"Title":"Cute chicks saying and doing the stupidest things but looking great while doing it! SPOILERS","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The real plot summary of this movie is THREE CUTE CHICKS SAYING AND DOING THE STUPIDEST THINGS BUT LOOKING GREAT WHILE DOING IT! Like Alex (Lucy Liu) that climbed a mountain and then to a helicopter wearing high heels!Action movies always abund in wisecracks at the most inadequate times but this one really beats them all. One of the bad guys runs from the angels and Alex (Lucy Liu) goes Why do they always have to run? A dialog can´t get any worse than that, I thought! But then Vivian (Kelly Lynch) goes Never send a man to do a woman´s job. Oh, please!!! Or in the middle of a cat fight, Natalie (Cameron Diaz) telling Vivian Do you know how hard it is to find a quality man in Los Angeles? Who cares?! She´s already made her point by staying on the phone with the guy while both her life and Bosley´s as well as the whole mission were at stake. To see more things that ruined this great idea read the goofs section and also the memorable quotes.It just seems hard to believe that the creators of the tv-series would write the script for this... mock of the series!Then the cast! Lucy Liu as a fragile little woman baking muffins?! I don´t think so! Or Drew Barrymore saying And that´sss kicking your assss! And I´m sure the guys loved the shaking butt of Cameron Diaz but it didn´t do anything for me. As for the bad guys... only Vivian (Kelly Lynch) was convincing. Tom Green was the only good choice as Chad and the only fun in the movie as far as I´m concerned. As for Matt LeBlanc, I´m looking forward to seeing him in a role other than that of a bad actor-good lover.The only good thing about this movie - besides the Chad - was the surprising soundtrack! I would´ve never imagined I could hear Sir Mix-A-Lot or Prodigy in a big Hollywood production!  "},{"Title":"Not Heaven Or Hell!","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The film version of `Charlie's Angels' was in limbo so many times during pre-production that many critics felt that this one was going straight to hell! However, I guess `destiny' took its course and the film was completed despite of many `child'-type obstacles that included a feud between stars Bill Murray and Lucy Liu. Speaking of Destiny's Child (who sing the theme song to the movie) my destination is to write this review with their song in mindStars Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, and Lucy Lui did look good- they got it!The screenplay was very intellectual and enticing- not got it!The special effects and choreography was very inventive and original- it got it!The ending was unexpected and creative- not got it!So `put your hands up in the air' if you like good looking actresses & cool set designs- go see it! But if you are looking for an original plot and diverse screenplay- don't see it! (sorry Charlie!)*** Average  "},{"Title":"You gotta be kidding me!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have trouble believing that Big name talents such as Bill Murray, Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu, not to mention some of the rest of the cast could make such a horribly, unfunny picture. This has got to be the dumbest movie I have ever seen, notice I said DUMB, not funny and whats with the villian, Crispin Glover rubbing a piece of one of the angels hair all over his face? This dvd wouldnt even make a good Frizbee. AVOID AT ALL COSTS. "},{"Title":"Just Fun!!!","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is purposely one of those popcorn Hollywood films. It's only intention is to entertain us. Since that's why it was made, there's no reason for us to criticize its not so creative script. It only aims to make us have fun. And it definetaly succeeds. Drew Barrymore, Cameron Dias and Lucy Liu are absolutely great as Dylan, Natalie and Alex. They are funny, beautiful and charmed, great blend to action characters, specially if they can also use those qualities to capture the bad guys. There isn't much similarity with the original show, except for Charlie's voice that continues to put the girls in all kinds of trouble while he has fun surrounded by women. Bosley now is played by Bill Murray, and they are also hired to solve a crime, like it used to happened in every episode. The difference is that it doesn't take itself seriously like the show. The mystery is replaced by the action and every scene seems to be a joke. The scenes in the beginning reminding us of the series doesn't seems to be a homage, but a satire. It's all the time laughing at the series and the own movie. It starts with Dylan dressed as black fat guy in an airplane complaining about the movie that was about to pass because it was another 70's series adaptation...Some people didn't like the joke, but I think it's exactly why this movie is great and why it's better than others alike, such as Mission Impossible 2, because it has a lot of implausible scenes, pointless action and meanless drama, but it's like they are saying that's okay, we know how ridiculous it is, the only reason it is here is to make you laugh at it, as we also do. So, forget the bad reviews, get your popcorn bag and get ready to the next angel's mission make us all have a great time. Believe me, they've never failed. "},{"Title":"morning charlie!","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i have every charlies angels episode on tape. when i was in high school in 1992 they played the show every day at lunch time. i went home every single day to tape it & would go back to school at the end! now years later, the movie! i can't handle all this!! the movie was incredible! i can now add alex, nat, & dylan to my list of the MOST beautiful women in the world. thanks charlie! 1-10 (10+)  Z. "},{"Title":"It's okay, but not that great. You know what I mean? You don't? Just read the review.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I never saw the original Charlie's Angels TV show, and I probably never will. I have heard about it, and when I learned they were making a movie, I was curious but cautious, too. The movie begins inside a plane. A large black man in one of those weird African pattern dresses walks through the coach section and into first class. He sits down next to a dishiveled man. They speak in code and the man opens his shirt to reveal a timer. He says he's a bomb. Suddenly, the black man grabs the bomb man and pushes him off the plane. They fall into the air , battling. Another figure, clad in black, comes down and fights. Down in the sea, a boat speeds. The battling opponents fall into the boat as the bomb explodes in the air. The man yells `Who ARE you?'. The black man pulls off his face to reveal a young woman. The black clad figure takes off her hood. And the driver of the boat laughs.All this takes place in about 2 minutes. We are then treated to a montage of stupid scenes to a rock soundtrack. Then the story begins. The three angels (Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu) are given a mission by Bosley (Bill Murray). The mission consists of getting a computer expert and his program back because he got kidnapped. All in all, this is a pretty freakin' lame plot. I knew exactly how this was going to end.You're probably going `But, man, who cares, man. It's hot chicks, man. And they kick stuff. Tell us about that, man.' Yes, Charlie's Angels is packed with beautiful women in revealing clothes and of fight scenes. There are plenty of scenes in which the girls get to strut their stuff, but I found many of them to be silly and misplaced. (Not to say that I didn't enjoy them. I am, after all, still a human male.) The acting n this movie goes from pretty good to stupid. The best actress of the three girls is probably Cameron Diaz and the worst is Drew Barrymore, who turns in an uneven and annoying performance. Bill Murray is funny, but he's still only Bill Murray. The villains are possibly the worst offenders. Crispin Glover plays The Thin Man, who is one of the lamest villains ever. He pulls out hair and smells it. That's all he does. No speaking, only smelling. Tim Curry plays the evil magnate that could've kidnapped the guy. Now, if you know Tim Curry, you know he's not the greatest actor in the world. Well, Chalie's Angels doesn't save him. Also, Tom Green and Matt LeBlanc show up in small roles as the boyfriends of Barrymore and Liu, respectively.The most evident problem comes from McG's directing. A former music video director, McG uses every trick in the book to make this look good. However, those are MUSIC VIDEO tricks. The movie is edited in a haphazard way, with stuff  flying all over the place and big music pumping. You will either get a headache or get dizzy. The fight scenes rip off The Matrix, but I have no problem with that, I'm not one of those Matrix worshipers.Charlie's Angels is at its best when nothing is serious about it. And yet, for a movie that parodies itself, it sometimes becomes way too serious. I wanted it to be tongue-in-cheek and instead it was almost melodramatic at times. The script is packed with jokes that could, in theory, work, but as Homer Simpson says, `Communism works, in theory. IN THEORY.' The sexual innuendo that worked in 1976 doesn't work now. Charlie's Angels is the cinematic equivalent of bubble gum. It's good in your mouth, it's fun at first, but it makes you hungry and doesn't feed you. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Eh!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is not a dull picture, by any means. It moves along quickly, lasting a brief 99 minutes. The problems bad direction, silly script, and indifferent casting. The original angels from the late 1970s television series were all the same body type, in their late 20s and strikingly beautiful tall-ish, shapely, classic features, globs of feathered hair, etc. Top-billed Cameron Diaz comes close to this description, albeit a tad skinny. The other 2 are woefully out of place Drew Barrymore, a co-producer, is chubby, bloated in the face, and un-pretty. Lucy Liu, older than the other two by at least 5 years, is too petite and looks un-comfortable in the part. Bill Murray hasn't much to play against as Bosley, and fades into the background. John Forsythevocalizes Charlie again, now with a creaky-sounding 80-year-old voice. The villains are inconsequential, paving the path for routine multiple explosions. And what happened to 2 of the Angels boyfriends at the end? An unfinished plot thread, all directed by an music video's expert. They should have set it in the 1970s, with a much better cast and script. What a dud. "},{"Title":"Maybe I was missing something....","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't actually see the whole movie, and what I did see had the sound muted.  But I can't imagine that hearing the dialogue would have made this any better.  I've heard tons of comparisons (mostly unflattering) to The Matrix, but there was more than a little True Lies (particularly the dangling-from-a-helicopter bit) for bad measure.  Hell, to be blunt, some of the action sequences looked like they belonged on the old Batman tv show.  They just didn't get my blood racing; if an action movie can't accomplish that, it ain't got much going for it.And as much as I love Cameron Diaz, it's getting a little old seeing her play against type (she did it better in Being John Malkovich, anyway).  She's gorgeous, we all know it, she presumably knows it, so let her be gorgeous already!!!!! "}{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a stupid movie...it really had no plot.  Three ditsy girls have to retrieve some gadget that, if put into the wrong hands, would be used to track Charlie (the guy that we NEVER see, portrayed by an 80-year-old actor...), and then kill him.  It doesn't happen, of course... incoherently put together into scenes, kinda like the Power Puff Girls cartoon show, if any of you have seen that... 4/10. "},{"Title":"Wish I had checked the comments here before watching.","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had heard fairly good reviews of this movie.  I didn't realize that I'd be subjected to the Matrix-inspired fad of slow motion and stupid (some say cool) -looking martial arts.  Now, I didn't mind it in the Matrix because it seemed to have a purpose.  It doesn't here or in most any other movie.  I am SOOOOO glad I didn't pay to see this at the theater.  As it is, I feel like I wasted money on a 99-cent one-day special DVD rental.  And the thing is that it wouldn't have been that bad if they would have stayed away from the gimmicks. 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Lots of fun!","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is, above all, a fun movie.  And the best thing about it is that it doesn't try to be anything more or less than just a grand ol' time.I ought to clarify myself there.  An interesting phenominon I've noticed is that a lot of movies start out being just for fun.  Then about midway through or so, whoever's in charge decides to hit the audience over the head with a Message or something.  Ferris Buellar's Day Off is a good example.  (Don't get me wrong, I love that movie as much as anyone, but what's the deal with Cameron's nervous breakdown at the end?)Charlie's Angels doesn't pretend to have a message.  It's just good, clean, check-yer-brains-at-the-door fun.  Thank goodness for it!By the way, just because I feel the need to address this, be forwarned that the scenes with Tom Green and Drew Barrymore just raise a lot more questions than they answer.  But while we're talking about the cameo stars, I should also say that if I learned anything from this movie, it is that L.L. Cool J. absolutely rules!  (Okay, I knew that already, but still...) "},{"Title":"Check Your Brain At the Door!!","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought I had seen bad movies before. I thought Ed Wood was dead. But the spirit of Ed Wood, with or with Bela Lugosi, is alive and well, as this movie painfully demonstrates. Picture this You sit down to a dessert of, what is supposed to be, a chocolate layer cake. As you take your first mouthful, you realize you have a mouthful of frosting only. So you take another bite again, nothing but sickeningly sweet frosting. How many bites can you take, or would you continue to take if you drew the conclusion that there actually WAS NO CAKE here?! It's disgusting in very little time. Special effects are supposed to support a good plot and good acting. The special effects was the frosting, and that's all you got! When I say check your brain at the door, I mean it!! "},{"Title":"Get in on the joke","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm sitting here reading all the negative reviews of this movie and I have to laugh.  Hey guys...it's a comedy!  Is it intellectual humor?  No.  Is it clever and sharp satire?  No.  But did I laugh when Bill Murray had his little bit in the prison cell?  Yeah.  Did I chuckle every time The Creepy Thin Man sniffed his little wad of hair as a throw back to every weirdo evil henchman in every spy movie ever made?  Yeah, I did.  I even laughed when there were obvious and gratuitous close ups of the girls butts FOR NO REASON.  It's funny.  It's goofy.  Hell, it's The Chad.  Not to mention the action scenes, which many criticized for ripping off The Matrix (duh. that was the point), boasted some impressive fight sequences.  The sheer fact that one of them was staged to the song Smack My B*tch Up by Prodigy should give you a good idea of the intended tone of this movie.  And if that didn't clue you in, the several dance numbers and the most random and nonsensical reference to the moonwalk ever put on film should pretty much confirm that this movie has it's tongue placed firmly in cheek.  Relax.  Call the girls (or guys) over for some pizza and beer, pop in the tape and enjoy yourself for an hour and a half.  Then if you like, you can get into a deep sociological debate on feminism in the new millennium to balance out your intellectual karma. "},{"Title":"As camp as a row of pink tents!","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh i so wanted not to like this film, i wanted to slate it for the acting and the premise of another 70's Tv remake but after watching this i can't. Ok the the story is non existant and extemely far fetched but that is part of the attraction. The 3 stars are very good , they look beautifull ( especially Drew!)the stunt work looks spectacular and the special affects are out of this world. In fact they are wasted in Charlies Angels , they should have been saved for a film with substance. There are some very funny moments and there are some very silly or even stupid moments but you have to ride over them and take the film for what it is .A throw away , entertaining , box office smash. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Leave your brain at home","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels has been heralded by many as a masterpiece of mindless fun, though I'm not sure it even achieves that.There are gorgeous women, fast, exotic cars, explosions, and high-flying fight scenes...  There are hot women who work in bikinis, lots of guns, a large software company with a ridiculously complicated security system...All the ingredients for fun, senseless, campy eye-candy.  And an awful, awful plot, of course. The best thing about the movie might have been the set.  A lot of work went into some of the scenes and how they were shot.  The action, as wild as it is, is quite frankly OLD and imitative, even for the time that Charlie's Angels was in the theatre.  As you watch, you will be thinking, Oh, that just like in (Matrix/Eraser/True Lies etc etc).  Like many people, what disturbed me most was what this movie seemed to be saying about a lot of real-life issues.  Like the original series, it's a complete mockery of feminism.  The movie is riddled with classic stereotypes.  Cameron Diaz is the dumb blonde.  Lucy Liu is the exotic, oriental, dragon lady that Hollywood loves to propogate so much.  There really aren't any interesting characters at all.In short, if you're not in the right mood, you will be bored like I was.  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Battlefield Earth wasn't the worst movie of the year 2000, Charlie's Angels was. Badly acted, badly written, badly directed. I can't imagine anyone older than 14 enjoying this movie. This movie was truly painful to sit through. "},{"Title":"Against all odds it's pretty good","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CHARLIE'S ANGELS (2000) *** Directed by McG. Starring Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu, Bill Murray.CHARLIE'S ANGELS is the kind of movie that seems to be a miracle- it had everything to go wrong... but (surprise!) it is pretty fine indeed. Yes, I was also not trusting at CHARLIE'S ANGELS, but I was pleasantly surprised. See my situation I never liked the TV series very much. It was fun, but the three leads, especially Farrah Fawcett, didn't know how to act. Maybe it took itself too seriously. What happens in the movie is just the opposite- it doesn't take itself seriously in any moment, so we can accept all the implausible scenes (there are many of them).Much of my praise go to the three leads, who make us forget how Farrah Fawcett, Jaclyn Smith and Kate Jackson, and after that Cheryl Ladd and others, were so sexy-but-bland. Surprisingly, Drew Barrymore is the best of them. She can fight extremely well, acts well as Dylan and makes fun of herself (playing a bad girl turned into a good girl). It's great when she falls naked (!) on the same yard of her house in E.T! Lucy Liu and Cameron Diaz don't stay behind. The first one shines as Alex, the brilliant girl who can't cook, while the latter is Natalie, a clumsy but smart girl who talks on the cell phone while defeating the bad guys. Not to talk that all of them look very, very, very good. Bill Murray, as Bosley, doesn't need presentations.A great thing are the fight sequences. Drew Barrymore, who was also a co-producer, forbid the use of guns, so the three angels have to use their muscles to defend themselves and defeat the bad guys. In fact, these sequences are kind of ironic, shamelessly copied from THE MATRIX (when a bullet is shot against Drew Barrymore and it makes the same movement of the bullets in THE MATRIX, we have no doubt).So you may ask what's their mission? In the movie, they apparently have to rescue a genius of the computers. But their mission is to make you have fun... and it works marvelously! So despite the usual plot holes and implausible situations, and the over-the-top direction by McG, an MTV son, put in your mind that this is not a work of art, but a big budget Hollywood flick, more uncompromising than most. CHARLIE'S ANGELS is pretty good it has some hilarious lines, very funny scenes, great fight sequences, a fun soundtrack, sexy and gorgeous three leads, it's charming and colorful, and there's even a place for an unexpected plot twist. This film won't win any awards or save the world, but it will save you from a boring weekend. "},{"Title":"Good looking production, but pointless, mindless, and thoughtless. **1/2 (out of four)","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CHARLIE'S ANGELS / (2000) **1/2 (out of four)Charlie's Angels is a movie that wastes 98 minutes of your life without you realizing it until the closing credits role past. In the adaptation of the old sitcom of the same name, director Joseph McGinty Nichol fabricates an effective glossy style, a jayvee soundtrack, alluring costumes, convincing make-up and set designs, intriguing dialogue, cool cinematography, and a lively mood of comic adventure. The problem? The movie is pointless, underwritten, obvious and does not require the work of a single brain for you to watch.The film doesn't take a lot of time in introducing the whole concept of the Charlie's Angles attitude. The film is based on the popular television program, and it is clear the filmmakers try to be faithful and authentic to the series, but judging by the character development and seemingly spacious motives, it really would not matter if there was a basis for re-writing of the material or not.The movie stars a gifted cast, with Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu, and Cameron Diaz taking the title roles as Dylan, Alex, and Natalie. They are three sexy private investigators working for a mysterious man by the name of Charlie, whose identity is kept a secret. Charlie's front man, Bosley (Bill Murray), assigns the three agents to investigate the kidnapping of Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell), the founder of Knox Technologies. Knox recently invented an extremely accurate identification program, and the company's president, Vivian (Kelly Lynch) believes his old rival (Tim Curry) is responsible for the kidnapping.When you have a movie like Charlie's Angles, why even bother with the plot when it consists of a series of stylized action scenes linked together by a lame excuse for a story. Several of the action sequences are entertaining and exciting, and the ending is kind of amusing in its cheesy sort of way, but you will not see a scene this year as ridiculous as the fight sequence where the three heroes battle a man in a dark ally. What is with The Matrix styled material? It makes us wonder what kind of powers these girls behold.Charlie's Angels is wonderfully cast, from the leading actress trio to supporting roles from Tim Curry, Luke Wilson, Tom Green, Matt LeBlanc, and LL Cool J, the cast often makes the movie's eye candy more swallowable. But the action is all over the board here. There is no focus or direction to the film's endless boundaries. If it was better directed, maybe Charlie's Angels would have turned out to be more than mindless fist fights and glossy imagery.  "}{"Title":"What did you honestly expect...","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm sorry but anyone going to see the movie remake of a camp 70's TV series to expect to see a good plot, meaningful characterization, and thought-provoking dialogue is as stupid as they claim to make the movie out to be.Com'on !  WTF did you expect to see ?!?There are far too many stuck-up snobs who take great delight in lambasting this movie simply because it's a) cool to do so and b) because it dares to poke fun at itself.A movie is only bad when it fails to achieve its intention.  It's clear that Charlie Angels always was about camp dialogue, OTT action sequences and generally silliness.  In that respect it more than achieved its remit.It's fun, if you can dare to accept it for what it is.  The intentionally impossible fighting sequences are very well done.  I train in 2 martial arts and it doesn't offend me.The worst movies try to be something they aren't and fail miserably, or are bland with no other merits, i.e. Independence Day.Charlie's Angels on the other hand is just good fun, and it works. "},{"Title":"Good clean fun, enjoyably OTT","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not the sort of film that's is going to trouble the Academy, but very enjoyable nonetheless.  It's not supposed to be intellectual, but it is ideal for anybody who just wants to kick back and watch Hollywood do it's work.Right from the parts the stunts are ridiculously implausible, but that's never really been a problem if the budget is large enough.  All three of the Angels look great and do their best to play to the audience, while clearly knowing full well what type of film it is.  Despite the rumours of trouble on the set, all those taking part look like they are having fun, and it rubs off on the viewer.I've not left the cinema feeling quite so harmlessly entertained in some time.  Don't see it expecting too much, and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A goofy film...but still great","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have no doubt that Charlie's Angels will receive numerous nominations for being the worst film of the year. That just proves how some people don't get it. Charlie's doesn't claim to be Oscar material, just a mindless waste of a couple hours. The script was horrible, the acting cheesy, and the action sequences were all ripped out of the Matrix playbook. But it was worth every penny to see it. This movie succeeded where another Spelling TV remake, The Mod Squad failed. Mod Squad took itself so darn seriously, you wondered why anyone wanted to make the film in the first place, or if the original TV show was so down, why do it again. Angels paid off on the fun factor, hands down.  "},{"Title":"Fun rubbish","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Briefly - it was a load of hokum, but I really enjoyed it.  Came out feeling lifted.  The only irritating thing was the idiot behind me having a cellphone call.  (Full marks to Cameron Diaz for smiling a lot, Lucy Liu for tossing her hair, and Drew Barrymore for deciding to produce the thing.Great fun!  ) "},{"Title":"Cheesy On Purpose","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Being a Gen-Xer that remembers the high level of cheesiness of the original TV series, I believe that this theatrical cover is true to the original appeal of the show (action sequences and T&A).  I thought it had great efx for the fight scenes.  I found myself enjoying the movie more than I originally expected I would. "},{"Title":"I was very disappointed","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I ( male ,16 ) just came back from the cinema. I saw Charlie´s Angels with Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu. I have seen the trailer, so I thought it could be quite good, interesting and sexy. But it was bad, uninteresting and not that sexy. The actors are bad, except Drew Barrymore ( she was good ). Cameron Diaz tried to smile as much as she can and thought anyone could like that. My friend ( aged 19 ) liked this movie a lot, but I do not understand why he did. The opening sequence was very stupid and to fast edited, so you could not see what actually is going on ( and that goes on for the rest of the movie). This movie is very illogical. If Drew barrymore is tied up a chair, she would not be able to fight against FIVE men. Maybe James Bond does, but not Dylan ( Drew B. ). All in all, I hated this movie and I am still wondering why I did not fall asleep during the movie. I rated this movie 2/10, it is very disappointing. "},{"Title":"Entertainment, where are you???","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I haven't seen all the movies released during 2000, but Charlie's Angels is undoubtedly one of the worst. This is everything required in low-quality entertainment for people who have such low standards they should stop choosing the movies they go see and just go see something, which should be enough for them. Seriously, if this entertains you, you have a problem. This movie is bad from A to Z, skipping the letter M which stands for Bill Murray, an entertaining actor in a bad role. The acting is so unconvincing, you will probably ask yourself if what you are seeing is more than a bunch of girls reading cue cards!!! I'm serious. Barrymore is as bad as usual and Liu is awful. Even Cameron Diaz, which showed that if you give her a good script, a good director and a good partner(A Life Less Ordinary) she will be a good actress, proves that if you give her no script, a bad director which seems to have graduated from the MTV school of directing and a bad cast to interact with, she can be absolutely awful. Talking about directing, this movie must be one of the most poorly shot movies of all time. This is the first movie directed by Joseph McGinty Nichol, and I hope it is the last since his directing is so poor you will have troubles understanding how this guy can have the rights to direct. I mean, there should be a law against letting this guy direct. Everything is shot way too close(breasts and butts being zoomed in so often that it seems to be the point of the movie). Cheap camera effects are used to give people who don't know what a director with style is the impression that this movie was shot by a guy with style. You want to see style, see a Danny Boyle movie. You want to see wannabe-style, see Charlie's Angels. The action sequences are boring and shot using everything that made The Matrix original. Note to you, Mcg(as he is credited here) something is original the first time around but when you see it in twenty movies in less than a year, it's called following a trend. I'm just hoping this trend will end soon, because I'm getting tired of it. Really tired. Actually, every scene in this movie has been done once or twice before. And I will not waste a second to talk about the story, since there is none to talk about. Oh, and please, stop with the Friends stars cameo(in this case, Matt Leblanc). And one last thing, Tom Green is not funny, he's just stupid. As is this movie.23% "},{"Title":"Pitiful...not even pitiful...plain awful...","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is probably 2000's worst (with Scary Movie, of course). Every single thing in this film is bad...The whole production was about showing three sexy actresses' butts and make lots of zoom-ins on them...they were always wearing tight suits or bikinis, so it was supposed to be the main attraction in the film...the whole thing is a package of rip-offs from popular films (The Matrix, mainly).  The slow-motion sequences were repetitive and were trying to make a Jet-Li like film...the scenario is one of the most stupid ones I've seen...the acting is awful...the three girls look like horny prostitutes...They put some BORING jokes just to justify the Comedy classification...The fight scenes are some of the pointless, cheapest, worse one ever made...Every single scene had one known MTV actor in it...I felt strangled by the film, because everything happens so fast or so slow that you can't register the image...and the way it is filmed....a very bad piece of directing...there are big plans on everything, and you can't see everything that is going on in the scene, so it's like you cannot breathe...it really feels like that...and the music...the stupid Destiny's Child song is just another proof of how commercial this film is...and something's funny in that song's lyrics; they say women are independent, and this is from a very anti-man point of view...but they are always asking questions to Charlie, who is a man, and let me tell you that if Charlie wasn't there, they wouldn't know what to do...so the song is a big contradiction....really bad performances from the whole crew of this film...congratulations, you get a BIG one...out of ten...1/10 "},{"Title":"Suprised myself by enjoying it....","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was suprised to enjoy this movie, I went with my wife and expected not to be very happy about it. But I was pleasantly suprised, OK so some of the seventies kitch bits made me cringe, but, overall it was good. There was only one really sour note in the movie, one of its stars and apparently producer Drew Barrymore. Both Lucy Lui and Cameron Diaz are slim, graceful and elegant which as a red-blooded male a appreciate. In slo-mo they glide easily through the scene. But, Drew Barrymore compares poorly, her up front sexuality unfortunately appears crude in this company, and graceful she ain't. Her slo-mo sequences are actually embarrassing for an audience (whilst leaving I heard everyone around me mention them!). I was unimpressed by her in 'Never Been Kissed' as she looked as if no-one would. Sorry Drew I like you and I know it was your money, however, if there is an Charlie's Angel 2 please please recruit someone like Alyssa Milano, Fran Drescher or even Denise Richards as the third star. I'd buy a ticket for that and so would all my friends. "},{"Title":"This movie kicks ass!","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Want to watch an action packed movie full of girl power? Well, Charlie's Angel is the film for you. Who are the three angels? Lucy Liu, Cameron Diaz and Drew Barrymore, a great trio. These three gals work for a guy named Charlie, they go on awesome and dangerous adventures. Full of kick-ass action. Instead of having guns like the Charlie's Angels TV show, they use their own techniques to fight against evil. Sound exciting? Well go see it.....Charlie's Angels "}{"Title":"something didn't sit right with me.","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Watching this movie, I felt uneasy, and perhaps rightfully so.  Now before I complain, I know that your response will be something to the effect of good old action fun that is not meant to be taken seriously.  But I just have a problem with this movie.  It's kind of reminds me of Playing with Barbie Dolls and creating a fantastic Barbie adventure where Skipper and her friends go out to kick some badguy butt and save the day.  It's just seems a bit juvenile to me.  Maybe this is because your casting three women which look great, but which has about as much credibility as serious butt whoopers, as Andy Kaufman in the WWF.  It's such a joke (only Kaufman knew this and used it for laughs).  If Drew Barrymore can come over here and beat me up, maybe ill change my mind.  But all three ladies lack any beef in their bones to back up the power they throw around in the characters they play.  Cast some other women.  Cast Mia Hamm, or some woman who plays soccer professionally or something.  Someone with some muscle on their legs and frame.  Someone who you know could inflict some power when they hit, even though you know its just acting.  It would be a plausable movie then. "},{"Title":"Non stop fun and girlz","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great movie. I liked every bit of the movie. All I wanted was fun for each minute I watched the movie and got what I wanted.Formula for a hot movieTake a known plot. Add technological gizmos to it. Put dazzling babes on it. You have one hot movie in hand.And thats what the producers have done. Three sizzling girls in their stylish costumes and accessories. The result is a roller coaster ride of a movie. When you come out of the theater after watching the movie there is nothing about the movie that stays for a long time in your mind. But then you are not worried about that. Because what you had inside the theater was simply great fun.Cameron is hot, Drew is sexy and Lucy is fantastic Together they make Charlie's Angels worth a watch.  "},{"Title":"Strictly popcorn fare","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Want to see a film with pretty girls, actions scenes performed by pretty girls (sans 'weapons'), pretty girls who have an annoying tendancy to say Good morning Charlie to anything that resembles a speaker phone with saccrine sweetness then this is the flick for you!Not much of a plot to talk of - and thankfully so, because a plot can certainly get the in road of a good action scene!  There are more costume changes in this film than a care to count and the whole film kinda screams commercial spin-off - but who cares.  There are some truly delightful comic moments in the film and a killer soundtrack.This is definately a film to check your brain at the door and sit back and enjoy without too much worry. "},{"Title":"Bunch of Eye Candy and Sweet Action","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I must admit the three Angels- Liu, Diaz, and Barrymore were not bad choices. But looking at the classic 1970s and 1980s TV show, you have to say that this movie was strictly made for movie gross and money. It has little resemblance to the TV show and is more of a mockery instead of a movie. I hope this doesn't foreshadow to more silly movies based on TV shows because I hope NYPD Blue nor The Practice have such poor followings. It has good action and a good choice for a Friday Night Movie, but the only thing really sweet is the Movie Trailer and Destiny's Child's music theme song All The Women. "},{"Title":"We're no angels!","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is so sexist, violent, stupid girl power, it makes you frown. Close-ups of the girls' titties and asses - what's the point?Well, I know what the point is, and I heard the teenage guys in the local cinema moaning and groaning. But there's gotta be more to life than Cameron Diaz' ass and Drew Barrymore's tits...or?!? "},{"Title":"If you can't figure out the plot, remember, they're very pretty.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The A-Team, Diff'rent Strokes, and considering Tom Hanks current movie winning streak, Bosom Buddies, would all have been highly anticipated TV series remakes, unfortunately, the latest dose of stale 70's programming to make its way to the movie screen is the 'breastacular,' Charlie's Angels.The loveably dysfunctional Drew Barrymore (Dylan), the ever wide mouthed Cameron Diaz (Natalie), and the lucy-est Lucy Liu (Alex), star as revamped 1970's private detectives in this wonderfully awful picture.The film, while on no terms apologises for it's campy-ness, begins by laying the cards on the table as a dashikied L.L. Cool J. jumps out of an airplane after finding out the in flight movie was T.J. Hooker. This proves to be the acting highlight of the movie, because as we all know, it's a miracle L.L. Cool J. can even speak coherently at all.The plot line of the movie is, at worst, extremely nonsensical, and at best, an excuse for Cameron Diaz to shake her derriere in a pair of underpants that would make a five year old blush. Which brings us to the precise point I wish to make about this film, it is, without a doubt, the hottest film I have seen in years. The all around crook busting combined with the overt sexuality of the three major characters is more than enough to make this man want to sleep with each and every one of the angels, and potentially Bill Murray's character of Bosley simply for being close to them.When the lights came up in the theater and all was said and done, my first thoughts were Dear Lord, what an absolutely horrid film. But by the time I had reached the rubbish bin eagerly awaiting my medium cherry coke, I had come around on the film forgetting the horrid acting, un-compelling plot and characters, and appalling plot line, and remembered the majesty that is Cameron in a bathing suit, Drew naked and falling out of a window, and Lucy baking muffins. On a scale of one to ten, I give it a 5. "},{"Title":"as good as it can get","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is just the type of movie you can watch anytime, if you just don't want to use your brain too much. It's really simple, so just get relaxed, put your feet up, and let yourself entertained by some fabulous stunts and breathtaking action. The huge problem is of course the fact that the film doesn't take itself too seriously. It's a simple plot, actually the plot is meaningless, simple action, just the type of movie in which you have to turn your brains off and just let them entertain you.But the rest is great. The stunts are amazing, the action scenes are great, the actors play surprisingly good, and the debutant director McG does a very good job. This is the perfect action-comedy film. It can't get any better than this. Bill Murray is absolutely adorable and funny as in almost all his films, and Cameron Diaz proves again that she is the cutest actress in Hollywood nowadays.All in all, a good entertaining watch, but too simple to really consider it great. I can't give it more than 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Doesn't make any difference","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, the movie is interesting because of technology, sure enough. The slow motion and bullet's effect seems come with every action movie nowadays.Some of the part in the movie is simply to easy to be guess what will happen next. So far, there is only one movie in this world that i can't guess what happen until i saw the DVD version of it.The beginning of the movie? What happened to the rest of the people? Anyway, overall, can be make better. Too many cult music, should put something more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Cheesy and Quite a let-down...","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't very impressed with the way the girls were being portrayed - I thought they were not very smart.. all looks and brawn but with no brains and no street-smarts.I would have thought that the 21st century version of Charlie's Angels would have shown a more sophisticated and intelligent trio as well as sexy and beautiful..Anyhow.. Drew didn't fight much and I felt that Lucy Liu was underplayed. Cameron Diaz stole the entire show. There was no real strategy or plot so I felt that the show wasn't worth the hype.All said and done.. great kung fu scenes.. very Hong Kong like.. nice dancing.. entertaining at best. "},{"Title":"Its not a satire of really bad TV, it is really bad TV.","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  But there is nothing quite like the guilty pleasure of a completely, mind numbingly bad TV show -- a show that makes no demands on your intellect, that reliably follows the formula you expect.  What's most interesting about this movie is that this is exactly the aesthetic, using the term lightly, that the makers were apparently after.  Its a really bad TV show which you enjoy mainly because it is exactly that.The direction has energy and some interesting techniques (especially the opening scene).  It's often funny, although almost exclusively in an ironic, smart aleck way.Go with low expectations, and you will not be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Worth exactly 5 dollars","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How can you fault a flick that has Bill Murray and Tim Curry battling in giant Sumo  suits?!? A flick that has Crispin Hellion Glover at his twisted best? Cameron Diaz shakin  ass and acting like a complete manic? Drew Barrymore lookin hot! Lucy Liu showing  freckles!The only disappointment was Drew Barrymore's LAME moon walk!  "},{"Title":"Cheesy and uninventive..but fun nonetheless","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlies Angels is yet another of Hollywood's attempts to take nostalgia, update it, and sell it to the masses as something special.  Like so many of those attempts, the storyline falls a bit flat, but the visuals and the casting manage to make it watchable.This time around, the Angels (Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu, all of whom are at their jiggly best) are called upon to recover a kidnapped software creator (Sam Rockwell) and find his super-advanced voice recognition software.  Once this is accomplished, a new plan begins to show up, and it turns out all is not as it seems, and the Angels have to act to stop whatever evil may be attempted.Cameron Diaz shines as Natalie, a ditzy klutz whos smile can stop traffic. Natalie is the best character for Cameron since Mary, and she is really fun to watch on screen, as she camps it up perfectly.Drew Barrymore is Dylan, a somewhat more street wise girl than the other two.  She is a bit more vampish than Natalie, but somehow manages to maintain a nice campy level that fit in well with the overall flow of the movie.  She acted as an assistant producer on the film, and no doubt had a hand in getting her no-talent boyfriend (Tom Green) in on the project as well.  His Chad was a co-dependant moron and should have really found a home on the cutting room floor.Lucy Liu chimes in as Alex.  The group's computer whiz and resident bad cook, this character was nowhere near as campy as the other two, but instead Ms. Liu used her sexuality to sell this role.  Alex drips seductiveness but that works against her as she comes off a bit too serious.John Forsythe returns as Charlie, the mysterious millionaire who finances the Angel's activities.  There really could have been no other choice for this and I tip my hat to the filmmakers for getting this right.  Bill Murray comes in as Bosley, and while he doesnt really add anything to the proceedings, he doesnt hurt them either.  His dungeon scenes are among the funnies in the film.Charlie's Angels was a T&A spectacle on 70's TV, providing girls with some female influences and guys with the newest sex symbols on a yearly basis. This film does the show proud in the T&A department, but relies a bit too much on Matrix-like effects and soundtracks to really capture that campy atmosphere.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"PURE CHEEEEEEEEESE","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Bad Guy with the Hair Do is cool!THE best thing about this flick is Crispin Glover. He was sufficiently brooding and evil. He takes on all three of the girls at once and still gives them a hiding. He doesn't get much to say, however, and he is severely under used (reminds me of a certain Star Wars flick, actually....)Cameron Diaz is just too feminine and cutesy-pooh to play a female Neo. We get to see her doing some of the dumbest things ever seen in a flick, though, and she almost plays like a female Adam Sandler. Seeing close ups of her ridiculous cheesy grin became irritating after a while, as well as her various revealing costumes revealing how painfully thin she is....The rip off fight scenes borrowed straight from the Matrix did look good, however. I only sat through this flick to watch the action scenes, the cheese and cliche-ridden plot would've made me walk out otherwise!!!There were some funny scenes (mostly involving Ms Diaz), and the girls spend most of the flick kicking male butts to the moon and back. If you suspend disbelief (and I'm not talking about the Zero-G physics-defying KungFu scenes!!) you may just find this flick enjoyable! "},{"Title":"An uplifting, fun and flirty movie for everyone","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, maybe not for everyone.  When most people heard of this movie they rolled their eyes, which is exactly what i did.  But there I was, sitting waiting for the movie to begin.  I looked around at an eclectic audience, from young boys to couples.  When it ended, everyone seemed to thoroughly enjoy it, and no one seemed offended by the girls candid sexuality or scanty dress (in scenes).  One might think that such a movie would be insulting, but after seeing Drew Barrymore in various interviews I realized she was right- you can still be empowered and tough and in touch with your own femininity and sexuality. One thing that may have made critics wince or feel inferior was not the sexuality- it was the overwhelming confidence the girls have, which had nothing (well, maybe a little) with their beauty (I know a lot of beautiful people with bad self esteem) and more with the realization that they were worthy and smart people who could do achieve anything.Sure this film had a lot of innuendo, etc. but that was what was funny.Im not saying it was Academy Award material (although the Academy is all about what movie made the most money and little other criteria for judgement) but it was great fun and made my weekend.The only other beef I had with it was the completley unnecessary intrusion of Tom Green, the most irritating comedian/character ever.  I wish the main villian (who was seemingly innocent at the beginning of the film) who sweetly smiled at Drew Barrymore would have ended up being good at the end as well, so the weird and creepy character Chad would have been taken out.Great performances to all three of the girls (Lucy- playing a little too seriously, Diaz for never taking herself TOO seriously and Drew for just having fun) as well as Rockwell (who I have known about for years) and Lynch (another I knew about.)For a lot of laughs and awe-inspiring action, I recommend this film. "},{"Title":"No cure for cancer","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'll give them this much--for 90 minutes I wasn't thinking about the election outcome.  Unlike previous disasters like The Avengers and Wild Wild West, Charlie's Angels escapes by having a sense of humor about how stupid it is.  That doesn't make it LESS stupid, but it is refreshing to see a film not take itself seriously.  The women are gorgeous, the direction is often interesting (if a little too derivative of music videos), but the script barely rises up to the level of a saturday Night Live spoof (back when SNL was actually good).  I give it a five. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film between Mission Impossible, Matrix and Austin Powers","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had always heard of the famous TV series called Charlie's Angels, but I never saw the show. Then, I saw on the papers that it was a film based on the series in production. And I found it interesting, more interesting when I read that Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu and Drew Barrymore, three beautiful and excellent actress would play the role of the supersecret agents.The film is a mixture, from my point of view, of MISSION IMPOSSIBLE (because the superagent-thrilling action), THE MATRIX (because of all the fight scenes, the camera rotations, the japanese manga style in the fighting) and AUSTIN POWERS (because of the '60s atmosphere, the pop music and the retro-ambience).I must say that I didn't expect so much enjoyment from this film. It's incredibly fast, dynamic and smart. Drew, Cameron and Lucy play our roles with extraordinary naturalness, showing the best of them (in all the meanings ) ). But I must say that this films is not as chauvinist as it seems. It's just 50/50 in that point, because in some parts of the film, man is ridiculed by the power of women )So, if you like action, humour (just don't miss Bill Murray's performance incredible!), fighting scenes, and of course, the presence of Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu (and for the female audience, Matt LeBlanc appears also on the film!), just go straight into the theatre to spend one hour and a half of entertainment. And it's worth paying for it! JUST ENJOY YOUR TIME WATCHING CHARLIE'S ANGELS!!!!!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Finally - a date movie you can be proud of!","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Incredible. Who would have thought that yet another movie based on a television show from days past could finally get the formula just right? But it has happened, and the proof is CHARLIE'S ANGELS. Why does it succeed? Because this movie never takes itself too seriously. By the end of the beginning credits, you'll know exactly what I mean. The action/fight sequences are excellent, even if some of them made Isaac Newton turn over in his grave. The music is meshed perfectly with every scene - there really are a lot of songs with Angel in there somewhere... The humor is well timed too. Even if you don't like one-liners, you'll like watching these ladies deliver them.  But what if you just want to watch these ladies, O moviegoer? For the men, you won't be disappointed. For the ladies, you get to see women kick a lot of tail and look great doing it! Humor, Kung Fu, Dancing and Divas - What more could you ask for? This is the movie men and women should see together!  "},{"Title":"Bad TV Makes Bad Movie","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Being a detester of the original televsion series I was dragged into this one. For about 90 seconds I was actually amazed at how funny it looked like it was going to be. But then it dropped all the self-referential joking and turned out to be every bit the turkey I expected.Major Problems No plot. An anorexic Cameron Diaz should never be filmed without her pants on. Lucy Liu doesn't work without her Ally McBeal nastiness. Drew Barrymore needs to learn to distinguish between good (Ever After) from bad (this turkey and the hideous Never Been Kissed). Bill Murray is wasted.Fortunately, my father-in-law paid my way into this one or I'd *really* be annoyed with it.<g> "},{"Title":"CGI candy","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Looking at the poster on your way into the movie theater, you must've had some inkling as to what you were about to see. CHARLIE'S ANGELS, it proclaims. You thinkSay, wasn't that an action exploitation series in the 70s that featured a trio of attractive women who worked on their tan lines in between catching crooks? It was!Scanning the poster further, you would've seen Bill Murray's name in the credits. The wheels start to turn again.Say,isn't Bill Murray the comedian who gets a cheap laugh out of his dry wit? He is!  So, as you payed your five to eight dollars at the ticket vendor, you must have had some idea what you were getting into.This movie is just pure escapism. You have three beautiful women wearing revealing outfits and doing physics-defying stunts. Their boss is the groundskeeper from Caddyshack and the villain is George McFly (Crispin Glover kicks *ss in this movie!). This movie kept me happily entertained for an hour and a half, and that's all I can ask for. My only niggles were Drew Barrymore's last fight scene, which wasn't all that good, and the fact that Lucy Liu was playing it so serious for the most part. Ah well, maybe she'll lighten up in the sequel. And as for all those people who thought they were going to see one thing, even though all the tell-tale signs said otherwise, and were outraged/offended/annoyed with what they got instead, perhaps you should have looked for posters for Men of Honor or Bounce in the lobby... "},{"Title":"a T and Kick-A Movie","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a highly enjoyable film, which you can't believe is already over at the end, because you don't remember time passing that quickly in a cinema....Its one of those movies where you get the impression everyone had fun making it....The movie is very much like a Jackie Chan flick, right down to showing the out-takes at the end. The difference is slightly fewer stunts, and the camera lingering on its stars body-parts. Drew Barrymore, as Dylan, contributes mainly to the T section, whilst Cameron Diaz holds up the A side.The action scenes are good, the girls beautiful and the men cardboard cut-outs. One of the best parts of the film is the soundtrack, which for once actually matches what is happening on screen. 'Turning Japanese' was an obvious choice, but nothing about this film is subtle and it fit right in.....If you are looking for pure escapism, this is the movie for you.  "}{"Title":"a movie like a bad joke","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, I was very excited because I like the three main characters and I also heard that the action directors are from the Matirix.  But after the movie was over, I was disappointed.  The main characters were very cute and very attaractive as I expected and the action sequences also were cool but that was it.  The plot was so jumpy that there are so many episodes without connections.  What happened to Natalie and Alex's boy friends?  The direction also was like a college student's first film.I heard that there might be a sequel.  Well, if they don't fix two things, the girls are not gonna work any more. "},{"Title":"What do you get if you cross James Bond with the Matrix, Mission Impossible and the Spice girls..??????","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Strange sort of mix this, action, karate type fight scenes, women in various states of undress and enough slow mo to make John Woo drool. It makes as much sense as the original TV series and the plot, what there is of it, is complete drivel, but hey, who the hell cares.Bill Murray is pretty good as the comic relief in the shape of Bosley, the link between Charlie and the girls. John Forsythe reprises the role of Charlies voice, heard but never seen. There are some good moments and some good one liners, right at the beginning we have Drew Barrymore, in disguise as LL Cool J, watching the in flight movie, which is TJ Hooker and she/he says Oh no not another film from an old TV series The Chinese fighting muffin scene is quite good as well, the idea behind this is Alex's (Lucy Lui) ability to kick butt, diffuse bombs all that secret agent stuff, but can she cook .....Hell No!  If you've seen the TV series go watch it for nostalgia, if you haven't, go see it anyway cos guy or girl, this has something for everyone. The only thing I have to pick fault with (and this would be a very minor one) is to me Lucy Lui is the only credible one among them, Cameron Diaz is in usual goofy mode, perhaps a bit to goofy even for this, and Barrymore is the sweet, innocent one who you can't really believe would kick a stuffed toy let alone all those mens butts, but hey as I said who the hell cares, roll on the inevitable sequel.   "},{"Title":"I LURVE it!","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If I had to sum up this movie in one sentence, it would be never a dull moment! I always loved the three actresses Drew in Ever After, Cameron in in Mary and Lucy in Ally McBeal. I've been waiting for this movie since I first heard about it, plus one of my favorite band has a song in it what more could I ask? A lot! Great costumes, groovy dance moves, cool fight sequences, car chases, big explosions and last but not least, GIRL POWER!With fight moves borrowed from The Matrix-which, is my favorite movie of all time-these Angels make skimpy tops and belly-baring pants as cool as head to toe black leather. It is so refreshimg to see women to be strong and be able to fight and protect themselves instead of hiding behind their boyfriends, while still got to be unashamedly gorgeous and sexy.It is not an all-out comedy but the jokes all worked pretty well. Most memorably the Japanese massage and the bad lighter, in my opinion. The moviemakers obviously didn't try to put in smart jokes but hell, it's enough to keep you entertained.Sure, Lucy has the best clothes, Cameron has the best dance moves and Drew has the most (embarrasingly) hilarious scenes, but it was Tom Green's 'Chad' who stole the show. I don't even know how to describe 'The Chad', but I enjoyed every scene he was in and the way he calls Drew's Dylan 'starfish'.I enjoyed this movie very much; it really doesn't have any substance, to be honest, but it's great popcorn entertainment and it shouldn't let you down, either. So girls, put on your highest and shiniest heels and rush to the cinema to see Charlie's Angels! "},{"Title":"he he he","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Loved it. Loved the way they had fun of the Matrix (dodging bullet, wearing leather clothes, playing prodigy songs, etc.) Loved this cross between Austin Powers and Matrix. This is a funny action movie. A wonderful moment. "},{"Title":"Didn't like it? Lighten up!","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I never was much of a one for martial arts movies, I don't like action films that try to be serious (Matrix and MI2), I did like this.It was fast, there was a lot to look at, the music was cool, the story good, not too long, not too short. The action was quick, how action should be, the women were sexy, the nods to other films were funny. This film is the result of a generation of action films and in many ways outclasses it's origins. This is cinema, it's fun, don't knock this film because it's not all doom and gloom and distopian, lighten up! "},{"Title":"Bleu Fromage...","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If I had to sum this movie in one word cheese.  Or as they say in Quebec (and France), fromage.  This movie definately was not worth the $5.25 (with coupon) that I paid for it.  Let's get the good parts over with. Firstly, The Angels', especially Cameron Diaz, are all gorgeous.  Next, there is some nicely choreographed Matrix action scenes.  And finally there is some humour.  But wait, this humour extends a little too far into our cheese category.  After a little while into the movie, I thought I was watching the evening sitcom.  The puns and the fake one-liners simply didn't work.  And finally there is the unbelievable cheese factor.  Are Charlie's Angels bionic?  Do they have super powers?  Just how much abuse and punishment can they take?  Just how strong are these Angels?  Well, as cool as it looked in the beginning, it eventually was too much.  "},{"Title":"Sexy Chicks, Delicious Villains, and Bill Murray!","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Going in I wasn't sure if I'd like or hate this movie, I was surprised at how much I LOVED IT. Of course its not realistic sure its silly, but it never takes itself too seriously so it pulls it off. The girls are great, I have an special new respect for Drew Barrymore, for her producing work as well. I heard Bill Murray gave a poor performance before I went to see and was disappointed as I usually love him. But it turns out they lied, he scenes cracked up everyone in the theater. But the greatest pleasant surprise was the fantastic villains, so slick and stylish! The kind you love to watch and hiss at. Overall the critics that call it eye candy are telling the truth it is but thats all it ever intended to be, it does a great job, and I'll be buying it when it comes out on video! "},{"Title":"Considering that itÕs Charlie's Angels I guess itÕs OK.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  	This is probably what you would be expecting.  The girls wear tight clothes or skimpy clothes.  Mainly the clothes are  tight as this works well with the Matrix rip off effects.  Some stuff blows up.  Girls asses are prominently featured in  shots.  It doesnÕt really do anything new or wonderful, but it is adequate at what it does.	The big surprise here was the really great villains.  Get this - they have to beat the Avengers who are working with a  guy who looks like Mick Jagger.  Is that excellent or what?  Anyways the thin man is a really good villain, because he  acts a little quirky and doesnÕt talk.  By the end of the movie you pretty much hate him, without it having been rubbed in  that heÕs bad.	Ahh yes, one added plus is Tom Green shaved pretty well for his scenes. "},{"Title":"If you don't like this, you're uncool","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie proves that if you've got piles of cash and you're truly convinced you're good, you can get away with anything. The moral of the story seems to be that there should be a place for every nice person in this world, even the worst airheads.The flick is full of completely random acts of stupidity. There is no doubt screenwriters were on drugs. If you watch the movie with the same kind of assistance, you'll like it for sure.However, it's extremely difficult not to like Cameron's ass. The price of admission is worth paying to see it wiggle.  "},{"Title":"Amusing theatrical release of old television","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   Considering the volume of user comments posted, and the likelihood of more to come, I will keep my opinion brief. Never a fan or much of a viewer of the original television program, I found the film version of Charlie's Angels wildly entertaining and sufficiently campy. By no means, does the picture take itself seriously or indulge the  audience with heavy-handed plot elements. Liberally assuming segments from The Matrix, Bond pictures, the Mission Impossible series, and the old show itself, director McG exerts a fashionable, kinetic style. The overtly sexual trio is serviceable and Bill Murray is pleasantly silly. It was a surprise to see Crispin Glover. He has secured a place in the henchmen's hall of fame. Also, the movie has an enjoyable, diverse soundtrack that includes 'The Flying Lizards', Sir Mix-a-lot, 'Blink 182', and Rod Stewart. 2.5 out of 4 stars. "}{"Title":"Barrymore's The Best!","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a ride!  Ok the script is poor (are we surprised? This is a Hollywood blockbuster)and the plot would fit nicely on the back of postage stamp but that's not the point. The point is that his movie is a lot of fun and I really enjoyed watching these three talented, beautiful actresses prove that the girlies can kick arse just as well as the boys, if not better. They are fully aware that this ain't Shakespeare and know not to take themselves or the movie too seriously!Drew Barrymore deserves a lot of credit for not only starring in but producing this movie.  At the tender age of 25 she has cemented her position as one of the most talented actresses around while also proving herself a intelligent, savvy business woman.  Now that really is girl power! "},{"Title":"No Slapstick just Lipstick. Terrible.","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is about three narcissistic creatures whochange their outfits and facial make up every other minute,dodge a bullet or two and kick some bad guys in the process. Thethree main characters are the worst part of the movie. It ishard to call it a movie, one Sesame Street show has moreentertaining value and an average TV commercial has moreinteresting special effects. The only funny part was thebloopers shown at the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"As long as you don't know anything and don't think it's really cool","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  0 for realism and logic but a 10 for hot chicks and action. My only other comment (because that says it all) is why does everyone think they have to copy that scene from the Matrix where the Agent and Neo jump around and shoot at each other and they both miss.  It made sense in the Matrix because they were in the Matrix but in the 82 other movies I've seen it in since then it just looked stupid "},{"Title":"Even old cynics will enjoy this!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After watching what you might call arthouse movies all week, I sneaked into this one. I must confess I enjoyed it immensely. It perhaps had the humour that the Matrix and Mission Impossible failed to capture.Now I must repent for enjoying such a mainstream film. My penance is three lars Von Triers, two Wong kar-wai's and a Jean Luc Godard. This will purge me till the sequel! "},{"Title":"Brainless but good","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Actually that does the film a disservice, yes, it isn't a metaphorical contemplation on life and death but it's quick-moving and very visual.  Yes, the plot has more holes in it than Swiss cheese but the fight scenes are good and the dancing is also good.  At times it comes over as one long hair care product commercial, the girls are always flicking their hair, or a long cigarette advert but it's forgivable.  The bad guys are the main reason for wanting to re-watch this.  The dude with the hair fetish completely freaked me out and by the end I felt really sorry for the bad guy.  The soundtrack is great to.  So basically watch it then rewind and rewatch the scenes with Chad, the bad guys and the fight scenes, especially the first one.  The director deserves some sort of award for sheer spectacle and so does the fight director.  Sure it rips off the Matrix but it does it differently, less seriously.  Also if you get the chance stay and watch the end credits.  We were kicked out mid-way through them.  This film rocks. "},{"Title":"Devilishly good fun","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm old enough to remember the television series (1976-1981) and the movie version manages simultaneously to capture the sense of fun of the original while cleverly up-dating it. It is all terribly post-modern, sending up old-fashioned sexism while at the same time pandering to it. The plot is so slight and silly as not to bear mentioning, but the whole thing is done with such speed and panache as to make it immensely entertaining, borrowing scenes from `Mission Impossible', `The Matrix' and almost every Bond film. The never-seen Charlie is still voiced by John Forsythe (now 81). As the angels, Cameron Diaz and Drew Barrymore (who co-produced) have a natural comedic sense, but Lucy Liu needs to lighten up and, attractive though they all are, for me support player Kelly Lynch is the real beauty. "},{"Title":"Did not reach my not too high expectations.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Saw Charlie's Angels last night and went without too high expectations. What I saw was like a 90 minute hair commercial.  It was awful.  I give the film 3 out of 10 using the following formula-2 for the special effects 2 for the music (especially Prodigy) -1 for Drew barrymore's embarrassing Moonwalk scene.Very disappointing film, sorry shampoo ad.   "},{"Title":"Some good, some bad...","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Good things the action scenes, Cameron Diaz occasionally, Crispin Glover (best baddie for ages), Tom Green, Bill Murray, the visual effects.Bad the plot, the dialogue, Lucy Liu, Tim Curry, the jokes, the utterly bizarre plot twist.I think that's a fair enough summation. Overall, worth seeing. "},{"Title":"I wish I were a teenager boy -))","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I was a teenager, the best entertainment was Lassie on TV, and an odd car chase by the Highway Patrol. Now, kids watching TV at home with their pals have a fair good chance of seeing a fighting fit, butt naked woman falling on their courtyard to borrow their bicycle and T-shirt... Wow! You'll understand this comment when you watch this movie - that is a less a remake of the TV series of the same name than a witty, humourous parody of sci-fi and spy movies, with lines and scenes that'll bring some of the best to your memory. Since the agents are three female, the main villains are adequately three, two male and one female, providing for a climactic end sequence where the heroines battle it out to an explosive climax (pun intended) with them. This way, unlike many movies that promise and don't deliver, you're allowed to see spectacular hand-to-hand mixed and woman-to-woman battles. Those who cater for violence are certainly put off by the film's classification for teenager audiences, but that derives from the (excellent) choreography of the fights, and the humour that tempers the action. There's plenty, and much better photographed, fighting in this movie than any of those that premiered in the last couple of years. The villainess is as sexy, and durable as any of the heroines - making her more believable than others. Please don't start crying out loud in the theatre when you see the first couple of heroines dying a gory death! (Sorry! You SHOULD go see the movie anyway! I'm warning you...) One good thing with good screenwriting is that, in movies as sometimes in life, you only live twice...  "},{"Title":"I wish I were a teenager boy -))","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I was a teenager, the best entertainment was Lassie on TV, and an odd car chase by the Highway Patrol. Now, kids watching TV at home with their pals have a fair good chance of seeing a fighting fit, butt naked woman falling on their courtyard to borrow their bicycle and T-shirt... Wow! You'll understand this comment when you watch this movie - that is a less a remake of the TV series of the same name than a witty, humourous parody of sci-fi and spy movies, with lines and scenes that'll bring some of the best to your memory. Since the agents are three female, the main villains are adequately three, two male and one female, providing for a climactic end sequence where the heroines battle it out to an explosive climax (pun intended) with them. This way, unlike many movies that promise and don't deliver, you're allowed to see spectacular hand-to-hand mixed and woman-to-woman battles. Those who cater for violence are certainly put off by the film's classification for teenager audiences, but that derives from the (excellent) choreography of the fights, and the humour that tempers the action. There's plenty, and much better photographed, fighting in this movie than any of those that premiered in the last couple of years. The villainess is as sexy, and durable as any of the heroines - making her more believable than others. Please don't start crying out loud in the theatre when you see the first couple of heroines dying a gory death! (Sorry! You SHOULD go see the movie anyway! I'm warning you...) One good thing with good screenwriting is that, in movies as sometimes in life, you only live twice...  "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went in with low expectations, but I actually enjoyed the film. The story is surprising, and not as cliche'd as so many others nowadays. There's no virus that will kill everybody, or nuclear bombs, or anything like that.I'm a big martial arts fan, and I was happy to see the Matrix fight scene techniques used in this film. The girls pull it off surprisingly well. Actually, the worst fighter of the three was Liu. Also, Drew Barrymore is a tad too heavy to pull off convincing wire work.So, I'm going to be in line to get a copy of the video, and kudos to the producers for putting together an entertaining, if not memorable, film. "},{"Title":"Totally stupid moments hamper the fun of it, but still entertaining","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After seeing the movie for the first time today I just had to make a comment.  On the whole I found the film enjoyable.  It's not meant to be taken seriously at all, so anyone who prefers this shouldn't waste their time.  The film's main focus is pure fun, and it delivers.  However it sometimes gets in the way.  The reason being is because there are some scenes in the movie that are just SO stupid, I had a hard time watching it even though I knew it wasn't supposed to be taken seriously.  I think even in films like this there has to be a least some sort of plausability otherwise it's just totally worthless.  Here's an example* spoiler *Take for instance where Drew Barrymore beats up half a dozen bad guys with her hands tied (you probably saw it in the trailers).  After wiping the floor with them what does she do?  Some stupid kind of solo jig for the next 20 seconds as she exits the room, for absolutely no reason whatsoever.  Huh?  What the hell is that?  For a second there she was looking all strong and tough, then she breaks into this with a giddy smile on her face.  I know the movie isn't to be taken seriously but scenes like this are taking it to far.  There are other moments similar to this but thankfully not too many.* end spoiler *Aside from the above mentioned quibbles the film is entertaining mostly.  All the actors look to be having a good time in their roles.  And it was a joy to have John Forsythe return to do his ever brilliant voice of 'Charlie'.  All up I'd say give it a whirl if you've got time, just don't expect anything of Oscar calibre (aside perhaps from the special effects) and be prepared from some REALLY stupid moments.Final score 3.5 out 5 stars "},{"Title":"Can you say cheese?","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film must be the campiest, cheesiest, most ridiculous film I have seen yet....all of these slow motion shots with hair being tossed into the wind, the unzipped jumpsuits, the double entendres, the James Bond-esque puns.....gosh. And yet it was so much fun! We had strong female figures using their charms to fight crime and kick some proverbial rear end. Lucy Liu was hilarious in her presentation before the computer company, and it was  priceless to see (spoiler) Drew Barrymore and Cameron Diaz in drag. What this film could have used was a bit less cleavage and a bit more substance, but that would have ruined the campy fun part...In any case, it was a fluffy little picture and is guaranteed to make you laugh.  "},{"Title":"Mindless, yes -- entertaining, no","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Having read an astounding number of users praising this movie, I am compelled to share my opposing view.I went to see this movie last night, and it had me annoyed for hours afterwards. It was a complete waste of time. The only redeeming quality of this movie is the abundant imagination, or rather persistence, used to tie together countless scenes of nudity, in the fruitless attempts to create a plot.The action consists of car crashes, explosions, gun fights, martial arts. This should be used to spice a movie up, not be the main ingredient, as is the case here. The Matrix, Die Hard etc are great, but this is pointless.The movie is not funny. The occasional jokes are outright awful.  No intelligent woman, nor a man who has intimately known one, can find this material endurable. Charlie's angels doesn't take itself seriously, that is apparent. Neither does it take people's time and attention seriously. It will give you nothing in return except half-naked girls, of which $8.75 gets you a lot more from other videos, or resources. "},{"Title":"A fun roller-coaster ride!","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw Charlies Angels recently and I was impressed. Sure, the plot sucks, but the action and comedy made it well worth the trip. Cameron Diaz and Drew Barrymore turn in great performances and the hilarious Tom Green has a small cameo as a seaboat captian. The soundtrack is cool, the acting is good, and it is one of the treats of the fall season. Lucy Liu and Bill Murray are also good, but this movie basically belongs to Cameron Diaz. She is great as the strong but stupid girl who falls in love with Luke Wilson. You should go out and see Charlie's Angels right now. If not for the dumb plot, go for the action sequences, which are worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Huh?????","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really cannot see anyone giving this movie a good reveiw.  Sure I am a fan of excess cleavage like the next guy, but .. huh???I am still trying to figure out the direction of this movie, was it action, was it suppose to be a spoof? a comedy?  If they were trying to pull all of the above off at once, than they did a very sorry job.  My expectations for movies are low, and I am entertained by just about anything, I loved all the naked gun movies, and watched the Army Of Darkness 53 times (yes 53).  But there is two movies in a long history of movie watching I walked out of the theatre from, One was the batman and robin movie (George Clooney as batman) and the second was this garbage, Charlies Angels.I wasn't a fan of the original series, but I feel for those who were, I cannot say enough to express my sorrow of the monstrosity they call a movie. "},{"Title":"Unadulterated piffle","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some friends, rather surprisingly, recommended this to me. Otherwise I wouldn't have bothered. I now wish I hadn't. A storyline thin to the point of vanishing and utterly wooden perfomances from all but Curry, Diaz and Murray, the last two of whom were utterly wasted. If this was meant to be the girlie equivalent of Mission Impossible, it missed by several miles. Some girls may get a kick out of seeing girls kick chaps in the groin and some chaps may get a kick out of watching the three eponymous heroines gad about in sexy clothes. If you don't fall into either category, save your time and money and give this one a miss.  "},{"Title":"Watchable Mishmash","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels begins with a really great tracking shot.  You move down the aisle, and each passenger is somehow distinct; a woman who's cold, a couple making out.  This is followed by a cute in-joke and a James Bondian piece of action.  Having given us a really impressive five minutes the movie, exhausted, wanders around aimlessly until the end credits.The main problem with Charlie's Angels is it doesn't quite know what it is.  It wants women to be strong and powerful but it also wants to be shamelessly exploitive.  The director should have watched some episodes of Cleopatra 2525, a show with tough-as-nails, scantilly dressed women that is campy enough to keep from being offensive.  Angels does not camp it up, having Cameron dance in her underwear with no self-consciousness.The action scenes are pretty good, but the director is way too in love with the action-in-slow-motion idea.  Matrix did this a little to good effect, Angels pounds you over the head with it.The best thing about the movie is Crispin Glover, a mute villain who says more in one insane look than the rest of the movie conveys with a dozen bikinis. "},{"Title":"Lots of Fun","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not serious...very cartoonish.  But most of all, a lot of fun.  The action scenes stretch the bounds of reality, but unlike Mission Impossible 2, they are supposed to.  If you want a good laugh and watch a good entertaining movie, go see Charlie's Angels. "},{"Title":"Fluffy Fun","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a fun action movie with  plenty of eye candy stunts. It's exactly what I expected.  Not an extremely dazzling plot, but heck, it's based off of a tv show, so it doesn't feel too out of place.  This movie was able to get away with some corny things because it IS Charlie's Angels.  If this movie wasn't attached to a 70's TV show, I might have been a little more critical.I like Bill Murray. He's a funny guy. I wish I saw him in more things.I give it a 7. "}{"Title":"A horrible, horrible film.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so bad that not even the outtakes at the end are funny. The only thing that doesn't make it a complete waste of ones hard earned cash is Cripin Glover's performance as one of the henchmen. He is truly amazing in the two and a half scenes he's in. "},{"Title":"Mindless jigglefest.","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why the talented Drew Barrymore would not only agree to star but to produce this mindless c**p is beyond me. It's a cheap, cheesy exploitation flick that reduces her and her fellow talented actress Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu to there most prominant body parts. There's no story, no characters just an hour and half of Drew and the girls looking good. And they do look good, but it sounds like no one looked at the script, even if there was one. How people can come up with dialogue this bad. And why is Bill Murray in this film? He's such a talented actor who deserved Oscar recognition for GROUNDHOG DAY and RUSHMORE, and we can only hope for the new HAMLET. This film is not campy fun, it's just plain bad. "},{"Title":"Laughing fun!","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was afraid this movie would take itself seriously, and I think for everyone who hates this movie, they think it did. My take is that it did not take itself seriously.  It laughed hard at the whole concept and yet kept going as though it were real life.  I laughed out loud several times, and so did my friends.  Of course, watching Cameron, Drew, and Lucy onscreen made me want to make sure I had my make up and hair all in place, but other than that slight sense of insecurity derived from viewing the movie, I loved it! "},{"Title":"Laughing fun!","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was afraid this movie would take itself seriously, and I think for everyone who hates this movie, they think it did. My take is that it did not take itself seriously.  It laughed hard at the whole concept and yet kept going as though it were real life.  I laughed out loud several times, and so did my friends.  Of course, watching Cameron, Drew, and Lucy onscreen made me want to make sure I had my make up and hair all in place, but other than that slight sense of insecurity derived from viewing the movie, I loved it! "},{"Title":"Fla(e)shy but shy of a home run...","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie starts off with a campy title sequence that spoofs the original TV series title sequence- at that point, one knows not to take this movie seriously. Overall, it is fun to watch the 3 angels prance around the screen doing Matrixy stunts with a 90's political correctness thrown in as a good measure. Apart from the girls, who all sizzle on screen, watch out also for Bill Murray's portrayal of Bosley. "},{"Title":"Impossible. Improbable. Inane.  FUN!!!!","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Looks like somebody finally made a good movie based on a TV show.  (I didn't see The Mod Squad and don't want to!)  This movie is a rollercoaster ride from start to finish.  Full of energy and great music, the only thing better than the Matrix-like fight scenes is Cameron Diaz's smile!  Bill Murray is also a hoot as Bosley.  Even Crispin Glover's villain is unique. "},{"Title":"Fun Fun Fun","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie doesn't have anything making you think seriously, but a pure FUN. Cheesy? yes.  Predictable? Of course.  But worth the money? Definitely!! I especially liked a character of Cameron Diaz here, she was sooo cute!! ;) If you like a good action movie with humor but without blood and gore, just go see it!  I think I will watch it once again on screen. "},{"Title":"This Movie Makes me Sad","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hollywood keeps trying to import the Hong Kong feel into their movies. While I guess some would take it as a nice tribute to HK cinema, it makes me sick to my stomach that they just can't seem to do it right.There's no other way to put it, this is just a bad movie. I guess it's supposed to be entertaining for the prepubescent crowd and campy for the older folks...oh yeah and empowering for the women.Let's see...horrible script, terrible acting, painfully clichéd plot, all of these are pretty standard for an action movie. However, the problem is that the action in this movie is pathetic. If you enjoyed the action in The Matrix, maybe you'll appreciate the fine athletic ability shown here.Here's the basic problem, no amount of fancy effects and digital editing can disguise the fact that these women do not know martial arts. Heck...Drew Barrymore can't even fake Michael Jackson's moonwalk something that I thought every four year old child could accomplish. In the old days, at least the stunt doubles knew what they were doing. The solution today seems to be 2 second takes, sudden freeze frames and slow motion, and tight camera angles. It looks awkward and artificial, it prevents you from knowing exactly what's happening, in disrupts the flow of the scene, and it distances you from the movie.Hollywood should understand that martial arts is not solely guys screaming and making random cool poses every once in a while. It's almost insulting to watch the action scenes in this movie. It's similar to making random strange sounds in an attempt to imitate the Chinese language. Cameron Diaz and seems to be the only person to give any effort at all in both acting and action, but then again she's given the most to work with.It's a sad reflection on popular American culture that The Legend of Drunken Master, a movie just as campy as Charlie's angels, one of the greatest action movie ever filmed, goes by unwatched and unnoticed while this piece of music video trash is put on a pedestal. I will say this, Drew Barrymore seems to have Americans figured out, or perhaps she just shares their general stupidity and lack of taste. The sad thing is that there were plenty of ways to do this movie right, but I guess for marketing purposes the popular way is the right way.America..land of the corporate whore and the world's leading supplier of mindless media products. God bless us every one. "},{"Title":"Pityful,awful peice of malarkey to a famous cult series","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"     You have to give Drew Barrymore credit for trying to pull this movie off,but I was bitterly disappointed.I should have been aware of what I was in for by the TV previews but I was looking for something closer to the original series.That show was a bigger success once they ditched Farrah and left her by the roadside,but then it tried to struggle along without Kate. This movie, though, was too full on the girl power issue; I'm sorry,but I can't be the only one who doesn't think Lucy Liu the McBeal tagalong and Cameron Diaz are anything but sexy. Drew is a wonderful peice of whimsical talent,but she's out of her element trying to pull this farce together. Bill Murray's incredible comedic talent barely pulled this movie together for me,but my face was stuck in a Calvin-and-Hobbes grimace wondering how these three so-called female detectives got involved in this James Bond-scale premise.If I could have picked Drew's gun-toting buddies,I would have perferred anyone from Gabrielle Carteris,Alyssa Milano,Sara Michelle Gellar or even that Out of this World babe Maureen Flannigan.I would even have appreciated a peice of acknowledgement to Charlie's former employees Kris,Kelly or Sabrina.I'm sorry, but this peice of fluff is just an insult to my tastes. "},{"Title":"Fun, and Cleavage","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was pleasant surprised by this movie.  It's actually good, which I didn't expect at all.  The three angels were a delight to look at, and Bill Murray was fantastic as Bosley.  The action was simply amazing with all that wire-work slow-mo freeze-frame Matrix style camera work and the plot actually works though it was a bit predictable.  However, I do find the all the almost nudity a bit excessive.  They were a bit over-the-top.  Still, I am not complaining. "}{"Title":"Interesting fun plot, exciting action - definite 'see it!' if you were a fan of the TV series","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw Charlie's Angels on November 4, 2000, the second day it was in the theatres - but then I was a big fan of the television series. I had low expectations vis-a-vis the series, and was pleasantly surprised.  As a fan of the series, I found the spoof aspect of the film less appealing than others might, but the fun and interesting plot and exciting action made this a film well worth seeing for me.  I much preferred the TV Angels (especially Jaclyn Smith, Cheryl Ladd, Kate Jackson, and Farrah Fawcett), and David Doyle as Bosley, but the actors here did a reasonable job.  If you weren't a fan of the TV series, this film wouldn't be a must see, but still would be worth seeing if you like fun action movies.  The movie theatre was packed when I saw it - and it was around 11p at night! "},{"Title":"Just saw it...few things...Spoilers too!!","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What's good the three leads are quite good and seem to be having fun, really trying hard to keep to the retro-campy feelgood  intention of the script.The Action is great ala Matrix run through a Wile Coyote cartoon. Kinda Roger Moore ere Bond too if you wanna know the truth. It's alright, some of it really over the top but hey, it's not King Lear we are talking about here.Two Words-Lucy Liu. Sweet.SPOILERS BELOW!!What's Not so good-Bill Murray doesn't seem to like what he's doing and has a stupidly written role. Why him? This is the kinda part that Dan Ackroyd, say, if you wanna use a former SNL pal, could do. Not Bill. I like him alot, but not here.You do have some Kookoo moments-for example, when their office explodes and the three angels go sailing butt first into a handy windsheild, nothing much happens to them other than a couple bruises and a broken nail or two. That is it. No cops, fire depts, ambulance, or scared outta their wits locals hanging around anywheres. I know this much, whenever a bomb goes off like that even in places like Beirut where it's frequent at times-c'mon. This kinda happens in a vaccuum.  And the fact that the three angels are sitting there, unscathed, in the wreckage casually yakking away about various plot points does make ya shake yer head some.I liked the tributes/nods to the old show, from the opening 'training Montages' of the gals when they were younger to all the great '70s tunes-Marvin Gaye, Tavares, etc.  But while Yeah the old series plotlines were goofy, Farrah and Jacalyn and co utilizing little tiny pieces of evidence and drawing these huge conclusions, sometimes with the Gilligan's Isle type logic/science-they went overboard here it seems.They hear a bird go 'Cheep cheep' over the phone(Don't ask), and Voila! they know Exactly where Person X is being held hostage. GUYS! The audience I just saw this with-mostly kids-really got into the flick 'til things like THAT were paraded across the screen. The bird bit was a THUD. You DO have to be able to believe a flick on it's own terms, and there...ya can't.Now overall, however, the caper parts, the fighting, the stunts, etc make for a fun cartoony time at the movies-just remember to set yer mind on Stun and you will probably enjoy it. Drew and Liu are certainly worth the price of admission.**1/2 outta ****, alright but not great. "},{"Title":"Pseudo-comic","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie is not to be taken seriously. It could be considered a parody/comedy or a stupid mindless flic. In the first case, the fight scenes and allusions to other well known movies (Matrix, MI2, ...) are interesting. In the second case, the plot was boring. The three main characters are always doing something either illogical or surnatural in every scene (At least in Matrix, the movie is meant to be a sci-fi). It is easy to use a famous title but only be able to make a pseudo-comic of the original.  "},{"Title":"Campy, but worth the money.","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Plenty of eye-candy for the guys, enough dumb-guy humor for the chicks...not Oscar material by any means, but the film doesn't leave you wishing you'd skipped the theater and went to Blockbuster instead.Over-the-top effects, plenty of laughs, and a plotline that serves its purpose all come together for a nice bit of fluff. Pure entertainment. Why go to the movies on a weekend for redeeming value anyway? This is great for those that want to get away and have a little fun. "},{"Title":"Cool movie. Non-stop action!","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Man! I went to this movie with some low expectations, but I was presently suprised. This movie was actually good. All I expected to see was three hot girls in skimpy clothing. Well, I got taht and a whole lot more. The action scenes in theis movie are really great! They are just like the ones in the Matrix. Tthis was one movie that left me watching from the beggining to the end without ckecking my watch or moving around in my seat. This is one movie that I wouldn't mind seeing again. I can't wait for the DVD! 9/10 "},{"Title":"A genuine guilty pleasure","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie makes BARB WIRE look like MY DINNER WITH ANDRE.Cameron Diaz continues to astonish with the appeal she's shown in SOMETHING ABOUT MARY. It's been a long time since anyone could fake it more convincingly. Or FAKE faking it. Or... well, never mind.This isn't a GOOD movie, but it's probably about what John Woo wishes that snoozer MI2 had turned out like.  "},{"Title":"Enjoy this well done cheesy movie about a cheesy TV show","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a cute movie. Drew Barrymore has certainly become quite the little movie producer- and at the ripe old age of 25 no less. Her company Flower Productions has a few clever tales under their belt, The Wedding Singer, Ever After, and Never Been Kissed, so I expected Angels to be pretty good. Don't go expecting a Citizen Kane. It is what it is - a pubesant fall film for teens of all ages.Over the top action with surreal James Bond like goings on.I enjoyed it. The three angels, Dylan (Drew Barrymore), Natalie (Cameron Diaz) and Alex (Lucy Liu) did a great job of being trendy beautiful and properly butch. All the Matrix special effects helped add to the super agent feel carried throughout.Charlie's Angels story goes...Knox Enterprises CEO guy ( Sam Rockwell) is kidnapped. The partner (Kelly Lynch) comes to the angels for help. The girls spring-kick box-disguise themselves to action and discover many twists and turns enroute to the truth. Never trust anyone I always say.Yes, the story's about as indepth as this little blurbette-but it's the charisma of the cast and the fun action scenes filled with strong women characters for a change, that makes CA's workBill Murray was okay. He just seems to do the same thing all the time. Murray plays Bosley...You may remember from Farah's Angels as the middleman 'tween the chicks and Charlie the illusive pumpernickel guy who owns the agency the angels worked for. .The boys are gonna love this. These three girls are each gorgeous in their own way, and enjoy showing the differences between the boy and girl species. CA's makes you want to through out the Cheese of the Month Club selection, buy that home gym, call the cardio-trainer and shed a few pounds of baby fat-almost. Though, Cameron Diaz looks a lot like Jack Skellington if you ask me.Note Crispin Glover shows up as a -what else-very bizarre creepazoid squared. His performance alone is worth the bucks to see this one.Enjoy this well done cheesy movie about a cheesy TV show.Snack recommendation Shake and Bake Chicken.Starring Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu, Cameron Diaz, and Bill "},{"Title":"Watchable, but it could have been better","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember watching the hit TV series Charlie's Angels when I was a kid. It was a pretty good show in the beginning until all the cast changes turned the show into a dud. Now we have the movie version of Charlie's Angels. And the result it's an average picture with good and bad qualities. The good stuff the three actresses who play the title characters. Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, and Lucy Liu are three of the most joyful actresses around, and their presence in Charlie's Angels is about as good as it can get. They flat out make this film watchable. There are also amusing bit parts in the film featuring LL Cool J, Matt LeBlanc, and Barrymore's real-life ex-beau and current beau, Luke Wilson and Tom Green. But there were some things that disappointed me about Charlie's Angels. First off, the villains in this picture were dull. Second of all, some (not all) of the action scenes were kind of distracting and looked sloppily done. And last, Bill Murray. Here is one of our funniest actors having appeared in such hilarious films as Ghostbusters, Stripes, Caddyshack, Scrooged, and What About Bob?. But he comes off disappointing here in this movie. He's not real bad in Charlie's Angels. He does have a few good moments from time-to-time. But he comes off just like the movie itself O.K. but should have been better. And that just about sums up my review of Charlie's Angels. All-in-all, it's not all good, but it's not all bad either.**1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"It ain't great art, but...","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw the film Charlie's Angels the other day and I think it is grand.  The plot is stupid, granted, but I *promise* you, you will not care.  It is derivative, but in a good way.  It fuses elements of The Matrix with Mission Impossible 2 and Austin Powers with, let us not forget, the 1970s TV show of the same title, and (now that I think of it) some riffs from The 70s Show that is on TV now.  It has just the right mix of everything action, camp, slutty women, slapstick, schtick, over the top action, Tim Curry in just the right dose, car crashes, boats, helicopters, speakerphone voiceovers, bimbo foo, stuff blows up. * Jeez, what a fun movie.BigLee sez check it out.* It is very difficult to post this message because I keep thinking of stuff to go on the list... Soul Train, Drew Barrymore, something really good for foot fetishists, ... MUST... STOP... MYSELF... (GASP!!) ... MUST ... POST ... MESSAGE ... (GROAN) "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Farce","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  All the critics panned this show. Waste of time Poorly Written etc. Where is their sense of humor. It was great. I did not expect much but was pleasantly surprised. This is a fun movie......period. Loved the ending with the take outs.....More please. "}{"Title":"This movie Rocks","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  FUN FUN FUN!!!!That's the only way you can describe this bubbly, action-packed, comical film.  Cameron, Drew, and Lucy rock as the smart, sexy, bombshells who fight crime for their invisible boss Charlie.I had high expectations for this movie and they were all met.  It's a fun movie, not made out to take itself too seriously.  The Matrix like FX were easy on the eyes and the somewhat stale and corny story line only made the film funnier....It really didn't take itself that serious.You can't leave this film expecting a tour de force like American Beauty or Being John Malkovich.  IT'S JUST A FUN FILM GUYS.....Lighten up.After I finished viewing the film, I felt like doing some Taebo...those girls really kicked ass.Can't wait for the Sequel!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Guilty of grand larceny . . .","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is a movie without an original thought in any way shape or form.  Much is being made of the women's martial arts moves and that fight in the alley.  Check out the far superior Heroic Trio, and wonder why plagiarism can't apply to film.  And for the record, those types of moves didn't start with The Matrix.  They've been doing it in Hong Kong for years.  And better. "},{"Title":"High tech angels...","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm afraid the recipe for this film is rather simple my fellow movie-goers. Just take one part Austin Powers, and a shovel full of a bad martial arts movie, and voila! you have Charlie's Angels - the movie. Imagine this if you can, this flock of Angels make even the television series seem believable. These halo sporting honeys have more gadgets and lives than every James Bond movie combined. One saving grace however is Bill Murray's adaptation of Bosley. Murray gave his character a fresh identity, and was the only heavenly piece of this otherwise awful movie. How many wings do these Angels get on our scale of 1-10 ? Charlie gets 3. "},{"Title":"Interesting mix of action, humor and cheese","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liked Charlie's Angels more than I expected I would. The trailers and commercials painted a confusing picture of a movie that was based on a cheese-and-jiggle TV show yet looked like Mission Impossible The Movie with three women as Tom Cruise. Surely, I thought, this movie can't be both and it will suffer as a result.I was wrong. CA *is* both cheesy (but with a wink and a nod) and action-packed. Somehow it manages to be entertaining at the same time. Oh, the plot is silly and obvious and there are no surprises. But the three actresses win the viewer over with sheer exuberance and effort.There are many clever touches in the film, which range from the way-over-played smoking bad guy (and his over-the-top menacing looks) to the goofy way the film replays earlier scenes to make sure the viewers got it when a key plot point is revealed. It's not like you need the replay, but it is humorous to see it pop up kind of like slo-mo replay in football games. Bill Murray is terrific as Bosley. He adds even more goofiness. And there are weird, unexplained touches such as a bad guy who looks like Dana Carvey in a 70s wig who apparently likes to dance when he is happily anticipating mayhem.The one thing that irked me, and it didn't irk me as much as it might have in a less cheesy movie, is the stupid Matrix-style fighting effects. In The Matrix, it was believable that the characters would leap nine feet in the air, kick two or three times, then flip over and perform another attack like some kind of steroid-enhanced kangaroo. That was because the Matrix world was a simulation and the characters could manipulate it with their minds. In CA, however, it is the real world. It is ridiculous to have people doing the things these girls (and some of the bad guys) do, when you know it is impossible. All those effects do is cause you to remember it's just a movie and you are watching special effects.Overall, I had a much better time than I thought I would at CA. Too bad the original angels were too snotty to appear in cameos. That would have been the cherry on top off this light-weight but funny sundae. We rated it a 7. "},{"Title":"All hail Crispin Glover","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are just some films that you know are going to be huge.  It's inevitable.  Audiences have a varacious appetite for certain films but figuring out what types of films those are is half the game.  With an ever vacilating market and fickle fans staying away from the theater with the exception of a few monster films thus far ( including Meet The Parents, Remember the Titans, Gladiator and Mission Impossible II ) Charlie's Angels looked all the more appealing.  With every commercial and trailer for the film, I kept saying to myself and everyone else that would listen this film is going to make 30 million in it's first weekend.  And you know what, it demolished that prediction.  It made 40.  Perhaps we have been waiting for a silly yet fun film like this to grace our screens ever since the summer faded into fall and what reveries we had of the summer were nothing more than a handful of good films and tail wind of mediocrity.  Last year was one of the best summers in recent summers.  With  financial successes and well made films like Sixth Sense, Blair Witch, American Pie, Dogma, Notting Hill and so on, this year all but crumbled under the added pressure of last year.  There were few good films to cheer for.  Now, here we are heading into the Oscar season and we have two huge films that audiences are seemingly in love with that have no chance of winning Oscars.  And Charlie's Angels is one of them.Was this a good film?  I personally don't think so.  But it certainly wasn't an awful one.  When I pay to see a film, there are two things that I hope for when I sit my butt down in the theater.  One is to be entertained and two is to not be insulted.  Charlie's Angels got half of both of those right.  I was mildly entertained and I was somewhat insulted in some of the film.  The insulted part is really just a matter of taste so perhaps we can look past that, but only perhaps.  As for the entertaining aspect, allow me to retort.To be honest, the only part about the first half that was good, was Tom Green and Crispin Glover.  Green's Was it the Chad bit was hysterical.  Chad was really just his character from Road Trip, on a boat.  It's fun to see bit parts like this stand out.  Crispin Glover was also brilliant.  And it is funny to say that about him because for one, he didn't say a word and two, most people that I know think of him only as George Hey you, get your damn hands off her McFly from Back to the Future.  That is a long time to be stuck in a stereotype.  But I think after this movie is secured in the annals of film, his smoking, karateing, hair sniffing, silent, smoking, square jawed, Thin Man character will be up there as one of his best characters.  He was sinister and even though he was a parody of so many film and television villains, he stood out on his own.  I turned to my friend at one point in the film and said to him, Who would have thought McFly was so agile?Charlie's Angels is fun in many ways but then it is also bad in so many other ways.  I wasn't sure what it was trying to do.  Was it trying to parody some films or just plain rip them off because it couldn't think of anything intelligent to say when the script called for some intelligence?  And this is where the the frustration sets in.  One bad scene in particular is the Drew Barrymore scene where she is tied to a chair and five or so thugs are about to manhandle her.  She then tells them to stop and they do, and then she tells them exactly hoe she is going to dispose of them, ala True Lies.  It was funny in True Lies, it is embarrassing in Charlie's Angels.  It doesn't ring true.  And that is what I didn't understand about the film.  Was that the aesthetic that it was going for?  Did it want to be a satire of spy films, did it want to have no mind of it's own?  I'm not sure but that is where it insults me.  Those are the areas that I did not enjoy.  There was plenty of Charlie's Angels stuff to use from the television show that they did not need to use any of the material from good films.  When you have no identity, your film lacks and in the first half of the film, I thought I was going to walk out.  It really was quite bad.  Cameron Diaz saved it for me because, well, she is, to be quite blunt, gorgeous.  Her ditzy turn as a sexual being without knowing she was, was quite titilating.  But physical attributes of a character do not make the film worth while.  Even the silly antics of Bill Murray as Bosley seemed to be wasted.  And when Bill Murray just blends into the film without standing out, you have problems.The second half of the film was better.  It wasn't great but it was certainly better than the first half.  The Thin Man is featured more and there are some great battles between the Angels and the bad guys.  That does not mean the film is redeemable enough to be a good film, it just means that it gets better as the film goes on.  There is one other thing that bothers me about Charlies Angels and some other films today and that is the fighting sequences.  Here is a tip to future choreographers of fights.  There is a reason that Reeves and Fishburne and company could fight the way they did in the Matrix.  They were inside a frickin COMPUTER program!!!!  That is why they could walk on walls and kick seven times in mid air before they hit someone.  With recent films like Romeo Must Die and now this one, they make their heroes and heroines fight like they are Gods.  It may look neat to have Barrymore and Diaz and company do the splits in the air and then kick two guys before flipping backwards and then landing on their feet, but it doesn't make any sense!!Charlie's Angels is fun....sometimes.  Other times it is quite tedious and silly and well, you get the picture.  It doesn't really matter though.  People are going to love this film and it will make a ton of money and hey, that is fine.  I'm critisizing this film and I will swear on all that is holy that the Friday the 13th films are some of the best horror films in the world (only up until the 4th one, come on, give me a bit of credit).  Go figure.  To each his or her own, I guess.  So if you see this film, enjoy it for what it is, not for what it seems like it could be and what it may be in the makers heads.  Whatever!  It is entertaining and it serves it's purpose.  That may be just enough.  Plus, the Thin Man is fun to cheer for and against.  6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought that Charlie's Angels was an incredible movie.  I loved the fact that it was women going out and saving the world. There aren't very many girl movies like this.  I really like the comedy in here.  Bosley (Bill Murray) did an excellent job.  I have seen the original show and I liked this one much better.  Tom Green and Matt LeBlanc did a good job even though they were just as cameos.  Lucy Liu (Alex), Cameron Diaz (Natalie), and Drew Barrymore (Dylan), all did a great job.  I really enjoyed the locations of this film. The costumes were very interesting as well. Way to go McG.  I will look forward to see his future films.   "},{"Title":"A lot of fun, good action scenes and three hot chicks","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels * * * ½ StarsWhile no one would accuse this of being the most intelligent or meaningful film of the year, it's just filled with energy from beginning to end making it one of the most funIt's funny and the action scenes are great but if you're a guy there's three reasons to love this film from beginning to end Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, and Lucy Liu. The girls in this film are HOT! Even better the director knows it and uses the plot an excuse to dress them in a number fantasy type outfits (such a Swedish band, race car drivers, etc.) and gives the plenty of reasons to run, be wet, do gymnastics, wear skin tight leather, and in one particularly amazing scene let Cameron Diaz dance in nothing but a baby t and her underwear!However ignoring the sumptuous T&A factor there is still a lot to like about this film. For one the action scenes are fast paced and a lot of fun. A cross between Mortal Kombat and The Matrix, it seems the girls and their foes have superpowers, which is sort of inexplicable, but the fights are so well choreographed that I just decided to go along with it and enjoy. Hands down the best action scenes of the year are in this film. There is also perhaps the most exhilarating twist on the old action standby of the car chase in 20 years in this film. In a lot of ways it plays like a really good James Bond film, only gender reversed.The movie also knows it's remaking a campy 70's TV show so it has fun with itself and consequently it's legitimately funny on a lot of levels. Which is good, since if it tried take itself seriously it would obviously fall flat. Instead the humor, action scenes and the girls combined are so stimulating that the film can be forgiven having a paper-thin plot.But perhaps the film's best asset is the cast. The girls aren't just good looking they are developed enough as characters to sparkle. Diaz as the ditsy blonde is really the breakout star of the film, giving perhaps the best performance of her Hollywood career here. Barrymore brings her trademark feistiness to the role and Liu is just dynamic to watch as she has the bulk of the action scenes. Bill Murray stars as the girls' boss Bosley and while the script doesn't ask much of him than his usual shtick that's still enough to be entertaining especially when he gets to interact with Tim Curry. Crispen Glover is just pure evil in this film and yet contains an aura of total bad-ass cool. But perhaps the second best performance in the entire film is a small supporting part for Tom Green who has the film's funniest and most uplifting scene. LL Cool J has also has an excellent cameo appearance.I'd also be remiss not to comment on this film's soundtrack which uses the original TV theme and good mix of 70's disco and early 80's pop music to correspond with the action and like so many other elements of this film just enhance the total sense of fun one gets in watching it. Diaz again has two break out scenes involving the music, one on a disco dance floor early in the film and one on a first date that is just terrific comedic set piece.Ultimately if you don't mind a film that's a little low on intelligence then this is definitely a film you want to check out. It just pure entertainment from beginning to end. And if you're a guy it's also the sexiest film since last year's Entrapment with Catherine Zeta Jones. "},{"Title":"a mish-mash of fun and games, but not much new","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this 2 times in as many days, and as a disreputable type I have to say that this movie was a lot of fun to watch, and looked like it was an absolute party to make.  But to confirm disreputability I have to say that the only original ideas that went into this movie were into the fight choreography, and the endlessly crazy events that prod the angels into action. Warning...........Spoiler Alert!!!!!!!!!The movie itself plays like a hong kong farce, a board meeting governed by a dominatrix, a phone call during a rescue, a screaming villain(very womanly those screams), and about six or seven openly stolen sequences from various movies from the last ten years(Mission impossible, MI2, shanghai noon, Godzilla, The Matrix, Once a ThiefHK original, and last, but not least, a shot at Broken Arrow, too many more to mention, but those are the most obvious).All in all, it played like movies that I had already seen before, but the signs of the so called McG being good at shot composition, the 3 long tracking shots, and the Overpolished look of the movie hints at a skill untapped by this entertaining film showing that maybe he isn't as overly populist a director as this movie tries to make him.Go see the movie, you'll like it, but don't expect shakespeare, expect better than average, and you'll do fine. "},{"Title":"Camp","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you ever laughed at a pun, or laughed because the pun was so bad, you might like Charlie's Angels. Some of the dialogue made me wince, and there was so much wire work that it could have been a stage production of Peter Pan, but I laughed. I just don't know if that is what the film makers intended. "},{"Title":"Too many stereotypes.","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I knew I was in trouble when Charlie's Angels began and within the first two minutes of the movie, the first character we see is an effeminate gay flight attendant.  He is clearly made to be a misogynist with the way he is talking about a woman passenger.  He says, It's not the seats that got smaller, lady.  It's your ass that got bigger.  Later, he is looking at an African-American passenger with disgust, telling him that he doesn't belong in first-class.  Apparently this gay man is a racist too. The African-American man points his finger in the gay man's face and says that he wants his drink straight, which is an obvious nod to his sexual orientation.  The nasty gay stereotype is the only gay character in the entire movie.  That is unacceptable for two reasons  First, the Charlie's Angels movie and show has a huge gay following, so it is an insult to them to only show a stereotype.  Secondly, I remember seeing many episodes of the original Charlie's Angels on TV that had openly gay characters (usually cameos, but still).  Equally as bad are the other stereotypes, like the scene in the massage parlor that shows an Asian woman walking on the back of a white man.  The portrayal of African Americans is bad too.  In this film, they are either assassins or dancing on Soul Train.  As for Asian men, the only one you'll see in this movie is an engineer at a computer company.  I'm not saying everything should be politically correct, but at the same time, don't insult my intelligence.  Not all gay men are effeminate flight attendants, not all Asian women work in massage parlors to give pleasure to white men and not all African-Americans spend their days either dancing or shooting people.This was a revolutionary film that shows strong women doing stunts like never before.  Women in action films will never be portrayed as weaklings again (I hope).  So why is it that all other minorities are being pushed back into their stereotypes in this film? "}{"Title":"Wise and smart ideas also spoil the silliness.","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Three women with different lives have a secret hobby working under one man, Charlie. These 'angels' of Charlie 's fight crimes, save lives and do good where ever they are instructed to go. Therefore it would seem like a cake walk to rescue and recover a technological wizard and his information. But all is not what it seems.Frequent pauses in the movie direction to explain the Angels' history or to explain what really happened or how good of a kick Cameron just did takes the viewer away from getting into the movie completely (kind of makes you wonder if a sports commentary will start up while these slow motion effects are going on). Although the new direction gives you the feel of a music video, it gives the viewer enough silly fun to take away the fact that the movie is really corny.Aside from the direction, the editing also looked a little too simple. A cut and paste job for a movie that's supposed to appeal to the masses. But overall the movie was fun. Very hard to take seriously and if you did, well than this movie sucked in your eyes. If the movie did have any on set problems, the production succeeded in putting all the non believers to shame. And in many ways, CHARLIE 'S ANGELS succeeded where COYOTE UGLY failed fully exploiting what the Angels were and showing all their fun and silly assets, not type casting them to a serious emotional day time soap (both movies advertised babes but CHARLIE delivered). Another minus is that the ladies in the theater really did not have any men to look at on screen. A fun movie to watch and enjoy, CHARLIE 'S ANGELS has the comedy and action for many to enjoy. Just do not expect anything special or spectacular. "},{"Title":"Another rip-off of an old T.V. show?","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No Way!!  While the title and the general plot outline of the movie is similar to the original T.V. show, there are many remarkable differences.  The Angels (Drew Barrymore, Lucy Lui and Cameron Diaz) are still working for the ever elusive Charlie, but with a very different twist.  While the original angels, fought crimes and foiled plots with gun, the new angels use wit and physical fitness to defeat the bad guys.  This new breed of Angels are smart, confident, witty and strong minded.  The action was outstanding and with Matrix-like effects, it is enjoyable not only for guy, but girls as well.   The supporting cast was remarkable, and played well against the new Angels.  Crispin Glover (better known as George McFly, from the Back To The Future trilogy), played one heck of a bad guy.  He gave a wonderful performance that was worthy of his previous experiences.  I hope that everyone will enjoy this movie as much as I did...and what is really remarkable is that I am actually looking forward to a sequel!!!  I won't spoil the movie by giving the plot away, but I think that everyone will enjoy it.  I give it a 8.5 out of 10, and that is one of my best ratings!!!  8.5 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie, surprisingly enough, is WAY more enjoyable than this year's earlier action film, MissionImpossible 2. Although Charlie's Angels is unoriginal - mainly copying from Mission Impossible and MI 2 - it doesn't make the same mistake the latter film did It's actually funny.CA is actually fun to watch and the stunts are pretty spectacular, not to mention that the characters are actually interesting, unlike the characters in MI 2. I hope this film does better. It deserves it. "},{"Title":"Not the original, but still a thrill","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film seemed more of a parody of the original Charlie's Angels (1976) series than a sequel.  I liked the real fight scenes and the strong-willed women, which did seem to be a good update to the play-fighting and girl-bait which was apparent in the original series.  Unfortunately near the end the plot was blown up with the rest of the picture.  Still, unless it's really, really bad, anything with Charlie's Angels in the name gets my vote. "},{"Title":"Very fun movie...","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Six friends and I went to see Charlie's Angels this weekend.  I have to say that all of us loved it.  In fact, everyone that left the theater seemed to really like it.  It was everything that a person can want in a movie.  It had laughs, action, beautiful women, and more.  Men and women will like this movie in equal amounts (you don't see that often in a movie).It is rare that we see a movie that shows women showing their sexuality so blatantly, and yet it also shows women in roles of total control and power.  This is harmless fun for all.   "},{"Title":"This is a fun movie worth seeing twice.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well all the bad press about conflict on the set and the script re-writes have payed off.  This is a very tongue-in-cheek action movie.  The cast played very well with each other, the soundtrack is excellent and musical snipettes in different scenes had me belly laughing.  This was the first movie in a long time that had me so engrossed that I forgot I was sitting with four friends. We got to the movies to be entertained and Charlie's Angels scores high the the entertainment scale. "},{"Title":"FUN! FUN! FUN!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Don't read too much into this movie, just go and ENJOY!  I would think it only adds enjoyment if you're familiar with the tv series, but it's not necessary.  I went with my husband and we both loved it.  The perfect escapism movie. "},{"Title":"Charlie, How your angels get down like that?","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  McG, thats how. I thought this film was a pure visual delight. Being obsessed with Mtv, I'm fairly familiar with some of Mcg's previous work. The fluidity of images captivated me so much I could not leave the theater (even though I needed to use the bathroom for the last half hour of the movie.)at all during the film. Charlie's Angels is so good you wont be able to cry for an hour after seeing it. This film was also Built by the actors it contained. Crispin glovers devilish portrayal of the thin man made me squirm uncomfortably in my seat. Tom Green as the Chad was very Tom Green. I love the scene where The man who knows too little Bill Murray fights The sweetest transvestite of them all Tim Curry donned in vinyl sumo wrestler suits. I tell you this because when you go to see this movie the first thing you say when you walk out of the theater will begin with I love the scene where...  "},{"Title":"It's just fun...","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  DISCLAIMER - This is not an analytical, intellectual review.  Y'know why? Because this is not an intellectual movie and it CERTAINLY should not be analyzed.I don't do this comment thing very often, but I felt the need to comment on Charlie's Angels.  I had the most FUN seeing this movie!  And I think I enjoyed it so much because all I expected was FUN.  I didn't expect anything realistic or Oscar-worthy.  If you go into this movie expecting realism, you'll HATE it.  It's just a blast to watch.  I laughed my butt off, and loved the fight scenes (again, NOT realistic). I just loved it.  And I wanna see it again.  'Cause it was FUN.  "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure for the 00's","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After Jerry Bruckheimer and his minions destroyed the dumb action movie in the 90's, it's nice to see a genuinely fun flick like this. Sure you could pick it apart for days. The race car scene serves no purpose (and makes no sense). The closing credits montage seems to have been edited by a monkey with ADD. But why bother. It's just a fun way to spend a couple of hours. I mean, I don't want to see a flick like this every week. But sometimes it's nice to see a brainless movie that doesn't automatically assume the AUDIENCE is brainless.I am surprised Drew didn't give herself a juicier role. Cameron gets most of the laughs, and Lucy is the coolest. Drew just gets to show off her cleavage and has one decent fight scene. I was hoping for a bit more, especially considering the hilarious bad girl bit in the opening montage.I also don't understand all the kudos Bill Murray has been getting...he gets the job done, but he's phoning this one in. But it sure is nice to see Crispen Glover working. He's perfect in the virtually non-speaking henchman role. This is the role that would normally be played by a giant like Richard Kiel in a Bond flick, but Glover's creepiness makes up for his tiny stature.Just go see it.  "}{"Title":"Hong-Kong action ala Iron Monkey","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Much of the Martial Arts sequences in the Film Version of 'Charlie's Angels' (done by Cheung-Yan Yuen here) may seem Matrix-esque to most American fans, but many of Drew Barrymore's lines reveal the true origins of the fight choreography; 'The Matrix's fight director, Woo-Ping Yuen, also directed such Hong Kong masterpieces as Siunin Wong Fei-hung tsi titmalau (1993), aka The IRON MONKEY, fighting moves of which are called by name or style (King-Kong fist and No-Shadow kick for example) by Drew while she fights a group of thugs, just as the Iron Monkey calls out while he dispenses justice.  "},{"Title":"A delicious piece of cheese","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a T&A action movie. The opening sequence blistered on to the screen with a convoluted Bond-like opening (I swear I heard tributes to Bond and Mission Impossible in the musical score). The action was intense all the way up to the first dialogue. I began to hope that the dialogue wouldn't spoil the movie. For the most part the dialogue added to this tasty bit of cheese.There were several scenes that were laugh getters, and the Cameron Diaz scene on Soul Train worked for me. There were a few low spots, but not enough to ruin it for me. First off, when you see this movie throw reality out the window. It is a comic book with comic book characters.As a piece of great cinema, this won't compare. But as a fun-filled, care-free piece of cheese that will get you out of yourself for a little while, this is definitely worthwhile.However, if you do not or can not enjoy cheese, this movie is not for you (RE). "},{"Title":"Heaven help us.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, I shouldn't  have gone.I never planned on going, but a local reviewer said it was fun and Variety didn't pan it, so... at the last minute my wife and I were in the theater (we won a T Shirt during the radio station's trivia contest). Let's see, the girls looked good, the cars looked better, and Bill Murray had one funny scene.  That's it for the good stuff. The story line was disjointed, poorly written and all around terrible.  (Put this comment in the Duh!, what'd you expect! category.) The special effects were poorly done rip offs of Bond, Matrix and MI-2  (including the oh-so overdone false face). The acting was worse than bad.  Farrah would win an Oscar compared to the stuff in this film.I actually went with nothing more than an Entertain Me attitude, I had enjoyed an excellent meal, was in a great state of mind and was one of only three people in a 600 seat theater to win a T-Shirt. None of it helped this film.  If  I hadn't been sitting in the middle of the row I would have left. The biggest problem, this movie will do well.  Heaven help us. "},{"Title":"Better than expected.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went into this film really wanting to hate it; to hate Diaz, Liu and especially Barrymore's performances, to hate McG's direction and to hate what I thought would be a stupid script. I was wrong-I loved.  I was the most fun I've had at a movie in a long time and totally fell in love with Carmeron Diaz's charecter. "},{"Title":"a thoroughly enjoyable guilty pleasure","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was a casual fan of the 70's T & A formula crime show Charlie's Angels. The opening credit sequence was always the best part for some reason. Flash forward to 2000, and we see an updated version of the basic premise.  And what an improvement!Many a studio has attempted to mine the baby boomer memories of hit TV shows. A few have worked-MI and MI2, Untouchables, Brady Bunch Movie, and Addams Family. Some have been utter disgraces such as The Avengers, Mod Squad, and Beverly Hillbillies. This time, they did it right.In Charlie's Angels, the right elements have combined to take a simple plot and pedestrian acting supplemented by outstanding pacing, music track, and delicious action sequences. Charlie's Angels benefits from the flash and visual talent of McG from music video fame, and somehow an entertaining film has emerged that should be one of the top grossing titles this season and possibly the year.But can lightning strike twice? A sequel is inevitable!The female leads are all excellent.  Their roles certainly show off their sexuality and form, but also highlights their comraderie, intelligence, and fighting skills.  I truly believe males and females will dig this film but maybe not for the same reasons! I am especially impressed by Cameron Diaz who is stunning and has a wildly impressive dream dance sequence.  You'd think she would be perfect for a Hollywood musical! Lucy Liu and Drew Barrymore are equally up to the task, and each are well showcased.  Bill Murray is, well, Bill Murray playing Bosley as only he can with humor and fun.  And it was indeed a smart move to retain John Forsythe's voice as the one and only Charlie.Even though the fight scenes are copycats of the Matrix and John Woo shoot-em-ups, it is well done.  Special nod goes to Crispin Glover as the heavy.While I don't ever think this will be on anyone's Oscar list or even ten best list, it succeeds at what it is supposed to be-a wildly entertaining ride. For what it is, the filmmakers have done a wonderful job.  For one who prides himself on quality films eg Dancer in the Dark and Nurse Betty, I am tempted to see this one again! Truly, a guilty pleasure! "},{"Title":"Please stop.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Please stop.  I said that over and over again as we had so many of those slow motion/matrix/mi2 scenes.  Could we possibly have a little dialogue that is clever?  I could not identify with the characters at all.Drew Barrymore is the sleazy, dirtbag angel. Cameron Diaz is the ditzy blonde. Lucy Liu is the technical chick. I liked Lucy in it though.  She almost had depth. But, it was all so torturous.  Campiness can not last that long.  It gets old.  And painful.  Even Bill let us down. "},{"Title":"Goofiest movie ever.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This just might be the goofiest movie ever made. But that's what's so great about it. The classic 70's TV show is lampooned mercilessly where one scene is more incomprehensibly illogical than the last. It's amazing some critics have complained that there is too much attention on the girl's bodies and that the story is too unbelievable. Duuuhhh! Didn't they see the original series? That's the joke! There is plenty of non-stop action as well. The fight scenes look like The Matrix on speed. I can't think of a movie that was more fun than this. There are plenty of surprises and Bill Murray was a nice bonus. Admittedly the three main stars have enough sex appeal and charisma to hold the attention of any heterosexual male and make even the lamest joke seem funny. I for one thought it was hilarious. Just check your brain at the door. "},{"Title":"Hahahahaha....Yeah!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay. I knew the critics would blow this movie off, and they have. Ignore them this movie is tonsafun.Take three of the most attractive female actresses around, give them the slenderest reed of a plot and a load of exciting special effects...add in the expertise of Hollywood's cinematographers, and you have one enjoyable way to spend two hours.Will this movie be up for even one Oscar? I'd be surprised. Even so, everything is so close to boiling in this movie that it will probably work for you, unless you are just a 100% Masterpiece Theatre junkie whose idea of an over-the-top comedienne is, say, Emma Thompson.Of course, Cameron Diaz shines here, although her performance here is no *There's Something About Mary*. Likewise, Drew Barrymore, who I've come to adore, despite that chin that belongs on the prow of an icebreaker, turns in one of her better performances here. But, to me, it's Lucy Liu, who I've always enjoyed on Ally McBeal, who shines here. This gal has an absolutely incredible hourglass figure, an one-of-a-kind Eurasian Goddess face, and a commanding presence on the screen. Yow! A big star in the making!Bill Murray is underused, and judging from his failure to promote the film, he agrees with me. He's one of our best funnymen and he's simply not on the screen enough.Back to Cameron for a minute. As someone said, as soon as you see Cameron smile, it's summer again. And, she's not just a talented actress as she proves here, she can dance, too! What a gal!Drew is a natural comedienne, and her timing is always perfect, even when she's providing gratuitous screen time for her current beau, the overrated (if that were possible), comedian Tom Green, who seems to be able to entertain those with fewer than normla brain cells with bits like (in this movie) I am the Chad.Now, back to Lucy Liu. Of the three, she is the one (surprise, surprise) who seems to really know some martial arts. Her use of chains had my draw jopping. With chains, as with numchucks (sp?), it is very easy to screw up and injure yourself if you have no idea what you're doing. Well, she knows.Much will be made, as it should, of this movie's John Woo/*The Matrix* legacy. Many of the special effects in this film are homages to that director and that movie. However, director McQ is no John Woo (yet, though he is promising), and this movie is no *The Matrix*. Even so, it's incredibly entertaining.Obviously, I liked this film. Like many a movie, this one manages to be very entertaining while being far from perfect. I think you'll enjoy yourself.  "},{"Title":"fluff, but fun","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels has never taken itself incredibly seriously, and it is not starting now.  And that's why I liked it.  Though similar to the original (Charlie is still the incomparable John Forsythe, and the three leading ladies still kick ass), this version of Charlie's Angels is a notch higher than the original in the action sphere.  The amazing special effects were enough to keep my rapt attention and were somewhat reminiscent of The Matrix.  I'll admit, the plot was not exactly original, but I don't think the makers of the film ever intended it to be the centerpiece.  I think that this movie was meant to showcase powerful women doing extraordinary and fascinating moves.  And fascinate they did (albeit half naked...I guess that was to bring in the male viewer.)  The actresses all played their parts perfectly, with the right combination of strength and whimsy.  The triumverate had great chemistry and played well with Bill Murray, who turned in another brilliant comic side-kick performance. (He's getting good at that.  See Wild Things for another similar performance.)  The villians were all a bit one demensional, but again I think that this effect was intentional in a movie that is more about eye candy and being a charicature of itself that it is about plot and character development.  While I expected it to be somewhat lacking in seriousness, I was pleased to see that the makers purposely set out to create this effect, creating a movie that has fun with itself.  For proof of this, just watch the scenes of what the Angels did pre-Charlie.  Also, look for a great comedic performance by Drew's new husband as The Chad.This flick set out to do exactly what it wanted  entertain.  Granted, it was all light hearted entertainment, but sometimes that is exactly what I am looking for.  And I found it in Charlie's Angels. "},{"Title":"Brings back memories of Hudson Hawk","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The evil duo in this film reminded me of Hudson Hawk's Darwin and Minerva Mayflower (Richard Grant and Sandra Bernhard).  That was not a fond memory.  And the Matrix-style (as copied in Mission Impossible 2) action sequences don't play as well in real life as they do in VR.  I haven't been this disappointed in a film since End of Days, and that was a much better film.  But it wasn't as bad as The Avengers.  The only positive (other than gratuitous cleavage) was Bill Murray's performance.  He did bring a few laughs to the crowd.  And no, I couldn't tell where they did the FX to remove Drew Barrymore's cottage cheese from her thighs.  "}{"Title":"Kick Butt AWESOME","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie opening night with a packed theater.  From the opening scene to the credits it was a visual feast, (and I'm not just talking about the butt-shots-aplenty).  There was never a moment that was dull, or dragged, or wasn't just plain cool.  Casting was PERFECT!  Crispin Glover, of Back to the Future fame, was THE creepiest bad guy that wasn't just some guy the Angels could hit a few times and be done with... he seemed truly unstoppable.  Lucy Lui was very cool, but so was everyone else... this movie is definitely a winner.  It was like True Lies á la the Matrix but with a wry sense of self-mockery of the genre (action movie/girlies-to-oogle movie/old TV show to movie movie/modern self-mockery of a genre movie... you take your pick). The soundtrack kicks booty, costuming is übercool, and the situations the girls are put in really make them shine. 10/10 it's a good group movie.  "},{"Title":"100% fun","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this last night at an advance screening . . . and what can I say?  I loved every single minute of this film!  I was expecting it to be a big smelly pile of Gouda.  That it wasn't that bad was a relief.  That it was downright entertaining was a great surprise!The three angels - Brew Barrymore (Dylan), Cameron Diaz (Natalie) and Lucy Liu (Alex) do great jobs and are thoroughly convincing as action stars.  Bill Murray (Bosley) often steals his scenes and the casting of Crispin Glover as the evil henchman is genius.The fight choreography is extremely well done and clever with the principals performing many of their own moves.  There will be plenty of comparisons to John Woo films and THE MATRIX, though I can't imagine anything anytime soon having the same WOW! factor as Trinity's opening fight scene or the Morpheus vs. Neo training sequence.  Be that as it may, the fights are all pretty damn well done!Mind you, this is a pure popcorn movie.  Plot?  Character development?  WHO THE HELL CARES!!!  Go out, drop your hard earned money and unplug for 98 minutes and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"Don't expect anything more than entertainment and eye candy","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angles was entertaining. Charlie's Angles was fun Cameron Diaz, Drew Berrymore, and Lucy Lui were wonderful to watch. What more needs to be said. "},{"Title":"Fans of the original will LOVE it!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A lot of people may want to tear this film apart, but it came out beautifully. I was soooooo looking forward to seeing and soooooo hoping that I wouldn't be disappointed. I was an original HUGE fan of the show and not only was I not disappointed, but I got even more than I had expected. I hope people will go into this with an open mind and not be looking for some kind of life-changing cinematic experience, because that's not what this is about. It's about appreciating the campiness of the original show, and realizing that, at the time, it sure didn't seem campy. Please view this film with the tongue in cheek that it was meant to be seen in. And stick around for the closing credits...very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Charlie's Angels - Some Spoilers","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Somebody get me some aspirin! There was a 70-year-old guy next to me at this movie who kept asking his wife what the heck was going on? I can sympathize and I'm half his age. So this is the way action-comedies are headed. This is what we've aspired to. Charlie's Angels THE MOVIE was just one long music video with electronica pounding on the soundtrack throughout. I don't know where to begin. The story is lame. As usual, it's just a formula as an excuse to have cute scenes with the three leads wearing different revealing costumes. Crispin Glover has no lines, just fight scenes that are entire special-effects jobs. (It's time to stop showing us the camera trick of people freezing in mid-air and then having the image rotate while still frozen. We saw this five years ago in a Gap ad and it was perfected in the 'Matrix' so stop it already. While we're at it, no more pulling an impossibly realistic mask off to reveal another character underneath. In this movie a 250-pound black man is revealed to be Drew Barrymore. Come on!) The only reason to see this video-movie is to see the actresses in various stages of undress. This is a very good reason. Watching Cameron Diaz shake her panty-clad ass at you is almost a cinematic moment in and of itself.Bill Murray is completely wasted as Bosley. That's too bad because this movie badly needed some of his type of humor. I also heard there was conflict between him and the gals while making this, and that's why he isn't doing anything here except walking around acting stupid (Bonk! Duh, I hit my head. Doh-de-doh!). In fact all the men in this movie are nobodies. Every male character is merely a walk-on for some fringe actor who saw the title and said, Oh yeah! I gotta be in that 'Charlie's Angels' movie! Call my agent!This movie is exhausting. But I don't want to give the impression that it's a total waste of time. There are many scenes mocking the old TV series, which is always good for an easy laugh. The look of the movie is the best thing about it. My biggest beef is when it was over it felt like I had ridden a roller coaster for two and a half hours straight. But it was only 90 minutes. And what kind of a name for a director is McG? Is this pronounced mick-GUH or mick-JEE or MIH-cug. Whatever. My head hurts...  "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A quick note on the movie. Way way way cheesy. However, it was so blatantly obvious, and done in such a manner, that it was actually 100% hilarious. I was sceptical, but I went to see the action scenes. I wasn't disappointed.Now, my real point in posting... the villain/henchman, Crispin Glover... was absolutely fantastic. You may remember his role as *ahem* George McFly (Back to the Future). Honestly, if someone tried to explain to me that George McFly was a superb villain, I wouldn't have believe it. Seriously tho, he has to be one of the most convincing henchmen ever.I don't want to say too much, but witness the first fight scene, and you will never look at George McFly the same way again. WOW! "},{"Title":"The Brady Bunch Movie meets The Matrix","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Brady Bunch Movie meets the Matrix you say? That's not right is it? Err, yes it is.Charlie's Angels did something that few movies ever do for me anymore, it actually surprised me by being much better than I expected. I expected absolute big budget blah and was just crossing my fingers that Bill Murray would be funny. While the film could have used more Bill Murray I was blown away by the way the film was put together. It is still big budget summer eye candy flick (err, its october) but it manages to be FUN which is something that a lot of the so-called summer blockbusters this year have forgotten to be.The film clear mocks itself and the original series while timing their action sequences to a rockin' (and quirky-but in a good way) soundtrack while playing out Matrix-like visuals. What results is a movie that is absolutely wonderful for just kicking back, laughing, saying cool every once in awhile, oh and of course gawking at the three main stars. With a host of complementary side characters (Crispin Glover a.k.a. George McFly is particularly cool) that add to the zaniness of this universe that the film has created, you will definitely never once get bored or for that matter stop to think about the intricacies of the plot or characters. But hell, you wont care. It doesnt slow down enough for you to think how impossible some of it is, but who cares?Unless you only like your movies slow, moody, and dark, you should go off and see these chicks kick some ass crack some jokes and beat up George McFly in super-slo-mo. "},{"Title":"Angels are Heavenly Bodies!","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  SKEPTICS, BEWARE!!! This film is fun, funny, sexy and action-phat.  Film starts with an inventive morph from the Col/Tri-Srar logo, into an airplane, then goes to a self-aware joke about the in-flight movie, and then, rockets into action... An action scene that actually elicited an audible a wow from me.  That exclamation was only two minutes into the film and probably had more to do with Long Beach native, Cameron Diaz's, string bikini than the boat or the scene.  Charlie's Angels' pace is driven by the eclectic soundtrack that ranges from frenetic (Prodigy's Smack my ***** up) to the nostalgic (Leo Sayer's You Make Me Feel Like Dancin'). Angels has you rooting for the sexy femmes and against their sharply drawn enemies for the film's entirety.  Stunt choreography and production values are excellent a s, I'm sure, are BO projections.  First time director McG (Joseph McGinty Mitchell) and Flower Productions (Drew's Company) can expect 5-picture deals, if they don't already have them.   Charlie's Angels is a perfect Mai Tai mix of camp, sex, action and fun. That's a bold statement coming from a skeptic. "},{"Title":"Energetic, but not great","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is full of crowd-pleasing action, but the film's awkward mixture of parody and action-adventure elements, unpolished screenplay, gimmicky direction and not nearly enough Bill Murray make this a mediocre effort.The Matrix clearly inspired many of this film's effects, fight sequences and camera moves, but the makers of Charlie's Angels seem to understand them only on a technical level, unclear how to use them to enhance the mood or propel the story. The arbitrary use of slow-motion robs the fight scenes of their urgency and reminds the viewer that this is merely a stunt show, not a story about characters fighting for their lives.The preview audience seemed to enjoy this movie, although they responded best to sequences that detoured from the main story, in particular a Soul Train dance number. "},{"Title":"Like bubble-gum flavored popcorn","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Overall, a very impressive film that more than fills the shoes of expectation that are not that large. Very, very impressive special effects and stunt sequences. Drew, Cameron and Lucy are funnier than thought possible. Music is great. Plot is what it is a fun, easy and enjoyable to watch summer flick. Too bad it didn't come out in the summer. "}{"Title":"It's Not Shakespeare,but IT'S ALOT OF FUN","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much from Charlie's Angels, but the trailer looked good(lately that's not a good sign). From start to finish the movie pulsated with action, music and a whole lot of fun. The soundtrack is filled with every angel-related song ever written. The wardrobe and sets were as eye-catching and fun as an Austin Powers movie.  The action was as gripping as any John Woo film....AND the angels were great. If you are expecting the old Angels, you might be disappointed. Cameron Diaz is hilarious as the ditzy blonde angel. This movie is a rollercoaster ride of fun.  The story is thin, but who cares!  Sometimes girls just want to have fun. And I don't see how any guy could resist these angels.This is a must see!  "},{"Title":"A bubblegum blast of energy","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I never saw the original Charlie's Angels TV series, so I don't know how the film version holds up in tone and consistency, but I do know I enjoyed that hell out of it, and that it makes a terrific standalone movie. The tone is pure radical sassiness, mainly from its three hyperactive stars who are equal parts dangerous, cute and fun loving. Lucy Liu is all flippant business as Alex, Drew Barrymore a tough cookie tomboy as Dylan, and Diaz the bubbly, slightly ditzy Natalie, perhaps the most fun out of the trio of performances. They each have their integral qualities as individuals, but it's when the three get together as a group that the film's invigorating sense of fun truly takes hold, whether using teamwork to throw around all kinds of wild karate justice or simply just hanging out in their office chatting, these chicks are no end of a good time. The movie is helmed by McG (before he ruined his street cred with the abysmal Terminator Salvation) and flies along with frenetic style and a whole bag of shiny filmmaking tricks that look like Oliver Stone made a flick for MTV. Bill Murray plays Bosley, and his chemistry with the gals is flint spark perfection, the scenes with the four of them the crest of the wave that the film let's you ride on. The four of them get entangled in a plot involving several shady characters including Sam Rockwell and a spindly Crispin Glover as a shrieking weirdo with a hair fetish. Other players include Matt Leblanc, Luke Wilson and a certifiable Tom Green as Dylan's extremely strange ex boyfriend. Plot gets left in the dust of the stylistic momentum that hurtles at you like a candy coated lip gloss steam engine of attitude, which is fine by me. It's more of a vehicle for the three gals to have fun, play dress up and kick butt than a serious detective story, which for me was a wise move. John Forsythe is the only character to reprise his role from the show, as the kindly voice of Charlie, ever heard but never seen. The 2003 sequel is the same, but more. More juiced up style, more celebrity cameos, more, more more. While still fun, it's overkill and will leave you nostalgic for this first outing, which got the formula just right. "},{"Title":"Charlie's Angels &#x97; See them in a modern action packed format","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Charlie's Angels is an excellent modernization of the old TV series.The good. Beautiful sexy women. Lots of action, fights and wirework. Nice car chases and wrecks. Good funny dialogs. Interesting story. Great score and music.The actors. Cameron Diaz is at her most adorable and charming in a very innocent and clueless way. She's just perfect. Drew Barrymore is obviously living a dream job, and it shows she's having fun. Lucy Liu is more impish than we've ever seen her before, in a very serious manner, which is a strange combination. There's no denying it, all three angels had a blast doing this flick and gave us a excellent performance. Bill Murray is very funny, and a great complement to the girls. Crispin Glover is the star of the villains, we just can't get enough of him. Sam Rockwell over does it a bit, but nicely. Finally, I'll just mention some other good performance in decreasing order of magnitude Luke Wilson, Kelly Lynch, Tim Curry, Matt LeBlanc, and LL Cool J.The bad. Very simple villain. More over, his awkwardly social cover is creepy.The ugly. The mainframe. If you know anything about computer, and security, this is very lame.The result. Excellent entertainment with fun and action. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Movie","Date":"16 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Charlie's Angels is an action comedy film starring Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, and Lucy Liu.They are three women working for a private investigation agency.They're beautiful, they're brilliant, and they can kick your butt -- the most glamorous private eyes in the world are back in action in this big-screen adaptation of the popular '70s television series of the same title.It was directed by McG.Natalie is the smart but silly one, Dylan is the tough but fun-loving one, and Alex is the classy but hard-as-nails one, and they work for a man named Charlie, who never meets his employees face to face. Along with their helper Bosley, the Angels are sent into action when electronics genius Eric Knox is kidnapped, with the nefarious Roger Corwin as the prime suspect. But they soon learn even bigger danger is afoot -- the kidnappers have gotten their hands on Knox's latest invention, a system that can monitor voice communication from anywhere in the world, virtually ending the notion of private conversation.This entertaining confection possesses the substance of the TV show, the pacing of a Hong Kong action movie and the production values of a James Bond thriller.Also,it was a good view for people who love action and entertainment.There is nothing more it except that. "},{"Title":"Wow This Was *Sooooooo* Much Better Than Full Throttle","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw Full Throttle and I thought This is more crap than disaster movie is made out to be and I heard that the 1st one was better than the 2nd one and anything is better than the 2nd movie (with Muriels Wedding and the 3 people that didn't find the comment to Charlies Angels Full Throttle useful might be the writers in disguise) The Plot Is That The captivating crime-fighting trio who are the masters of disguise, espionage and martial arts. When a devious mastermind embroils them in a plot to destroy individual privacy the Angels, aided by their loyal sidekick Bosley, set out to bring down the bad guys. But when a terrible secret is revealed it makes the Angels targets for assassination. Okay Bill Murray Did A Great Career Move When He Looked At The Script Of Number 2 & Said I Am Not Going To Be In That Piece Of #### Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Marvelously-Lensed Matriarchal Melodrama!","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Surprisingly, Charlie's Angels stacks up as the best big-screen adaptation of a vintage TV show since the Harrison Ford Fugitive in 1993! This top-flight but formulaic feminist empowerment fantasy about three gender-bending babes clones surefire elements from the Mission Impossible movies, the James Bond franchise, martial arts actioneers like Romeo Must Die, and the kitschy, self-depreciating humor of the Austin Powers escapades. Cameron Diaz of Any Given Sunday, Drew Barrymore of Never Been Kissed, and Lucy Lui of Shanghai Noon generate genuine camaraderie as the three newest heavenly bodies Natalie, Dylan, and Alex. They constitute a heroic trio of resilient, gorgeous-looking, crime-busters with their high-kicking, gravity defying Matrix inspired derring-do and their beguiling feminine wiles. As the solitary hold-over from the ABC-TV series, John Forsythe returns as the voice of Charlie. Ghostbusters Bill Murray replaces David Doyle as the avuncular Bosley and adds solid comic support while providing somebody for the Angels to rescue.Predictably, while women dominate men in this marvelously-lensed matriarchal melodrama, they still respond to their secondary domestic roles as obedient daughters currying favor for an off-screen father figure. Clocking in at a Spartan 92-minutes, this ballistically charged, tongue-in-cheek, high-tech cutting edge, cleavage fest gives the old Charlie's Angels TV show a commemorative, larger-than-life make-over, preserving its traditional strengths and pumping up its action quotient. Written by Tapeheads scenarist Ryan Rowe, Bill & Ted scenarist Ed Solomon, and Go scenarist John August, Charlie's Angels recaptures the essence of its small-screen predecessor with its nostalgic opening credits but embellishes the formula with kinetic, high velocity, action sequences.Principally, the story focuses on these aggressive Angels taking the fight to their enemies rather than luxuriating in romance as passive participants. Sure, romantic interludes figure in the plot, but these staples of the television show take a backseat to the stunning action sequences that overshadow the Angels in their peripheral roles as girlfriends. As usual, anonymous millionaire Charles Townsend contacts Bosley by computer and over a voice box briefs sweetly naïve Natalie (Cameron Diaz), tomboyish ringleader Dylan (Drew Barrymore), and exotic tech-pert Alex (Lucy Lui) about their latest assignment. Vivian Wood (Kelly Lynch of The Desperate Hours) has hired these elite private eyes to rescue her recently kidnapped business partner, a young Bill Gate electronics wizard named Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell of Galaxy Quest) who has created a revolutionary voice-identification computer software package which could replace fingerprinting.Initially, our heroines compile clues that lead them to suspect wealthy satellite network honcho Roger Corwin (Tim Curry of The Rocky Horror Picture Show) and his silent, sword-wielding henchman (Crispin Glover of River's Edge) as the masterminds behind Knox's abduction. Happily, nothing appears quite as simple as it seems. Not only do our heroines find themselves hurtling through one flaming hoop after another to save their derrieres, but they also must thwart a vengeful villain from killing Charlie.What Charlie's Angels lacks in narrative originality, former music video helmer Joseph McGinty Mitchell, billed as 'McG,' compensates for with audacious, over-the-top, high-octane histrionics. McG pares the plot down to basic essentials, but he never misses an opportunity for a delicious digression as when he introduces the Angels, showing Natalie in her braces giving her driving instructor a fit of anxiety about her erratic skills as a motorist.McG aligns our sympathies with the heroines at the outset and make the cunning adversaries as despicable as possible. Crispin Glover with his saber spouting cane and lean, mean Kelly Lynch make memorable villains who pose a clear and present challenge to our heroines. Not only does Charlie's Angels maintain a full-head of steam throughout its preposterous maneuvers, McG keeps these butt-kicking Barbies in the thick of the gunfire and explosions. Alex's quick thinking and agile physique enable her to survive a deadly ambush in her boyfriend's bullet-riddled trailer that appears as a refreshing variation of a similar episode in Lethal Weapon 2 when a helicopter strafed Mel Gibson's mobile home.Although they shun conventional firearms, these statuesque dolls demonstrate incredible kung-fu skills which would make Jackie Chan and Jet Li flinch. Charlie's Angels appropriates the latex masks from Mission Impossible, but has the good sense not to overuse them in an entertaining introductory aerial episode. Although they depict nail-biting melodramatics, McG and his scenarists know when to let off steam with humor.If you're counting, at least four self-mocking hair flips occur, occasionally in slow-motion, along with advice from Dylan and Alex to Natalie to flip her hair to attract a love-stuck bartender. Five songs featuring Angels in both titles and lyrics can be heard, including Undercover Angel and Angel of the Morning. Ten references are made to wiggling booties, while only a couple of shots of cleavage show up.Despite its dazzling state-of-the-art computer graphics, McG's vigorous, energetic directing, and an above-average cast, Charlie's Angels owes its success as a top-notch cliffhanger comedy to spunky Cameron Diaz's blinding, mega-wattage smile, sassy Drew Barrymore's cleavage, and Lucy Lui's cute eyes and squeaky leather outfits. "},{"Title":"A cheesy action flick worth your DVD collection.","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I never saw the famous 1970's show about a trio of hot chicks working for a rich man, who they had never seen, doing espionage work where along showing special talents from speaking different languages, working with weapons, driving hot cars and so forth.In 2000, the franchise is reborn where like many TV shows, a movie needs to be made to get the fans back on board and make money. Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu play the leading trio of beautiful women where their looks and assets are similar to the original ladies in action. Drew is Dylan the rebel with danger written on her head, Cameron is Natalie the goofy tart dancing to Soul Train, and Lucy is Alex the sweetheart who's fighting is much better than cooking muffins. Bill Murray is their assistant Bosley, who helps the trio throughout their missions with Charlie (John Forsythe) announcing the details of each of their missions. The plot is that the leading trio of women must protect a computer geek (Sam Rockwell) from being killed by a group of terrorists where one event falls after another.Charlie's Angels is a film where it's not about plot but style and the film delivers from the fight sequences without the guns (since Drew Barrymore is against guns) to the relationship between Diaz, Barrymore and Liu where they were the right people to play the parts along with seeing various cameos from Tim Curry, Crispin Glover, Luke Wilson and Matt Le Blanc. The film is great on DVD, especially if you own the two disc superbit edition where the picture and the audio are twice superior than the original single disc making this movie the more the enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Charlie does surf!","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, so it's just eye candy, mostly appealing to horny teenage boys, but the Charlie's Angels movie is pretty neat. Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu reprise the roles of the 1970s crime-fighting babes. This was one of the only movies based on a TV show to get it right (a far cry from The Flintstones, I Spy and Bewitched). Maybe it was Bill Murray's neat characterization of Bosley, but this is definitely a movie worth seeing - although I heard that the sequel was one of the worst movies ever made.Anyway, you're sure to enjoy this movie. It's more proof of the talents of all involved. Also starring Sam Rockwell, Kelly Lynch, Tim Curry, Crispin Glover, Luke Wilson, John Forsythe, Matt LeBlanc, Tom Green and LL Cool J. "},{"Title":"Ladies' Night.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu, and Cameron Diaz have a ball in this movie. You can tell they had a lot of fun. Charlie's Angels profits from their glee in this harmless joyride. The recent trend since The Brady Bunch movie is to make fun of the seventies by adapting a television show from the seventies. I, for one, hate this idea with a passion. Yes, the seventies are easy and fun to make jokes about, but why ruin beloved shows with pointless mockery. Charlie's Angels manages to stay away from this for the most part while still poking fun at the show a little. While the angels are fine, it is the villains that make the movie for me. Crispin Glover, Sam Rockwell, and Kelly Lynch dominate the angels in style. The fight scene between the thin man and the angels(set to Prodigy's Smack My B**ch up) as well as the reveal of Sam Rockwell as the main villain(set to Marvin Gaye's Got To Give It Up) rock. Drew Barrymore is hot, Cameron Diaz needs to get over her fascination with own butt, Bill Murray goes crazy, Luke Wilson remains the dull Wilson, and Tom Green should be shot. The sequel is basically the same, but minus some of the fun. "},{"Title":"Oh, another movie from an old TV show.","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I guess the best joke could be found at the beginning of the movie. In the airplane a black gentleman, played by Drew Barrymore, says to the passenger next to him (her) Oh, another movie from an old TV show. when the movie T.J. Hooker, the movie is shown. I couldn't phrase it in a better way. Hollywood seems to think that we all have been waiting for movies based on comic books (Hellboy, Spiderman, ...) or old TV series, most of the time from the seventies (Charlie's Angels, Starsky and Hutch, ...). Perhaps other people have, but I certainly haven't. That doesn't mean that the original series weren't any good, but they were created for an audience in the seventies, with ideas and techniques from the seventies. As a kid I loved The Dukes of Hazzard and The A-Team, but that doesn't mean that I want to see them in a new movie.I really don't like all those remakes, yet I watched Charlie's Angels anyway. I did so, only because a friend recommended it to me. He said it was one of his favorite movies, so I gave it a chance... but it didn't convince me at all. It's just not my kind of movie, it feels too much like James Bond, with the only difference that this time the action hero isn't a man, but three completely different ladies. Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu are very nice eye candy (I'm only a man of flesh and blood), but their performances in this movie haven't convinced me to watch other movies in which they play. The story is unbelievably thin and shallow and the main concerns clearly were about the gadgets, the explosions and about how to show the girls in the best way possible (without showing any full frontal nudity). But I have to be honest, I didn't think everything was bad. The fight sequences are well choreographed, but are clearly inspired on the The Matrix trilogy (including the bullet time effect, for which the Matrix films are famous), which hasn't got to be a bad thing of course.As a conclusion I would like to say that I guess that I belong to the wrong demographic to fully appreciate this movie. I think this movie will be loved most by young males in their puberty. Another possibility is of course that I ask too much of a movie. Up to you to decide which of the two is true... I gave it a 5/10 (only because of the ladies, LOL) "}{"Title":"Feast your eyes on this!","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Incredibly stupid, yet very entertaining, Charlie's Angels succeeds in providing 90 minutes of pure eye-candy. Wisely realising that the subject matter won't allow anything resembling a real movie, they go for an approach that makes Schindler's List look campy.With tongue dug firmly in cheek, we get three luscious ladies, a wise cracking sidekick, and some blatantly improbable action scenes (they look really good though). This ought to reek to high heaven, but everyone involved seem to be having such a good time, that I can't help enjoying it too. A popcorn movie, if there ever was one, but it knows what it is and doesn't try to hide it. Fine by me. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A dead zone in entertainment","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Charlie's Angels is a B movie trying to pass as a blockbuster action flick. It is not a blockbuster, not is it even a B movie. Big names do not a film make, the names in this case being Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu (as the angels), Bill Murray, Sam Rockwell, Tim Curry, Luke Wilson, Matt LeBlanc, and Tom Green. Add in a contemporary rock and pop soundtrack, a load of mindless action, and a good movie will come out the oven, right? Wrong. To paraphrase James Bond, Wrong, Dead Wrong. One more star, rapper LL Cool J, has a cameo at the very beginning, he is lucky enough to exit quickly and walk away unscathed.Supposedly 18 writers were used for the script. That is embarrassing. It is not so much the dialogue that stinks which it does, but the situations in which the story takes place. At one point there is a midair rescue of guy free-falling without a parachute, which reminds me of an equally moronic sequence at the beginning of Moonraker. We see the angels dance in pointless nightclub scenes (Diaz), dress as belly dancers (Barrymore and Liu), deliver telegrams dressed as school-girls while their pal Bosley (Murray) plays the tuba, and lecture software employees about new ideas in the style of Nazi Gestapo (Liu). One protracted section shows pointless scenes of the angels at play with their de facto boyfriends; no significant plot movement happens. Its sole purpose is to waste ten minutes of film.While they are not doing this, they are involved in harebrained action pieces. Bullets fly at them and they dodge them with flips that are only possible in the matrix. Of course, their entire fighting style could only exist in the matrix. After one such scene, Barrymore even dances to the soundtrack, which at its best sounds like level tunes from a Mega-Man game.There is even a tribute to Mission Impossible involving a software vault with ultra-tight security. This includes pressure sensitive floor pads that sound an alarm at any contact over a quarter second. Since the pads never deactivate, even after the outer security has been passed, we surmise that the techs can only cross it by doing cartwheels. Diaz tries that tactic out, although she touches the ground for well over a quarter second in the process without sounding the alarm. That company needs to hire an electrician.Are we, as thinking people, supposed to find these silly, boring scenes entertaining? Maybe, if you are a teenage male who calls footage of the angels flashing skin and doing utterly stupid work entertainment. If entertainment can be derived from the fighting, the viewer is required to care about the outcome, which is not an easy task. What a pity that three attractive and talented actresses would choose to reduce themselves to this.Bill Murray tries to be comical as Bosley, but he is not given any humorous material. Sam Rockwell completely falls flat as the villain, and Tim Curry's brilliance is swallowed up in the meaningless pomp and circumstance. Luke Wilson was cast as comic relief, but neither he nor or anyone else is funny. If there is a more annoying and unfunny actor than Tom Green, I don't want to see him. He makes Andre Braugher look like Sean Penn.I always try to find positives in bad films, but I can't think of any in this one. I suppose it is to be expected when the director feels he is too cool to use his birth name.Oh! there was one scene where Drew Barrymore is bound to a chair with duct tape drawn over her mouth. As she helplessly watches the villain ascertain the location of Charlie, she begins to cry. So bad was this movie that it brought out the masochist in me and I actually enjoyed her anguish. "},{"Title":"I'm writing this after i've seen the 2nd one TOO...","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ok, as i say i've just seen the second one too - DON'T WORRY!!! I'M NOT GONNA GIVE ANYTHING AWAY!!! - so, i'm gonna have a different approach to when i saw just this one.this film is about 'girl-power' and taking the p***.it acheives this easily. if i had voted after seeing the first 100 (!) times i'd have given it a 9 out of 10, but now i've seen the secondone i'm only giving it 7 out of 10 (which, in my eyes, is still a really great score!)i'm not gonna write much else, coz i'm gonna go comment on the 2nd one.the main thing i can say about this film is dont just rent it, BUY it! coz you're gonna wanna watch it every week!!! "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Natalie (Cameron Diaz) Dylan (Drew Barrymore) and Alex (Lucy Liu) are best known as Charlie's Angels.They're a crime fighting trio who kick major a$$.The Angels are trying to stop a plot that will destroy individual privacy.The Angels are helped by their loyal sidekick Bosley (Bill Murray)The plot is rather thin but Charlie's Angels totally rocked.I'm not really into these MTV style films but i enjoyed this movie a lot.I always liked female action heroes since we don' t really see that much.Director McG does an ok job, he really doesn't have many original ideas but the movie still worked.Sam Rockwell, Kelly Lynch, Tim Curry, Luke Wilson, Matt LeBlanc also starThere are cameos from LL Cool J, Tom Green and Alex Trebek.Cult icon Crispin Glover also appears as The Thin Man.There is some really good action scenes. But above all Charlie's Angels is just an entreating movie from beginning to end.All three women shine it's really hard to pick a favorite but if I had to I would probably chose Dylan but all the three totally rock.John Forsythe does the voice of Charlie.I give Charlie's Angels 8/10  "},{"Title":"Wow, What a ride!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This second installment, of what is hopefully promising to become a entire series of wonderful films, has it all action, humor, an interesting story, and of course 'beautiful babes kicking butt'!As for the action not for one second did I believe any of the things done in this movie were possible...and not for one second did I care!    The director McG (what kind of a name is that?) does an excellent job of interlacing the outrageous violence, humor, and story development.   The scenes are if anything even more 'out there' than the previous film and you know what?  It works wonderfully!The three leads, Lucy liu, Drew Barrymore, and Cameron Diaz each fill there role perfectly and with more subtlety and confidence than in the original movie.  The new Bosely, Bernie Mac, does an excellent job and the writer does an entertaining job of telling us how this new Bosely comes to inhabit the role previously played by Bill Murray.  I for one hope they keep the 'Bosely Rotation' thing up as it will add an interesting bit of the unknown and hopefully keep each movie fresh.In short this is a very well done action/comedy film that I would highly recommend.final rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Girls kick ass!","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was good with respect to the action and fight sequences. I had waited for so long to see it. I first saw it when I was in school and they were playing it in the Multimedia room. Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu rocked! I thought the whole movie was entertaining and just plain fun. I only wished that the fight scene between Cameron Diaz and Kelly Lynch was extended. I love to see women kick each other's butt because the average action movie mostly features men kicking each other's butt.      Bill Murray as Bosley, a huge mistake. I personally do not find Bill Murray that entertaining to watch and I wish he was never in the movie first to begin with. BILL MURRAY IS NOT FUNNY AND I CANNOT STAND HIM. I found that as I was watching, Cameron Diaz got the best of everything, the fight scenes, the outfits and the best make-up and such. Lucy Liu is awesome in her own right as well as Drew Barrymore. What were they thinking when they put an IDIOT like Tom Green to act as Chad. Couldn't they get someone better?! Tom Green's a stupid fruitcake quack who's only way of making money is toilet humour. HE IS ANNOYING AND STUPID AND JUST A PLAIN JACKASS. The scenes of the movie were very nice, especially the house where Dylan fell out of the window.       There are several things I still don't understand like the scene where they see the thin man (Crispin Glover) at Corwin's party. How'd they go from armless dresses to tight, long sleeved apparel? I kinda left me in the dark a bit. But the one thing that kept me watching was the theme, GIRLPOWER. I was glad to see female action heroes. They are all very talented actresses and I cannot wait to see the sequel. 9.6/10 "},{"Title":"Popcorn Fun","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As silly and far fetched as this film is, there's no denying it's one ofthe feel good movies of 2000. Based on the TV show of the samename, it follows the adventures of three girls, Natalie (CameronDiaz), Alex (Lucy Liu) and Dylan (Drew Barrymore). They are threecrime fighting chicks who work under the surveillance of Charlie(John Forsythe's Voice), a mysterious unseen figure who sendsthem on their `missions'. This time, they're investigating somemissing voice technology - Should I really continue? It's not theplot that matters. The makers of this film made it so you couldhave a good time, no strings attached. Don't bother about plotholes or inconstincies, just sit back and enjoy yourself. For amusic video director, McG has proven to be a great director. He'stook the familiar ingredients mixed them up and came out with agreat film. Sure, there are loads of bits taken from other movies butthat's good. Take the good parts from other movies and craft it intowholesome fun. Could you really ask for anything more? Thescreenplay by Ed Solomon, Ryan Rowe and &#145;Go' screenwriterJohn August is one of the funniest in years and that script as a filmis one of the best action movies of the new millenium. It never letsup and will entertain you beyond belief. Can't wait for part 2. "},{"Title":"corny adventure based on the old TV series, good acting and appealing leads make it work","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  On an airplane, a man in African clothing sits down in first class beside another man who, it turns out, has a bomb.  After one of many in-jokes (the movie being shown on the plane is based on an old TV series) the African pushes the other man out of the plane and we see an exciting free fall involving three characters which finally ends with a safe landing in a boat with the bikini-clad Cameron Diaz.  Any further details about this scene would be SPOILERS.As in the old TV series, the three beautiful but intelligent and capable women work for the unseen Charlie, carrying out important missions but hiding their identities in real life.  The women are shown briefly as the silly, clumsy rookies that were eventually turned into fierce, capable warriors.  Their mission in this crazy movie  rescue a kidnapped computer programmer and stop his software from being used to track down anyone who uses a cell phone.For me, the primary appeal of this movie, aside from the comedy, was the three women, especially Diaz, who has looks, brains, a great smile, a wonderful personality, and amazing ability to handle herself in a fight.  (In one of her best scenes, Diaz dances, quite capably,  on 'Soul Train'.) All three female leads obviously received extensive training in kickboxing and other fighting techniques.  Some of the great action obviously had to be done by stunt people, but these women knew what they were doing.  For pure acting skill, I thought Lucy Liu did the best work, especially in a scene where she and two strange-looking men inspired a group of computer programmers to improve their performance at work.  Drew Barrymore came across quite well too.  In her best scene, she is tied to a chair and must deal with several men at once.  One of my favorite scenes with the three girls had them dressed in sexy Heidi-type outfits singing along to polka music.  Of course, the women wore many disguises throughout the movie and played their roles (Diaz as a waitress, for example) very well.Visual effects played an important role  some of the best included the system for gaining access to a company mainframe, the process of tracking down Charlie through his cell phone, and a slow-motion shooting.  Probably nothing groundbreaking here, but still enjoyable.The violence was not excessive, but typical for an action movie.  Most of it was fight scenes where the women used only their bodies as weapons, but shooting and explosions could be found in abundance.  There's one particularly effective explosion that you won't see coming.The music was a mix.  Much of it was louder than I would have liked, but appropriate for this type of film.  A lot of music, most of it relatively soft, was popular when the original TV series aired. As you would expect, double entendre and sexual innuendo rule in this movie.  The movie has a lot of humor, and more than a few jokes have sexual themes, though sometimes that is not obvious unless you listen closely. Many opportunities can be found for the women to wear skimpy outfits, and in Barrymore's case, nothing at all in one interesting scene.  This is not for kids.  In one case one of the women shows more than enough chest out in public.Also giving good performances  Bill Murray is his usual self as the less-than-competent Bosley.  Tim Curry makes a good villain, but he's been better.  And while we never see Charlie's face, John Forsythe does a fine job as his voice.  We do see Charlie from the back a couple of times, and I don't think it's him.This was corny but fun.      "},{"Title":"Booty-licious action!","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels (no surprises here) is based on the classic 70s show of the same name.  Three beautiful women &#150; highly trained with specialised skills work with Charlie (a reclusive millionaire) and Bosley to fight crime and save the world from evil.The plot is a little on the stupid side &#150; with the Angels getting (PLOT SPOILER) doubled-crossed by a megalomaniac geek &#150; out for revenge over his father's death.  No Oscar nominations here!But the movie is a brilliant pop-corn affair &#150; highly entertaining, visually pleasing, matrix/crouching tiger style action and brilliant corny, campy comedy.It's directed by a music video director - McG (probably not his real name!) and it is shot in a music video style &#150; heaps of unique scenes with contrasting colours, costumes and settings.I would check this baby out if you want a film that isn't hard on the grey matter &#150; 8 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"Star rating 4 out of 5","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is a sweet, insubstantial and highly entertaining dose of girl power.  Although it will probably never be included in a list of 'alltime great films' it is nevertheless an enjoyable escape into a world where beautiful women kick-box their way out of danger, and manage to foil the bad guy's plans; all without smudging their makeup.Alex, Dylan and Natalie are an incredibly sexy crime-fighting trio, backed by an anonymous millionaire named Charlie.  These Angels are the absolute epitome of cool.  They can change from evening dress to street clothes in a matter of seconds, out-fight any number of evil henchmen, and disable a helicopter whilst hanging from the landing skids.  And they manage to have a whole lot of laughs in the process; however if you're not a big fan of girlie giggles, this may start to grate after a while.The movie begins with a high-speed action sequence involving an attempted airplane hijacking which the Angels seemingly effortlessly manage to foil - this montage is perhaps emblematic of the rest of the film.  The 'teamwork' motif is heavily emphasised, with the camera frequently (and occasionally annoyingly) cutting between the Angels whenever they're not in the same place at the same time.  Visually stunning Matrix-style action sequences are peppered throughout the fast-paced script and these are well worth watching, even if only to marvel at how efficiently the fabulous trio of Lucy Liu, Drew Barrymore and Cameron Diaz dispatch with the baddies whilst wearing designer clothing and high heels.Charlie's Angels is not a movie that is likely to alter lives or provoke deep thought, but instead it can be enjoyed purely as fun escapism.  And after all, isn't that what movies are supposed to be all about? "}{"Title":" I've got to go and torture and kill your boss","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cameron Diaz is lively as Natalie in this smart adventure movie. The supporting cast is stupendous. The costumes are attractive. One of the good films in the genre, Charlie's Angels will place a halo over the viewer's head. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"FINALLY!!! A KICK BUTT FIGHTING MOVIE WITH GIRLS!!!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Normally, theres only guys, superMAN spiderMAN batMAN they were all made from guys and finally a movie with girls that kick the guys butts all over the scenes, it was also a great movie so if you havent seen it, watch it!9/10 Rating! "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No, I am not the kind of person who goes around saying that about every movie I don't like. This is hands-down the worst movie I have ever seen. I would watch any terrible horror sequel, any brainless sports movie, any mindless action flick a million times over before I would sit through another viewing of Charlie's Angels. And as fate would have it, I was forced to watch this movie not once, but twice. This movie is an example of everything that is wrong with Hollywood and for that reason alone, should be shown in every film class in every university in the country to teach firmly and absolutely how NOT to make a movie.First, let's start with the director-- McG. Any movie with a director by that name is already in trouble. I know that many successful directors, such as the genius David Fincher, got into the business by first directing music videos. But in this case, McG has no clue how a motion picture differs from his medium of specialty. The whole thing plays like a ninety-minute music video, never stopping to give us a chance to breathe or understand the characters, or feel sympathy or any sort of emotion for any of them. Constant pounding pop and techno music permeates the soundtrack, a sure sign that a studio just wants to sell a companion album with their movie. He steals from every recent movie and trend imaginable, the most obvious being the Matrix-esque fight sequences (it even rips off one of the songs from the Matrix soundtrack), and produces nothing new, and never emerges with any semblance of a personal style.Now let's talk about the screenplay. Terrible beyond words, and God knows how many writers it went through before it finally saw production. Every single second of this movie is predictable, and the big surprise twist about halfway through the film could be spotted a mile away by anyone who isn't already asleep by this point. Replete with bad one-liners and corny dialogue, it's also guilty of stealing from recent hit movies. One scene is so reminiscent of Mission Impossible that I honestly couldn't tell if it was trying to parody the previous film or if it expected to the audience to have already forgotten the classic scene with Tom Cruise in the clean room.Then we have the three stars, Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu. Only Hollywood could make these three action heroines. Diaz is practically anorexic-- she was so much more attractive at the beginning of her career in movies like The Mask. Drew Barrymore is goofy and has never been able to act outside of a certain range--- certainly not as a believable martial artist. Then there's Lucy Liu, who is the best of the bunch; unfortunately her role is ruined by the terrible writing that plagues the rest of the film. Even Bill Murray, a respected comic talent, is reduced to a shell of his true self by the script.Drew Barrymore is the one you can blame for the complete omission of guns in this movie (as a producer, it was her insistence). What kind of politically-correct lunacy allows guns to be excluded from a spy movie? The original angels were proficient with their minds, their bodies and their firearms, and the series never gave the impression that guns were fun or to be taken lightly. This is just one of the many ways in which Charlie's Angels does complete injustice to the original series. By making its heroines goofy, brainless klutzes, it represents a giant step BACKWARDS in the depiction of women in entertainment. Sure, the original angels were often depicted as sex objects, but there was never a doubt that there were some intelligent minds inside their heads.Charlie's Angels is a truly disgusting, tasteless mess of a movie that has no substance and panders only to the most shallow of teen audiences. As I said earlier, see this movie only if you want an idea of how to completely ruin a good concept with blatant theft from other films, terrible writing, cheesy dialogue, poor casting and acting, politically correct pandering, and insulting portrayal of women. "},{"Title":"Great adaption of a classic tv show","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is one of the few movies next to the MI series that is a good adaption of the tv show on which it is based. All of the angels are perfectly cast and the action sequences directed by MCG are tight. Bill Murray is very funny as Bosely and it's a shame he won't be in the sequel. All in all good fun. "},{"Title":"This movie kicks butt","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am too young to have seen much of the Charlie's Angels TV show, but when I got the chance to see the modern version in the movie theaters I went and watched.  This movie was pretty good.  It isn't a movie you'd expect to win a ton of awards, but it is nice.  It's action packed and stars beautiful women for the men, and it shows that girls can kick butt too for the women.  Cameron Diaz, Lucy Lui, and Drew Barrymore were great in this film as the Angels.  And Bill Murray also acted wonderfully.  I cannot wait till I can see Charlie's Angels 2.  And Jamie Foxx will be in that movie, even better.7/10 "},{"Title":"I thought it would be bad, but actually it was pretty cool!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some of my friends said to me that this movie would be so bad. But i thought, well, let's see for myself. My conclusion is the following A very cool movie with very cool effects and even cooler women. Cameron Diaz is hot! "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE I HAVE EVER SEEN!!!!!!!!!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i think Charlie's angels is the best because you can really have fun watching it. Of course it isn't any deep movie as it shouldn't! Cameron Diaz is awsome, Lucy Liu looks great, and Drew Barrymore kicks ass!!!The girls are super fit and active and i loved the way they played! A must see for everyone!!!!!! "},{"Title":"drew b. as a fly-thru-the-air kung-foostress? i dunno.","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  fun movie that doesnt seem to take itself too seriously. most of the stunts are way cool, although it does get a bit hokey at times. the chicks were all great in it, and i think bill murray's comedic stylings are holding up suprisingly well, unlike some of his contemporaries, eg chevy chase. i was surprised and pleased to see crispin glover as the thin man. i hope to see more of him.its interesting to me how successful movies influence future films. there were obvious influences in charlie's angels from both The Matrix and MI2. after the 10th slow-mo sexy-girl hair flip, i was like, ok did john woo direct this or what?pretty decent dvd too with a lot of good extra content on it, including music videos and outtakes.but yunno the more i watched the movie and the making-of stuff, the more cynical and annoyed i found myself feeling about it. the flying through the air stuff was a lot more believable in The Matrix because it actually made sense, so to see these ladies (esp drew b.) all kung-fooed out -- i dunno; i guess it struck me as kind of ridiculous.i understand that people like to see chicks kickin ass, but i like it when its more believable, eg Trinity in the matrix.  "},{"Title":"Pure, delicious fun !!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was amazed that Roger Ebert rated this a mere 1/2 star, since I normally find his reviews spot on. I mean, how can you NOT enjoy this movie? It is sheer, pure fun for 90 minutes, that was clearly the intention of the makers of this film and they delivered on every front. The girls look great, the soundtrack is wonderful (you know you're in for a wild ride when the opening scene has 2 of the Angels, along with a villain who has a bomb strapped to his chest, falling out of the sky over the California coast to the tune of Motley Crue's Live Wire), the stunts and martial arts are terrific, The sets and locations are vivid and colorful, you've got action, you've got comedy, you've got sex appeal, what more can you ask for in the way of entertainment? There's no point to this movie, which is exactly the point. The plot is silly, but who cares? As with any decent Bond flick, you just sit back and go along for the ride. And in this case, the Angels play the role both of Bond, fighting evil with wits, style and physical bravado, and that of the Bond women, in terms of beauty and charm. Ebert wonders how these three actresses could have allowed themselves to be part of this movie, after seeing the film and watching the behind the scenes features on the DVD version, I can only ask how could they not? Perhaps he should acquaint himself with the 80's classic Girls just wanna have fun! "},{"Title":"an atrocity played out before my eyes","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Thinking I would be entertained, I mistakenly watched this film - and I use the term film loosely. It's not a film. It's a bad music video filled with obvious and cheap process shots, lots of blue screen stuff, slow motion signifying nothing, no plot, no background as to the characters or their relationship or who any of them are, no characterizations, no acting, not even a discernible era. Cameron Diaz wakes up after dreaming about doing a disco number - and that's as close to getting a time period on this film as it gets. All, of course, set to music!I can't believe this cost $92 million to make because it looks incredibly cheap. Lucy Liu needs to stop having plastic surgery - her face is nearly paralyzed. The only people who showed personality (though neither had any character definition in the script) were Bill Murray and Drew Barrymore.I'm still in shock. This is not even good camp like Valley of the Dolls.After this and that disaster TV show Titans, I think Aaron Spelling needs to hang it up. "}{"Title":"Perfect balance of comedy, f/x action and Angels","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was not a fan of the TV series Charlie's Angels and I doubt I ever saw an episode.  What seems funny about that is that now I know more about the show than I ever did, thanks to the movie.  If there were stupid plot points, lots of jiggling in teeny costumes which change by the second, and explosions, then the movie followed its inspiration closely. There was several laugh-out loud scenes, some very boring scenes and a lot of things that go boom for those impressed with that. I like Lucy Liu the best of the Angels and my favorite scene involved Drew in danger of getting killed in a penthouse apartment. Something about the way it was photographed made the scene stand out, I can't explain it totally but it seemed very different from everything else. Nice that the girls found time for their guys, and for Tom Green too.  "},{"Title":"Expecting the Worst","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was expecting a campily bad movie -- but this movie stunk out loud.  It was so bad I had to leave the room a couple of times to keep from turning off the VCR.  The action sequences were acceptable but just about everything else was horrible.  Bad acting, bad writing, bad directing.  The high point of the movie was Mix-a-lot doing Baby Got Back, one of my all-time favorite cuts.  But who the heck told Cameron Diaz she had booty?  Thank goodness she doesn't have to depend on her dancing to earn a living!See this movie if you have a high tolerance for the bad.  Probably, a few Buds would help, too.  "},{"Title":"I watched this movie 3 months ago and i can't remember what was actually good in it.","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, that is a difference between good and bad film. The only good thing from the movie, that i remember, are the three angels which are very sexy and beautiful. Anything else a remember hardly. That is why i think that movie is nothing special. Well but it's more fun watching those three girls like some action movie with a man main role. "},{"Title":"Who let the cheese out?","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Once upon a time there were three little girls who were picked to star in a movie and they were each assigned really bad scripts, but I wasn't able to take them away from all that and they still work for me.  My name is Charlie.Problem number one - Bill Murray as Bosley.  Come on.  It's hard to picture Bill Murray doing anything else other than chasing a furry gopher around a golf course nevermind fighting crime.Problem number two - BAD script.  The lines were, well, lame and silly.Problem number three - Since we have the TV show to compare it to, I think it makes the movie pale in comparison.  Sure Bri and the gang weren't able to do karate kicks and Matrix-like moves back then, but at least the TV show was entertaining.  The TV show wasn't a comedy and yet the movie made it seem like one.  It was almost cartoony in a way.Problem number four - Unrealistic situations.  Yes, it's a movie and some unrealistic things happen but I just find it hard to believe that someone could jump off the side of a cliff, roll down a rocky hill and come out of it without a scratch.Problem number five - I actually thought this was going to be a good movie.  The good thing is that I got this as a free rental at my local Blockbuster. If you like campy, silly, mindless movies then this one's for you.  And if you have a fetish for girls running around with their shirts open, displaying the goods, then pick this one up. "},{"Title":"My brain still hurts","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie this weekend with my wife and her parents. (Note to others Gratuitous T&A, no matter how blatant and amusing, is never something you want to watch with your significant other.) It was the only movie we could all agree we were interested in seeing.Ye gods, what a waste of time and money.The special F/X and martial arts scenes looked cool, I'll give them that. And the boob and butt shots probably would have doubtless more titillating if I were still an adolescent. But outside of that... no redeeming features. None. And I looked hard.This movie couldn't decide if it wanted to be comedy, action, mystery, or just plain eye candy. But that wasn't it. The villains and their motivations were all straight out of a bargain-bin comic book. But that wasn't it. The plot kept jumping between the actual story to meaningless and unintegrated scenes involving the Angels' assorted boyfriends, who weren't even interesting enough to provide real comic relief. But that wasn't it. The whole story rather hinged on the viewer having some idea of what the original TV series was like. But that, too wasn't it.No, it was the fact that there was not a single believable detail in this script. Not one. Anywhere. From beginning to end -- from the first scene where a guy's sitting in first class on an airliner with a bomb strapped to his chest that somehow made it past the metal detectors, to nearly the last where Lucy Liu's character was checking out the manual control pad inside a heat-seeking missile -- realism, believability, and plausability were all thrown completely out the window for this script.Mainframe computers locked up in vaults with absurdly sophisticated security systems tighter than Fort Knox, and apparently not networked to anything. Bad guys with kung fu skills to rival Jackie Chan and who obviously are incapable of feeling pain. GPS satellites that can apparently trace a cell phone signal in addition to their normal responsibilities. 747s where the emergency exits open as easily as a patio door. Millionaire masterminds who can track the identity of a former U.S. Army intelligence agent from twenty years ago, but still can't figure out where he lives. The list goes on and on. The average Joe would have to suspend their disbelief to the point of doubting the law of gravity in order to swallow this movie. A nitpicker like myself will feel his brain still hurting for days after.It truly boggles the mind. This could have been a kick-butt movie if they'd bothered to put together a coherent and even slightly logical story behind it, instead of trying to cover up its lack thereof with as much retro 70s music, stylish cinematography, and exposed skin as they could think of. As it is, it's just as flash-in-the-pan as the retro fashion trend it's based on.  "},{"Title":"The Worst Film of 2000","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Influenced by the butt kicking antics of Feminine action films in Hong Kong and The Maxtrix effects, this film is a reworking and flashier update of a popular TV show from the 1970s.  The usual film from the Hollywood dull factory.  Hollywood seems to be obsessed with making successful television shows from the past into full length features.  Does not hold a candle to the action films of Michelle Yeoh, Anita Mui, Maggie Cheung, or Yukari Oshima.  Charlie's Angels(2000) is an unimaginative action film that fails to be good or creative.  Bill Murray can't even save this turkey with his appearence as Bosley.  The three actresses are average in their roles but are not action heroines that can have a larger than life quality.  For people who want to see something that has cult appeal and is dazzling than I suggest the films, Diabolik(1968), and The Heroic Trio(1992). "},{"Title":"The DVD came out today, and wow!! is it a winner, a pure fun film.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film, Charlie's Angels, is based on the 1970s TV series of the same name. I was a young adult then, and thoroughly enjoyed that guilty fantasy.  As a senior, I find this film to be just as much fun, but then even more with its updated look, modern special effects, and those 3 darling actresses playing the angels.To me it is definitely an action comedy, not to be taken too seriously, like the Batman films, or Mission Impossible 2. It also has a James Bond quality to it, and fight scenes like those from The Matrix. Anyone who likes those films will really love this one too! The plot is very simple, the angels get assigned by Charlie to fight the bad guys, and the angels then do their thing. It doesn't need much of a story, the action and the angels are the whole point of this movie.Anyone who doesn't have a DVD player yet is missing about half the fun of movies like this. In addition to perfect use of 5-channel DD 5.1 sound, and an ultra-sharp and colorful widescreen picture, the extras are must see. Did you know each of the 'angels' trained for 3 months, 8 hours a day, for 5 days a week just to get in shape for the stunts? (The DVD shows behind the scenes shots of the training regime.) That this film was influenced by such other films as West Side Story (alley scenes) and The Shining (red restroom scene). Did you know this film uses the very same speakerphone in Charley's house as was used in the TV series?This DVD has one of the best sets of extras  in total that I have seen so far. It is comparable to M.I. 2 in giving you an inside look at how special effects were done, which is really awesome. But it goes even further in showing how the whole film came together. The director explains that he wanted a very colorful look to this movie, and you can see it everywhere. The sky is very blue, the grass very green, the costumes very vivid. It has the same sort of look to it as Austin Powers the Spy Who Shagged Me. A live cartoon quality, but in a very good way. This film really sparkles.One final thought, for anyone still watching VHS.  VHS is to DVD as libraries are to the internet. VHS is to DVD as casette tapes are to CDs. If you've never seen a good movie on DVD, find a way to watch this one on a friend's DVD system, or find a home theater store that will demo it for you. Trust me, if you ever truly compare quality and features of the two formats, you'll never want to watch a VHS movie again. And this DVD, Charlie's Angels, is better than most at pointing out that difference. "},{"Title":"Save your money","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie is just about these hot girls, they just kick everyone's butt and the fighting scenes are just a take from the Matrix.  That's all I have to say, it was horrible.  It doesn't even deserve this review.  Save your money for a pack or gum, or something that would bring slightly more intelligence to your life.   "},{"Title":"A 5 minute movie","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie started out real good. A lot of action and skydiving stuff. I was really gonna enjoy this movie but after the first 5 minutes it began to suck and that didn't stop until it was over. Ok, I admit that I don't know the end because after an hour or so I gave up and started watching the 4 o'clock news which was much more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Another event movie that clearly isn't","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is clearly a pi** take, and one needs to put his or her brain in neutral before seeing it - and to understand its joking fun.In fact this film seems to enjoy the fact its campy and such a joke, that all the actors seem in on the joke - so much so, half way through the film your thinking why is this funny again?This film tries to be a parody on action films, and in some sequences, yes it is successful but it struggles in the formulaic comedy and sketches that are tied up together.This film, obviousily targeted at the adosolent male audience plays its sexuality and titalation to the full with sexy Diaz clearly having fun expressing her dream of being an angel with Liu and Barrymore showing their bodies - who said you needed a plot when you have sexy girls?I did feel the kung fu sequences were okay and so obviously over the top, I mean Barrymore (who struggles later on in the film to do the moonwalk - something which I thought every 9 year old could to) happilesly performs her fly-by-wire kung fu in a way that just screams look, I can do kung fu...I simply rolled my eyes...Well I am not impressed with this film, maybe because the one-word joke that this film was clearly sold on ran out within the first half an hour, maybe because it clearly had no script or any comedy writers contributing to an entertaining film - maybe because actors such as Bill Murray have nothing to do and struggles with the empty script he has.Actors such as Tim Curry should have been better done in this film.  Curry always plays good over the top villains, and at last he gets a chance at being the bond bad guy he played so venomously well in The Three Musketeers (1993) - however he, like Murray, isn't given much to work with and struggles to give half the character of his Cardinal Richelieu.The only actor to come out of this film unscathed is Crispin Glover, he plays the thin man and is utterly cool and the embodiment of evil, every shot he's in he simply steals - his menacing broodish looks of a troubled mute henchman are well executed and Glover seemed to handle the martial arts more so than the girls.Anyway, this film is yet another example of an event movie that clearly isn't.  It isn't worth watching, well maybe to watch three sexy girls play up their sexuality to an all male auidence - the jokes aren't as crisp or as fast as I'd expect them to be.Overall this film is mindless fun, for some it will deliver, for me - I it didn't.Overall 3/10  "}{"Title":"The worst movie I have seen in a long time","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm usually very tolerant regarding action movies, where you don't expect to come out of the theater with the answers to life, but just expect to have fun and be amazed by special effects.  But once in a while an action movie comes where, even though the effects are great, the plot is so bad that the movie just sucks.  And this is the case for Charlie's Angels.  This Impossible-Mission-wannabe has an awful plot, stupid argument, bad jokes, predictable outcomes, etc.  In short, the worst movie I have seen in a long time.About the only two good things in the movie were the music (great sound track) and Cameron Diaz.  The rest I could do without. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ohh God!!.. they finally hit bottom.  This is the most stupid film I have ever seen... bad jokes, re-used special effects, silly plot... If you saw Mission Impossible you already know the plot of Charlie's Angels... and if you saw Matrix, you know the visual effects and fight scenes already.  When I went to the cinema to watch this movie, I did it because the idea of Charlie's Angels on big screen sounded appealing.. but I must say I regret I paid those $4.  Most people at the cinema had to leave before the movie finished... I heard a few people laughing, not at the jokes, but at the silliness of this production... This is not entertainment, it was more like torture "},{"Title":"save yourselves","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Who is this McG guy anyways.  If anyone knows him personally tell him he owes me 6 dollars.  I hope this is the direction that the women's rights movement is going for surely soon there will be no movies like this.  Well it proves to young girls with their own ideas that 3 women truly are better than 1 man but what happens when they are alone.  Doesn't this refer to the 1/3 compromise or something, women count as 1/3 of a man for both taxation and representation.  Well that is the only message that I received from this film.  I think that McG should make sequels for each Angel by themselves and show them each getting assaulted by Crispin Hellion Glover.Crispin Glover is the only thing that saved this movie.  Thin Man is one of the coolest villains ever and was played perfectly by Glover.  I think that the title of this movie should be Thin Man and too many scenes featuring Charlie's Angels.  I had more fun trying to fix my broken seat than paying attention to the mindless plot.  There were countless rip-offs of The Matrix but were supposed to believe that they can pull these stunts in real life.  There were too many anachronisms to even begin to count so I will not even try to explain all of them. The only thing that could have remotely saved this movie is gratuitous nudity.  If they got an R rating and showed a little more, although in some parts they were wearing postage stamps as clothes, this movie would be passable to waste my time making fun of. "},{"Title":"Uninspired, mediocre fluff.","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's all very well being fed, as one commentator on this site put it, fare that 'delivers', but aren't we all a little fed up with the Hollywood action/thriller backward slide into mediocrity? Think of the number of action movies we see these days -- then think of the number of those that really generate interest, such as 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon'. 'Charlie's Angels' generates no interest beyond how much popcorn is left in your carton.Yes, it's slick. Yes, it has action scenes that have been 'Matrix'-ed up. However -- the acting is uninspired, the characters are dull, the fight scenes are uninspirationally showy and have no meat, the plot is predictable down to every stupid piece of dialogue and scene change in the script (written, of course, by multiple writers).... Enough. Sure, enjoyable. But if you're going to spend that much money on a movie, guys, please show some effort! "},{"Title":"Yikes","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had the unpleasant pleasure of watching this on my birthday. It ruined it for me. I wanted to see this movie-the HBO Making of Special made it look like a badass action flick. Unfortunately, it isn't. What the hell is this? Parody? Action? Comedy? I know the the show was a parody, but this isnt. It shows the girls as badasses and stupid chicks at the same time. I wanted to like it, but couldn't. I figure this-they should've made it a serious film with comedy in it-the angels should have been badass comedians, not the other way around. This results in cheesy, sink-in-your-seat cheese, and it's almost to much to handle. Billy Murray worked because he was straight on what he was-comic relief, not badass. CA is a boring trip through brainless action sequences, and explosions for the hell of it. I did enjoy the Cameron Diaz dancing scene, because it was funny and had more excitement in it than cheesy, wire kung fu fights. Once I got bored with it, I began playing Count the Matrix Rip-Offs with my sister, who was equally bored. We found like five. Plus they rip-off Mission Impossible 2.   3/10 "},{"Title":"Avoid this movie like the plague.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't think I've ever seen a worse movie than this.  Since when do Charlie's Angels have super-powers?  There was NO plot (it was like watching a bunch of bad skits), atrocious acting and extremely annoying special effects.  Why is it that every movie fight scene has to be exactly like something like The Matrix? This movie sucks, don't see it.  "},{"Title":"Hardly 'Citizen Kane' but mindless, high explosive fun","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some reviewers need to lighten up. 'Seven Sumarai' or 'Last Year at Marienbad' this was not but it was what it was intended to be; a light- hearted, silly, throw away comic of a film derived from a 1970s TV series which was itself ultra-silly/a US stab at UK series like 'The Avengers'. Put away the copies of 'Cahiers du Cinema' therefore and just enjoy 90 minutes of Cameron's dancing, Lucy' muffins and Drew's bad girl frolics in the spirit with which it was made. Many of the scenes leave reason way behind (e.g. what happened to the airline passengers in the pre-titles sequence? (Presumably victims of the need to get a breath-taking, high thrills opening section)), but that is what you have to expect in a film targeted four-square at the eye and the gut and forgetting about the brain virtually entirely. Taken in that vein, I think this earns its popcorn. "},{"Title":"Brainless fun","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This remake of the 70s cult hit that helped launch Big Hair (RIP Farrah) is so cartoonish that by comparison the original seems as complex as a Bergman movie. Still, it's all in good fun. High spirits, nice cinematic fight scenes, dopey Bill Murray (always welcome), bend over shots (nothing too racy, though) of three really fit and appealing women. What more can one ask? There are enough allusions to the original (the speaker phone, for example) to get the audience involved in the referencing game and make us all think we're so clever; it's an effective strategy to get us on board. Since the movie is a reinterpretation, it has to add something extra to the vapid quality of the original. Besides the stylised violence, here, director McG goes for colour. Almost nobody gets seriously hurt, and the girls don't use guns. But the bright and sometimes grating colours drag the audience into the pacing, since they are so forcefully vivid and jarring that they unconsciously keep the audience on the edge of its collective seat. It's a happening, man, like Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In. Whatver, someone knew what they were doing and managed to overcome the inherent silliness of the whole concept. Enjoy the movie, go along for the ride it's fast paced, and the three stars are sufficiently airheaded (to give them credit, they manage to communicate being modern without playing up sex) that they gain our sympathy. "},{"Title":"These angels may not be heavenly but they're still good.","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's an update of an old TV show, it's directed by someone who goes by the name of McG and it spends far too much time with the camera pointed at Cameron Diaz wiggling her booty so why oh why do I still really like Charlie's Angels? Starting with a fun airplane sequence that sets the tone for the rest of the movie (you either accept that the leading ladies are basically superheroes or you don't but the former option allows you to enjoy the movie), we then get a great title sequence that introduces us to the angels (Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu and Drew Barrymore) and gives us the very minimum character sketch for each one. All of the women are talented but Natalie (Diaz) is a bit flighty, Alex (Liu) is focused and always striving to be the best and Dylan (Barrymore) likes to have fun and indulge her free-spirited attitude whenever possible. They work for Charlie, who only ever speaks to them through a phone/speaker box, and are helped by Bosley (played by Bill Murray), but all seems like it might be a bit too much to handle when their latest assignment twists and turns in ways they never expected.Zipping along at a breakneck pace, as you would expect from McG, Charlie's Angels could never be accused of being dull. There is plenty of girl power on display to keep female viewers happy (Kelly Lynch also gets a strong role here) while the ladies are certainly pleasing to the eye of any male viewers. There's also a fair bit of comedy here. The girls are clearly having a lot of fun, Bill Murray does as well as he usually does and comedic support from the likes of Tom Green, Matt LeBlanc and Luke Wilson doesn't do any harm.The action sequences are a bit over the top and ridiculous (though they feel grimy and real when compared to the insane stylings of the sequel) but you just have to go along with it to get the most fun out of the experience, as mentioned earlier. There's also a lot of fun to be had with the supporting cast of Tim Curry, Crispin Glover and Sam Rockwell on fine form.It may all end up feeling a bit like Action Bratz - The Movie but it is what it is. A lively soundtrack helps, Drew Barrymore has rarely looked more gorgeous and the hyped-up, stylised action sequences are still fun and entertaining if you can forget all about things like the laws of physics and gravity and other such restrictive nonsense. "},{"Title":"Kicking butt.","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Natalie (Cameron Diaz), Dylan (Drew Barrymore) and Alex (Lucy Liu). These three ladies work for the mysterious Charlie. Very different personalities and abilities, but yet they can always work it out together.They were being given a mission from their boss about a case of a stolen voice-ID software. The three ladies knew how to use their sex appeal and talent to work things out and get away with the thugs along the way.I remembered my father at times mentioned about the original TV series's version because he did watched it when it was on air here. He always said that Farah Fawcett (from the original) is like among the most beautiful actresses ever. I had seen pictures of her before and he was kind of right. Guess each generation has its own different opinions.Anyhow, this movie is just so kicking butt. Oh yeah. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies ever!","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is a great movie. I never really watched the series it was based on (not my generation), but the movie was everything I had hoped for. The music is fantastic, as are the actors. The storyline is as followsEric Knox, the founder of an up-and-coming engineer company, is kidnapped and his software is stolen. It's up to the angels to get him and his software back.Starring Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu, and Drew Barrymore, Charlie's Angels is a movie full of twists and turns and is not a film to be missed by action/comedy fans. (unless you believe that a woman can't fight crime as good as a man)  "},{"Title":"Fun, action, shallow theme and Cameron shaking her ...ass all the time!","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well...what is all this fuss about? Matrix, Sci Fi or not..its just entertainment and cinema is based on personal taste. Some people didnot like this movie and some did.I liked it and I give it 6 out of 10. -Its cheerful (songs, dancing, bright colors, action, fast moving pictures, outdoors, etc) -Cameron Diaz kind of plays the role of a stupid blonde who is also a loyal friend and has naive simplicity and muscles .. -Drew Barrymore is deeper in character...and shows some tendencies (towards opposite sex) that are her weakness and at the same time are derived from... some sort of psychological effects. -The subject and some scenes are ridiculous but you can watch it and swallow the unbelievebale ...It is better than James Bond movies in creativity and cinematography but worse in plots and acting...although both show us hard to believe scenes...Cameron is successful in being the cheerful, funny, dynamic and friendly, warm heroine...who dances all the time and shakes her ass in front of the camera and seats on the toilet ...etc...Drew gets most of the beating..I did not understand why..whe was being punched and kicked and tortured and yet not a single bruise could be seen on her face except for blood coming from her mouth...!!!What a violence against such a sexy beauty...You can watch this movie the once and then watch it again after 5-6 years with your teenage boys/girls! "},{"Title":"It could have been a good action film...","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The film had good main characters, good direction, good cast, good production means but.... ¡¡¡what script class is this???!!! but it had been for the horrible script this movie it would be worthy of seeing.    	Although the name of the main characters was not the same one that in the series, the actresses that incorporated the angels were worthy for that paper (Díaz, Barrymore & Liu) but for blame of this stupid script they don't seem the angels that it is remembered of the series and that I triumph during several years. The special effects of the movie (that seems to be they are taken out of Matrix) they don't agree a lot with the movie.    	Charlie's Angels a project that it has triumphed wrongly to have that final result that McG has carried out, and that it could have been more if it had taken care the script more carefully. The only thing that can survive of this film is the sensual actress Cameron Díaz and some comic scenes on the part of Bill Murray. "},{"Title":"Bad, real bad.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I would have to say that the Scary Movie 2 copy was better than this. Sometimes original shows are best left alone and not adapted to this day and age because they just dont work.  I found the movie totally boring and not in the least bit funny.  Makes you think just how desperate Bill Murray is for work. "},{"Title":"stupidity beyond belief!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First off, I believe that there should be a law against people who use 'Matrix' style visual fx in movies like this one. I mean, it's very trendy nowadays to put surealistic martial arts sequences in movies, but making a 'Matrix' clone out of 'Charlie's Angels' is a joke. Also add a few 'Mission Impossible' elements and there you have it.The plot is about a kidnapping with a twist (as expected) accompanied by a number of irrelevant, boring and totally stupid scenes. I wish I could find a more sophisticated way to say it, but the movie is stupid unless you're 8 years old. Also, was it necessary to make the girls act like whores? I mean after a point it's disgusting. If there's a reason to watch this movie, it's Bill Murray who's fantastic like always and gives a bit value for your lost money.I really tried to watch this movie for a 2nd time before this review, but I had to stop at the middle. I had to do something more stimulating like organizing my CDs... "},{"Title":"Why?!?!?!  What Purpose did this movie serve - Certainly not entertaining.......","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Bunk, Bunk, and more Bunk!  This was sooooooooo bad!  Not even campy fun.  Just plain bad, bad, bad!  Don't waste your time - at least the series gave us some fun things.  This was just plain stupid, ridiculous, bunk....... Arrrrggghhhhh - bad movie all around - couldn't stomach more than 45 minutes...... had to return the DVD that night - I didn't even want it in my house overnight!!!!!!!!!!! 1 out of 10 * - because I'm not allowed to rate it lower!  I loved the original series for the campy stupidness - this didn't have that at all........Bad, Bad, Bad............... "},{"Title":"The most painful movie experience of my life...","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In the history of mankind, no worse movie has ever existed.  Charlie's Angels has nothing resembling a plot, character development, or even decent action.  To call this movie an extended music video would be an insult to music videos.  The overly loud music, terrible special effects, and constant camera tricks serve as a futile attempt to cover up the fact that this movie has absolutely no substance to speak of.  This movie gets a rating of 1 only because no lower score is possible. "},{"Title":"Kill me before the sequal","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was quite possibley the worst film I have ever seen, And I'veseen a lot.  This Movie continuely ripped off movies like The Matrix, Mission Impossible, AND EVEN ERNEST GOES TO JAIL!!! If this movie was a spoof I could handel that but It wasent It Just ripped them off. Luckely I have not seen the original series but if it's anything like the movie I'm a Very Happy man.                  IF IT WEREN'T FOR THE SIMPLE FACT I PAID 7.50 TO SEETHIS FILM I WOULD HAVE WALKED OUT.  JUST IN CASE YOU DON'T GET HOW MUCH THIS MOVIE SUCKED I WOULD WATCH BATTLEFIELD EARTH A DOZEN TIMES BEFORE I WOULD WATCH THIS POOR EXCUSE FOR A FEATURE FILM. "},{"Title":"Rent something campy and funny, but skip this movie","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I hoped that this would be so bad that it was good. Unfortunately, I didn't find it even remotely funny. (No...there were one or two funny scenes, but they did not a movie make.)  It didn't even come close to becoming a camp classic. So sad! This had horrible acting and a high cheese factor--two of the necessary ingredients--but nothing funny enough to make it achieve the status of such wunderbar bad movies as Better Off Dead or Rock n' Roll High School.  I wasn't expecting award-winning performances, but I also didn't think it would be such a piece of crap. Even the normally fabulous Bill Murray couldn't turn this waste of space around. In any case, you should let it die in obscurity where it belongs.   "},{"Title":"The Emperor's New Clothes","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Remember the story of The Emperor's New Clothes? Well, that's what this film is like. The makers cunningly predicted that if they played up the beauty of its stars, and the hip throwaway frothiness of the story, people would accept its shortcomings and overlook the fact that it's one of the most dismally structured and scripted films of recent years, right down there with the likes of The Avengers. There's nothing wrong with making light, fast, fun films -- but this is just calculated, poorly executed crud. Don't stand in the crowd with the mindless cattle and laugh stupidly -- open your eyes, use your brain, compare this to any action-comedy which you've enjoyed in the past, and see it for what it truly is. "}{"Title":"Once Upon a Time, there were 3 Little Girls...","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As much a tribute to pop culture as a big-screen version of the '70s series, 'Charlie's Angels' has so much energy and tongue-in-cheek charm that it DARES you NOT to root for its three young stars! And while the film won't erase the images of Farrah Fawcett in a thin tanktop on a very cold day, there is a wholesome sexiness and accessibility in Barrymore, Diaz, and Liu that none of the various teamings of TV 'Angels' ever achieved!The pre-title sequence is outrageous, and fabulous! A mad bomber onboard a passenger jet meets his 'contact', a black terrorist in native dress, while watching 'T.J. Hooker - The Movie'(!) Grabbing the bomber, the terrorist crashes through an emergency exit; in free fall, the struggling pair are joined by skydiving Lucy Liu, who tears the bomb away, and hurls it, exploding, into the ocean, then does a controlled chute landing onto a speedboat piloted by Cameron Diaz. The black terrorist then drops, via a hidden chute, onto the boat, rips out a voice scrambler and removes a latex mask (a la 'Mission Impossible 2'), and a perfectly coiffed Drew Barrymore is revealed! The trio zooms, laughing, into the opening credits!Each Angel has a unique backstory...Natalie (Diaz) is an upbeat 'Soul Train'-dancing wannabe who 'shakes her booty' at home in Spider-Man undies, looks for 'Mr. Right', and is a crack driver; Alex (Liu) is a 'leg waxer'/extra on an action movie set, who is a lousy cook, sleeps with the film's star (Matt LeBlanc, in a funny cameo), and is an expert in high-tech gadgets; Dylan (Barrymore) is an ex-high school 'bad girl'/free spirit involved with a seedy, insecure hippie living in a tugboat (humorously portrayed by Tom Green, Barrymore's real-life boyfriend), is a master of disguise, and martial arts.As in the TV series, the Angels work out of the Townsend Detective Agency (still located in the famous colonial brick building), and communicate with the never-seen Charlie (voiced, as always, by John Forsythe) via the telephone. As the trio's liason, Bosley, Bill Murray is simply perfect, hilarious in his patented 'smarmy but lovable' persona!The plot revolves around the kidnapping of a Bill Gates-type computer genius (Sam Rockwell, 'The Green Mile'), and a technology that can pinpoint any person's location, anywhere in the world. The prime suspects are competitor Roger Corwin (Tim Curry, in a delightfully wicked turn!), and his hitman, portrayed with kinky relish by Crispin Glover. Hired by Kelly Lynch (who has a ball in the role of Rockwell's partner!), the Angels embark on a case with all the twists, action, humor, and mayhem that a fan could ask for!Loud, good-natured, and pulsating with a soundtrack of '70s-'80s Top Ten songs, the film combines 'Matrix'-style freeze-frames and slow-motion FX with a ton of Pop Culture references and a swashbuckling sense of derring-do! The film literally rocks, and never lets up!Is this 'Great Cinema'? Certainly not! But in its sheer audacity, and sense of fun, no recent film can match it! And while the original series teased with a visual sex appeal that was was largely ignored in the storylines, the big-screen version has a 'if you got it, flaunt it' attitude that is both refreshing and empowering! This is a 'Girl Power' movie, in the BEST sense of the word!I HIGHLY recommend it!  "},{"Title":"Comic Book Adventure That's Very Entertaining","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   I must admit that I went into Charlie's Angels not expecting to enjoy it. To my surprise, it turned out to be an entertaining movie, if you don't take it too seriously. Based on the 1970s TV series of the same name, this remake is updated to the present and is essentially a comic book come to life. The plot is incidental to the babes, the action and the seemingly impossible array of stunts. It is surely a showcase for the physical attributes of its three female stars.All are given ample opportunity to display their fabulous figures and to wear various fancy super-hero costumes. Some of the situations are taken right from the old Saturday afternoon serials. For example, the three heroines get blown up at least twice, fall off buildings, one even dodges a bullet and all emerge without so much as a scratch or a hair out of place. Starring as the angels are Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and the delectable Lucy Liu. All have the bodies and mischievous twinkles in their eyes to carry all of this nonsense off. Bill Murray as Bosley almost steals the picture. It was good to see him back in form. The only holdover from the TV series is John Forsythe who again provides the voice for the never seen Charlie. Others in the cast include Sam Rockwell and Kelly Lynch as the good guys/bad guys, Tim Curry wasted in a small role and Crispin Glover as a sort of robotic henchman. LL Cool J and Tom Green put in cameo appearances along the way. Charlie's Angels is a fun movie.   "},{"Title":"Awful, just awful. More like an exercise in product placement!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film was supposed to be tongue in cheek as I understand it, but it failed to pull this off in an at all amusing way. The whole story appeared to be driven by how much money they could make on product placement - awful. I am pretty sure it need not have been this bad, Bill Murray, and the Girls seemed wasted. Not since Hudson Hawk have I seen a film with a potentially amusing idea go so badly wrong. "},{"Title":"Was this movie was supposed to be funny?","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie simply put is one long boring music video movie fans.  It's really a shame that Hollywood script writers are so horrible these days that movie producers have to pack pop music into every minute of a film to make up for lack of dialogue.  And what is it with every action movie copying the slow motion Matrix action sequences?  All it this film is is one action scene with music to the next with a sexy pose here and there by Barrymore, Diaz and liu.I thought there was a spec of hope with Bill Murray in this film for an element of comedy, but I came away from this film very disappointed.   "},{"Title":"The Angels were suppose to be BEAUTIFUL weren't they?","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The thing I enjoyed about the TV series was that the gorgeous women paraded around in sexy clothes that showed off their assets.  A real eye candy sort of thing. Loved it.  This film took 3 women that I have seen appear to be beautiful in other films and made them look awful.  Carmen Diaz looked like a scarecrow she was so thin and her hair was so stringy and no makeup. Whoa - can't say I enjoyed going there.  Every now and then Drew Barrymore looked attractive, but not often enough to make a real show of it.  And I don't get the popularity of that third angel.  Her hair is nice I guess.  Bill Murray looked like a derelict.  Then there was the stunts. REALLY BAD.  At least I wasn't expecting much of a story and wasn't disappointed there.  Had to turn it off about 45 minutes into it.  There had to be something else better on TV. "},{"Title":"All I could think about was, man those girls are hot..!!","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Three women, detectives with a mysterious boss, retrieve stolen voice-ID software, using martial arts, tech skills, and sex appeal...Natalie (Cameron Diaz), Dylan (Drew Barrymore) & Alex (Lucy Liu) are the three detectives, nicknamed Charlie's Angels. It was cheesy, stereotypical, but it was fun anyway. I won't go into the plot as it is very predictable. I saw this last night & this is the second time I'm seeing it. The first time I saw it when I was 13 & I thought it was kick-ass at the time. But now, I'm 20 & the plot was not that interesting to me. All I could think about was how exploited these girls were while making the film. They had fun I am sure, but they exposed themselves so much. Still, its fun for a one time watch. I still haven't seen Charlie's Angels 2, maybe it will be better than this. But if IMDb rating is anything to go by, this is better than that. I hope its wrong, because it could be so much more fun. Charlie's face wasn't even shown. I am curious as to might he be. Maybe Full Throttle will give the answers.Cameron Diaz's recent My Sister's Keeper was awesome & her best performance was in that. I'm not a Drew or Lucy fan. Diaz was kind of a wet dream back then, she was so hot. So, see this if you are a fan of the actors or this is just for the teens.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fun and Sexy, but it isn't great","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu take on the roles of Charlies Angels, and its clear they had great fun doing it, thankfully this fun translates to the viewing audience very well, with the help of Bill Murray's comic genius.The actions sequences are a bit of a giggle, especially the fight scenes, which are wonderfully over the top and ridiculous. The story is shallow and dialogue is corny at best, but what the hell, it all helps towards the entertainment in the end.Overall its probably not as good as it could have been, but the essentials are all there and its quite faithful to the original series.6/10 "},{"Title":"Annoying music video. Girl power? Don't make me laugh (or cry).","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I totally agree with most negative reviews on this one. Not much to add except this...Any woman who is interested in strong female characters and real girl power should avoid this film at any cost as it will only insult her intelligence.The movie is a horridly failed attempt at being hip, exciting and fun. The soundtrack is way overdone and does not feature any original music, only tried-and-true chart hits which are swapped for other chart hits every other 10 seconds. Needless to say the film is quite tiresome.Apart from this music video-approach the movie shamelessly copies the Matrix bullet-time camera-work and fake kungfu by actresses who probably can't even beat a 12 year old karate student. All the ridiculous action scenes are completely over-the-top, which was probably intentional, but is equally annoying.Add (or subtract) to this the lame humour, the low believability in what is virtually no plot, and the complete lack of charm of the ladies, and what you have is a film that is a complete insult to the original show. The TV show might have been cheesy but at least it was far more entertaining with charming, beautiful women,who fought with their brains rather than with phoney martial art-moves.Go watch the TV-series and don't waste your time on this turd. 1/10 "},{"Title":"A really dire film.","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I apologise to the fans of this film - but I really didn't like it.To me it was typical of the Hollywood conveyor belt film factory.I'm not too familiar with the TV series - but I had seen a bit. The film wasn't really anywhere near similar. Yes it had feisty lasses taking on the tyranny of the world (kind of) - but that was it.It took itself far too seriously. In points it looked like it was lampooning itself - but it wasn't.Twas transparent and lacklustre. The acting was mediocre - but to be honest, I don't blame the actors. I blame the script for being so void of character.It was obvious that the film was selling on the back of the title. I can imagine a board of men sat round a table with a tick-list of things they want in it  I want skimpy outfits, fighting which shows off the girl's 'assets', some nice cars, and just wing the rest. Poo, absolute poo. "},{"Title":"It's hard not to like the girls","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Whether you like 'Charlie's Angels' or not will probably depend on whether you like watching beautiful ladies Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu and Drew Barrymore. Up to a point I liked it, or actually I liked the fun the women were having with their parts. Especially Diaz and her behind and Barrymore in total really show they have a lot of fun. Another part of the fun comes from Bill Murray who has a lot of moments that will make you smile.What about other things in this film? Story for example. In a film like this that really is the last thing you should worry about. The film is not about story, it is about the three ladies in their action scenes. Admittedly they look great in them, although most of the action scenes were not that great. Again, for watching Diaz, Liu and Barrymore because they are beautiful or to see the fun performers can have 'Charlie's Angels' is worth watching. But for no other reason, I would say. "}{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie i've ever had the misfortune to see","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has a level of pathetic trash that far surpasses even the Blair Witch Project.  This movie insults.(PERIOD).  The list of movie mistakes never ends.  We are supposed to assume that a 115 pound woman can knock over a room full of grown men.  I don't buy it and don't tell me,  well man its supposed to be corny.  That is BULL!!  And you shouldn't buy into it either, because directing is an art and making a corny movie on purpose is every director or movie makers loop hole.  Anytime you hear  well its supposed to be that way, that means that they hired the most mindless, gutless, dumbest cast and crew and just threw millions of dollars at the picture and assumed people would come to see it and judging by its rating, it worked.  I still don't buy it and you'll never find me making movies and sticking a horrible set of actresses on screen just so i can push their butts and chest into the camera and possibly capture those in the audience that invest thousands of dollars into radio equipment.  This movie is trash and poison with no depth or texture or meat.  IT sucks and Larry Flinders cannot be counted as a fan of this trash.  I hope everyone that was a part of this movie reads this.  Thank you, Goodbye!! "},{"Title":"Fallen Angels","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I avoided this movie when it was in the theater and I heard it wasn't so bad so I rented it. Originally I avoided it cause I saw the preview for it and it looked horrible.I guess I should of listened to myself. This movie was so pathetic and insulting that I felt like turning it off after the first 15 mins. Its just an excuse to throw sex, bad acting, bad writing, unconvincing fighting into a movie and hype it up and try to make a profit. The idea that I'd believe that Drew Barrymore and the other two (whats their faces?) can do those kind of martial arts moves are quite insulting to me. It seems like they were just trying to cash in on the Matrix-style kung fu hype. Well I didn't fall for it as I am a martial artist myself. I guess ignorance is bliss and for me to have enjoyed his movie I would have to drink a lot of beer to kill all my brain cells before that'd happen. -5 out of 10. There should be minus ratings. "},{"Title":"Pure Escapism","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   This is the type of movie that will have many intellectuals shake their heads in dismay and sadness at the state of contemporary popular culture.  Millions of dollars were spent making a movie that does not elevate the level of culture, awareness, and in fact only increase the collective mindlessness of entire generations.  Maybe.   Maybe movies, books,TV shows and all art forms should exist not only to entertain, but also elevate us in a way, and make us question ourselves about the human condition and our future as a race and a civilization. Or maybe, just maybe...it should just be  about FUN. This is easily the most FUN movie I have seen in a while.The best? No. The one with the most moving performances? No. The one that made me question myself about my place in this universe? No. The one with the most surprising plot twists? No. But, man,was it FUN! And this movie, with its stunning leading ladies, amazing stunts and special effects, and funny lines and outrageous situations was just...FUN. I forgot about all of my worries and I was entertained and totally engrossed by the movie. Bottom line, the movie going public needs movies like this who are pure escapism- well done and unpretentious-as much as we need movies that are allegedly about something, for the mind, like every part of the body, needs to rest. So, if you are an educated scholar who would rather see obscure French philosophical/psychological dramas about self centered 60 year old men cheating on their 35 year old wives with 19 year old girls, you might not enjoy this movie. But if you do, don't feel bad, it's okay. It was made so you could enjoy it. So, just enjoy it. And go back to reading Kant, Chomsky, Wittgenstein and Kierkegaard and watching Truffaut and Bergman movies to counter the effects of this this trashy pop movie. The rest of you, if you go in the intention of having a good time, this movie will deliver. "},{"Title":"Bears Little resembelence to the TV show and is a bit better then it could have been but not great.","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Charlie's Angels the movie bears little if any resemblance to Charlie's Angels the Television Show and it might be good to keep that in mind. That said-turned out better then it could have. Parts of it are funny but you have to keep in mind it's like watching a movie about 3 different women. None of the 3 angels in the movie have any completely developed, distinct personality, their all sort of these spastic women, but the personalities are not developed, they all kind of mirror each other.This is more a movie to watch for the killer action sequences where Barrymore, Diez and Lu show what they've got with leaps, kicks and other funky action scenes. It's enjoyable in a popcorn sort of way, just don't sit there thinking you'll even get a glimpse of the original Jill, Kelly or Sabrina. "},{"Title":"An impossible to enjoy mess. Certainly not a movie.","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I bet you feel misplaced sometimes. At certain moments, you don't relate to anybody or anything and you feel alone in this world. We all experience that feeling every now and then. One of the times I felt I was from another planet took place inside a theater, and I was watching, despite my resistance, this movie. I was among a cheering, laughing crowd.You might think I was prejudiced. Wrong. Knowing for sure that this movie wasn't my cup of tea, I prepared myself for getting everything I could from it. I wish it contains action, I wish I can laugh I was thinking. Well, the only thing I got was an awful need of walking out.This movie is so downright bad I don't know where to start First, this is not Charlie's Angels. Aside from the fact that three girls are the main characters and they happen to follow the orders from a man called Charlie, there's nothing more in common. All similarities end at that. This movie should be called Three girls and their dumb everyday life or something like that. But even retitled, this movie would stink. And this affirmation takes me to the next mega-flaws.Second, the three girls are stupid. The Cameron Diaz character borders on retarded. But not in a funny way. She's plain stupid and acts like a nerd. I know that is supposed to be funny. Maybe for a 5 year old it is.Third, there is no actual plot, just a badly made up excuse for linking pitiful sketches together. This movie could have lasted 30 minutes or 6 hours. It feels disjointed. It's nothing more than a sucession of sketches.Fourth, the soundtrack. Argh!. I can't even think of it without getting angry. Who in the world made that compilation, a 17 year old boy? It's the most lazy soundtrack in movie history. Every time there's an action/fight scene, some random hip-hop/metal is thrown, even though the song belongs to another emotional planet. It really sounds like someone would have put together a list of last years' most topical hits and played it randomly. The inclusion of Korn's Blind in an action scene can be called blasphemy.Fifth, the action scenes. Over the top, boring, we've seen them all before.Sixth, the pace. This movie simply hasn't. It's a steady sucession of boring action and poor jokes. Don't expect a climax. This is LINEAR. Urgh.As I know there is a word limit, I won't go on. But I could speak easily about 20 awful things in this movie, without thinking too hard.Wait, there's something good. It's Bill Murray, and I feel very sorry for him, because he alone can't raise my rating to a 1.Avoid like plague.RATING 0.4 "},{"Title":"Switch off your brain and relax.","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell), head of a successful software company, is kidnapped, Charlie and his 'angels', Natalie (Cameron Diaz), Dylan (Drew Barrymore) and Alex (Lucy Liu), are hired to rescue the missing man, unaware that they are merely pawns in a complex revenge plot.No matter how dumb this big-screen adaptation of the '70s TV series gets (and it gets REALLY dumb in places), I find it hard to hate too much on any film that steadfastly refuses to take itself seriously, exploits every opportunity to squeeze its babelicious trio of stars into sexy attire, delivers several truly ridiculous action scenes, and features Crispin Glover as a creepy kung-fu kicking villain with a unique way of smoking a cigarette.Some of the silliness can start to grate (yes, Tom Green, I'm talking about you!), but the gratuitous eye-candy and excessive scenes of mayhem more than make up for any cringe-worthy moments, best bits being the OTT opening that quickly establishes the 'anything goes' comic-book tone, Crispin Glover's alleyway brawl with the girls, Diaz dancing in her pants, and the sexy trio dressed as German milkmaids (patting each others' heinies to an Oompah tune).6.5 out of 10, rounded up to 7 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"It entertains mindlessly","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When it comes to female leads in action roles, the names Angelina Jolie or Milla Jovovich may come to mind. They play serious roles with a tad bit of wisecracks and a bunch of violence, specifically with weapons. When that genre is flipped on its head and made into an action comedy, it then fits for a different set of actresses. In some ways, this movie is the definition of how masculine a chick flick can possibly get. It still has all the basic set-ups for a chick flick, but this time it includes explosions and hand-to-hand combat. There's nothing wrong with that particular element, but as a whole it really doesn't have any substance that defines itself from other chick flicks of that decade (other than its explosions and combat).Charlie's Angels (2000) is another cinema adapted TV show from the 1970s that hoped to capitalize on its nostalgic feel while mixing in Hollywood's biggest grabs at the time. Our main protagonists are Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu as the spy trio who take orders from a faceless billionaire named by Charlie (voice by John Forsythe). Helping them in their travels and spy tactics is Bosley (Bill Murray). When they receive a distress call about a scientist (Sam Rockwell) being kidnapped, they head out to infiltrate and save him. This is all fine but everything else involved in the writing is fairly one-dimensional. I'm guessing because all three writers were guys and they had no clue what to include except the cliché things.Problems arise in the movie's plot when the story tries to focus on each of the Spys' personal lives. Each Angel is in the state of Ugh, I can't find a way to balance my professional career with my social life. Though somehow, one would think when they agreed to work for Charlie they would've understood that from the start. Besides, these particular subplots didn't go anywhere anyway. There wasn't much closure at all other than what you would expect when it came to the main plot. Along with that are either some obvious sexual humor, meaning to play off of the female leads. Some of it might produce a chuckle but sometimes it painstakingly bad. There's even some jokes that may not be understood at all.There are also appearances from other actors you wouldn't expect to see too often. Matt LeBlanc, Tom Green, Luke Wilson, Crispin Glover and even Tim Curry. Sadly everyone mentioned before Curry gets more screen time than he does. Tim Curry will always be an underrated actor and he should've been given more screen time. How do you shorthand Tim Curry? But Curry did at least sumo fight Murry. That was funny. When it came to action however, it entertained. Hand-to-hand combat is always more interesting to watch than constant explosions because there is always room for improvisation. This also what helps make this movie more fun than a normal chick flick because our three main leads have not taken on very many action roles in their career. It's a nice turn.Of course a number of action sequences aren't believable at times but they at least will keep the attention of the viewer. That's important. The camera-work was fairly steady and the cinematography by Russell Carpenter looked good. It wasn't breath taking, but there were nice set pieces and backgrounds he did get shots of. The music by Ed Shearmur was interesting at best. There were moments where he was able to create some good tension while at other times it didn't work or there was contemporary music played instead. Mehh,...it was alright. What did surprise me was how many times the movie tried to make references to angels in general. Come on, we get it. No need to hammer it in to our skulls. It's an OK film.Its humor helps slightly in its favor along with likable leads, fun action and underrated supporting actors like Bill Murry and Tim Curry. Yet, it still can't remove itself from feeling like a chick flick. "},{"Title":"Women's Work","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Is it a crass rehash of an old TV series that wasn't that great to begin with? Or is it a clever distillation of 1970s entertainment spruced up with a welcome blend of comedy and flash style? I can't really decide, but Charlie's Angels manages to earn its wings, if not a halo.Sorry. Be warned, though, there are a lot of bad puns in this movie. Charlie's Angels never makes the mistake of taking itself too seriously, and if you don't either, you can have a bit of fun.The set-up is instantly familiar for those of us old enough to remember the ABC-TV series. Three beautiful young women work as private detectives for a mysterious millionaire, who gives them impossible assignments they carry out with ease. The latest job involves a computer tycoon named Knox who is kidnapped, apparently by a rival. The Angels set out to save him, then find out the case is more complicated than it appears.That's not really important, though. The big question Which Angel does the best hair flip? I have to say its Lucy Liu, though Cameron Diaz's short hair doesn't give her much to work with and Drew Barrymore's Angel with attitude isn't really flipping her hair unless she's in a fight, which kind of buries that bit of business for her. Not much else distracts from the hotitude of the stars, suggesting that the trainers on set were Oscar-worthy even if the cast wasn't.The script is kind of weak, not that the show itself ever was St. Elsewhere. Caught wearing only a bedsheet in a guy's apartment, Barrymore's character is asked if she's working undercover.More funny are the exaggerated references to how deadly these pretty ladies really are. They come on all lovey-dovey, until they find out I can shatter a cinderblock with my forehead, sighs Liu. Here at least the comedy works as a kind of running gag worth pursuing.This silliness is abetted by Bill Murray as Bosley, the Angels' major domo, working his comedy mojo in a lazy but effective way, describing a jail as looking like Cher's bedroom. Diaz has the most fun with her part, as Natalie the klutzy cutie, showing off a wonderful body as well as some fine comic chops left over from There's Something About Mary. Whatever happened to her, anyway? I also really like Crispin Glover, as a bad guy who never says a word but steals every scene he's in with creepy gusto. Too bad the film never seems to know what to do with him, though at least he's not wasted like Tim Curry is here.For the most part, director McG and his writing team just use the story as an excuse for action scenes that are often impressive but don't make sense or connect up with anything else. These Angels are hard to distinguish from bad guys, as they crash cars, depressurize airliner cabins, and generally wreak all kinds of havoc on unsuspecting civilians. You aren't supposed to wonder about all this because, well, it's that kind of film.And that's fine, when the film does as much as this one to keep you diverted. That's all you get here, and all you really need. I mean, if you are going to watch a film called Charlie's Angels, you shouldn't expect tight plotting and stuff. Just sit back and enjoy the ride. I did. "},{"Title":"All hail, the new Charlie's Angels","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm surprised it took them till the year 2000 to make a Charlie's Angels film given how popular the series was.It still has the essence of the TV show- 3 independent and feisty woman who can look after themselves and don't need guns to do it but they have made the angels more up to date to fit the modern world.I loved the cast, I can't imagine any other actresses playing the roles other than Lucy Liu, Cameron Diaz and Drew Barrymore, they just suit those roles brilliantly, they had great chemistry which wasn't forced, they actually looked like they were having a good time.It was fabulous to have the original Charlie (John Forsythe)playing the Charlie in this, he has such a wonderful and rich voice. It was also fantastic to have the very funny Bill Murray in it, what a bonus. I really loved him in Ghostbusters, it was a shame he wasn't in the second Charlie's Angels film. "},{"Title":"Faithful reproduction but still as fluffy and ridiculous as the original - 62%","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Being a product of the Eighties, I missed most of the bubblegum TV shows of the Seventies like Starsky & Hutch, The Love Boat and of course, Charlie's Angles. But seeing as Hollywood apparently ran out of original ideas some time ago, the never-ending trend of revisiting the small screen means that I have a chance to get a feeling of what these shows may have been like. But are these faithful reproductions accurate or simply lazy film-making with a knowing wink at the fan boy audience? In case the show passed you by, Charlie's Angels is about a team of three sexy, sassy ladies working undercover as crime-fighting detectives. Natalie (Cameron Diaz) is the party-loving blonde one, Dylan (co-producer Drew Barrymore) is the wild-child brunette and Alex (Lucy Liu) is the cold-fish black haired Asian chick. Sorry if that sounds sexist but that's just the way it is and certainly their mysterious boss Charlie and his assistant Bosley (Bill Murray) have no complaints. The case they're working on is the kidnapping of IT boss Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell) and the theft of his top-secret voice recognition software but as the girls preen, karate-kick and flick their hair towards solving the case, it appears that the Angels themselves face a threat none of them ever expected.Never the most ground-breaking of shows, Charlie's Angels still has a strong cult following which gives some clues into how well loved the original TV show was. But this candy-floss light tribute will surely strain the patience of the most ardent of fans. Feeling like a bizarre spin-off of The Matrix (even showing us slo-mo bullets spinning in flight) doesn't do the movie any favours - such gimmickry was already becoming old-hat by the time this movie was released - and the insistence of using kung-fu feels quite silly when Diaz's giant frame drifts across the screen like someone throwing a stick. The blame is solely Barrymore's - her influence as producer meant that this was the way it had to be but she can't be blamed for the sub-standard acting. All three Angels are little more than cardboard cut-out stereotypes but Murray and Rockwell also struggle to make any impact. But the worst performer by a mile is Barrymore's then-squeeze Tom Green as Chad. Devoid of genuine humour, charm or point, he made my head hurt simply by speaking!Harsh words but taken for what it is, Charlie's Angels is still a mildly enjoyable movie despite the near-endless list of faults. The story makes a surprising twist halfway through and it is kinda fun if you switch your brain off. But like I said, I have no recollection of the original to compare this to and judging by the lack of enthusiasm on IMDb, it seems that even actual fans find this chick-friendly rehash a little tiresome. Yes, it might be faithful to the original but what's the point when the original was flawed to begin with? These remakes need something more to update them than simply changing the cast - look at the recent Bewitched movie as proof, a film so bad I'd rather be turned into a newt than watch it again. This is much better than that but if nothing else, at least you can watch three beautiful women on screen being as provocative as they dare. But if you're looking for a gripping, exciting, twisting spy thriller than go watch the Jason Bourne movies. "}{"Title":"Biggest surprise","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was at my girlfriends with no movies she wanted to watch except a couple of video's brassed off, notting hill and Charlie's angels.....the latter two i always believed to be chick flicks and not really up my end of the street. Eventually we decided on putting Charlie's angels on...and i got ready for a couple hours kip......was i wrong! From the off a quirky joke keeps you amused and action starts straight away, now the greatest thing about this film aside from the supporting cast of actors, is the directors vision that people would see the film as 'cheesy' so the film has a tongue in cheek look to it where you can laugh with the director rather than at him.To refer back to my earlier statement about the supporting cast....it is fantastic, the biggest of them all being the legend 'Bill Murray' who plays Bosley and he never fails to bring a smile or make you laugh. 'Tom Green' is at his usual clownish self (i'm convinced he writes his own script lines?) and 'Matt LeBlanc' is natural playing an actor (like his role in friends so he has had enough practise) and boyfriend to 'Lucy Liu'. The girls themselves are fantastic and all look a bunch of fun to be around, 'Cameron Diaz' has innocent sex appeal while Drew and Lucy have kick ass sex appeal. so there is something for everyone! This is not a film that could have been done without a great director and amazing cast, having a bunch of nobodies would have looked the wrong sort of cheesy and not appealed to anyone, but to see your favourite Hollywood superstars having a laugh and plenty of fun is worth watching alone, this is not a must see, but defo a worth see if nothing else is on......... "},{"Title":"Rabies-inducing superficiality","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The whole genre of action comedy was long dead or completely under control of unintended seriousness until these super babes came to make things look even worse. If the situation was bad before this came out, it turned completely upside down with the new Charlie's Angels the same unseriousness that was peculiar to Terence Hill and Bud Spencer, was revitalized by the new edition of rocking super chicks.To some people the best from angels is like the worst from James Bond, but I'd heavily suggest contrary interpretation. There is no use to go back into original angels, who were more angelic than these ones, but instead, by creating new angels that are modelled after contemporary idea of more superficial heroines, we get rid of the junk that the whole action genre has been producing during last few decades with the worst actors in Hollywood. Even if this is morally not the best way to improve modern cinema, the creative destruction of these angels, or Charlie's Demons, has an impact that will eventually twist the crap out of the whole action genre. "},{"Title":"Wicked fun!","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" CHARLIE'S ANGELS (2000)starring Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu, Bill Murray, John Forsythe, Sam Rockwell, Kelly Lynch, Tim Curry, Crispin Glover, Luke Wilson, Matt LeBlanc.plot Three private detectives (Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu) work for the unseen Charlie (voiced by John Forsythe) and take on a new case of stolen ID-software. But when they discover too much about the core plan, they are targeted for assassination!the good Based on the 70's television series, this action-packed comedy-thriller is full of fun! It has the Angels trying to sort out their private lives while also kicking ass as detectives. The action scenes are full of suspense and fun. I like how there is an individual Angel for everyone. Natalie (Diaz) is the fun, dorky and ditzy one who loves to dance and fight. Dylan (Barrymore) is the bad ass, sexy rebellious one, and Alex (Liu) is the smart and most talented one who mostly uses her brain. Bill Murray is also great as their Bosley, and Forsythe has a great voice. I also loved to hate the villains, except The Thin Man (Crispin Glover) was great.This is an awesome film which manages to be a hilarious comedy, an action-packed adventure film and a suspenseful thriller all at the same time!the bad There was not much bad in this film, its just a no-brainer fun action comedy/thriller!*** "},{"Title":"How many of Charlie's Angels fit on the Head of a Pin?","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Charlie's Angels 8/10 Reading the major press reviews I am struck by a time travel quality of their pans. It is as if they are watching another movie entirely. It's as if they were watching the leaden Charlie's Angels sequel Full Throttle. The first Angels however is a great movie if you keep three things in mind. It is mindless. It is fun. It is mindless fun. Never has eye candy had so many empty calories. As nutritious for your brain as a deep-fried Twinkie and with about as much substance, Charlie's Angels is about as quintessential a summer movie as you can get. This is not a bad thing. With a great soundtrack, three hot girls, solid supporting cast and non-stop action even brainless fun can be&#133; well good. It is not easy to make a film this shallow, this entertaining. (As the sequel proved and come to think of it dozens of movies prove every summer.) In reality there is a fine line between fluffy, bubble headed, featherbrained fun and feeble-minded, half-witted, imbecilic drudgery. Charlie's Angels stays solidly on the featherbrained, fluffy side. It is that rather rare film that is smart enough to keep it simple and needless to say mindlessly fun. "},{"Title":"Okay, I guess 5/10","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It doesn't take a geniouse to figure out the storyline for Charlie's Angels. Three gorgeous ladies Natalie (Cameron Diaz), Dylan (Drew Barrymore) and Alex (Lucy Liu) form a 3 person elite crime fighting unit backed by anonymous millionaire Charles Townsend. With the help and guidance of Bosley (Bill Murray) the angels are sent out on a case that involves the kidnapping of Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell) and some stolen computer technology that could lead to the end of privacy as we know it. All this while they try to remain pretty and attempt to maintain normal relationships with their respective beaus.How do the angels accomplish the hard task of tracking down a kidnapper and stolen computer software. Why with some hard-core action which looks like something straight out of the Matrix CA's stunts were supervised and choreographed by Cheung-Yan Yuen who's brother just happened to be involved in the Matrix. Throughout the film Nat, Dylan and Alex seem to fly through the air seamlessly performing all these death defying stunts without even breaking a nail.Nothing Special, just watch it for the girls. "},{"Title":"Not bad but could have been a lot better","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I tried my best to avoid this movie but I happen to see this not to long ago on TV. If it wasn't for Crispin Glover and Sam Rockwell this movie would have been beyond horrible. I expected the cheese and it being unrealistic (plenty of that). Glover did an excellent job as the Thin Man, they should have had more of him in the movie. Actually in my opinion he should have killed them all. This movie was trying to hard to be like the Matrix. This movie is worth seeing maybe once if there is absolutely nothing else to do. The movie soundtrack is not that bad, at least it fit the movie. Just for the Thin Man I give this movie a 5 out of 10, other than that it is pretty horrible. "},{"Title":"Great brainless fun *Possible Spoilers*","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Great brainless fun with enjoyable performances. I enjoyed this movie on a no brainer level but not anything more then that. The 3 girls are great are are VERY sexy and HOT!. However the 2 main villains are weak and were very bland. The action is great and some of the stunts were incredible!. This had lots of laughs too especially from Bill Murray. there isn't much blood at all except a face thrown into glass, a bloody gunshot wound and a slit throat (off screen). oh! and Tim Curry and Bill Murray sumo wrestling!. the acting is fine. Cameron Diaz is EXTREMELY gorgeous and a very talented actress she had a great smile and her scenes with Luke Wilson was a hoot!. Drew Barrymore is VERY cute and energetic and lots of fun to watch, plus she is just so adorable and looks like a fun person to hang around with. Lucy Liu is the serious one of the bunch but she is very pretty and also fun to watch i liked her lots. Bill Murray is hilarious here and cracked me up several times. Sam Rockewell is VERY bland as one of the the main villains and he annoyed the heck out of me. Kelly Lynch is also rather weak and bland. Luke Wilson is great here and loved his scenes with Diaz. Crispin Glover is GREAT here and should have been the main villain he was menacing!. Tim Curry Matt LeBlanc and Tom Green are good in there short roles. OH! Drew Barrymore even wears a Stone Cold T shirt at one point (Yay)! (he rocks). Overall well worth the watch for a night of brainless fun. ***1/2 out of 5 i can't wait so see Charlie's Angels full throttle!. "},{"Title":"Something has to be said about some of the actors in this Film","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is in one word, goodstuff. Watching it once will tell you, hey, That was a good little piece of entertainment. Studying it more closely, you might start to think, Wow, this movie was really quite a bit more. Where to begin? Well, for starters, we have to take into account the movie is not meant to be realistic or heart warming. It is an action.espionage movie in the style of Mission Impossible and James Bond with a lot of relish. Relish, you ask?Well, relish just means, it's done in a slightly more amateurish way. You wouldn't mistake it for James Bond because, it's those movies meets The Matrix hard, plus the main characters are femmes fatales who can break cinder blocks with their foreheads. I don't know about you, but I never saw James Bond do that. But if you like hot chicks, good action, and parts brilliant acting/role playing, then this one really does good. I can already hear some of you questioning, good acting? No one here might have won an Oscar, no, but there's a few characters in this movie that you will either LOVE or HATE to the extremes of the natures of who they are, and that is always what marks a part played at the highest level of the art.This brings us to the beautiful femmes fatales Lui, Berrymore, and Diaz. Every one of these actresses plays their role extremely well, almost to perfection. Can you picture any of these roles being played by another actress better? That's the question I ask to judge their performances, and if you even have somewhat of an internal debate about it, it means that yes they all did a great job. Diaz was scintillating. Berrymore was a treat. And Lui was just the cherry on the cake, delivering the brain thrust on a team of already brainy yet beautiful heroines. You'll see Lui come through in her role as the one who beyond all the action, is a quiet leader on the team. She is assertive, something we've all seen before in 'Ally MacBeal', but she is accessible in this film. Her character is different in how human she is with her personal problems, and how she opens up to people around her about them. The star of the whole show, in my opinion, is a little guy called Eric Knox, played by Sam Rockwell. I won't tell you who he is exactly in the film, but he plays his role to perfection. You'll see what I mean. It must be noted that here that success in a particular role depends on how well you can get an audience to react to you. In this movie, Rockwell depicts his role in such a way which elicits the strongest emotion toward someone that is either the worst and lowest slime you think could exist, or the purest angel (no pun intended). We can finish off with last but not least, Mr. Bill Murray. Almost like a character who in the general scheme of things, really doesn't matter, his touch of incompetence and his natural humor really punches through to rounding out the good guy theme and the central theme in the movie, that beautiful with funny can be a wonderful combination on the big screen. Bill Murray is a priceless addition to this cast, and it is a dire shame he was not brought back for Charlie's Angels 2.  "},{"Title":"Make up and firepower","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  That is quite a weird combination. And this is one weird movie. Cute girls fight, jump, and do all sorts of crazy stuff and their make up manages to stay perfect!The plot is dull and the story uninspired, as with the action scenes. McG tries to get some cool Matrix stunts in but it all doesn't hold together. Too much make up.Though, admittedly the Angels are hot just not believable as action heroines. In the original show there was less make up and more grittiness and a good update would have kept that. Brainless and cheesy entertainment that guys will probably enjoy for the skin. 5/10  "},{"Title":"Action packed fun and laughs!","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Charlie's AngelsStarring Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu, Sam Rockwell, Tim Curry, Tom Green and Bill MurrayGenre Action/Adventure/Comedy/MysteryRated PG-13This movie is based on the popular 1970's TV-series called Charlie's Angels. Charlie's private investigation company is addressed by programmer Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell), owner of Knox Technologies, whose revolutionary voice-recognition software has been stolen. Charlie's Angels Natalie (Cameron Diaz), Dylan (Drew Barrymore) and Alex (Lucy Liu) are sent to place a bug in the system of bitter rival Roger Corwin (Tim Curry), who is under strong suspicion. But after the deed is done, the Angels and their boss Bosley (Bill Murray) face the fact of a destroyed home base as well as Charlie's life in immediate danger. But how do you protect someone you never met? One thing a little weird about Drew Barrymore's character in this movie is that she falls for the guys that turn out to be the bad guys. This is yet another movie that is based on a TV-series movie classic along with Wild Wild West, Starsky and Hutch and Mission Impossible. I also liked at the credits when they where showing the bloopers! After this they made sequel that came out in 2003 which was another success! Action filled and funny too! Fun movie! "}{"Title":"Great Flick Based On The Original Television Series","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so, there are times when I am a sucker for movies based on television shows. Seeing as how I was a huge fan of the original television series, I decided to give this one a try and I was not disappointed.At least with the movie, they had a bigger budget to make the action sequences a lot more enjoyable and Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu do a fine job as the three newest Charlie's angels.The only one they bring back from the television series, though, is John Forsythe, the voice of Charlie. That seemed rather fitting, although I'm not sure why the chose Bill Murray to play Bosley, unless it was for comic relief. "},{"Title":"Dubious achievement women can make mindless actioners too","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CHARLIE'S ANGELS (2000) ** Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu, Bill Murray, Tim Curry, Sam Rockwell, Crispin Glover, Kelly Lynch, Luke Wilson, Matt Le Blanc, Tom Green, LL Cool J (Cameo); John Forsythe (Voice only).  Big-budgeted, action packed yet dim-witted big screen extravaganza adaptation of the classic 70's jiggle detective tv series with the three hotties Diaz, Barrymore & Liu as the latter-day saints assigned by eccentric millionaire Charlie to find a kidnapped software magnate (Rockwell) with the help of their buddy/protector/confidante Bosley (Murray almost completely wasted) and stop a global high-tech take-over ala warmed over Bondian plotlines.  Kinetic editing and `Matrix'-like enhanced kick-ass martial arts with slick production values still can't breathe life into this giggly, anemic mess that has a few guilty pleasure moments (Diaz white-girlin' her groove thing on Soul Train; Barrymore dispatching some burly goons) can't sustain much interest.  The action sequences feel like watching the MTV Movie Awards during the nominees for Best Action Sequence/Best Fight with appropro music co-ordinated with the action at hand. Trivia note that's the exact same house from `E.T' during Barrymore's nude tumbling stunt (!)  (Dir McG) "},{"Title":"High style, high energy","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Conceived as MTV on speed, 'Charlie's Angels' is one of those rare movies with no aspirations other than to go have fun. Whether it works for everyone is another matter, but for those of us who have suffered through more cinematic garbage of late than a refuse team collects on its rounds, it's a relief to find something which glories in its own daftness. The three leads are perfectly cast and director McGinty displays genuine mastery of a genre which many attempt but in which too many fail. Neither serious nor cerebral, here's a popcorn movie that really does pop from improbable start to implausible finish. Enjoy.Rating 8/10  "},{"Title":"What is this?","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Making a cinematic experience out of Charlie's Angels should have been an easy task, right? Breaking news Making a complete mess out of it was even easier!So what do we have here? A totally predictable story. The movie attempts to throw a couple of surprises at us, but these can be seem coming without any effort.A bunch of CGI scenes (actually, a lot!) slapped together. Don't get me wrong, CGI scenes are cool. When done right, that is. In Charlie's Angels, such scenes aren't used to a good effect. They drop in for no apparent reason, and the exaggeration in the girls' acting merely reinforces the fact that each of these scenes looks ugly. There's also a big problem in a movie when the CGI is one of the few redeeming traits of the whole flick.Horrible (and I mean it!) fighting. Diaz and Barrymore are atrocious in their fighting scenes. Lui is okay, but that's mainly because she already knew how to fight before they got training for the movie. On the other hand, the poses and taunts they pull for no apparent reason will irritate anybody who knows how to appreciate fight scenes.Hilariously bad and repetitive action sequences. When these action sequences aren't bad, they are either too repetitive or simply too far-fetched. Unfortunately, describing them would be considered as spoilers. On the other hand, this constraint does have the advantage of me not causing you to vomit (yes, the action scenes really are that bad!).Of course, some may argue that the sole fact that Diaz, Liu and Barrymore play in the movie may make it somewhat enjoyable. But it doesn't. Their acting here isn't on par with their performance in their other movies (although thankfully, there's still Tim Curry to save the day, but you don't see that much of him anyway). Blame the script and the complete absence of a real flow for that.In 5 words Don't watch this movie!   "},{"Title":"Only For Brainless Children","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is a rather dire affair, I don't need to tell you what it is because you willprobably know, it follows the New angels,Drew Barrymore (Dylan), Cameron Diaz (Natalie) and Lucy Liu (Alex) on the most over the top special-effects ride of your life, some nice bits (ho,ho,ho), but mainly rubbish action sequences and terrible plot. Worth watching with a brainless 8-15 year old. *1/2 out of 4  "},{"Title":"Fine action and humor, and ... an extremely beautiful Cameron Diaz!!","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie contains both good action scenes and humor. And I just loved the way Cameron Diaz looks in a number of scenes (dreaming, dancing at home, smiling in order to make an impression at a bar-tender, dancing on stage). I think Cameron Diaz is one of the most attractive actresses ever, certainly when playing Nathalie Cook.The only weak point is that the bad guy thinks Charlie killed his father, and only wants to get revenge/justice... so, I think the bad guy is not really such a bad guy -(But never mind, for each Cameron Diaz fan certainly a must-see!!  "},{"Title":"Good morning, Angels!","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a fun movie to watch based on the TV series, Charlie's Angels. The crime fighters, played by Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu, each gave a solid performance and delivered some butt-kicking action sequences. They are assigned to rescue a kidnapped computer programmer, who claims is a victim of a competing corporate officer. As the rescue mission go on in this fast-paced film, it leads to a climax with a twist.It is a treat to hear 1960s to 1980s songs serving as background entertainment in the movie, giving you a nostalgia feel. All the Angels' disguises, poses and dances help give us a very entertaining film. My dad and I had a blast watching it.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Utter crap...good music, though...","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The main problem with this movie, besides the banal dialogue(Flip...your goddamn...hair.), is that everybody seems to be doing their own thing. Cameron Diaz is basically doing a best-of package(i.e. shaking her non-existant ass, which is a shame, since she's underrrated as an actress), Drew Barrymore is trying once again to be a punk girl, and Lucy Liu is being Lucy Liu, as well as Bill Murray channeling his Ghostbusters character.HOWEVER, I am coming to Tom Green's defense here.  I hate him.  He is one of the worst comedians on the face of the planet.  However, Chad was probably the only funny part of this film.  I did like Natalie's nightclub scene at the very beginning, though. "},{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" While some purists were disappointed in this work, I found it quite refreshing. There is the appropriate tongue-in-cheek fun, indicative of the massively - popular 70's television series; clever humor, and a wonderful story line.This movie is the absolute epitome of everything the Charlie's Angels series was intelligent women, doing an incredibly hard job, and managing to have fun while doing it.The performances were everything we've come to expect from these veteran actors, and Bill Murray was perfect as Bosley. Too bad his argument with Lucy Lu will keep him from continuing this franchise.The effects were well done, the plot was classic Charlie's Angels fare and the entire production was very well executed.I loved this movie. I found it very entertaining.On a more mature note, I find it distressing that a whole new generation of young women will have an unrealistic mental vision of what a woman should look like. It rates an 8.1/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Matrix with girls!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Note Crispin Glover is the best actor here!This is what The Matrix would be if you removed the plot and decent actors. Based on the old TV show of the same name (And still featuring John Forsythe as the always heard and never seen Charlie) The Angels this time round are Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu and the best of the bunch Drew Barrymore, the plot involves the Angels trying to stop a software that will allow tracing of mobile phones with satellites (Actually I didn't pay much attention to the plot) and so the Angels go out kicking ass.This film should be watched in a state of extreme drunkeness, do not try to attach any importance or sense of realism to the endless bouts of Kung Fu and explosions, including the massive brawl in the alley with Crispin Glover's Creepy Thin Man character.For mindless entertainment its hard to beat9/10 "}{"Title":"Good morning, Angels!","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't watch the TV show, but I basically knew what the story was about.  I must say that this film is so off-the-wall, it's unbelieveable, but it's still very enjoyable.The three angels are okay, with Lucy Liu giving the best performance in my opinion.  Cameron Diaz is just so airheaded that I can't believe it.  Drew Barrymore is rather good as the tough chick Angel Dylan.  Bill Murray has some funny moments as the long-suffering Bosley.  Tim Curry is great as the slimy Roger Corwin.  I was rather disappointed that he wasn't in the film longer, but I guess you can't have everything.  BACK TO THE FUTURE's Crispin Glover is very creepy as the silent Thin Man.  He is one of the coolest bad guys that have been in recent films.The plot is very funny, but it relies a bit too much on the Angels using their sexuality to advance the situation.  The choice of music for the film and the action sequences are all brilliant.  The one thing I could have done without was the cameo from Drew Barrymore's then-husband Tom Green.  At least he's not in it long.  This is just a great, fun movie and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Brainless movie for brainless people *mild spoilers*","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For the record, I have NEVER watched the old TV show, though I don't see how it could much affect my opinion on this film.This film is absolute garbage.  Period.  As an action movie, it sucks.  As a comedy, it sucks.  As an ironic pop culture parody - it sucks.The plot?  Let's be honest do you (you as in the average moviegoer) go to a film starring who are considered three of the most beautiful actresses in Hollywood for the PLOT?  Didn't think so.  I wasn't expecting The Godfather or The Lion King, but come on!I enjoy a lot of what are considered brainless action movies the first two Terminators (haven't seen the third yet), Men In Black, Independence Day, Shanghai Noon, Rush Hour The Mummy and The Mummy Returns, almost all of the James Bond movies - so do not say anything about my not liking films in this very broad genre.  It is style, enjoyability, and, in some cases (though admittedly not all), originality that make these films enjoyable.  Hell, I liked Star Wars Episode I.The acting - well, it's about as good as you can get with the material. The three leads - Barrymore, Diaz, and Liu - sorry to relate, are not attractive to me personally in anyway, and though they seem to be having fun with the material, that does not affect me at all.  Crispin Glover, Tim Curry, and especially Bill Murray add some layers of dignity and enjoyability to the film, but they're not enough.  Not NEARLY enough.  The humor is lame; I SNICKERED (I wouldn't call it an out-and-out laugh) ONCE, when someone called Alex (the Lucy Liu character) a b!tch.  Reflecting back on it, I wonder why I thought THAT was funny.And of course, the film drives home the ironic satire in too large of doses to take.  Like when LL Cool J complains about movies based on TV shows made in the '70s - tee-hee.  That's the kind of so-called satire that is NOT FUNNY, because it is not subtle at all - rather, it is EXPLAINING a joke (and in the case, I fear, the entire premise of this movie) to the audience. This is a problem with many movies and TV shows these days; they think they're clevering spoofing themselves and admitting that hey, we're not the greatest film ever, when in fact it is just annoying, and in some cases, painful.I can think a few reasons to see this movie if you are attracted to any of the three female leads; if you like stupid action movies with no plot, no story, and an over-reliance on unoriginal and boring special effects; if you have ADD; and if you want to see good and generally funny actors like Tim Curry and Bill Murray soldiering their way through impossible material.Two stars, and that's being generous.P.S. In case you didn't get my point, I have no intention of ever seeing the sequel. "},{"Title":"Good mindless fun!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you are looking for something to ponder over, most definitely this is the wrong film. However, if you have just come from work and want to relax by potatoing on the couch, watching three sexy gals have a very improbable time of their lives, wearing uncomfortable but sexy clothing, which probably explains the very bad stunting, this is the movie! Cameron gets to be her goofy self, Drew get to scream, sometimes very unnecessarily, and Lucy gets to be just hot and really smart. I love her in this movie. "},{"Title":"total crap (except for Crispin Glover)","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was soooo painful to watch. If Crispin Glover's character (The only thing in the movie with an iota of substance)could have just killed the three main characters twenty minutes into the film thus giving me the pleasure of watching Crispin kick the crap out of three of the most one-dimensional actresses in Hollywood, and saving me from the agony of the last hour of the film, then the film might have been saved. Instead it is an hour and a half of cutesy filler, and cheesy fight scenes.  "},{"Title":"VIP on steroids","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow, this movie was really, really BAD...In fact, I don't know a lot of people who found it good. I watched this movie at a party, and it was so boring and ditzy that we actually switched it off...and we've watched some pretty dumb movies...(like joy ride...one of the worst movies EVER)..There was no plot in Charlie's Angels..and what was up with all the shirt-removing/dumb blonde bits? If the purpose of this movie was to empower women, it failed MISERABLY. It traded in the woman in distress role into big-breasted woman who has no brains and just happens to win all her fights role. Frankly, the old Charlie's Angels were ten times better, and I CAN'T believe they made a sequel to a crappy movie like this one. I give it 0.5 out of 5 stars (0.5 for the special effects) "},{"Title":"Too few diamonds, too much rough","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is a remake of the 70s series, buy beyond having three female characters in the role of special detectives that work for a guy named Charlie and a sidekick named Bosley, the resemblance seems to end there. But then, few modern movie rehashes are faithful, so I shan't harp on that point too much.Let's start with the few good parts. The women are beautiful, naturally. Their characters are not as bad as you might think. I think Natalie (Diaz) and Dylan (Barrymore) have some depth to them, and I thought that the juxtaposition of Natalie's real life to her crimefighting life made for some interesting and humorous scenes. Alex (Liu) comes across as the weakest character.The action scenes were intense, but it was here that I began to wrinkle my nose. The action scenes suffer from serious matrix envy. Right now, filming stop action sequences like this are all the rage, but resorting to every visually interesting special effects gimmick at the drop of a hat seem desperate and out of place in the film.The main villain is, well, unconvincing and annoying, and display an over-the-top hipper than thou attitude that totally shatters any sense of fear or believability in the character. The adrenaline soundtrack and pop-culture references that pervade the movie means that the movie itself also bleeds the same hipper-than-thou attitude.Finally, the movie features the desperately un-funny Tom Green desperately trying to be funny in his all-too-frequent appearances as Chad.In the final analysis, the film tries to be cute, hip, funny, and action packed, but all of those elements trip over one another in what is little more than an assault on the senses. "},{"Title":"Pure Action, Pure Comedy... Pure Genius!!!","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Based on the 1970's television series Charlie's Angels we are presented with a movie based on the biggest mission the girls have ever had to complete... Can they do it??We begin on a plane where Mr. Jones (LL Cool J) is on his way to first class, despite the flight attendants initial belief that he wasn't a first class ticket holder.  Many comical events are going on in the scene... including a young couple clearly about to embark on a mission to join the mile high club.He takes his seat right at the front of the plane and has a coded discussion with the man in the seat next to him and asks him where the bomb is&#133;The man reveals the bomb, attached to himself.  Mr. Jones grabs the man, opens the emergency door on the plane and jumps out.  We see a spectacular chain of events unfold as Mr. Jones sky dives with the villain and manages to make them both land in a boat piloted by none other than Natalie Cook (Cameron Diaz) with the assistance of Dylan Sanders (Drew Barrymore).  All at the same time as making sure the bomb is detached from the villain, exploding in mid air.Whilst the villain is screaming his head off at the man who just threw him out of a plane, Mr. Jones removes his outfit and takes off his face (literally) to reveal that it is only a mask and it is really Alex Munday (Lucy Liu).  We are then introduced to the trio of angels one at a time and the scene is set.  These are Charlie's Angels, an elite trio of secret investigators who follow instruction from Charles Townsend. Who nobody has ever met, he exists only in the form of his voice (John Forsythe).Assisted by their friend and associate John Bosley (Bill Murray), they are to take on a new assignment.  Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell), owner of Knox Technologies has been kidnapped and his revolutionary voice recognition software has been stolen.  His partner, Vivian Wood (Kelly Lynch) believes that their business rival Roger Corwin (Tim Curry) may have something to do with it.  Roger Corwin is the proud owner of his very own technology firm and has a number of very powerful satellites orbiting the planet.  With this voice recognition software integrated with the satellites, he would be able to pin point the exact location of any individual on the planet by a simple phone call.  A Very dangerous tool in the hands of the wrong person.  The girls need to make sure the voice recognition software is found and Corwin's satellites are not used for the wrong purpose.The girls get to work immediately however, the task becomes increasingly difficult as they start to unfold the real story behind the missing software and the kidnapping of Eric Knox, who they have now rescued.  They soon find themselves and their friend Bosley in great danger and discover that their very own Charlie may also be in danger&#133; Their new mission to defend themselves, find and rescue Bosley, stop the powerful voice recognition software from falling into the hands of the villains and find and protect Charlie&#133; even though they have no idea who or where he is.  They have lost their office, Bosley has been kidnapped and Charlie is a mystery... They are completely on their own but can they do it?As Dylan points out&#133; `I have no idea what they plan to do&#133; But I know we can stop them.'This film is fantastic&#133; It has an extremely good plot, with enough twists and turns to keep you on the edge of your seat and guessing the outcome right until the film is finished.  The action and effects are amazing and the fighting scenes are extremely well choreographed.Cameron Diaz exceeds in her role as Natalie Cook&#133; She is very funny, very sexy and very athletic.  This is certainly one of her best roles as an actress.  Lucy Liu is great, as always and Drew Barrymore is very good as the third angel, Dylan Sanders (Also the only one to get a sneak look at Charlie).I was never distracted away from this film, right from the word go and I would happily watch it again and again.  I can honestly say I can't find a single fault in the movie.  I shall have to watch it again to try and find one now&#133;.. Bring on the sequel o) "},{"Title":"Desperate to be cool","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Final Score 3.8 (out of 10)The movie version of Charlie's Angels is like the poor geeky kid in high school that is so desperate to be cool and have everyone accept him that he dresses, talk and acts like all the cool kids. The effort is painfully obvious, bleeds of desperation and the kid ends up looking geekier and more ridiculous then when he started. He copied the style, but didn't understand the substance behind it.   That's Charlie's Angels- a movie so desperate to be cool that it's almost embarrassing to watch. In the opening scene, L.L. Cool J (one of the many useless cameos the movie drags up) comments on lame movies made from old TV shows. This is the wink-wink moment where we are supposedly tipped off that all of this is a parody - of the TV show and, maybe, even movie remakes in general. Hey, I can write a lot of movies off as retro, as parody, as satire and as good old fashioned, popcorn, campy fun. However, there has to be a line where movies quite being parodies and start being just bad movies that purposefully drop hints that it is a parody so people will forgive it's sheer stupidity , laziness and the fact that it doesn't have an original idea in it's empty little head.  I draw the line right here. The `Charlie's Angels' TV show was already a campy parody of itself. If the subject doesn't never even took itself seious it defeats the point in pilling parody on top of that. That's someone doing a parody of `Scream' (oh, wait&#133;).  It's eye-candy.  And it's not even very good at that.  The visuals are bright and vivid, but the camera work and editing is chopped up into that music video style that assumes all the young movie going public is stupid and has ADD.  I'm not going to blame this unimaginative visual style on the fact that the director is a music video alumni because a couple of pretty good storytellers have come out of that MTV group (most talented of which is David Fincher, but also Mark Pellington and even Michael Bay).  Let's just call a spade a spade - this McG guy is a total hack.  He's all style -stolen style - and has no idea the context at which we find these things so exciting and fun in other movies.  Most notably is the fact that he has the Angels doing Matrix S**t - as it's called.  The Angels do gravity defying martial arts and time stops, starts and rewinds around them.  McG seems to have no qualms about stealing so blatantly and so outright from `The Matrix'.  How anybody that liked `The Matrix' can also like this movie is beyond me.  There is endless slow motion and, less I forget, split screens galore. Why? No reason. Just looks cool.  In addition to mishandling the action, McG doesn't have any comic ability either. The movie manages to squander any laughs that could be had from Tom Green and a comic genius like Bill Murry.  The soundtrack is jammed with hyper-contemporary Top 40 pop songs that, like all played-to-death radio songs, were lame and obnoxious by the time the movie was released.  Don't waste your time. There is no fun to be had here.    It has no love for it's audience and is nothing more then a cold constructed commercial product built by studio committee.  It is only for people who want to proudly throw around how little they expect and demand from their movies.   "},{"Title":"Yikes!","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What an abysmal piece of crap! From the juvenile opening to the ridiculous ending this flick rally stinks.First of all, McG or whatever his name is shows the same flatfooted pedestrian direction as his Fastlane TV show - kind of a mix of Baywatch and OB One tampon ads - the acting is horrible from the usually dependable drew Barrymore straight through to the obviously mailing this  one in Bill Murray. Then there's the script, and I use the word loosely. A mishmosh of boyhood fantasies of what the original show was mixed with the worst of pop culture references and bad imitations of the Matrix. (Why is it that Hollywood never understood that The Matrix is much more than some martial arts moves and slow motion bullets?)I only hope that the next one is either a quantum leap from this horrible drek - or that everyone boycotts this franchise the way they did The Real Cancun.One more thing - bad music from the 80's is not kitsch - it's just bad music!    "},{"Title":"NOT A MUST SEE","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My emotions and thoughts were mixed after I have seen it. This movie is not a real bite the nails thriller and it is not to take too serious. The plots are packed very funny but there came no suspense. There was much action but it didn`t convince me enough. For teenagers this one works. Sometimes I had the impression to watch Hot Shots or The Naked Gun or a parody of James Bond movies. The film was well accompanied by music hits from the 80s to 90s. I don´t have much more to say about only just average. Definitive not a must see. Perhaps the second Charlie´s Angels will be better. 6/10. "}{"Title":"What the hell went wrong here?","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know, after seeing this movie, i thought to myself Was this film attempting to be serious, or was it a big joke the creators pulled on the entire human race?I'm guessing it was the latter. Even the comic genius of Bill Murray and Tom Green wasn't enough from saving this film, and enough to save my brain from boreing a hole in my skull and escaping to greener pastures. This film was supported with ridiculous stunts, terrible jokes, and an unbelievable plot. It seemed like this film was aimed at four year olds, because only their mentallity would be right to withstand such pretentious flashy bulls***. How much did it cost to make this film? 50 million? Imagine all the pillows that could of been created and shipped off to Africa with that money. This movie was a discrace to the American film making industry, and a discrace to human society as a whole. I sure hope they pull this one off the shelves of stores and bury them in a desert in Mexico. Nobody needs to see this movie.HOWEVER -------------------This movie had two good parts, but even that didn't make it watchable.1) Tom Greens usual antics. I don't know about you, but i consider this man to be a comic genius. He's hilarious. THE CHAD IS STUCK!! All we needed was Phil Jirox and Glen Humplik, and perhaps we could of transformed this movie from a rubbish 'action-comedy' to entirely comedy.2) Okay okay, theres a terrific scene at the start that features Cameron Diaz in a skimpy swimsuit. She's hot. She wasn't so hot in the rest of the film, but at the start, GODAMN. Excuse, me, i have to wipe the spit off my keyboard. "},{"Title":"what a load of crap!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is beyond horrible. The plot is pointless and the acting is very retarded, besides that you would expect good action but no, this movie dose not even have that. The action scenes are laughable. This movie is the product of satan worshiping Hollywood executives. This is the worst movie ever made because it is boring, stupid, unfunny and an insult to the intelligence of people who can count to ten. When Halloween comes you should put a tape of this movie in a brown paper bag light it on fire and place in front of McG's house then ring the door bell.     "},{"Title":"Not worth the time to view it!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My wife and I started watching but found it, to say the least, flaky. We shut it down about halfway through. It seemed to be a string of in your face scenes connected by a thin strand from a spider's web. Paradoxically with its all inclusive techniques it has everything, and nothing going for it.  "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT!!!","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Those who say that this film is bad and boring are greatly mistaken. This film is excellent because it ties in the essential elements of a action movie but is still able to hit that point of cool smoothness needed to make a good film. If people think that this is bad why did they go 2 see it? Surely they saw adverts for the film?! I though think that this an excellent film with great backing from Bill Murray playing the classic comic, overall this gets a  10/10 from me!   "},{"Title":"not always on target but works if you buy into it","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Deliberately corny, but lively and entertaining action-comedy works well if you don't ask a lot of questions. Three young women from different backgrounds are recruited to work as undercover agents for a boss whom they've never met. With the help of a plucky sidekick (Murray), and their indefatigable will, they band together to try and solve a complex kidnapping scheme. Starts off slowly but gets better as it goes along with energetic&#x97;though unremarkable&#x97;action scenes/stunts, interesting plot twists, and three very appealing leads. Campy, tongue-in-cheek approach to the material&#x97;not to mention an abundance of cheesy humor&#x97;strain the credibility of the story, but if you ignore logic and common sense it's a decent way to pass the time. **½ "},{"Title":"Fun, But Predictable","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When a computer programmer gets kidnapped and his software is stolen and planned to be used to destroy people's privacy Charlie's Angels take the case.  Based on the old tv series Charlie's Angels is an action-comedy that is a little lacking in plot, but is still a lot of fun.  Although the plot is a little silly and predictable it makes up for it with killer fight scenes, amazing camera work, an all-star cast that does a decent acting job, an awesome soundtrack, and three sexy angels.  Worth a watch.  **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Silly but also exciting","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Alexis Liu manage to establish themselves as female action film stars in this 2000 Columbia Pictures release, one of the best film adaptations of a popular TV series in years. Much of the time, the film is quite silly and needlessly slapstick but it makes up for that with an abundance of good action and special effects sequences. John Forsythe reprises his popular voice role from the TV series as Charlie, the boss of the so called Angels trio Dylan (Barrymore), Natalie (Diaz) and Alex (Liu). A criminal organization plans to assassinate Charlie and it's up to the Angels to stop them. Bill Murray is sometimes amusing as Bosley, the girl's eager sidekick and others including Matt LeBlanc, Tom Green and Luke Wilson make the most of their brief but funny roles. Try to ignore the silliness and slapstick and enjoy a good TV series adapted to film action comedy. "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrible!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How in the heck can the audience expect to believe that anyone, man or woman, could possibly garner the hang time these girls get on their kicks and jumps.  Michael Jordan in his heyday should have been so fortunate! At least in the Matrix, the charachters had an explanation for how they could hang in the air.  To me, this makes the movie a ridiculous joke.  I'm not anal, I know there are certain things we as an audience are supposed to overlook as being impossible but this was just  too much!  It looked totally stupid!  That goes for Jet Li and his antics in Romeo Must Die also. There has been way too much computer trickery and editing in fight scenes nowadays and I am not the only one who thinks this.  A lot of people are sick of these fake and unrealistic fight scenes.  Also, if I see one more movie where there's an explosion and an actor or actors are walking away from it with their backs turned and they don't even flinch, I am going to be sick. It has been played before and it sucked then!!!!!!!  (Desperado, Vampires, etc.)   "},{"Title":"Girls just want to have fun","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Back in 2000, my best friend took me to see this movie and I had no idea who or what Charlie's Angels was and it probably worked out best that way. That way I have nothing to compare it to and can tell you what I think of the movie. Of course, soon enough, I hope to see the original Charlie's Angels on TV or something. Anyhow, this movie was a major girl power movie but was extremely funny. Lucy Liu is my favorite of the three angels. The action scenes were very interesting also. For some good comedy, go check this out! Angels 2 is on the way..... "},{"Title":"What Drew wants, Drew gets","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was anticipating this movie for awhile, it was hyped up, released, and I never made it to the theater. Good thing I didn't waste the gas to get to the multiplex, nevermind the $9 ticket. I caught it on cable recently.  While the fight sequences were cool, and there was interesting visual effects, the script failed miserably and ruined the movie. It has to be the most self-serving movie ever produced! It was like watching three good friends play pretend  they get to be the heros, get the guys, and win at the end. In between they get to pretend they're acting.I always enjoyed watching the 3 lead actresses, I think they're 3 of the most talented young stars.  But, this movie was like Drew's playhouse.  She got to be the bad girl turned good (what a stretch), treated herself to a solo fight scene (with cheesy moonwalk - what was that?!), and showed us that girls do order fast food(funny, I don't remember seeing them actually eat it).Overall - the cheesiest movie ever - maybe they'll actually try in CA 2 "}{"Title":"Very, very, very poor.","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Despite the hype, and having watched the TV series, I can honestly say there were no redeeming features for this film. The script is cringemaking, the acting wooden, the attempts to add a bit of sexiness utterly failed, the humour was unfunny etc etc etc. I must admit to having given it 2/10, however. This is so because my children enjoyed it. In the circumstances, anyone with a mental age above 8 should avoid it. "},{"Title":"Well it did have Crispin Glover and Tim Curry...","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...so I was a little happy with this film.  Otherwise it was not even worth a rental or, for that matter, even a viewing on t.v.  I see that a lot of people gave this a good rating because it's girls kicking butt in a movie. That sort of thing doesn't bother me.  What does bother me is that they picked a horrible script to work with while doing this and also that Charlie's Angels originally had guns.  They were more like female versions of James Bond than female versions of Jackie Chan.  I didn't think that much of the comedy was that good (although Tom Green was okay playing himself) but I know that some liked it.  You also better skip this one for acting. There are only two good actors in this film; Crispin Glover and Tim Curry. Has anyone else noticed the spacey look that comes across Drew Barrymore's face while she is acting in this film because it makes all of her lines seem forced.  so the only reason that I can't (with good conscience) give this one star is because of Tim Curry and Crispin Glover.  Though if you do like them there are better movies to see them in. "},{"Title":"Pointless stupidity","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If a worthless waste of time is what you're craving, get your fix with Charlie's Angels.With a plot that does't make sense to slow witted 5 year olds, Charlie's Angels is a non stop Lame-a-Coaster ride that delivers nothing but pure mind numing stupidity.Possibly one of the worst chases in movie history and a make you wish you were dead style final fight asure this movie's place in the bad-movie hall of fame.Some may say that it falls into the catagory of it's so bad its good but I beg to differ.I rather think of it as in the catagory of suicide inducing pain.The fact that there is a sequel to this movie just shows how bad the film industry has gotten.I would rate this rip-off-fest- excuse for a movie but the number would be so low that it could not conceived by the human mind. "},{"Title":"Great kung fu spoof movie for boys and girls!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is defintely considered a good movie. There is alot of fighting from beginning to end. Plus the fights are not boring especially since it is kung-fu type of fighting. Acting and storyline was okay but the movie is still good. It may not be as good as Lord of the RIngs but it is still an excellent film. I can't believe that there are these garbage, boring movies that are considered classics like Blade Runner, The Great Escape. You call those classics, BULL. It's about time somebody has finally made fun of them.But I would give Charlie's Angels a 8/10. Can't wait for CA2.  "},{"Title":"HELLO CHARLIE","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No originality in this film, and the t.v original was pretty poor. This film is more concerned with The Matrix than it's t.v origins.Murray is always good, but isn't called to do much. Barrymore looks overweight, and Diaz wiggles her ass on cue. Harmless fun, it'll keep you off the streets for 90 minutes.  "},{"Title":"Perni's New Format","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I want to try a new format for my reviews. It goes like this plot, pros, cons, one sentence rap-up. Here goes nothingPlot The Angels (one Asian, one white blonde and a white red head) do battle with thugs and fix their hair a lot. There, short and sweet.Pros Amazing fight sequences. Sure, these moves can never be seen outside of a soundstage, but they're still cool to watch. Some pretty decent acting too, considering the script. The comedy can be thin, but there are some genuine laughs.Cons The script is pretty weak, with some moan-inducing lines and situations. And I'm sorry, but are we really to believe that the Angels can survive being smashed into the windshield of a car, fall five or six stories, etc? Billy Murray is okay as Bosley, but his slapstick isn't the best we've seen from the comedian. Finally, no really cool bad guys. Come on, we get a creepy thin guy, another bloke with a sword/cane, and the head villain who just smokes. Wow.Rap-Up Fun while it lasts, but doesn't last long in the ol' memory bank.Score 2 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"I love this movie! A funny winner!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Whoever casted this film outdid him/herself by picking three of the best actresses in the US today. Drew Barrymore is funny and has an amazing history in movies. Cameron Diaz is funny and has a reputation for being, er, fun.  Lucy Liu is serious but delivers great martial arts in this film. I can watch it over and over again. TWO THUMBS UP!! (also, there's action) "},{"Title":"BAD and Ugly","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film has some of the worst moments in movie history.  Angels are suppose to be beautiful, well... the wrong cast, talented but not beautiful and the dancing scenes are pathetic. "},{"Title":"Not Much Here","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What happens when you reshoot Mission Impossible 2 as a comedy? And you substitute Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz, and Lucy Liu for Tom Cruise. You get Charlie's Angels, that's what.  And like Mission Impossible 2, Charlie's Angels is another high-profile action movie with A-list everything that just lays there. It has nothing special to offer the viewer outside of some young female star power.  It's one of those movies, that, because of the expense put into its production, has the power to hold your attention for two hours. But after it's over you're bemoaning your wasted time. There's not much here at all. And there's much better in the genre.  "},{"Title":"Golden Turkey awards nomination","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  We have all seen a bad film or two in our time.  But, this one....well I practically had a physical reaction to this one. Yes, it bored, then irritated, then angered me and twenty minutes into this puerile mess I was contemplating never watching another movie in my life and taking up a hobby like making corn dollies. From the frantic start it is clear that very little attention was given to writing a decent script and it goes downhill once the scriptwriter decided to inject some humour into it. I like it STRAIGHT the airplane passenger tells the camp air steward. (ooh ow stop it I nearly bust a gut laughing) Later, poor Cameron Diaz gets to wiggle her ass in her panties and even answer the door to the postman in her scanties - where she hilariously tells him that he can put it in her slot whenever he wants.  Hey!! Its called a letterbox!  The standard of comic writing is 1000 times below that of the very worst Carry On film.  Its as if a particularly stupid idiot college boy thought he'd add a few risque giggles to spice up an already well below par script. And as for the direction! Did anybody actually bother to direct this?  Never has a screen been filled with such a mess.  Even the potentially exciting fight scenes are so clumsily choreographed as to take away any possible excitement. (Crouching Tiger this certainly ain't).  The whole thing plods along humourlessly and tediously and perhaps you can waste a few minutes wondering how many good films could have been made with the budget.  Or perhaps the money should have been thrown straight into a furnace so that nobody had to suffer this disaster.  It is contemptuous of the general public to even release such rubbish and the thought of a sequel makes my blood run cold. "}{"Title":"Action doesn't get much more silly than this","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  `Charlie's Angels' is another re-make. We know this because the movie makes a pointed reference to the fact in an opening joke. In fact there's a fair few bizarre jokes throughout this movie (including a Harry Potter moment). It's okay though because this is an action movie with its tongue firmly lodged in its cheek.As an action movie `Charlie's Angels' is passable. The fight scenes have fairly weak choreography &#150; lacking the grace of the over-rated `Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon' and definitely the innovation of `The Matrix' (from which it steals heavily). There's a few surprise moments and director McG makes them&#133; okay. There's not a lot of excitement really here, or tension, and that's a combination of script and direction. Nevertheless it doesn't irritate or grate too much.As a comedy movie it's &#133; amusing in bits. It's more made up of a few moments of pastiche as opposed to outright gags. Poking fun at the genre here is acceptable because it's not ridiculing it, more playing about with it. This allows the movie to get away with some cheesy moments.Acting? Nothing worth talking about really. The actors fail to create any dimension with their roles, reduced to spouting a few amusing lines, and jumping about the place. Fair enough they've not got much material to work with but despite that the performances could have been better.The directing I've already commented on &#150; some weak showy fight scenes. There's a decent, varied, modern soundtrack, which I enjoyed, adding to the movie's need to reinvent the original TV series&#133; but I never really got caught up in what I was seeing. It's a diverting forgettable piece that's enjoyable on some level if you've nothing better to do. 5/10. "},{"Title":"A cute and fun pile of tosh!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlies Angels is actually an extremely enjoyable movie from beginning to end. It's obviously not intended to win Oscars or anything of equal value. It brings a smile to your face, and that's really what counts when it comes to watching a good, fun movie.Can't wait for the sequel to be released in 2003! I'm sure Lucy Lui will be equally fabtastic in her role in the new one. Hopefully, the new one will have equally droolable men in it as well!Although I must admit, I wouldn't own the DVD (and if I did, I wouldn't exactly admit to owning it - *grin*), but it is one that I would occasionally hire out just to get that 'feel good feeling' that only a comedy of this nature can provide!3 flaps out of 5! FrozenDreamer "},{"Title":"Really Bad!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really disliked this one. The girls may look quite sexy, and the special effects are quite cool, but besides that I couldn't find anything good. The special effects are far too over-used, and most of them look like being stolen from other flicks, matrix for example. Another thing is the humor. I like a funny movies, and action plus comedy CAN make a good mix, but the humor in this one seems far too dumb and not very funny at all to me. I don't think I will watch this movie again, or recommend it to others, there are just too many movies out there that are lightyears ahead of this one.  "},{"Title":"Popping microwave popcorn is more exciting","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I could not believe how bad this movie was.  When they created the new movie, I heard from a reviewer that they had 'dumbed down' the original Charlie's Angels.  I didn't think it was possible, but it was!  I was in a hotel room watching my popcorn pop rather than the movie because it was more interesting.  Nudity wouldn't have helped.  Arghh! "},{"Title":"Only one word....WHY???","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  From other comments, I am getting the idea it was supposed to be a spoof/comical. Seriously? Well, it certainly was comical but it didn't have me laughing....and they're making a followup!? "},{"Title":"I'm Confused","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am unsure whether this is supposed to be a funny or a serious movie. The comedy and action within this film is not adequately blended together, as it is in so many of the James Bond movies. Rather, the two are separated from one another, resulting in a schizophrenic mixture of two genres. What's more, the comedy side of the equation isn't really all that funny. The action, on the other hand, is first-class. The filmmakers managed to incorporate techniques used in other movies, including bullet-time from The Matrix. In this regard, the movie is satisfying, but this still doesn't solve the question, Is this an action or a comedy flick? By the way, I happen to think that Lucy Liu is the hottest of the three Angels. 2.5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Even Bill Murray doesn't save this...","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I new what I was in for before I'd even seen Charlie's Angels. This film is just a Matrix/Mission Impossible rip-off from the word go.There's only two good things about this movie, 1 is Bill Murray, who is a great actor, but at the time, must of been desperate for work or money, and 2 Lucy Lui, who is the only one out of the three women who makes the kung fu actually look good. I was appalled with Cameron Diaz, she looked so out of place during the fight scenes. The funny thing is, before I'd watched Charlie's Angels, I'd just seen The Taxi Driver (Robert De Niro), which is a great film, has a great plot etc...then I watch Charlie's Angels...I ended up nearly slitting my wrists with a hunting knife. This movie is, how can I put it...unwatchable.It's more of a glamour music video then a movie. If you don't want to end up putting your foot through the TV, then don't go within 10 miles of this movie.1/10 - Only because Murray was in it P "},{"Title":"CROUCHING BARRYMORE, HIDDEN DIAZ","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's almost universally accepted that the seventies series was very bad, so why even bother making a film version? Actually this makes much less sense than the TV series did, lasts longer and is much noisier. In fact this film really only has two big things going for it Drew Barrymore.Seriously though, I only sat through it so I could complain about how bad it was; now I'm not even sure it was worth it. I certainly won't be watching it again. Yeech! "},{"Title":"If Bill Murray wasn't in it, I would give it a 1","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think it's cool when people fly around and do unnatural stunts, but when they're not in the Matrix it's not the same, is it? And when three clumsy girls perform them it kinda takes the fun out of it. Drew Barrymore didn't even moonwalk right..It it wasn't for Bill Murray's humorous input I would absolutely give this movie a 1. (girls in hot outfits maybe pushed the grade up a little.. maybe). "},{"Title":"Good!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is good. It is not as good as the 70s-80s series, but I love this too. I directors (McG) first job that is functioning well. Bill Murray is good was the best in the movie. I enjoy this film all the time. I have the DVD and the Soundtrack and it's really cool. I can't wait for the second Angels movie. -) "}{"Title":"One of the best I've every seen!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just loved this movie! It was so great, even although everything that the film wanted to show was Barrymore's bumps, Lui's butt and Diaz's big cute smile. It was a action-comedy, which is my fav movies. It's got everything, and the best actresses to do this movie so stupid, but great!!! 10/10(!) **********   "},{"Title":"Is this some kind of joke?","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie about 6 months ago.  I found it very dumb and I am wondering if it's the way this movie should be seen.  Is it a parody of action/spy movies?  If it is, this movie is a very well done movie.  Made me laugh by the situations, the characters and the story.  But if it isn't... wow!  The director should be punished for that... thing!  Ouach! "},{"Title":"Classic bubble gum.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe I wasn't in the right frame of mind, perhaps it struck me as too trite, I don't know but what I do know is I didn't enjoy this film. I couldn't even watch the entire thing...it was so awful. It relied on special effects, a lack of intelligence and hammy performances.The photography of the female leads was the only part of the movie which kept me going for as long as I did. Classic bubble gum nonsense. Save your money and time for something a little more worthwhile. "},{"Title":"just plain ol' fun","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK OK, i gotta admit, there is a lot of t&a in this movie, but what is wrong with that?  charlie's angels are supposed to be sexy.  its a trademark, and it was on the show!  the three ladies are absolutely wonderful!  i am so glad angelina jolie was NOT put in this movie at all!  cameron diaz is my favorite of the three ladies because she is so spunky, and she just makes you want to kick some booty.  drew barrymore is just wonderful as the rough girl, who likes 'the chad'...and lucy lui is awesome.  i like her!  this movie just delivers.  it may not the be the best movie of the year and it may not win any awards (unless the mtv awards have the sexiest movie of the year) but it is fun, entertaining, and its worth the time!  rent it!  "},{"Title":"Not an intellectual film, but entertaining.","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Nothing monumental happens in Charlie's Angels.  Movies likeMemento and Pulp Fiction set the stage for advances in filmnarrative, but you'll see none of this ingenuity here.  Still, Charlie'sAngels is a great film.  Comedy spliced with action could keepanyone entertained for a couple of hours, and the fact that DrewBarrymore and Cameron Diaz romp around in tight pants couldhold any male's attention for even longer. "},{"Title":"ghastly, but laughable","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A horrible pastiche.  Lovable, yes, in its lack of sophistication, but thank goodness I didn't pay money!!On reflection, not much worse than the original, but how did three good actresses get conned into this dodo? "},{"Title":"What a Great Movie!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is totally great. The plot is simple and easy to follow, just like the old series. It's corny with fake laughter happening all the time, but it works.  This is because the film knows what it is, a source of amusement and escapism. It never claims to be more, but boy does it deliver on the feel good factor! I came out of this movie feeling great about myself! It's sexy, funny, action packed fun, that doesn't allow boredom to even enter within a 10 mile radius of the audience. Constantly fresh and always exciting. How can you not like this movie? Diaz's dancing alone must be seen, not to mention Lucy's great fighting talents. To be blunt  I loved this movie, i have this movie on video, and i'm waiting with itchy palms for Charlie's Angels 2. "},{"Title":"Fast Fist Feathers","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As we all know, the old TV series movie adaptation as received some contradictory reviews. Some rate it quite high; some don't, mainly or maybe because they didn't understand the movie as they should. Truth is that Charlie's Angels is already a classic, no one can deny it. Hit stroke the blockbuster list, profited millions, and are rare those who don't know who the angels are. We look at Diaz (already a star, and one of my favorites!) and remember her cleavage sexy suits, her stunt acrobacies, and her in jokes. We look at Barrymore and is impossible to forget her danced choreographed fights and her nude scene (so much for innocence in ET!), and every time Ally MacBeal airs, all of us know that one of them is an Angel &#150; Lucy, this is yours. Having said that, lots of expectations were surrounding the project big budget, big stars, effects and successfully adapting an old TV Series is not an easy job. The chances of failure were enormous, first time director, an over written script, but after all it proved otherwise. Director McG did a great job, giving the movie a music video look, that was the exact choice here, the screenplay was great, full of jokes and twists (some predictable) but anyway, it is not surprising, since Ed Solomon (Men In Black) was behind it. Is the movie new? No. Are there reasons why this movie should be loved? Yes. Are there reasons why this movie should be hated? No. Is it good? Awesome, actually. Did it work? Of course it did. Charlie's Angels was a surely refreshing movie to see, the Angels were all great at their own way, the supporting cast was also hilarious (only Tom Green and is Chad could have been expendable), it has also a great villain, Sam Rockwell is great, having the right measures of charm, irony and anger. The soundtrack is also great. Drew Barrymore shined on the fighting scene with the hands tied. Lucy Liu was hilarious as the domineering leather business woman at the Red Star meeting. Cameron Diaz was hilarious in, hum, pretty much everything. She was the best Angel. Also it is impressive that she also looks beautiful and hot in every disguise. We'll, I can't keep on writing forever, although the movie leads me to it, I can't say there is a single thing I would change from it.  The fight against the thin main, despite Matrix like, was well performed, the party at Chinatown screamed class and, hum... well... I... also... what the hell, I can't wait for the upcoming sequel! 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Check your brain at the door","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Of course, no movie can truly epitomize the fantasy, action and just pure camp fun that defined the TV show Charlie's Angels (and maybe the entire late '70s). But in order to truly enjoy this movie, turn off your brain. I did not buy Bill Murray, good an actor as he is, as Bosley. He just seemed too young and off-the-wall, and not teddy-bear cuddlyish as Bos of the TV show. Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, and Lucy Liu fare somewhat better despite a vacant scrpit, which has them fending off one dumb villain after another. The special effects and stunts are good (though I question how much kicking butt the three leads actually did). The brightest spot is John Forsythe reprising the voice of Charlie. NO ONE else could EVER be Charlie to me. "},{"Title":"What a shame...","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After all of the hype surrounding the movie, you would think that it would be relatively decent.  Well i'm sure as heck glad that I didn't actually waste my money to see this crap.  All I got out of it was a bunch of T and A from some non talented little tramps.My respect for Drew Barrymore has most definitely withered away to nothing from this movie.  I never really liked Cameron Diaz or Lucy Lui.  It's very difficult to stumble upon a movie in which none of the lead characters have any acting ability, but I surely chose a winner (or loser) with this film.Sam Rockwell was very good in his role.  I was actually rooting for him and only him throughout the whole movie.  Luke Wilson is a pretty decent actor and fun to watch.  He's so adorable that I want to pinch his cheeks and give him a balloon.  Too bad I can't say the same for Tim Curry, whom I usually enjoy.The soundtrack was awful.  All of the song contained the word Angel in them, even though they didn't go well with the scene at all.  If I saw another angel take off her helmet and swing her hair in slow motion, I would have punched the nearest person in the face.  Don't forget the slow mo running scenes with everyone's everything jiggling everywhere.   And those god awful matrix moves.  Why does EVERYTHING have to look like The Matrix now?!Take laughable acting, bad directing, a horrible script, slow motion hair flinging, the matrix, and TOM GREEN, and shove them into one movie, and you've got Charlie's Angels. "}{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember the original series. It was a bit camp, but mainly it was serious. There was no secret organization, but a normal detective agency where the Angels worked out of. They weren't tramps, but serious professionals of law enforcement who were discriminated against due to gender... But they were the top of the top.In this remake, it seems that you had 2 rejects (an airhead and a slut), and one somewhat normal person (Liu's character) brought together for the team. Sorry, but I didn't buy it. Yeah, in the fights they were interesting, but the mental state of the characters were silly. Instead of a salute to a classic series, we ended up with a weak parody. The only returning person was John Forsythe as Charlie. Guess he needed the money.Bill Murray was interesting, as well as the villain. The story idea wasn't bad. I would even say it had a nice twist. Sadly, it was the main characters (the Angels) that pulled it down and turned this into a fiasco. "},{"Title":"Nice breasts, shame about the film.","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, a quick one from me.  The girls were sexy as hell!  The film was as poor as p*ss, and just as weak was the script.The stunts were not unlike something from an episode of Monty Python's flying circus.  The plot could have been told in a short script, a fraction of the size of the final version.Now I hear there is to be a sequel!!!  Why not just take several million dollars and set them alight!  At least a bonfire is entertaining! "},{"Title":"Absolutely painful to watch","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the previous reviewers commented Mind-numbing entertainment can be great if you're in the right mood.  It obviously didn't numb me fast enough because this movie was painful to watch.  Easily one of the worst movies ever made, and I've seen hundreds.  I just read that director McG (what is he, a gangster rapper?) is going to helm the next Superman movie AS SOON AS HE WRAPS UP CHARLIE's ANGELS 2 HALO.  What's next, Grifters 2?!  Grease 3?!!  For God's sake stop the insanity!!!P.S.  For you masochists CA2 is expected to hit theaters in June 2003. "},{"Title":"Boring, Predictable, Put Me to Sleep","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hollywood knows the formula ... and the formula is boring.This is among the more cookie-cutter big-budget, over-hyped flicks of the last several years ... it is as dull as it was expensive.Two dimensional, insultingly dumb, predictable, derivative, bland, banal ... shall I go on?And it made money ... no wonder Hollywood keeps turning out such mindless drivel. "},{"Title":"Heavenly Beautiful Angels","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It should have been called Charlie's Angels The next Generation. These angels are funny as well as sexy. It also has great action. Bill Murray is funny as the new Bosely. Drew Barrymore Lucy Liu and Cameron Diaz were great angels. If there will be sequel,I will go see it. I would be a fool to miss it. "},{"Title":"Contrived and silly, just like the TV show","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's not that there is no redeeming qualities about this film ... it's just that there are so few of them.Based on the TV series of the same name, CA features three of the most popular actresses in film today, doing exactly what Farrah, Kate, and Jacqueline did in 1976, which is being goofy, dressing as skimpily as possible, and stumbling into Deus ex Machina solutions for the ridiculous situations they find themselves in.  This is the adolescent male's idea of women's liberation and the entire movie feels as though it were scripted by a 13-year-old boy.The actors do well with what they are given, and you can catch a few entertaining cameos and two or three funny moments, but that's about it.  The special effects from the Matrix are extremely overused and began to approach the point of satire by the end of the movie.  At least in The Matrix, all that 3-D stop/start gravity-defying fighting made sense in the context of the film.  Here, you are left to believe that somehow the laws of physics are suspended around the three 'detectives'.  Cameron Diaz manages to stay suspended longer than Michael Jordan and still deliver a kick that bowls over Crispin Glover, who thankfully is given almost no dialogue.  Actually, that very fact led me to rate this movie a 4 instead of a 3.Let's hope that Cameron gets back to making almost anything else, Drew finds roles that equal or surpass her work in Ever After and Wedding Singer, and Lucy Liu goes back to oblivion where she belongs, and takes Tom Green with her. "},{"Title":"more laugh-out lound in disbelief stunts","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Shows like Charlie's Angels and the Love Boat should stay in the era of disco, bell-bottoms and rollerderby.  Its a shame that the new millenium has to start out by shamelessly borrowing from old TV shows.  I like a good parody when I see one (Naked Gun, Hot Shots!, etc.) but this film was so cheesy and predictable.  The part about Drew Barrymore missing a bullet was ridiculous.  Everything about the movie was awful.  See this at the risk of having your intelligence insulted. What's next?  Dukes of Hazard the movie starring Tom Cruise and George Clooney and Cameron Diaz as Daisy??  Enough with the TV show parody, its not funny any more. One interesting note  Check out the DVD Shrek and see Cameron Diaz's interview as Princess Fiona.  She references Charlie's Angels...soo funny! Rating 5 "},{"Title":"Not so good Al.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was told wait til it comes to HBO.  So I did and I turned it off.I'm pretty good about suspend reality for movies. Heck, if I could do it for ID4, I could do it for any movie.  Not this one.  I have to admit, I think I did chuckle once or twice before I turned it off 60 minutes into the show Shame.  "},{"Title":"pinnacle of stupid","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another entry into pop culture girl power and yet more mindless trash. I'm only thankful that I didn't pay to see it. Dull,outdated idea rehashed for today with the typical formula of 'invincible women' to appeal to the ladies,and enough skin shots to appeal to prepubescent males who love to oogle Playboy for hours on end. Don't get me wrong;I've nothing against women but this is exploitation at its worst. I think putting them in smart roles (Erin Brokovich) or action roles (Point of No Return) is just fine,but this was far too cheesy and predictable. 2/10 "},{"Title":"I don't know about you, but I usually like a little brain with my tripe.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Brainless tripe.  No other possible description.  Yes, I know it's supposed to be cute and stupid.  I know, but it isn't cute.  It's annoying.  It isn't funny.  Sure, the fight scenes are okay.  The girls are good-looking.  But if a movie's best elements are fighting and sex-appeal, shouldn't it have violence and nudity?  Maybe I'm just old-fashioned.  I don't know. "}{"Title":"Second worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe the idiots that made Travoltas' Battlefield Earth should seriously get the idiots that made Charlies' Angels and have them do the much rumoured Battlefield Earth The Sequel.What a waste of film. "},{"Title":"Absolute crap.","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Unbelievable. I'll keep this short. I used to think that the TV show was insipid and stupid, but in comparison to the movie, the TV show was high art. If you insist on watching this piece of absolute drek, do it with the sound off and save a few of your brain cells. Cameron Diaz and Lucy Lui are nice to watch, but the story and contrived situations are *beyond* stupid. I rated this 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a mistake this rental was.  We bought it because the tape was the same price as renting it.  I finished half and started daydreaming and just shut it off.  It's really, really stupid. Oh yeah, and Drew Barrymore's looks are so vastly outclassed by the other two chicks you'd swear you were watching a movie starring Wilson Phillips. "},{"Title":"Great blend of 'jiggle Vision' TV of the 70s and Y2K FX....","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK.  So it's not Oscar material.  But, hey, neither have any OTHER '70s TV show remade into a feature film'!  Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu and Cameron Diaz do a great job of bringing this TV show up to date as the Angels.  Bill Murray makes a very good Bosley - (although BM seems to have gone to hell in a handbasket!).  And, of course, John Forsythe as the voice of Charlie is the final topper!  Not to mention that there are a bunch of cameo pops and other well know actors filling out the well rounded cast!The movie is high on 'The Matrix'-esque special effects, including the high flying fighting techniques, 'boob' a-liscious actors, and a silly sub-plot. But, hey, the original show had 2 of those 3....  Sure, the movie took on a more 'special agent/James Bond' aspect from the original 'P.I.' show; the life styles of the Angels moved WAY off the map - the original premise being 3 police officer rookies and now they're - uh....  well, they're specialized.Lucy Liu is great - whether being the 'ice queen - don't even THINK about asking me for a date!', the domanatrix corporate shaper and the sweet 'trailer' house wife.  Cameron Diaz just does so well as the ditzy but brainy chick who can whup butt AND dance around the 'Soul Train' stage. And Drew Barrymore is great as the naive but tough reformed reform school girl. Just a great choice for the Angels!This film, though knows exactly where it is and where it's going - with tongue firmly planted in cheek and enough campiness to make it a good time. A good film and well worth the rental fee.....  I saw it when it first came out; saw it again as a rental DVD; bought the VHS tape from the video store (as a previous rental) and now have bought the DVD for watching whenever I need a lift of spirits and have some actions thrown in, too!  GO GET IT! "},{"Title":"A lot of fun!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't expect much out of this movie, that's probably why I enjoyed it.  The plot is ridiculous and full of holes.  The directing isn't too great, either.  But, I enjoyed the movie.This move is the full of over-hyped features.  They went way overboard on the fighting scenes.  They definitely were taking advantage of the looks of Diaz, Liu, and Barrymore.  In fact, it was so over the top, you have to realize that's what they are spoofing!I couldn't count all the stereotypes that you see in this movie.  It's not meant to be great cinema.  It's meant to entertain.  I don't need to watch the movie 20 times to decypher its message.  So, for entertainment value, I give it 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A horrible movie not worth watching!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie captured none of the flavor of the original series.  When you think Charlie's Angels, you think of beautiful women solving crimes with both their brains and there beauty.  The women in the move were just horrible.  Diaz always looked tired and Drew isn't even close to cute. Then you add in a bunch of bad lines and poor acting and you have the movie in a nutshell.The movie isn't good enough to be taken as a serious attempt as action film and isn't funny enough to be a spoof.  In the end all you have is a movie that looks like the director watched last years big films (Austin Powers, Matrix, Mission Impossible, James Bond...) and tried to cobble together something to make a quick buck.       "},{"Title":"Not your father's Charlie's Angels","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dear Drew I know from the credits you are one of the producers of this film.  If you were paid a lot of money for this fluff movie, OK. Now, please, never make another movie where you share the female lead role equally in an ensemble team-concept like Charlie's Angels.  Also, don't accept roles where you have no meaningful speaking lines.  Uttering two-line cue card dialog between scene takes is not serious acting.  You are capable of carrying a complete movie feature as the solo actress and your lines should be spoken in meaningful paragraphs rather than Valley-Teen DUH words.  Now, I know it was fun for the three karate-expert Angels to make this film.  OK.  You have gotten it out of your system.  Let's get back to some serious acting.  You are lovely in costume period roles!  Enjoy being the fairy princess that you are!Having John Forsythe's voice as in the original Charlie's Angels TV series is a necessity.  I am old enough to know what he really looks like.  Many women, today, would swoon over him if he were as young now as he was back in the  middle of the last century.  Having Bill Murray in the Bosley role was acceptable.  Of course, it's a better movie when Bill Murray is the star and has the entire movie to display his unique brand of comedy.  Tim Curry played the role of a not-so really bad guy with a sense of comedy well.  No adverse criticism here.  He is always a good character actor.  He lends class to any movie he appears in.For the rest of the male actors, sorry, you were completely forgetable once the film was over.  It's amazing that all these beautiful lady-stars are so young and have such amazing karate/martial arts skills.  Even all the bad guys are karate trained!  If an average person were kicked in the chest or head even once, they would be rendered unconscious or incapable of getting up to fight another round!  Unbelievable!In the original Charlie's Angels the gals were not so high-tech.  They used their powers of deductive reasoning, femininity, and race-car driving ability to win the day.  Here, it seems that the new era of Angels have to have all-kinds of engineering degrees to complete the mission.   And - they speak Asian languages, to boot!  Unbelievable. Cameron Diaz seemed too silly in her role to be taken seriously.  Although it was nice seeing her shake her booty during the Soul Train scene.  Lucy Liu seemed lost trying to be the serious-minded Angel. And, for all their powers and sophistication, the Angels had a love interest that was beneath their intelligence level.  The original Charlie's Angels would not jeopardize their mission by falling gaga for some unlikely hunk.  Not a good choice, movie writers, for having the girls in bed with guys during the course of completing the mission for Charlie. Although the director was shown on Cinemax, prior to a recent TV showing, making self-praise for his first full length directing feature, he should take the money and run and not bore the viewing audience with self-aggrandizement.  For, it was not earned with this film.The double meaning, gratuitous, phallic symbol sex joke exchange between characters Roger Corwin and Alex Munday at the massage table was in poor taste.  Cheap trick suitable for late-night cable standup comics but not for a PG-13 general release movie!Sure, watch it just to see the pretty girls as this is what we are supposed to do with Charlie's Angels.  And, don't believe anything about the movie from that point on! "},{"Title":"Formula for film money making","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Films  like this are guaranteed money makers - the formula is easy1. Get a budget of $100m or over 2. Recruit a couple of famous actors/actresses 3. Come up with a simple story (even stupid such that it wont challenge the mind) 4. Come up with lots of action and fight scenes. Most of these you can copy from previous films and simple improve a bit 5. Hype the film up with a large marketing campaign 6. Launch the film on a strategic date 7. Make money and relaxIN MY OPINION THERE SHOULD BE REFUNDS FOR FILMS SO BAD!  "},{"Title":"Independent Women?-I think not!!!!!!!!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie had to be one of the worst movies I saw of 2000, next to the sci-fi flick Battlefield Earth.  Two main reasons why this film was stupid and awful 1. Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu and Drew Barrymore tried too hard to be action stars.  It seemed like they acted too stupid in the movie and was senseless about their surroundings and 2. it had too many sexual innuendos.  Nobody wants to see that in an action movie unless you tie it into the story right!!  It was just too many things overplayed in the movie.  For one, in the opening sequence when we saw Cameron Diaz as a nerd.  Nobody in the world acts that nerdy.  They overplayed everthing.  Charlie's Angel's gets an F+. "},{"Title":"It's a chick-flick.","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's fun, funny, sometimes silly and too mildly sexy.  It has no female nudity.  The three boyfriends are portrayed as either milquetoasts or appear as drooling infantile boys.  All of this adds up to a chick flick.  Murray acts like an idiot throughout most of the film.  Only Lucy could ever play such a convincing dominatrix.  Watching her is almost the only reason for seeing this film.  It has only one really cool scene...in the alley...after that just enjoy the ride as the roller coaster casually slows to a stop. "}{"Title":"I hate, hate, HATE this movie!","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels has to be one of the stinkiest action/comedy films I have ever seen!And here are the reasons why I, Po-ona thinks that1. A waste of talent. Lucy Lui was good in Shanghai Noon, but here, her reputation was ruined again (other time was Ally, BLECH). Cameron Diaz looks like a blonde version of Olive Oil from the Popeye cartoons and Drew Barrymore had her days back when she was little (and I kinda think she gained some weight from all those drugs that she did ^^;). Plus, they do NOT strike a blow for feminism. Feminism is not male-bashing or running around, acting like a ditzy prostitute.2. Very un-funny. The jokes in here seem to only appeal to pimply faced High Schoolers or jobless losers that seem to have nothing on their hands (except beer ^_^).3. Un-thrilling. Geez, Hollywood, let Hong Kong and Taiwan and all them do the Martal Arts stuff. Martal arts is more than striking a pose and silly catch phrases. We should all know that, but the people who made this swill of a movie DO not know that.4. It is an more than an hour long music video, enough said there!If you want a feminist action film that does NOT feature the heroines acting like harlots or male-bashers, watch Jonny To's Heroic Trio or Keita Amemiya's Zeiram movies and anime series.If you want any cheesy movies, watch any Japanese (or Korean) Monster films, or better yet, watch MST3K.If you want good comedy, watch Biozombie.If you want a music video-like movie, watch Pink Floyd's The Wall.If you want a classic movie, period, watch The Seven Samurai.But, however, if you want stinky, rotten swill, watch Charlie's Angels (or what I call it, Cheesy Angles ^_^). "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought it would be...","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Didn't see this film when it came out because it didn't appeal to me at first - but just watched it on cable. Now I am VERY critical of most movies and it takes a lot to please me. That being said, this wasn't as bad as I thought it would be.Actually it was kind of cute. The best parts were in the first half, when the girls were dressing up in all kinds of different costumes and going undercover to scout out the crime and criminals. Then unfortunately the movie turned into Jane Bond and went way over the top. The first half is very true to the TV series and the second half isn't. Other complaints are the presence of Tom Green (not just in the movie but basically on planet Earth) and the stupid Matrix-Crouching Tiger fight scenes. But those fight scenes were required in every movie in the year 2000, I think - and now that the 3 Musketeers remake with those fight scenes bombed - we have a reprieve for a while. Phew!Overall, 7 out of 10 rating. "},{"Title":"How did they do it? Cheesecake + Cheesy plot + Gratuitous Stupidity","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Stretch a TV quality plot into a full-length movie and fill in the gaps with gratuitous stupidity. Three chicks fight crime by being hired by criminals to do commit their crimes. I kept hoping they would arrest themselves. Bill Murray was a slight improvement over the TV character. I don't even care. Yawn... "},{"Title":"terrific fun","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Entertaining remake of the 70s TV show that made Farrah Fawcett famous this time stars Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu as the three crime fighting operatives who work for the mysterious Charlie, a millionaire who is always heard but never seen. Trouble insures when a software developer is kidnapped and his voice recognition software falls into the wrong hands. Or something like that. The truth is plot isnt very important in this movie. In fact this film is built on two things alone, hot women and kick-ass action scenes. This is definitely one of the sillier TV remakes, however its also one of the better ones. If it tried to take its self seriously, it would fail big time. Luckily the filmmakers knew very well that they were making a dumb, action packed jiggle fest, and because of that it works. The cast is great. Barrymores her usual self and Lucy Liu is surprisingly good, but its Diaz that steals the show playing the ditzyest of the group, who goes gaga every time she sees a guy and takes no shame in doing the robot (yes, the robot) in front of a large crowd of on lookers.  The film also boasts a strong supporting cast which includes Tim Curry, LL Cool J, Luke Wilson, Matt Leblanc, Tom Green and the one and only Bill Murray (excellent as always). So if you are in the mood for some mindless fun, cool stunts and awesome action sequences, than go see this movie. You wont be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Insultingly Bad","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First things first, I get it. Ok, I get it. It was a dumb TV show, and the movie was meant to be camp as a way of making fun of that, and as a way of paying tribute to it. I get it.This being said, it was still an incredibly bad movie.All men were portrayed as spineless imbeciles who had no thoughts other than sex. All women were portrayed as manipulators who had no way other than showing their cleavage to get what they want. Yes, I know this was meant to be farce, but it was still an even more unrealistic portrayal of the world than in a James Bond movie (or even Austin Powers). The plot seems nothing more than a thinly veiled excuse to glance on every sexual fantasy known to man. We sees the angels dressed as domintrices, geishas, German milkmaids, even as men. We see them drive race cars, doing stunts which were so obviously CGI enhanced they were ludicrous, and scaling walls in cat suits. What we don't see is any indication that they know why they're there.We can't blame them, though, the script seems to have been written, on-the-fly as it were, as if the writers said Hey, we've got these geisha costumes, let's have a seen where the girls pretend to be geishas! What vestiges of plot exist are stolen, lock stock and barrel from Mission Impossible, and James Bond movies.Let me just say this one more time, I KNOW! You don't go to this movie to see an original plot, you go there to ogle Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu, and Drew Barrymore. Well, great, couldn't they have been given a decent script to work with? It seems both sloppy and cynical to give three of the best actresses in Hollywood such garbage to work with, under the assumption that most people will just be there to stare at their breasts.And while the actresses might have been great, the director was horrible. He had no discipline whatsoever. At the end they show out-takes, and a lot of the scenes looked completely different from the finished version. Its like he just let the actors get up there and do whatever they felt like doing. I've looked him up in the database and he's never done any other film, and I hope he won't.My final criticism should speak more eloquently than any other about this movie Tom Green has a speaking part in it. I like Drew Barrymore, I think she's a talented actress, but any woman who can actually get Tom Green a part in ANY movie has far too much power in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Terrible !","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only reason I even give this movie a 1 is because of the opening scene, which is by far the most original and exciting scene in the movie. The fight scenes are over-choreographed. The plot is rediculous. The acting basically consists of the three main actresses playing their look into the camera. Even Bill Murray is dissapointing. Did somebody actually go to this, and leave the theatre thinking Yha, that was worth my time and money. ?Just like the one-line summary says, TERRIBLE ! "},{"Title":"One of the Worst!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Three words come to mind, childish, sophomoric and laughable. Not to be confused with funny, humor etc. I was expecting something like the TV series. The women were classy, tasteful and enigmatic. This portrayal made be think of 'Porkey's and 'American Pie'. I would be amazed if a sequel is in the making. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the worst, most annoying movies I have ever seen.  The high production values and special effects can't cover up the inane plot and unfunny dialogue.  I realize that the movie was supposed to be campy and corny, but stupid humor doesn't have to insult the audience's intelligence -- see great stupid movies like Tommy Boy or Dumb and Dumber.  The fight scenes were spectacular but forced.  The movie failed to suspend my disbelief that these characters could exist. I rated this movie 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A 2 hour long music video...","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When this movie first came out in theaters, I took one look at the trailer and thought maybe I'd wait until it came out on cable before I'd see it. At the time, it didn't strike me as something worth $10 to go see. Well it finally came out on cable, and having watched the whole thing, I can tell you the most tolerable scenes were in fact in the trailer. In retrospect, I think the best way I could have watched this movie was to have the TV turned off, but kept the sound system and cable left on, so that I could listen to the great soundtrack, without the annoying visuals. But unfortunately, I watched the whole thing from start to finish. The fact that I didn't spend $10 to see it wasn't enough to placate this feeling I had that I had somehow been cheated. Now you might be wondering, if this movie was so bad, why did you watch it until the end? That is a very good question, because I have walked out of bad movies before, or fell asleep half way through them. I guess the reason I watched it until the end, was because I wanted to see how much worse it could get. I think I wanted to establish a new low - a point of reference of how bad a movie could be. The previous title holder was `Howard the Duck', but Charlie's Angels makes that one seem Oscar-worthy. Let me just say, I love spy thriller movies like James Bond and True Lies. I also like funny spy movies like Austin Powers 1&2. I even like movie versions of popular TV series like Mission Impossible 1&2. But this one - I'm not even sure what this one is. The only conclusion I came to, is that Charlie's Angels is a 2 hour long music video.  "},{"Title":"Laughed my head off","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was way, way better than I expected it to be.  It's probably the most hilarious film I've ever seen.  Absolutely ridiculous, VERY stupid, but so fantastic, because it doesn't take itself seriously and the cast look like they're having an absolute ball.The plot?  Who really cares?  I never thought I'd say that about a film, really.  But this movie is so much fun, nobody gives a second glance to the plot.  Anyone wanting to take this movie seriously and looking for deep interpretations of female empowerment might need to get a life.  There's no way you could read feminism into this film (3 women commanded by a male voice, come on).  Sit back and have a laugh! The fight scenes are so great, like Drew Barrymore whipping a roomful of guys (And that's kicking your ass!), and fighting the thin man (I love Cameron Diaz's slow motion 10-second-wind-up-kick - LOL!).  The soundtrack suits the film perfectly and gives it a great kick.Of course it's not for everyone - but just don't take it seriously and you might get a great laugh out of it.Definitely recommended.  I was still laughing about it for ages afterwards. "}{"Title":"Save me from these good guys (err...girls)","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the next mindless installment of American films trying to recreate TV shows.  While visually appealing (between the stars and color contrast) and decent in aural pleasure,  nothing exists outside of the superficial realm.  Charlie's Angels is cheesy and vacuous and contributes to the dumbing down of audiences across the world.  While I am sure it did fabulous in theatres,  it is a certain disapointment and insult to anyone with half a mind. The movie's goofy intention comes across as badly scripted lines and cheap sexual innuendos that fail to impress or show any creativity past a twelve year old's intellect. Furthermore,  the Angels are able to suspend time,  fly,  and evil characters are able to come back from the dead. Having watched the old TV show,  I didn't know they had all these powers, exhibiting that it does not really stick with the original characteristics of the series.  This blockbuster does a great injustice to the players involved, by having a star-studded cast and using them so poorly.  Hurray for Hollywood;  another victory over a marginalized and poorly educated audience...as you make them dumber,  you also steal their cash. "},{"Title":"Enjoy absolute torture? Charlie's Angels is the film for you!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This entire film is nothing but unfunny jokes, overchoreographed action sequences, and gratuitous near and partial nudity. Many would claim that for these reasons, Charlie's Angels is a great film. Unfortunately, every film that's coming out is just as shallow and empty-beyond-the-surface as this film. It's nothing new in a time where more and more movies (especially the ultra-popular blockbusters of similar genres) decide that the best way to go is the unoriginal, tired way that everyone apparently seems to love.And a note to whoever made this drivel Corny isn't funny! Never has been! Get a clue and make a film that includes ACTUAL humour for once. Of course, by now I doubt the moviegoing public would know real humour if they ever saw it! Avoid this one if you value your time. I want my hour and a half back! "},{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It took me a long time to get around to renting this movie. I'm not a big fan of most of the cast, except for Bill Murray, who was the reason I finally broke down. After seeing the movie, I have to say the casting was right on! It shouldn't surprise me that women gave this movie a higher rating than men. My ex-wife loved the TV series but I could only watch it if I wore a Walkman to drown out the sound! I especially loved the sex appeal aspect... it's supposed to be cute and fun and it was! Special effects were well done. The story was well done but was overshadowed by the beauty of the female form. Very nicely done! "},{"Title":"Good morning Angels!","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Undoubtedly one of the biggest blockbusters of 2000, Charlie's Angels the movie rocks! Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu ignite the big screen with charismatic performances, amazing special FX and the odd few one-liners.Action packed from start to finish, the girls play Dylan, Natalie and Alex, secret agents who's boss Charlie assign them to find a young man kidnapped and rescue his high-tech computer software.The Matrix-esque action sequences are stunning to watch and the 3 leads add a distinct brand of humour to each scene. Bill Murray co-stars as Bosley, who helps the girls along, and Friend's star Matt Le Blanc plays Liu's actor boyfriend.Helped along by a kick-ass soundtrack including the #1 Destiny's Child single 'Independent Women', Charlie's Angels is a must see - if not just for light entertainment, then only to see the female leads prance around in skin-tight outfits!  "},{"Title":"A feisty spoof.","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This feisty spoof of the popular seventies TV show is loud, brash and colourful. It's completely vacuous, but at the same time great fun. Diaz steals the show with her trademark dumb blonde routine and delivery of innocent sounding smut, but Liu and Barrymore are at least as enthusiastic in their own roles. They don't get to do any funky disco dancing though.Best not to even mention the plot, but the action comes thick and fast, and it's sufficiently punctuated with enough costume changes and casual T&A to keep us blokes happy, but with gallons of girl power added to try and ensure no one takes offence (nice try).The martial arts sequences seemed misplaced and mildly annoying at first (kung fu seems to be popping up everywhere these days, even when it has no or little right to be there), eschewing the lame &#145;judo chop' style of fighting I seem to recall from the TV show for full-on Matrix style high-tech fu. Choreographer Yuen Cheung-Yan (brother of Woo-Ping) does a fine job though &#150; the girls kick ass and look great as they're doing it. Worth a view then, particularly if you're into high-kicking babes, or if you want to reflect upon how cringe-inducingly bad the TV series really was.  "},{"Title":"Even better then the real thing","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can never say that I actually watched Charlies Angels when it was on TV, never the less can I say i actually WANTED to watch it. When I heard though that it was being released as a movie, i was anticipated to see it. It looked like a good kick ass movie that showed girls can too kick ass, as many movies like to potray. When I saw it in the theatres, the first opening scene was not what I expected. It was like the TV show theme i've probably watched only once in my life and I never even thought I'd remember it. The movie was very colorful but with Cameron Diaz's bubbly personality, Lucy Lui's seductive looks and Drew Barrymore's rockstar ego the movie had a pretty good effect to it. The plot was a little too farfeched but it was enough for an action movie. In small terms, the movie was better then I would have thought it'd be. (need I remind you, till this day I don't watch the show.)  A lot of action... pretty good story... bad jokes.I give the movie **** out of ***** stars. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Angels Equals Good film","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is one of those TV into Film movies and it works. Three beautiful Angels carefully picked of whom are Diaz (The Mask) Lui (Payback) and Barrymore (E.T) The plot is simple, a guy called Knox faked his own kidnapping and plans to kill Charlie. It's impressive fight scene's make it enjoyable and defiantly is worth a look. The bad guy's are good, Charlie's voice over still sounds as good as it was in the 70's. It's defiantly worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Eeeehhhhh....","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I Didn't like this movie very much. But there was two things I really liked in this movie; CAMERON DIAZ!!! She's *HOT!* And the fighting-scenes was cool. Except those things, the film was kind of lame, specially the story! I'll give this move **½ / 5.  "},{"Title":"Worst porno ever","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  And I say porno because all it is is slo mo shots of the angels mincing around like they were in some kind of Baywatch out-takes show. The jokes are awful, Cameron Diaz in particular is mahogany-esque. Bill Murray does his usual funny guy stuff, and as usual is fairly (but not very) funny, but he's been doing this for so long it's hard to tell if he's conscious. So, all in all, it's dull, predictable, and one more thing - just because a film knows it's bad doesn't suddenly make it good. "},{"Title":"Extremely enjoyable flick for both genders.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CHARLIE'S ANGELS (2000) Rating 8/10Charlie's Angels, while it will certainly not appeal to everyone, remains for me a greatly entertaining and stylish remake of the classic TV show. It is faithful to the story of the sassy, smart, ass-kicking girls and tries to do nothing but let the audience kick back and enjoy the ride. We certainly do! Charlie's Angels is a mix between an action and comedy, and it succeeds in both areas. The action is both silly and amazing, a car-chase between Natalie and a nicely dressed man is filmed cleverly and the fight scenes are brilliantly reminiscent of The Matrix. The comedy will crack you up, Cameron's cuteness really wins us over, her dancing scenes &#150; especially one at an all-black nightclub &#150; are comedic and visually impressive. Just seeing these girls trip over, dance wildly and overall enjoy themselves is enough to put a smile on our face. On second viewing, I thought Billy Murray could've had more scenes because his character Bosley is just really neat and can really get the story going. Asides all that, you better warm those nachos because here I come Charlie's Angels 2!  "}{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For my brethren who enjoy looking at Cameron Diaz indulge herself by shaking her ass in a mirror as part of the essential plot of a movie, then you will love this disaster.  What a joke, I swear this movie thinks its audience is full of brain dead wrestling fans...wait, it is!  It's perfect!  A s*** fest.  I can't believe I paid $2 to watch this.  Bill Murray, you should be ashamed of yourself.  Oh Rushmore, where art thou? "},{"Title":"Even better than Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe if I'd seen this in a theater, I would have felt shortchanged, but I rented the DVD expecting to have an evening of stupid, meaningless entertainment... and it wasn't stupid and meaningless.  It was great.  I had a blast. I never conceived of this being a chick flick but that's definitely what it was.  Oh yeah, my husband enjoyed it too, but not for the same reasons.  He liked it the way we girls like war movies with good-looking men in them.  Enough said.  Now, if only Chow Yun-Fat had been in it, it would have been a perfect movie. "},{"Title":"It may not be Art!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels could have easily been another Avengers or Lost in Space... And thank god it wasn't. And the reason why Charlie's Angels works and those films don't is because this film refuses to take it's self seriously. Sure it takes a while to get into, and for a short while you'll be wondering if any of the plot revolves around anything other than giving the Angels the opportunity to flick their hair in slow motion, but once it gets going it's a great deal of fun. First time director McG seems to have a pretty sure hand of the action sequences and some of the cinematography is beautiful... So what if it's not Citizen Kane, it doesn't want to be... The film looks great; the Angels (Drew, Lucy and Cameron) look great, the film even has Bill Murray so it can't be all-bad. Just switch you're brain off and you won't be disappointed.7/10 "},{"Title":"Pointless, yet great eye-candy!!!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"      Before viewing another film loosely based on another television show, it is normal to have many reservations. Especially after all the stinkers released by Hollywood in the past few years. Yet, I am glad to say that for once I was definitely wrong. In no way is this film a masterpiece, or a classic, but it delivers what so few many films promise to deliver &#150; entertainment. It is funny, action packed and great to look at.       In the essence of capturing all the fun from the 70's show, this film goes beyond the essential elements of an action piece; it captures all the fun and more. Now, before we get ahead of ourselves and a reader misinterprets this review as one big proclamation of greatness, in no way is this review a proclamation of that. Yet, one can consider this film to be this holiday season's guilty pleasure on my part.  The script is somewhat questionable, the concept of reality seems to have disappeared and it is fun to see how these girls are exactly choreographed to be synchronized with each other. Even in the worst of times, these girls seem to be in sync with each other and of course, are always beautiful, even after a diabolical kung-fu action set piece with one of the film's villains played by Crispin Glover.           One cannot think that the success of the film lies mainly on a great collaborative effort beginning with the 30 or so writers that had a piece of the script, then Drew Barrymore's Flower Films produced the film, and director McG brings a great look to the film. The action is fast-paced, and even when there is no action; the film is fun to look at. The girls have time for disarming a terrorist bomb, while skydiving at 30,000 feet, finding a missing computer guru, fighting off tons of bad guys every second step of the way, and of course there is always time for love. All in a span of 90 minutes.       What captured me the most about this film was the sheer beauty of the action sequences. All the scenes were done extremely well, with much detail in mind when editing the film together. The soundtrack fits the film extremely well, and adds another element where the audience just feels like getting out of their seats and cheering for the Angels. Fast-paced, fun to watch, and a real pleasure make this film anything but a bad film. Furthermore, Bill Murray stars as Bosley, the Angels interim boss and as the comic relief and of course does a good job. In addition, Tom Green cameos as Chad, one of the Angels' many love interests. Therefore, in looking at the scope of the film, it is not a bad mix of talent. And it comes across on the screen.      Many skeptics dismissed the success of the film since it was in the hands of so much young talent. Drew Barrymore's production company handled the movie as McG a young maverick director brought his vision to the screen. The movie plays on many levels thereby abiding by the Hollywood formula, great action, some cute chuckles and of course some little love interests. The film therefore is packaged quite nicely and as aforementioned manages to tie in many elements all within a time span of about 90 minutes. The film succeeds in my opinion due to the spectrum of talent collaborating on the film. The show is used as a backdrop and that is where it ends, the plot (if any?) revolves around a missing computer genius and his quest to eliminate a very important person, and the movie builds upon that. The martial arts set pieces are the best since The Matrix, mainly because the same choreographer designed them, and the way the film is brought to the screen is truly eye pleasing.        Therefore, before simply shrugging off this movie and saying it is simply another cheap 70's remake, take a good look at it. The movie is pure entertainment, leave your realism at the door and simply enjoy the movie for what it is, a cute little movie that is well done and fun to watch. A real surprise.    Giancarlo's rating **1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Not at all bad... but not much better then that","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Do not watch this movie for any real action, or God forbid a good detective stile plot. Do watch this movie if you like Powerpuff Girls personified. From the second it starts this movie is a lot of kick ass fun. And the plot is not as obvious as you may think it is at first. The three young ladies concerned give amusement to many, I am sure, as they dress up in various costumes and such to get where they have to get. All right, so the script has problems, but, come on, what Hollywood blockbuster hit doesn't have a flat script now a days&#133; ok, so besides Fight Club. Basically this is one of those films where the plot is just an excuse to go on crossdressing adventures, just as in Tomb Raider the plot was an excuse for Lara to kick ass. Verdict? Fun, but not intellectual. When in the mood for a silly comedy go for his.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I know that many fellow IMDB users (as well as professional critics), have written many disparaging things regarding this film, but I have to say that it wasn't nearly as bad as I was expecting, although it was pretty darn silly. For the first ten minutes or so I was thinking oh geez can I sit throught this? But then it sort of won me over. I also must admit that the main reason I finally decided to watch this film was not any huge interest to see how well they did making a Big Budget Hollywood Blockbuster out of yet another thirty year old TV show, but to be able to watch Cameron Diaz again. (I'm a fool for her).Anyway, I never watched the old TV show much, so I can't compare the two efforts; however this movie seems to follow a similar tack from what I do remember--three resourceful (and gorgeous) private detective working for a mysterious agency for a boss they never see take on assignments that would be impossible for anyone else, but of course are vital to save the world on some level. The women are shown wearing various sexy outfits, always with perfect hair, just like in the 70's.One point you have to keep in mind is that this film is about action 'and showing off the gorgeous girls..you can't go into it expecting a mulilayered plot and Grisham-like dialog. Anyway, basically you have the theft of a critical system which (naturally) if it fell into the wrong hands would mean world wide disaster. That's where the Angels come in. Only problem is, things are more complicated than they realize.The fighting sequences, which many have complained about, seem well-done to me. The girls are all gorgeous and do their best to keep things light hearted and fun. I didn't see the movie in the theatre, but I'm sure that the draw was there for many guys like it was for me--to see Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu, and Drew Barrymore in the same film! Wow! The only thing that sort of disappointed me was that somehow Bill Murray didn't get much to do. Otherwise the casting is kind of predictable Tim Curry and Crispin Glover do their ususal competent character performances, but I keep thinking...if the film had more of a plot (i.e. script), both of them, as well as Bill Murray, would have figured in things more.I'll conclude with the thought I began with--I viewed this film because it was an oppurtunity to see Cameron Diaz. I adore her, and I'm not ashamed to admit it. For the rest of you..I'd recommend that you watch this film. It's a nice diversion. If you're in love with Cameron Diaz, it's a must see.5 of 10 stars "},{"Title":"You either love it, or hate it.","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The cast of the movie and the success of the TV show probably attracted more people to the cinemas than anything.  However, it is not the performance of the cast which drags this movie down, but the story line.  In parts the movie can be so predictable, yet it can also be overly complicated and it is not until people view it a couple of times that they fully understand the plot.  Also the film is so cheesy in parts and unrealistic which in a way may be a somewhat disappointment to the maturer audience.  However, considering it's based on the TV show this had to be expected.  Scenes such as when the Angels are chasing the Tall Thin Man is either bad continuity or plane unrealistic.  Alex rips off clothing and appears in a body suit, yet before was wearing a sleeveless dress.  Also, the character of Bosley is somewhat annoying and the scene when he grinds the ice (I take it it's ice) when he's imprisoned just adds to the stupidity.However, the film has it's good action parts (such as the fights) and the award winning helicopter scene.  The film probably would have been more appealing if it was more believable and the continuity was better.  What's fun about this film is you can pick out all the errors if you find the plot too stupid. (If you're a bird fan you will no that bird is not a pygmy nuthatch).On saying that this film shows girl power and is a definite hit for any hard core Charlie's Angels fan (TV series) or fans of Diaz, Barrymore or Lui.   "},{"Title":"The Ray Parker Jr. Italian Fans Club Comment","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In the 1976 three girl become the first Charlie's Angels. The name of their are Jill, Sabrina and Kelly. Now a new group of Charlie's Angels are born. The name of this three woman are Dylan (Drew Barrymore), Natalie (Cameron Diaz) and Alex (Lucy Liu). They work with Bosley (THE GREAT, THE ONLY BILL MURRAY!!!) for a investigation agency, and the boss of this is Charlie. Now the Angels work for the Know Industries, and the boss of this is missed. But the girl don't know a thing this is a trap!About director and co. For McG is the first movie, but the direction of Charlie's Angels are great! And the photography are beauty like the Angels. And the soundtrack are a mix of 70's Disco/Pop and Heavy Rock!About the actor/actress The Angels (Barrymore, Diaz and Liu) are good in the character of sexy babes, and Bill Murray are great. The villains of the movie are very bad (Tim Curry is good, and Crispin Glover is very good -remember this in Back To The Future?-)VOTE FOR ACTOR/ACTRESS 6/7 (Very good, boy!) VOTE FOR DIRECTOR 8 (McG...congratulations!) VOTE FOR WRITER 6 (The story is classic, but McG have transform this in a very very good script) VOTE FOR DIRECTOR OF PHOTOGRAPHY (Only in this movie!) 8 (Wow!) FINAL VOTE 6/7 (When exit the sequel?) "},{"Title":"Nice, very nice","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all I must say that I enjoyed this movie a lot. Ok you might think it is cheesy when you see the commercials, but it is not. It is just a whacky comedy that really sucks you into the story without ever letting go. This is due to a lot of fun, action, comedy, good actors and actresses (except for one)  and the fact that the jokes never are too cheesy or outrageously stupid. It just sets the tone of comedy immediately in the first few seconds and from there on, the makers stick with that kind of humor.The best things about this movie, besides the fact that it is fast paced and that the length is just perfect, are probably, that there are a lot of action, a lot of jokes and three women who tease the male audience. First of all I must say here that the action scenes are really great (à la The Matrix). The stunts and the kicks are mostly shown in slow-motion, until somebody actually gets hit. Then it's Wham! and off he goes with tremendous speed. That is really well done and cool and you actually believe that those Angels can do all that stuff.Secondary these babes are high class spies, which work with every weapon they got (the strongest of which are their appearances). Therefore they often dress up in different styles throughout this movie, which I must say fits Drew Barrymore perfectly I must say (blonde, redhead, black hair, she is just HOT). Lucy Lui is OK in all of her outfits and the only one who is kind of a setback is actually Cameron Diaz, whose natural color of hair seems to be the only one that suits her. Talking about appearances, there are many beautiful things for the male eye in this film and some things for comparison for females.Well about the jokes. Some are a bit far out maybe, like when the Angels dress up as German Fräuleins and hop around in traditional clothes they bought in the Alps. But I was not too bothered by them as I was in some other films, although I felt it really showed us, what the best weapon these babes had were, their appearances. I mean, when a guy is confronted with such beauty, his brain is immediately sucked dry of all available blood (which goes elsewhere) and therefore cannot think clearly anymore.Well I really liked this film a lot. Good script, director, actors, actresses, good score, good soundtrack, good camerawork, good producing (keep on going like that Mrs. Barrymore) and good effects. So there I said it all. No wait, there is something wrong here. Oh yes, good actors. All of them? NO. So who is that sucker? Well simple, it is Tom Green, who was also my least favorite character in Road Trip. So, in the end I am really looking forward to seeing a sequel to this film and if Tom Green is not in it, I cannot even wait to see it! 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Can anyone say Franchise?","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Featuring a killer soundtrack, some amazing stunts and special effects, and some bad ass babes, Charlie's Angels is destined to become a very lucrative franchise. Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu head up the cast of a very cool, very stylish film that has all the markings of a summer film, but in the fall. The three Angels are an elite fighting force run by a reclusive millionaire named Charlie. Lead by their boss Bosley (Bill Murray), the ladies are always trying to save the world from disaster. The movie starts with an opening sequence that would make James Bond blush, with a midair parachute chase and explosion. We get a little but of a back story of the girls, but nothing too specific. Then the story kicks in. It seems as if a famous software company's owner has been kidnapped by a rival. The plan is to combine the two forces and create a system that can track any person in the world, by their voice and their phone. The Angels are recruited to help find the company owner and foil the plot. But with a somewhat predictable plot turn, everything gets flipped upside down, and soon the Angels are fighting for their own lives, as well as the lives of Bosley and Charlie.I'm thinking plot isn't a huge issue in this movie. The movie is all about explosions, fighting, killer outfits, and of course, the Angels. Right from the start, if you don't like Diaz, Barrymore or Liu, you aren't going to like this film. Their personalities are what carry the movie. I find them all pretty likeable, and of course extremely attractive. But director McG makes sure that even on the off chance you don't like the girls, there is a lot more going on to keep you involved. The fight scenes are straight out of The Matrix (and in the case of the first fight scene, better) with all three ladies involved in kicking some ass. A lot of slow motion martial arts sequences are used to make it seem cooler, and there's enough cheesy dialogue to rival a Schwarzenegger film. The Angels all play to character as well. Diaz is the cute hot one who doesn't realize how good she looks. She's just very likeable, even when she's in positions she shouldn't be in (such as the Soul Train scene). Liu is the hard-edged girl who looks like she could kick anyone's ass, and generally gets the tougher jobs in the film. And Barrymore is the slightly ditzy girl who seems to jump into bed with almost anyone (including her real life boyfriend Tom Green in a strange cameo appearance). But it's also not a situation where the girls are just eye candy. All of them are very strong physically and mentally. They all seem like the kind of girls you'd like to hang out with, and at the same time the kind of women that could beat you up in a heartbeat. Nice combination. One great thing about this movie is that it never lets up. I don't remember any time in this movie where there wasn't something going on. A lot of times there is an unnecessary romance that takes up time, or sad parts that take away from the action, but here it was non-stop the entire way through. Yes they threw in some down time, but never for more than a minute. The movie also had a very slick look to it. Very stylish but not over the top comic book hero type style. And the soundtrack was very cool. Whether the music was just in the background, or helping to describe and add to the scene, every song had a purpose. Sometimes music isn't supposed to be in the forefront of a movie, but in these types of all out action films, music helps pump up the audience, and makes the action on the screen that much better. The only things I would have liked to see were a little more of Bill Murray and his comic genius, and a bit more on the background of the Angels. Murray is easily one of the funniest men in film today, but his role was small and his comic talents were kept under wrap. And while I did enjoy the fact that the movie kicked into high gear from the start and kept it up throughout the film, I think a little bit more about how the Angels came to be would have been nice. Maybe in the sequel. So overall I enjoyed Charlie's Angels. It had some great action, some funny moments, a great soundtrack and three hot ladies. Great mindless entertainment for these cold days of winter. I'm looking forward to seeing more of the Angels, and some more work from McG.  "}{"Title":"Uninterrupted energy, undiluted fun!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This really is not a serious movie.  But then, who could possibly have expected it to be.  Three lively and exceptionally attractive young actresses duck and dive and dance and fight in a film that is visually witty and its stars displaying admirable verve.  The sheer silly grinning delight of Cameron Diaz is noteworthy.  Charlie's Angels makes no demands and delivers what it promises.  In short, it is significant only in pleasing.  And that is enough. "},{"Title":"Girls having fun","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Generally I like what people might call 'deep' films... I like a strong plot that makes me think. This film is about as far from this category as possible... BUT, and this is a BIG BUT, I enjoyed it a lot. After 5 minutes I found myself sitting like a moron with a smile on my face... this film is fun and the 3 angels seem to be having the time of their lives. I felt relaxed and happy watching it. Diaz is cool and Lucy Liu... wow. When it finished, rather than thinking about a complicated plot I stood up, did a karate kick, pulled a muscle in my back and thought 'I want to be an angel'. 8/10.. might have given it 9 but Chad was useless and annoying.  "},{"Title":"Forget the plot - this is fun!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After I had seen the awful re-make of the old TV-show The Avengers, I had my doubts about Charlie´s Angels. Do we really need to see another forgotten classic remade for the new generation? Apparently, we did.Three beautiful special agents, Natalie, Dylan and Alex, works for a mysterious man named Charlie, and together they go by the name of Charlie´s Angels. They save the world from all kinds of troubles, and this time they are going to save the important man Eric Knox, but things are not quite what the angels expected.If you can forget about the silly plot, and just look at the cool action sequences and the amusing dialogue, you are in for a treat. The movie looks really good, with great special effects and the girls look drop dead gorgeous in all their different and stylish outfits. And the fact that they almost always behave like a bunch of naive schoolgirls, and the next second they do some serious ass kicking, only makes the movie funnier. The soundtrack is a killer, with everything from Destiny´s Child to Prodigy in it. Diaz, Barrymore and Liu are all very sexy as the angels, and even if they are clearly no comedians, they provide some laughs. Bill Murray is as adorable as always, this time as Bosley, who helps the angels when it is needed. The villains are also charismatic, especially Crispin Glover´s The Thin Man, which is very important for a popcorn movie like this.But you can´t deny that the script is pretty stupid and gradually I found myself somewhat tired of the angels´ clever remarks. Add three unfunny cameos by LL Cool J, Matt LeBlanc and Tom Green, and you realize that Charlie´s Angels is not perfect.  But it does have some funny and trivial jokes, for example Matt LeBlanc´s character is a lousy actor, just like he is as Joey in the sitcom Friends.Charlie´s Angels is an enjoyable experience, if you can forget about the plot, that is. * * * ½ out of * * * * *  "},{"Title":"This movie is really really boring","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh, come on, people. This movie, even if it's not to take it seriously, it fails even to be stupid! It's not funny, it has no plot, the action scenes leave you with the feeling that you've already seen them somewhere else and the acting is below average. Thanks god that I rented the DVD, so I lost only $3. "},{"Title":"I really expected more . . .","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  as a fan of the original series, I hoped this would be more serious.  Yes, it has three women.  Yes, it has action.  But the light-hearted campy handling left me wishing I'd watched something else.  I laughed quite a lot, but it wasn't what I wanted to do while watching a movie with this title. "},{"Title":"so dumb it was funny","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are always those movies that you see that when looked at from a serious perspective, seem like the corniest movies ever. However it was pretty obvious that the intention of this film was to be corny and viewed from a more laid-back perspective. take the movie for what it is funny and a little cheesy "},{"Title":"Ludicrous but fun t&a feminism movie","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Abandoning any pretensions at promoting feminine equality the old shows may have professed to uphold, this is basically about a trio of pretty ladies who are quite good at karate and stuff but mostly just get along by being dizzy and revealing as much skin as they can without actually falling out of their costumes, all the while longing to meet the lovely boyfriends who can look after them and make them feel complete. Having said that, it's a pretty fun movie with lots of silly plot twists and over-the-top characters, some good gags and some great talent (Crispin Glover makes a particularly cool villain, and Bill Murray is as awesome as ever) and of course there's plenty of pretty young ladies falling out of their costumes. Reasonable. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Fun that doesn't mean to be serious.","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't bother going to the movie theater to see this movie. I thought it was going to be a chick flick so I even hesitated to rent it. Boy was I suprised. This movie isn't serious and doesn't mean to be. It's just comic entertainment. Guys would enjoy this movie because it has plenty of action, sex, and special f/x. If you rent this movie I guarantee that you won't be disappointed. I thought that this movie might be a bomb but is is very entertaining. The girls are real funny and the special effects just add to the enjoyment. This movie is hip and great for the young audience.  "},{"Title":"Let's not be too hard on the Angels","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You know, these Matrix-style fight sequences are starting to get annoying.  I'm not a fan of the genre, but I can tell that the CGI choreographers are missing something here they fail to convey ANY sense of what's possible, in the world of the fiction, and what's not.  The fight between the three angels and the whippersnapper with a briefcase is like a video game fight between two opponents who have set their strength and agility at maximum and their hit points at limitless - it's uncreative, and trying to watch.The basic fantasy is good.  And I'm glad to see that the film doesn't dilute it, for the sake of either realism or subtlety.  A fiction that so nakedly indulges male daydreams - some female, and some gender-neutral daydreams as well, no doubt - needn't reign it in for subtlety's sake.  If anything Charlie's Angels doesn't indulge our daydreams (ahem) nakedly enough.  This is not some prime time television show - this is CINEMA, for God's sake, and a few bare breasts wouldn't be too much to ask for.  Well, I suppose cheerful, G-rated pseudo-erotica is better than nothing.  Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu, tame though their teasing is, are a delight to look at; Cameron Diaz might be as well if she wasn't playing the foolishly grinning doofus type.  I admire her nerve time after time, she allows herself to be cast presumably against type as the Comparatively Unlovely Woman.  (My Best Friend's Wedding and Being John Malkovich are two other examples, although in the latter she tries too hard, and becomes more appealing than her co-star after all.)Several critics have wondered aloud if there's a movie here at all underneath all the shiny plastic packaging.  I think there is.  It's not good, but it has some positive virtues, and it deserves marks for unreservedly entering into the fantasy of the television show when so many other tv-based films maintain a knowing distance.  A mere ten years ago Charlie's Angels would have been a sour disappointment.  These days it's above average.  Not by much, I'll be the first to admit. "},{"Title":"Mindless fun for the MTV generation","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why is it that more and more directors and art directors seem to go for the videoclip-style of moviemaking? Charlie's Angels is a movie like a Jennifer Lopez-video. Fast-paced, brightly coloured, extremely noisy... but with the lasting effect of a bursting soap bubble. The MTV-style of editing (jump cuts, fast moving camera's, scenes that last barely three seconds) may work well on a 5-minute format but 90 minutes of this is really too much. In that, Charlie's Angels reminded me of Tom Cruise's vehicles MI1 and MI2.In all fairness the three ladies give off a delightful performance that is both funny and athletic. The fighting scenes are good, especially because they are interlaced with tongue-in-cheek humour and quirky oneliners. I hope the inevitable sequel will be less MTV-like.  "}{"Title":"Loses its way","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Disappointing because it starts off reasonably well.  When it sticks to satire, it does very well, and Drew Barrymore is excellent in her part.  But someone lost faith in the satire concept and mixed in characters that do NOT belong, such as Tom Green's Chad and Matt Le Blanc's standard dope. They turn the tone from satiric to spoof to silly lower case Saturday night Live skits -- a feeling capped off by Bill Murray's lounge-lizard performance as Bosley.  Too bad. "},{"Title":"Roll on the sequel, but without Charlie please","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wonder which idea came first - that of remaking the old TV series, or of making a caper movie with three ass-kicking women. It's a pity director McG and his team couldn't have carried through the second idea without having the mysterious Charlie in the background setting missions impossible for the three angels. This contrivance was always tedious, but it also now detracts from the modern girl-power message the movie is trying to give.Anyway, leaving aside the tiresome invisible Charlie and a slow first reel, the movie is an enjoyable romp. The plot moves along apace; the sets are very good looking; there are some clever effects; and the martial arts, and other action sequences, are vigorous and exciting. And then of course there is the undoubted sexiness of the three angels, Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu and Cameron Diaz. All of them have charm, but the last mentioned is simply irresistible, especially in her disco dance sequence. (There were also some men in the movie, but I didn't notice them too much!)I recommend renting the DVD for this one. It has quite a lot of extra material which shows just how much thought, skill and sheer hard work went into making what many will consider merely a fluff movie. Presumably, there will be a sequel; and, if it has the same director and leads, I shall certainly give it a try - but hopefully they will have ditched Charlie. "},{"Title":"Success with a dying formula","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think the best thing I can say about Charlie's Angels is that it really has found success where many other movies in that genre have failed.  Most recently, we were all subjected to the absolutely dull Mission Impossible 2 which was so far removed from reality it actually hurt to watch.  Angels has just as much over the top action, but approached it from a have some fun with it attitude.  The result  Charlie's Angels managed to do what MI2 could not...entertain me.  Lets face it, the days of gravity defying kicking and flying punches are going to be gone soon.  This is a good thing, and we'll have the Angels to remind of us when it was cool. "},{"Title":"Boring.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have very little to say about this movie.  It was not hilarious, it was not interesting, it was not fun, it was just plain boring.  Simple as that.  People who disagree with me are probably guys who were too busy watching the girls slink around in leather outfits to notice the lack of intelligence in the movie. "},{"Title":"Satisfying retread","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels, directed by some guy who calls himself McG and exec-produced by Drew Barrymore, is a satisfying retread of most every successful action flick of the past 30 years. The film rips off wholesale sequences from James Bond flicks, Lethal Weapon, Mission Impossible--even The Return of the Pink Panther! It is also highly influenced by Hong Kong action cinema, and pays homage to every Jackie Chan film ever made, with direct quotes from the Shanghai Noon and Legend of Drunken Master (in one instance an honest homage, in the other a blatant rip-off).  Filter all this through the American pop-culture innocent trash fantasy world of the stupid 70s hit TV show Charlie's Angels, and you've got a wacked-out rollercoaster of a movie. The only real weak point the film has (given that you aren't one of those with no taste for either action nor 70's American Kitch) is, surprisingly, in the action department. Many, many great things can be acheived through computer technology in today's films, but one thing it cannot do is turn an actor with no martial arts experience into bruce Lee or Jackie Chan (the closest Hollywood has come has been with Keanu Reeves in The Matrix, and I still maintain he looked kinda goofy imitating Lee).  So, even though in Angels 2000 we have computer-assisted wire work out the wazoo, nothing can be done to actually convince us that Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu, or Drew Barrymore could kick a crippled 10 year old girl's ass. For those who have seen even one Hong Kong action film--even a bad one--the fight scenes in Angels 2000 are ludicrously lame, with severely choppy editing trying to make up for the fact that the three actresses are indeed actresses--and in no way athletes nor martial artists. Diaz is particularly laughable in this regard. She has the I'm kicking your ass facial expressions down, but when in motion, she is gangly, awkward and humorously slow, even during her disco-dancing scene (seeing her strike those Kung Fu poses like a flamingo-monkey Traffic cop are the only thing about the film that is UNINTENTIONALLY hilarious). Now don't get me wrong, all 3 angels are fine actresses--they are just made to look stupid in the lame faux HK action sequences. They either needed to spend 6 months training the Angels in how to stunt fight, or perhaps hired actresses with more believeable athletic abilities. Or perhaps McG should have mede the many fight sequences even MORE fake, to play up the camp appeal (the TV show's fights were ultra lame as well, as I recall--and with no computer effects!).HAving said all this, I think this McG character should direct the next James Bond flick! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, that's all","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is just pure entertainment. That's all. Don't expect to watch a serious plot with superb acting because you'll be disappointed. This is not even close to the original show. The original Charlie's Angels show, with three bombshells that changed through the life of the successful of it, used to be a serious police drama, at least the producers and actors thought it was. It was indeed cheesy and ridiculous but still maintained that interesting feeling about police/detective shows, especially when three gorgeous women in power were the stars of it.  This movie is indeed cheesy but of course more sophisticated than the original show. Fantastic special effects and easy and predictable but entertaining plot. And of course the three angels (Barrymore, Diaz, and Lucy) brought a special touch to it. But this is not even close to the show. It just an entertaining spoof of the show following the trend originated by the Scream series, and followed by I know what you did last summer and Scary Movies. If you take this movie as a spoof, you will not be disappointed. But if you rent (yeah, you read right RENT. I refused to pay $8 to see this movie) it don't expect to go through the memory lane while watching it. And you have something more entertaining and interesting to do...don't even bother renting it. "},{"Title":"Too much Ham, Not Enough Bread!","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I consider myself to be a somewhat passive reviewer insofar as, despite watching plenty of films, I rarely get passionate enough to actually put pen to paper (metaphorically). However, I felt compelled to comment on this particular occasion as I have rarely witnessed such a poor film in a loooooonnnngg time.  Despite the fact that this film was meant to be tongue in cheek, the acting was too farcical, the plot ultra contrived, the music unimaginative - well, I am almost lost for words.  I was unfortunate enough to break my foot a week ago and have therefore been sitting down with my leg up watching more films than usual. Believe me - if it wasnt for the fact that I was around my girlfriends place (she had fallen asleep - comment in itself?), I would have gladly sacrificed both my walking stick and her TV for the relief it would have bought me. Do yourself a favour - SAVE YOUR MONEY for something more entertaining like Hannibal the Musical or something. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie I've seen!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this piece of crap this morning, and I spent all day trying to figure out if I have seen a worse movie.  You know what?  I haven't! The acting and the story were both equally bad.  Never watch a movie that has been directed by a music video director.  At least not the first one.  I could have watched MTV for an hour and a half if they played music anymore.  I decided to watch this one over Close Encounters on DVD!  I guess I got what I deserved. "},{"Title":"Unrepentant parody/homage/satire/sendup","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I expected to hate Charlie's Angels.   I'm not the biggest fan of Drew Barrymore, but I like Cameron Diaz, and I actually respect Lucy Liu's talents as an actress and martial artist yes, that's really her!In the first few minutes of the movie, you can spot parodies of 70s TV and other movies.  There's a parody of TJ Hooker, several of Mission Impossible, at least one of The Matrix, one of The Avengers, one of FLED, and one of Saturday Night Fever.  After that I forgot to count because I was busy laughing.This movie is eye and mind candy and makes no pretense at being anything else. It's fun that leaves you smiling but doesn't fill you up with anything substantial.  The plot is thin at best, but that's fine because it's just there to link together gorgeous location shots, amped-up SPFX fight scenes, and the Angels themselves looking deadly and gorgeous.Funniest moment Too many to count. But sticking in every 70s rock song with Angel in it somewhere is right near the top.Best line  Chinese fighting muffins. -- Dylan. They're not Chinese. They're not fighting. They're Blueberry. -- Alex.Six out of ten.  Definite light fare with pretty packaging. "},{"Title":"Shamelessly idiotic and quite fun","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, there isn't much I can say about Charlie's Angels except for the fact that it succeeds. It has music, fighting, explosions, comedy, and just about anything loud and bright to keep you watching for 98 minutes. The 'satire' doesn't really go beyond send-ups of The Matrix, Mission Impossible and most recent action movies. It's pretty forgettable, yet a lot grin-inducing of fun for the duration. 7/10. "}{"Title":"Cheesy, but great fun","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is one of the best movies to come out in 2000. It's one of the few movies based on a TV series that is actually good. Even though the heroes of the movie are three females, they kick plenty of butt. The critics were hard on the movie, and I don't know why. The movie was suppose to be cheesy because it was based on a cheesy hit TV show. I'm tired of people who are always looking for a deep plot and realistic circumstances in every movie they go to see. Part of going to the movie theaters is to venture into another world; a world that's partly fantasy. It's called ESCAPISM. If you want a movie with a deep plot and very realistic characters, go rent SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION. I give it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Charlie's Angels Kick Ass!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu are perfect as Charlie's three angels, Dylan, Natalie and Alex. The story-line is good and the film is funny and cool. I hope they go ahead with the sequel and Drew, Cameron and Lucy can all come back to reprise their roles as the angels. I give Charlie's Angels a 6/10 "},{"Title":"An action packed fun house!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really don't know, but there is just something about this movie that I loved. Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu were superb. The director, McG (who from the DVD special features, looks like he'd be a blast to work with) and the stunt coordinators and all the other crew members made the Angels look great in their action scenes which were amazing and by far the best parts of the movie. Some may say that they were biting off The Matrix. Maybe, but I loved this movie even more. Sure the plot was kind of weak (The Angels get an assignment from Charlie to stop some bad guys and they go out and kick some ass!). But it's actually not about that *too much*. It's about the action, the Angels and the high tech wizardry and at least the cast had fun making the movie and if you ever see the DVD special features (which were some of the best special features I've ever seen on DVD) they *do* look like they're having fun, which is what it's all about, and you definitely have to give the Angels credit for their hard work, time and dedication on the movie. They spent like 3 months, for 8 hours a day, for 5 days a week before shooting practicing gymnastics and martial arts to make themselves look as good as they did on screen. Overall, Charlie's Angels kept me entertained for 98 minutes of fun, action and sex appeal and I can't wait for a sequel.My Verdict 9/10 "},{"Title":"fun and chicks","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok this movie is totally nonsense, and ok this ain't a movie at all, but this film is not pretentious, doesn't want to be seen as a classic. And most of all is really fast and funny. And who could resist to those three chicks in action? I cant. I give this movie 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Who's that guy? That's George McFly!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is a pretty sad attempt to cash in on the looks of three of the more attractive actresses working today (although I am sad to say that Drew hardly fits in that category anymore), and the film's similarity to the traditional James Bond formula is a little hard not to notice. Cameron Diaz is an absolute bimbo in this movie, and although Drew Barrymore plays a relatively respectable character, her effectiveness isn't that great, especially given her whiny performances in such recent movies as Home Fries, Never Been Kissed, and The Wedding Singer. The biggest contribution that Drew made to this movie was getting her boyfriend to take a bit part in it.Despite the lack of creativity and the blatant sexual exploitation of Charlie's Angel's, there can be no denying the fact that it just had some good action and at least a few scenes that were really good. There was some fighting action that was really fun to watch, despite the fact that the cinematography was literally stolen from The Matrix, and let's not forget the fact that the Thin Man, with whom the angels had their first confrontation and who made surprisingly classy appearances throughout the film, was the guy who played George McFly in the great Back To The Future trilogy (well, part I and some of part II, anyway). Those are some of my favorite movies ever, and I haven't seen him in many other movies, so I thought it was really cool to see him in a movie again.Charlie's Angels is an un-creative action crime film that continuously and excessively exploits the hotties that star in it, and relies almost solely on their looks as well as some flashy music to push the movie along. There can be no doubt about the fact that the music in the film was thrown in just to promote the soundtrack and make more money. There was hardly a second that went by that there wasn't another song playing, regardless of whether or not it had anything to do with what was happening on screen. There's so much trendy music packed into this movie that it almost overshadows everything else. Notice that they put that ridiculously popular Jennifer Lopez song (the title of which I don't know or care to know and, of course, by &#145;ridiculously popular,' I mean that it's ridiculous that it is popular) over the end credits. Some of the music was good, but it was poured on so thickly that it becomes cloying and suffocating. LL Cool J definitely said it best during the opening scene of the movie, `Walk out.' "},{"Title":"Pure Fun","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just watched CA on my DVD and i must admit it was pure fun. It is not an action movie for the thrill seekers out there but it blows up your mind with it's bimbo-esque fun. It is like having fun on the beach with your favourite mates (cheeks included). McG is brilliant (although i could survive without any more Matrix sequences), so is Cameron, Lucy and Drew -sorry Bill-)... Is there a sequel on the way? LOL  "},{"Title":"Great date movie!","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ... If you're dating a 15 year old... This movie is plane out silly. Great fighting scenes, but done and seen before. There's nothing new to this, but far out stupidities. It seems to be an attempt to make an action-movie for girls, but why didn't they cast Spice Girls then? That'd be GIRL-POWER.This did nothing for me, sorry. I was shocked to learn it was directed by a man, but as they say in 12 Monkeys Whatever get's it up for you, JACK! "},{"Title":"Why, why must we reincarnate old tv shows","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't expecting too much from this film, and it was a good thing too.  This movie was a typical Hollywood attitude, hey, I got an idea, lets throw a bunch of well known actresses together, use an old TV series as the plot, and fools will pay tons of money too see it. All I have to say is, after renting this movie, I want two hours of my life back.     "},{"Title":"short, sweet & sarcastic","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Move over, Spice World!  Your sacred and delicate spot in the psuedo-loyal hearts and minds of thirteen year-old girls everywhere has officially been handed over to another, eerily similar, batch of boob-flouting babes from Brain-Dead Land.  And, as usual, I'm sure the women's movement in America could not be happier about it. "},{"Title":"Heavenly fun","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Action adventure has probably never been this much fun.  This comedy sendup of the 1970's TV series has a plot as flimsy as Cameron Diaz's outfits, but who cares!  It gives us inane comedy interwoven with serious action, making it wonderfully mindless entertainment.From a technical standpoint, the film is first rate.  First time feature director Joseph McGinty Mitchell (McG) who has won numerous awards for music and commercial videos seems unfazed by this gargantuan project ($92 million budget).  Though the film is done in a hodgepodge of styles (a hallmark of video directors), each is extremely well done, using locations, color and sets imaginatively and effectively.  The pace, like McG himself, is like a frenetic roller coaster ride and the humor generally works.Probably the most impressive elements of the film are the fighting scenes.  Diaz, Barrymore and Liu all trained tirelessly on the wire to produce fabulously athletic fighting scenes that look authentic.  The editing of these scenes is outstanding and when you see them, it seems that Cameron Diaz really can jump eight feet in the air, travel ten yards and kick her foe in the face three times!  There is an excellent behind-the-scenes feature on the DVD that shows how this was done.  This is only one of the many special features on this loaded DVD.  In addition, the DTS sound on the DVD is outstanding and explosive.The acting; well there is not a lot of serious acting going on here.  It is all very tongue in cheek and all three angels handle their roles with an excellent combination of sarcastic humor and sexiness.  Bill Murray is great as the twenty-first century Bosley.  Kelly Lynch is also delectably evil as Vivian rendering some good fight scenes herself.This film is a real crowd pleaser.  I rated it an 8/10.  It has terrific production values, great action, amusing humor and a killer cast.  With all this, who needs a story?  "}{"Title":"Charlie, how your Angels get down like that?","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was prepared for a mindless jigglefest, ala the original Charlie's Angels.  Mindless, yes.  But a highly entertaining and well-done movie besides.The three leads -- Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz, and Lucy Liu -- are great as the Angels.  They each have a distinct personality, fashion sense, and fighting style.  Besides that, they look fabulous in every scene.  The martial arts action is some of the best I've ever seen, reminiscent of both Iron Monkey and Heroic Trio.  The fact that the leads themselves did the wire work and kicks makes it even more wonderful to watch.McG has done a fabulous job making the movie a visual treat.  Every scene is vibrant with its own color palette, jumping out at you from the screen.  Add to this great supporting performances by Bill Murray, Tim Curry, Sam Rockwell, Kelly Lynch, and the striking Crispin Glover, and you've got a great movie.Just a word of warning leave your logic circuits at the door.  The plot is beyond fluff and without any depth, but that's the point.  It's Charlie's Angels.  If you want deep plot and complexity, this is NOT the movie for you.  If, however, you want fabulous action, great humor, and one of the most kinetic movies of 2000, watch Charlie's Angels. "},{"Title":"Cute movie","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was everything I expected it to be. The three leading ladies Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, and Lucy Lui were all gorgeous.. but how can you expect them to make a good comedy? This movie was so corny! Because those girls are just not funny! Cute-yes, but funny-no. Funny girls are actresses like the 3 pretty girls on Friends (Jennifer Anniston, Lisa Kudrow, and Courtney Cox), Sandra Bullock, or Julia Roberts. The only part that I even thought was funny was when Cameron D was dancing, that was hilarious.. also, Tom Green did ok. They should have given Matt LeBlanc funnier lines, he could have made this movie a lot better, hes a good actor.. "},{"Title":"Harmless fun","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is made with so much apparent good humor, I could repress the wide grin I had during the whole movie. Cameron Diaz plays the role of Natalie, by far my favorite of the three angels.  Her gratuitous dance scenes are humorous and very sexy. And that's what the movie is all about. I read some complaints here about how there was less nudity than in the series that inspired it. Frankly I wasn't looking for pornography, so three sexy chicks was all right with me. The movie's action scenes were obviously inspired by the Matrix, but the two movies simply can't be compared one lolly pop fun, the other cyber-punk. These action scenes are impressive, but admittedly a little bit overdone. I can't quite give it a perfect score, even when considering it does not pretend to be the new Citizen Kane.  Some of the jokes are not very funny, and they get more and more embarrassing after each new viewing.  Also after multiple viewings people will most probably skip the plot development scenes and watch the T&A scenes right away.  That's why I recommend getting it on DVD.A solid 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's not that bad","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went to see that movie knowing that it was based on a tv-series but having never seen it, so I can't compare with the series. But I thought Charlie's Angels (the movie) was entertaining. This is no masterpiece but it was a good way to spend a hour and a half. The three angels are well played by Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore (the one I preferred) and Lucy Liu. Bill Murray was funny in the role of Bosley.I gave it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"reasonably good film","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another old tv show brought to life. This movie has good action a little hoky at times but enjoyable.The new Angles much like the old ones are not hard to look at and for those who watch Ally McBeal yes Lucy does have attitude but she doesn't breathe fire. this movie in my books is a 6 "},{"Title":"Corny, fluffy, brainless, and infinitely entertaining!  8/10","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I first heard about this show, I believe my thoughts were something along the lines of one of L.L. Cool J's lines in the movie's opening scene Great...another movie from an old t.v. show.  Having suffered through countless (and usually pointless) silver-screen updates of some of television's bigger hits, I was extremely skeptical.So, into the theater I went, fully expecting to be disappointed.  I figured the only saving graces of this film would be the fantastic figures of its three female leads.  I couldn't have been more wrong.  It had been a long, long time since I'd seen a film as fun, upbeat, silly and invigorating as this.  Charlie's Angels was, without a doubt, the most entertaining film of 2000.In a film without much of a plot, the performances are surprisingly good and fresh.The Angels  Drew Barrymore as Dylan is the ultimate tom-boy, Lucy Liu's Alex is the definition of class and control, and Cameron Diaz lights up every frame she's in as Natalie, simultaneously graceful and ditzy.Bill Murray is Bill Murray, which is a very good thing.  His Bosley is very funny, and very charming.  Sam Rockwell is a chameleon, Kelly Lynch comes off as an incredibly strong woman, and Tim Curry plays an excellent villain.Which reminds me...the most unforgettable performance in this movie belongs to Crispin Glover as Thin Man.  Without a single line of dialogue, he manages to steal every scene he's in.  His mannerisms and expressions made me fully believe that he was Thin Man.  The way he held those cigarettes...*shudders*The direction is very good, especially for a first time feature director like McG.  He draws influences from a lot of different films and filmmakers, but his style remains very unique.  This movie is also well shot, thanks to D.P. Russell Carpenter.What of the action?  Well, you've probably already heard that it's incredible.  And everyone who says that is absolutely right.  The girls were apparently put through several months of intense strength, martial arts and wire training, and it shows.I've given this film an 8 out of 10.  The only places in which Charlie's Angels loses points with me are in the half-baked plot and the over-baked villains.  Both end up being cliches, which may have been the point given the plausibility and originality of the plots and villains in the television series.  Here, though, they only manage to slightly detract from this otherwise wonderful effort. "},{"Title":"A Promise Kept","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I always love to look at the scoring demographics, and here it's interesting to note that women in every age category give this flick higher points than do men. I'm sure there is a person out there sneering that it's because women are dumb and don't know what makes a good movie. That person is a creep. I think it has more to do with the fact that we so rarely get to see female action heroes, particularly ones we can like. We had Trinity at the beginning of The Matrix before the movie quickly found a man to focus on, and we have Max and Buffy on television. It's a sign, though, that even silly movies featuring women kicking butt are so popular among, well, women. We need this. We need strong females in leading roles, even in silly movies. And this is a very silly movie, make no mistake. I also think it intends to be that way. Each scene has it's own cartoon feel, and the movie itself is like a comic book come to life. There are some very nice and admirable touches, added at Drew Barrymore's insistence. We see the Angels eating heartily, we see the Angels use martial arts abilities instead of guns, we see the Angels saving gentlemen in distress. Certainly, there are aspects that could be regarded as sexist, but this is 'Charlie's Angels', for crying out loud, based on the show that spawned the term 'jiggle-television'. Worth mentioning is the wonderful Crispin Glover playing one of the odder and more unforgettable villains I've seen. Does he even have a single line of dialogue? And only 'Charlie's Angels' would feature a villain like Eric Knox. He's like the quasi-cool younger brother of those guys from 'Night at the Roxbury'. And Bill Murray is Bill Murray. There's not much else to say about that. Ultimately, the movie works because it never promised to be more than what is is- an action-comedy about three hot babes wearing cool clothes while kicking bad-guy ass. Anyone who watches it and condemns it for being anything other than that has only himself to blame.   "},{"Title":"Another remake but cheesy","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liked watching the series Charlie's Angels when I was a kid.  I thought this movie would be just as good.  I was a little disappointed with it. The special affects were good.  A few of them could have used a little more work as they reminded me of some of the special affects that were common in the 70's and early 80's.  However, the affects in the fight scenes were first rate.  They compared well to some of the scenes in The Matrix.  The plot line was original and helped the movie.  However, this movie was set in the here and now.  So some of the scenes were unbelievable for this movie.  If this movie had be set in the future, they might have been more believable. This was the a major minus to the film.I am glad I waited to rent this one.  I would have been more disappointed in the movie if I had spent seven bucks to see it in the theater.  Overall, this movie is a good remake of an older series but has some unbelievable scenes that take away from the movie.  (6 out of 10). "},{"Title":"Slow First half, better last half.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first half of this movie is bad.  Sure it's funny, but it brought down the movie. (SPOILERS!!!)It get's better when they try to kill the angels and everything that follows.  They now have a sense of direction.  X-men is much better in this field.  The movie has no direction at the beginning.  Now I'm biased here, (cause I'm about the same age as drew, and been a fan since 81 or so...da*n E.T.)but I thought Drew simply kicked A**, in this movie.  She's gotta do more action movies like this.  She totally carried the last half the movie. The DVD is fun too as well.  Couple of everything you can think of. )3/10 first half 7/10 second half = 5/10 "},{"Title":"AWESOME!!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have no idea why people are so into bad-mouthing this movie.  It rocked.  The story was decent for this type of movie but the action was completely over the top.  People are bad-mouthing it and saying it looks fake and couldn't be done.  Hello!  This is a movie, a make believe world where things out of the ordinary can happen.  Charlie's Angels has that video-game/comic book thing going for it and it truly excels.  McG has proven himself to be an awesome director who will hopefully have a long fruitful career.  The Angels were hot and Bill Murray was funny.  What more do you want? "}{"Title":"****  Too much fun!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You're not likely to have more fun at the movies this year than seeing this excellent update of the popular late-seventies television show. Drew Barrymore produces and leads a fantastic cast of sexy babes (Lucy Liu, Cameron Diaz), impressive villains (Crispin Glover, Tim Curry) and comic relief (Bill Murray, Tom Green), all of them ably directed by newcomer McG (I don't know why the director has a fast-food special for a name either). The tongue-in-cheek humour is kept perfectly in balance with the amazing martial arts fight scenes (which are truly amazing) and the pace is kept clipping away without missing a beat (great soundtrack to accompany it too!).  "},{"Title":"Power Puff girls of the new millennium!!!","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I sat close to my PC and watched and I even watched all the extra's on the DVD!  You will get all G'd up! (See the extras, that's referring to producer) I found it to be a pleasant surprise that Matt LaBlanc and Tom Green were in the film.  Was it the Chad? and The Chad was great! are quotes that will get stuck in your head.  Bill Murray was awesome and lent his superior sense of humor to this killer chick flick!I will admit, I did not run out to see Charlie's Angels in the movie theater because I wasn't impressed.  I rented the movie today and I was impressed. I think you will be too.  Watch the extras and see what the girls had to go thru to make this movie.  Oh yeah and Tim Curry plays a cool part too! Woo hoo!  Oh come you guys will like the movie too!Mashy aka KittyCoo  "},{"Title":"Don't listen to any of these reviews","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Don't listen to any of these negative reviews. Charlie's Angels was great. It was funny, had some dramatic scenes, and plenty of action. Lucy, Drew and Cameron were terrific! A sequel will definitely be in the works! Most of the reviews claim there is no plot. I agree, there was no plot but I didn't let that get in the way of enjoying the movie. Rent Charlie's Angels, grab a bag of popcorn and get blown away by the action!  "},{"Title":"A (good) fanshow","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Stating that this movie had a story would be next to a lie. Its more a nice mix of word jokes, situation jokes, and arranged stunts.And it is a fanshow, for fans of Drew Barrymore (like me) and Cameron Diaz. Fans of Drew Barrymore get some very funny scenes with her and the most hated person in the world her boyfriend Tom Green. And they get some scenes where she's, well, not that completely dressed. Fans of Cameron Diaz get of course some of her smiles, and some extremely funny scenes, such as one with a postman. Well there are many other scenes in the same style.Fortunately I've no clue about the original TV show, so comparison with it is impossible for me. If it was anything like this movie, I doubt I'm interested in it, anyway.If you like the main actors, you'll like the movie; if you don't like them, I think you're wasting your time with this. Or maybe if you want a girls feel good movie. Ah, and you have to have some taste for really crazy jokes. But all fans of Drew and Cameron have to have that anyway.  "},{"Title":"Grounds for Mickey's divorce from Minnie","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm glad I didn't spend money to see this movie.  It was generally ridiculous, the action sequences were implausible, and the plot didn't make much sense.  I know that the TV series had some of the same shortcomings, but it was free, and at least the jiggle/sex appeal quotient was higher.  None of these angels could hold a candle to the originals. Overall, my assessment of this movie is the punchline to a joke about Mickey Mouse divorcing Minnie  was f...ing Goofy. "},{"Title":"Movie was a blast to watch, but make sure you in the right mood","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How can anyone say this movie wasn't fun to watch?I know, people who were waiting in line to see some serious tearjerker but it was sold out and picked up tickets to see Charlies Angels instead, thats who.  People, you have to be in the mood to watch this movie.  Don't be expecting a complicated plot and character development when they blantantly advertise nonstop action and sex appeal!!  Some of the reviewers here totally missed the point of the movie.  Fun.  This movie was not meant to be a mindbender like The Usual Suspects or a masterpiece like Shawshank Redemption.  The purpose of the movie was to titillate the viewer, albeit the men more than the women.I rated this movie an 8.  The movie advertised fun and excelled at it.  Just sit back with a ice cold drink and popcorn and enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Good, but easily forgettable","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie will be forgotten in the first few minutes after you step out of the theaters. But while you're inside the theaters, it's a joy to watch.What I found most appalling about the movie isn't that we're supposed to buy chunky Barrymore as a kung fu expert, but that the movie's director and fight choreographers had very little original input into the movie. Entire scenes, from fights to dialogue, were lifted from other, better movies.Barrymore's dictation to the bad guys on what she's gonna do to them before she does it? Straight out of True Lies. The fight stunts are even more blatant. Matrix-ripoffs (the Morpheus/Neo leap), almost every Jet Li fight scene (particularly those involved an Angel fighting off numerous opponents). The Eraser airplane scene, almost a scene-by-scene reshot of Eraser's exterior out-of-the-airplane shot. And too many others to mention.Look, this isn't to say that I didn't enjoy myself. This is a mindless fun movie, easily forgotten once you're done with it. It's a blast to watch. Things don't make sense, but this is escapist fare, don't try to make sense of it. It's fun while it lasted, but don't be shocked when, while watching it, you keep getting flashes of deja vu, cause yes, you're right, you HAVE seen this scene, or this line of dialogue, or this scenario before.Ironic, since this is a retread of an old TV show that has its share of retreads of scenes from other movies. Do you think the director was conscious of what he was doing during filming? I don't know, but for a first film, it's not surprisingly that he doesn't have an original voice just yet. Hopefully he'll get better, he certainly shows promise.As an aside, if I don't ever see another movie where the characters move in slow motion and do impossible flips ever again, I'll be just fine. Sheesh, what the hell has the Matrix started??? "},{"Title":"!","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An average adaptation of the TV series for the big screen. There's more action, fighting, and beauty/sex appeal for the Angels than plot, but it's all in good fun. You might like it if given the chance. I thought it was worth it.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Women Rule, Men Drool, is this movement over yet?","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Who should be insulted more, women or men?  Women will once again have it pounded into their heads that (alleged) beauty is the only thing that matters as far as being successful and getting anything you want out of life; average-looking women need not apply for membership.  Men, once again we are portrayed as stupid, infantile, drooling, panting, single-minded amoebas that would cut off our right arm for a smile from an (alleged) goddess.  Can't somebody create the magic of Double Indemnity or Casablanca anymore?  This feature is worthless; I was insulted.  "},{"Title":"A Blast","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is not a masterpiece, but it is one hell of a good time. For it's entire 98 minute running time I was entertained, there is always something going on. Whether it's one of the many martial arts sequences, or a car chase, or provactaavly sexy shot's of the Angels, this film is always entertaining. It's makes for a good nights  worth of entertainment. "}{"Title":"Totally empty-headed action","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A wonderful action movie that claims to have a plot, but doesn't. This movie is nothing but a sequence of action scenes and sexy shots of the girls. Who could ask for more?You'll like this movie if you expect absolutely nothing from it. If you're content to turn your brain off until you leave the theater, you are guaranteed to have fun. As for those of us who like to see something more in our movies, well, this isn't one for us. "},{"Title":"Girls` power","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, you`ll say - I`m a loser, microfon abuser, but.. just listen.Aren`t YOU tired? Folks, sometimes we all need a break, don`t we ? And /guess what/ if you NEED a break,... that`s right - go and see Charlie`s Angels!! Style, fun, action almost blowing you off your seats! Of course, we`ve seen it ALL before, but /they know/ we love to see it again and again.(( And PLEASE don`t listen to critics )) "},{"Title":"A Must see","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels was a fantastic movie it was very well done i don't think there could have been any improvments what so ever there were a few slow parts in the movie but other than that it was awsome. Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz, and Lucy Liu were fantastic actresses even Bill Murray was good. Charlie's Angels is a must see I rate Charlie's Angels 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Must see","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels was a fantastic movie it was very well done i don't think there could have been any improvments what so ever there were a few slow parts in the movie but other than that it was awsome. Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz, and Lucy Liu were fantastic actresses even Bill Murray was good. Charlie's Angels is a must see I rate Charlie's Angels 9/10 "},{"Title":"Utterly Execrable","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is thin gruel indeed even for escapist summer entertainment. It's not enough to have attractive players. An incoherent plot, no character development, no sense of believable motivation, require too large a suspension of belief on the audience's part. Yes, the young ladies and young men have lovely bodies. That point is made ad nauseam. And, er, that's it.  "},{"Title":"I'm not proud of myself, but...","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Incredibly mindless, aimed at the lowest common denominator, superficial, truly awful dialogue, I could go on and on.  Charlie's Angels is a dreadful film.  And I loved it.Despite most of the cast (especially Bill Murray) looking distinctly uncomfortable, and despite having almost no material (lines or clothing) to work with, the three leads give it absolutely everything they've got.  The sheer energy and charisma of their performances raise what could be a cynical soft core sexploitation into a fruity, fun frollic. "},{"Title":"Only worth watching to see Cameron Diaz shake her wonderful booty.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is a horrible and headache inducing mish-mash of practically any element of recent action/adventure films.Along with the even worse Coyote Ugly, this is an unwelcome entry in the recent trend to tits and ass movies without any actual tits and ass being exposed. Granted the actresses wear some very skimpy outfits during the course of the film, but there's no real nudity. This film should have been rated R so the actresses could have actually gotten naked, but filmmakers are trying really hard to push the PG-13 rating as far as possible. while that helps to boost ticket sales by increasing the audience, we end up with junk like this.  (and the body sock that chunky Drew Barrymore wears while falling down the hill was awful.) I'm not that big of a fan of Lucy Liu but she does have a nice body, too bad her face isn't as good.But the real standout in this film is the beautiful Cameron Diaz and her wonderful body and smile. She looks her best since she was in The Mask. Bill Murray also has some funny moments, but overall this film is nothing but a Matrix ripoff with really lame comedic elements.Only worth watching if you're a fan on one the actresses, but this movie turns out to be nothing but a headache inducing tease.Ratings The movie-----1          Cameron Diaz---9.5          Lucy Liu---7          Drew Barrymore---2  "},{"Title":"Brainless fun","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Do you know these movies that you know aren't good movies and you shouldn't like them but you still do? For me Charlie's Angels was that kind of a movie. The story is all too forseeable, the characters - especially the bad guys - are pretty lame and all the action sequences look like something you have seen before (and better). And still, watching it I had a ball. It was the film's attitude that won me over Let's grab every action movie cliché we can get hold of and try to have a little fun with it. In other words the whole film isn't taking itself too serious. And that worked for me. All the computer aided high-kicking would have been rather boring, but when Cameron Diaz tries to maintain a romantic conversation over the cell phone in the middle of a fight - that's funny. Charlie's Angels has a lot of ideas like that, and that is why it is one of the most enjoyable bad movies I've seen since Big Trouble in Little China. "},{"Title":"Too much fun!","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For someone who grew up watching the TV show, this movie was a 100 times more.  With the great special effects and tongue-in-cheek comedy, how could you not enjoy it?!  You've got the beautiful Cameron, the silky Drew, and the sassy Lucy.  Then, just for laughs (literally), throw in Bill and Tim. Plus, a plot with a twist.  What a formula!  The interesting fact is that Drew helped produce this fire cracker!!Go see it for fun, and have it!! "},{"Title":"Good Morning ... fun!!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you are looking for a film where you can check your brain at the door, ogle pretty girls who have more costume changes than Madonna in an epic tale (ie Evita), who work for a mysterious man they've never met, have an annoying tendency to say &#145;Good Morning, Charlie' in saccharine sweet voices to anything that resembles a speaker phone, get into marshal arts with great gusto without employing any real &#145;weapons' (ie guns, grenades or other artillery. Charm, hair flipping and womanly wiles are of course obligatory as their weapons) all whilst maintaining a hip, modern, feminist girl power' flair, then this is the film for you.Unless you've been living on Planet Zorg (which, I hear is beautiful this time of year) I'm sure you know who is in the film and what's it's all about. This film is thick with irony, not afraid to take the mickey out of itself and funny &#145;James Bond' like double entrends Charlies Angels is quite a fun flick. There are twists in the film but they won't challenge the grey matter (in fact, they are a fraction on the obvious side). But all this said, it is a highly enjoyable, high octane performance directed by McG who is more famous for his music video forays and delivered with a marketing managers absolute joy, a killer soundtrack.  "}{"Title":"007*3","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlies angels is based upon the famous 70´s  TV-show - but after watching some episodes, I  think it´s better not to compare.  Of course the 70´s feeling is gone,but who cares?  The first thing I´ve heard, was that the angels Drew Barrymore  (she also produced the film), Cameron Diaz and  Lucy Liu had some troubles with their co-star Bill Murray (he had some great scenes, but also watch  out for The thin man Crispin Glover - he played George Mc Fly in the Back to the future trilogy!).  So I went to the theatre with very low expectations.  Besides that films like Mi 2 spoiled me to watch  popcorn movies. But now I think that even John Woo  could learn a lot of director Mc G., especially about the timing of action sequences! This one was a big  surprise to me, though I don´t know why some people  call it intelligent! Fact is, that Charlies angels doesn´t take itself to serious and this is the big  difference. But better don´t ask about the plot. It´s absolutely brain-free and makes big big big fun - more than 3 James Bond movies together.  Any questions? "},{"Title":"Entertaining bad film","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  So here are the new 'Angels', adapted from a 70's series. What I have seen is not by any means old-fashioned though. It's just the typical action movie of the 90's (or should I say 00's?) lots of action, stunts and good-looking girls. Diaz, Barrymore and Liu are really the main reason for this film's success... The trio is a good view for the males and the females may feel the feminism that is present in this chick-flick. The action sequences are a little like John Woo's stylized and spectacular, and a fight with The Prodigy's 'Smack my bitch up' in the back-ground is of course original.If you want to see more than Angels and well choreographed action, I wouldn't recommend this to you. The film has a weak plot and I never felt any tension while watching it. Fortunately, the the crew didn't choose to make just a good action flick but made fun of their own film instead. Crispin Glover as the villain is a good example I recall him as the Michael J. Fox's silly father in 'Back to the Future', and he still comes over a bit stupid. A realistic, well-acting villain just wouldn't have fitted in this film. And Tom Green is also in, though he hasn't got much interesting lines (he IS the Chad, all right).Overall, not a good movie, but I can't rate it lower than 6 for the fun I had watching it. So, 6/10 it is.  "},{"Title":"My opinion","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie is a very strange comedy, Compared with the series it's worse but nowadays, according with the expected audience, it was perfect. I saw it twice and didn't want to see the expected sequel because Charlie wasn't enigmatic enough. By the way I know they are planning a sequel because of that look of Dylan on the beach. She is the most strange character of the entire story. "},{"Title":"Sexy, funny, and full of great stunts","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie seemed to have no plot, but that doesn't really matter. The movie uses superb special effects, and the new Angels have sex appeal. The special effects work because people are uninjured whereas in real life they would be; and the sex appeal of the Angels works because it's not overly focused-on in the film. The only reservation I have about the film is the scene in which Tim Curry is being massaged, which was gross even for a film rated PG-13. The movie has great comedic timing, and therefore has big laughs.  "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As Aaron Spelling once said about the TV series Charlie's Angels This is not high standard TV making, but a series that boasts beautiful women in tight outfits who kick ass.This is exactly what the new Charlie's Angels movie is about. You combine three great-looking women, an awesome soundtrack, fun lines and mindless action. You get a great movie with a high entertainment value.When I walked into the theatre I had very low hopes of this being a good movie, 'cause when I see a director on the credits with the name McG my expectations sink to an all-time low (this partially due to The Cell by Tarsem). But he managed to pull it off.The women play exquisitely, everyone of them. Crispin Glover is great as the ultra uptight henchman of the bad guy Creepy Thin Man, and Bill Murray was for the first time in years again his old self.The dialogue was very well-written for this sort of movie, lighthearted and funny. Out of all the Holiday fluff that was released this year this one stood above all else with head and shoulders. This will make a great DVD.If they can make this into a successful series, they have my blessing.8/10 "},{"Title":"Perfect!","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. The casting, the direction, as well as the story were absolutely perfect. This movie is already one of my favourites. I can't wait for the DVD to be released to buy it. Besides Drew Barrymore is my favourite actress (ever) and Cameron Diaz is one of my favourites too. Luci Liu is quite new to me cut she wasn't bad at all. Never mind...this movie is really good because not only is it a great adventure but is also a colourful movie full of humour. I'm excited I learned that there is going to be a sequel. Is it going to be a trilogy, who knows? (it might be tetralogy, pentalogy or dekalogy as 007 movies...I hope so)...10/10    "},{"Title":"Great action-packed update with a good mix of 'Matrix'","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels was a very good surprise from the show with mindless 'Matrix' kung-fu fighting. Drew Barrymore was the best and toughest angel I've seen, Cameron Diaz was the sexiest and Lucy Liu was the smartest. This film was pretty entertaining and funny, and action-packed can't wait for the DVD/VHS to come out!8.5/10 Stars "},{"Title":"When is a comic strip not a comic strip?","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When is a comic strip not a comic strip?When it's Charlie's Angels, the movie follow-up to the series of the 80's.  This time around, the Angels are Lucy Liu, Drew Barrymore, and Cameron Diaz.  Go-between and sidekick John Bosley is none other than the irrepressible Bill Murray.Clearly, the architects of this film intended it to be self-lampooning and the movie definitely comes off as cartoonish.  The ladies are able, capable, and without, really, the need for men in their lives.  They depend on themselves and each other.  And, like their television counterparts before them, they really have only one want, need, and desire to meet their boss, Charlie Townsend, voiced now as in the past, by John Forsythe.Forsythe as the unseen Townsend is the only connection to the past, other than that of producer Leonard Goldberg.  There are no allusions to the Angels of the past, or of the former Bosley.  Just as well.  Other than the formula of three women detectives working for an unseen boss, there really are no connections to the series.Actually, the feel of the film seems to owe more to James Bond than to Charlie's Angels.  It opens on an airplane where an apparent bomber meets his apparent contact, Mr. Jones, played by LL Cool J.  Their interaction leads to a Bond-like opening sequence that establishes the Angels and their penchant for teamwork and danger.  An updated opening, akin to the series' `once upon a time' billboard, follows.What follows is the meat, so to speak, of the film.  There's a computer industrialist (Sam Rockwell) who has been kidnapped by his nemesis, Roger Corwin (Tim Curry).  The industrialist's partner, Vivian Wood (Kelly Lynch), hires Townsend and the Angels to retrieve the industrialist and his software, which has been hijacked by his competitor.There are few surprises in the film, authored by Ryan Rowe (The Love Bug), Ed Solomon (Men In Black), and John August (Titan A.E.), save for one or two and, if you think hard -- I did -- you can guess the direction of the film's plot.  There are some casting surprises, though, like the aforementioned appearance of LL Cool J.  Luke Wilson, Matt LeBlanc, and Tom Green lend their comic talents to the mix.  However, the plot line is so thin that you'd do best to just sit back and enjoy the endless action that unreels before you on the screen.It's no coincidence that this movie is one hour, 38 minutes long.  With commercials, there's just enough of a film to fit a two-hour TV-movie time slot.  Which is probably where this movie belonged in the first place.My score 5.5 "},{"Title":"Harmless Popcorn Fun","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Don't believe the hype and just enjoy the ride.  This is good harmless fun for the modern popcorn crowd.  No over complicated storylines, and some good baddies to hiss at.  OK, so McG has seen the Matrix far to often, but that's no bad thing.  Drew Barrymore's never looked better and Bill Murray proves yet again that he is a comic genius.  "},{"Title":"Heaven must be missing a few cool angels!","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you don't know what or who Charlie's Angels are, you really don't have to panic when you want to see the brilliant remake of it. Why, you'll ask? Well, since it is a parody ( yes, it is very clear, I won't give further info, thank you! ) on whatever has been going on in the past. So let me start by saying the Angels kick ass!  This movie has so many great things to tell about, so here we go1)They've chosen the best angels Hollywood has to offer. Lucy Liu, Cameron Diaz and Drew Barrymore are an excellent choice. If you don't agree with me, you might as well stop reading!2)Why make a non-stop action movie if you can also put dozens of humor in it? As long as it looks believable - which it sometimes doesn't, but that's life for ya all - it's OK. I remember I laughed at times, although some scenes were not very funny, even if they were meant to be. The fighting sequences were also very nice. This proves you don't need to shoot at the bad guy every five seconds. Let the ladies perform some killer moves like we've seen in old kungfu and karate movies and the audience shall cry for more. Violence doesn't always attract people, y'know!3)Now that you know my opinion, don't miss one of 2000's most hilarious remakes of a successful tv-series. Oh yes, this one deserves the 9/10. No doubt about that! Way to go, girls!!! "}{"Title":"Kick-ass fun!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels was apparently terrible. But, I'm not ashamed to say that I strong enjoyed myself during Charlie's Angels, it was mindless entertainment that all audiences can enjoy.Charlie's (an unseen John Forsythe) private investigation company is addressed by programmer Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell), owner of Knox Technologies, whose revolutionary voice-recognition software has been stolen. Charlie's angels, Natalie (Cameron Diaz), Dylan (Drew Barrymore) and Alex (Lucy Liu) are sent to place a bug in the system of bitter rival Roger Corwin, who is under strong suspicion. But after the deed is done, the Angels and their boss Bosley (Bill Murray) face the fact of a destroyed home base as well as Charlie's life in immediate danger. But how do you protect someone you never met? Although the film is dumb and silly, it is irresistible and entertaining all at the same time. The explosions and many other death scenes are done in entertaining, clever and creative ways while the characters are all likeable (apart from the baddies). Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu obviously all had a brilliant time making Charlie's Angels, while director Joseph McGinty Nichol looks like he had a blast ordering them around nicely!Silly, enthralling fun that deserves to take up your time if your in the mood for a kick-ass movie.I rate Charlie's Angels 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The disturbing trend in Hollywood.","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Damn! This movie could have been so good. So good. If not for stupid Hollywood types trying to squeeze an R rated film into the one size fits all PG-13. It's horrible, absolutely horrible. Just a lttle bit of nudity, a little more violence. I'm not saying nudity makes a great movie, but this film's subject matter and envelope pushing comments were such a tease that it's ridiculous. With all the suggestive behavior in this film the producer's we're already playing in the dark lord's domain. Why didn't they just go nuts with it. PG-13 that's why. Damn MPAA. Movie companies gotta follow their censorship rules and are too afraid to lock out five years of target audience (12-17). So they play coy. It's stupid. This goes in the same category as Mortal Kombat. Disappointing in that it never reached full potential instead trying to reach a broader AKA younger audience. Everywhere it's happening. They say Hollywood is getting worse. What abouts 80's teen romps and slasher movies. Tons of nudity. Three scream movies yield not one naked breast. They say Hollywood is getting worse. NO PG-13 is getting worse. R is getting weak. Simple comparison Screwballs vs American Pie. Same plot different era. See the difference for yourself. "},{"Title":"good fun...","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Just a fun movie to watch... mixture of mission impossible 2 meets the matrix.Great film techniques used here.. special fx.... wire fighting a la matrix... colourful scenes.... great looking actresses.... what more could you want?  "},{"Title":"Another television remake....","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, it is true(sadly), scriptwriters have finally run out of ideas and now they are converting all the old televisions series into movies. If done properly this can be fun(Mission Impossible). But what about this movie? Charlie's Angels is just what it pretends to be A fast packed fun action movie. The martial arts scenes are fun to watch and well choreographed. For some reasons the scenes involving Crispin Glover as The Thin Man remind me strongly of the Darth Maul scenes from Star Wars Episode I The Phantom Menace, but maybe this was done intentionally. It is also obvious that some scenes were explicitely ripped from other popular movies from the last decade(The Matrix and Mission Impossible for example). Also the actress that plays Vivian Wood(Kelly Lynch) reminds me strongly of Madeline from the Nikita series. As usual within the Charlie's Angel's series the movie is a little over the top, but never becomes annoying.  All three of the actresses play their respective parts well, but none really stands out(which would spoil the movie, since they are supposed to be all equal). Bill Murray is funny as usual, but seems to be getting old fast(he's not half as funny as in Ghostbusters for instance). The special effects are done well, but none of them are really spectacular. The music really adds something to the movie. Blind by Korn really improves the martial arts scenes. Conclusion This movie is fun to watch , but also predictable. If your going to the cinema just to be entertained you're at the right address here. If you want a movie with real depth, go to another movie. "},{"Title":"Good fun!","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Unlike some projects pushed by one actor, this Drew Barrymore project worked very well.I have seen and liked her humour in a number of interviews and the like. This movie reflects that quality. I hope she has more ideas for future projects. "},{"Title":"Nice nothing...","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This one has no storyline to speak of, no character development, no second thoughts. And thank goodness, it doesn't pretend to.When I saw the Angels, I got what I paid for Plain fun and action. "},{"Title":"There is a God - and he smiles at us through Cameron Diaz!","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie does never pretend that it actually wants to tell a story. it is simply one giant video clip.The magic of this film has three names Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu. Seeing these extraordinary actresses having fun playing their roles is one major joy for every (male) viewer.Cameron Diaz steals most of the glory in her dancing scenes. Her breathtaking smile is out of this world - as always - and her portrayed naivete is too much to handle for this man at least.Pure simple fun - that's what Charlie's Angels is. Don't watch it when you search for plot. watch it when you search for enlightenment. I got it. I saw heaven through Camerons smile... "},{"Title":"Oooooooooooh,yeah","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsIt's not just the sister's are doing it for themselves theme that makes the movie adaptation of Charlie's Angels such a funky fun frolic,but there's also a carefully and successfully balanced combination of modern fast paced techno music from the likes of The Prodigy and Leo Sayer rhythms that were about at around the time the show was originally released.Female independence has never been as much fun as it is to watch here.No one really turns in a spell binding performance here,but the best person ,psyically and mentally,is the scrumptious Cameron Diaz as Natalie.Whereas before the male audience would only really want to go as far as to admire them on exterior value,it's uniquely riveting here to see them kicking ass and stopping crime.Indeed,the action and slow camera visuals here are also great fun.Don't even try to follow the incomprehensible storyline,just admire this as the blockbusting seasonal eye candy it was intended as.Go girl.**** "},{"Title":"Angels or Angles?","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Or Charlie's Angles as the local paper said -- given the cast perhaps not so inaccurate!The cast were of course the talking point, and Cameron Diaz in a wet t-shirt didn't let us down on this front and back!This was a really good adaptation of the concept of the 70s TV series, and the added twist of the Angels nearly meeting Charlie added much to it.  Barrymore and Diaz were excellent, and Liu surprised me given her role in Ally McBeal.Bill Murray was also very good as Bosley, and the story managed to hold weight to the end.Worth a look without a doubt. "},{"Title":"Oh mercy!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a good adaptation of the classic seventies TV series.  Unlike the Avengers efforts!  See my review!  Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu and Cameron Diaz play the Angels and Bill Murray is hilariously funny Bosley.  I think that Murray stole the show actually as his comedic interludes are a breath of fresh air in an otherwise mediocre film.  Sure there's the three women who look very well and the fight scenes are pretty good also, if unbelievable at times!  If you want to see a film that won't challenge the mind, go and see this.  It's a pleasant way to pass a few hours in the cinema. "}{"Title":"That's what I call kicking your a**!","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this movie, but when the first fight scene came along with the creepy thin guy, I was like Whoa!This is the first US made movie I've seen which looks like a Hong Kong chop-socky movie (reminded me of Zu Warriors (?) and other physics defying action flicks). Yes, I've seen the Matrix, the difference I think is that element of humour that the best HK movies have, not taking themselves too seriously. I think this allows directors to try different things that you couldn't get away with in a serious movie.Great fight scenes, great humour, tongue firmly in cheek. As someone else commented, you could just *see* how much fun they were having making this movie! "},{"Title":"Drew's Three for Three","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Besides being one of Hollywood's most expressive actresses, Drew Barrymore proves once again she is one of its savviest producers. Her take on CHARLIE'S ANGELS is goofy, cotton candy fun, an terrific evolution rather than remake of the original television series. These three genius airheads (Barrymore, Diaz, Liu) fascinate with their intelligence, arouse us with their looks (for the record, Liu has the best bottom, Barrymore the best bust and Diaz the best all around figure), and entertain us with their cheerleader perkiness; the original angels seem positively arthritic compared to these girls.Evidence that the savvy Barrymore knows her stuff the film sidesteps the gun issue by having the girls use martial arts and bows and arrows instead of guns.  Within the story's context, this decision makes perfect sense.  However, it does inadvertently point out that guns are PRIMARILY used to AVOID violence when subduing an adversary.  Eschewing firearms, the Angels must resort to kicking butt, opening the Townsend agency to a nasty excessive force lawsuit, not mention causing unnecessary injuries to both friend and foe. The chemistry between Diaz, Barrymore and Liu is unmistakable.  Barrymore has graciously given her costars more showy roles. In fact, Barrymore tends to come across as a bit more of a bimbo than either Diaz or Liu.  Nonetheless, all three Angels acquit themselves very well. NOTE TO BARRYMORE  Don't waste your money on Bill Murray as Bosley. There are lot's of character stars whom would be just as good.  In fact, Murray was a bit of a distraction.  A viewer always expects a star like Murray to have more to do.  They can't help but be disappointed when he doesn't.As pure escapist entertainment, CHARLIE'S ANGELS, is an even more pleasing movie-from-tv series than either THE FUGITIVE or any of the STAR TREK films. This is eye candy and junk food for the mind.Note to Diaz. You make a great looking redhead.  You out to go for that look for a while.Oh, and one last note to Drew.  Ditch the eye makeup.  You don't need it, and in that scene with you in the jumpsuit at the track, I ASSURE you, NOBODY was looking at your EYES. "},{"Title":"Brain-less but fun","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are 2 ways of adapting  TV show to the big screen. The 1st is the serious approach the 2nd is the fun approach.This film take the 2nd  approach and succeed. The makers of the film seem to realize that with such a camp and trashy source they will kill themselves if they try to be serious. The result is a brain-less fun that mange to be entertaining while saluting the TV series. Part of the fun is the in jokes that the film has. The other part is the feeling that the everyone involved in the film had so much fun that it reflects on screen.The fight scene are good though I too had problems with Drew Barrymore's fight scene, however that didn't affect my enjoyment.Sometime we need some mindless fun.So if you look for a film with serious messages or meanings look somewhere else. If you can sometime give your brain a rest,go and enjoy,by the end of the film you will forget it and will remain with the feeling that you had fun.Not a bad feeling at all. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  I didn't go having high or low expectations...i didn't even know what to expect.  I thought the fight scenes were well choreographed.  I heard that the Angels (Drew Barrymore, at least) did their own stunts - not stunt doubles.  Also, all the hype about the 'bad moon-walk'... I got the impression that she couldn't do it in the first place, and it was supposed to funny, a joke.  At any rate, I thought it was pretty funny...Cameron Diaz' butt dance to the big butt song, and the three girls dressed up in Swedish outfits.  By the way, did anybody get the impression that Charlie is Drew's dad? "},{"Title":"Review-proof movie","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those films that falls under that category ofreview-proof. I find it difficult to know what to say. It delivers all theaction, thrills, sex-appeal, and humor that you might expect, allcovered in a very thick coat of irony with a completelyincomprehensible and irrelevant plot. The pitch meeting musthave gone something like, It's the Spice Girls meet the Matrix!This film is definitely rooted in 2000, and was made with acompletely contemporary sensibility.  The computer effects are asmuch the star as any of the humans in it. Once upon a time, actionfilms made some sense, and humans actually performed thestunts. Now it's all so programmed, right down to the stop-motionslo-mo sequences, so that you can see Cameron Diaz' facePhotoshopped onto the digital action figure.  "},{"Title":"Charlie's Angels lacking in the memorable moments.","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A movie without soul, wit, heart, and very little intelligence. It features one decent performance (Cameron Diaz), one awful performance (Bill Murray) and a lot of dumb dialogue. The best thing about the movie is a fine collection of songs in the background score. I immediately rushed home to play my CD's. I have forgotten the movie already and assigned it to my bin of unnecessary movies. "},{"Title":"A lot of fun, and worth seeing.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Basic plot outline Based on the popular 70's TV show, three cute chiqs work for the mysterious Charlie. They are the female 'James Bonds'' of our time. They get to blow sh*t up, kick the cr*p out of people, and wear really tight clothing, all whilst trying to retrieve stolen software and balance in high heels. Review This film was cool! Firstly, it was really well cast. All three 'angels' are really yummy, and suited their characters well. Secondly, it's fast paced, with great action scenes, and a couple of good laughs thrown in there too. And it's got Drew Barrymore. I adore Drew Barrymore! A lot of fun, and worth seeing. "},{"Title":"It's finally here...","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...and it's a gem. Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu play Natalie, Dylan and Alex respectively. They are assigned by Charlie (John Forsythe, who we never get to see) to track down a man who has stolen some ID software capable of linking anyone's voice to the actual person itself. Along the way they use some nice kung-fu, used in well choreographed sequences, and use their sex appeal as well. Bill Murray is excellent as Bosley, and there are nice cameos from Luke Wilson (who also starred with Drew in 1998's Home Fries) and Drew's fiancee Tom Green, fresh from the success of Road Trip. It contains some funny moments and the end bit when 'All The Small Things' by Blink 182 plays is a laugh, involving som goof-ups.   All in all, good solid entertinment for fans of this kind of thing. Which I know I am... "},{"Title":"Amazing...","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all, great flick. You should go and see it. The fight scenes are amazing, the directing is energetic, and the ladies (and Bill Murray of course) give inspired performances, especially Cameron Diaz.Still, there are still a couple of questions that bang inside my head.1) Why is Tom Green in this film? He made (beside playing one) a complete idiot out of himself. 2) Why is Matt LeBlanc in this film? Trying to character act his way through a bit part? What a shame.  3) The basic idea of this film is that it's not just the guys who get to kick ass, the girls can do it too!!!  Then why is it that basically all the cool scenes come directly from other (and better) films with MALE action stars??? To name a few films this one rips off Matrix, The Rock, True Lies, Mission Impossible, The Great Escape and MI-2.   The pathetic part is that one time, there is even a stupid set up to the pathetic rip-off. Drew's character seems to deliberately let herself taken hostage so the True Lies joke can be played; Telling the bad guys how she's gonna beat them while she's tied on to a chair. Followed by a bad Moonwalk.But the good part is that despite these inaccuracies, and the total lack of plot, characterization and originality the film still manages to be to be totally convincing and hugely enjoyable. Probably something to do with the music being loud, the editing fast and the girls...they're soooooooooooooo cool!!!!! ****(out of five)     "},{"Title":"That's entertainment!","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a good combination of James Bond series, Mission impossible and some Hong-Kong martial arts movies. In addition, there are very pretty girls who seduce everyone in this film. Another positive moment is that the movie doesn't use any nakedness for special attraction. It's just plenty of action funny scenes with relevant music. Only deficiency - is the absence of story. Girls are unforgettable. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Mindless fun, but Cameron Diaz is a revelation","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was surprised when my wife told me she wanted to see this; I mean, of course I wanted to, but she really amazed me this time. Anyways, on to the review. This film was a lot of fun; something you can watch with your brain turned off, but be warned that if you do, you'll miss some of the best stuff in the movie. Almost everyone in the film is great, with the only false note being Drew Barrymore. She does the best she can, but pales in comparison to the other 2 angels, especially Cameron Diaz, who comes across like a reincarnated Lucille Ball a drop-dead gorgeous woman with a fantastic sense of comic timing. I smell a potentially big Hollywood biopic here. Don't blow it! "},{"Title":"groovy !!","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was great, it really stuck to what Charlie's Angels should be about. Lucy Liu was just excellent as Alex, she brings such class to her roles. Drew Barrymore was great as Dylan, her character kicked arse. Cameron Diaz was just hilarious as Natalie, she did a really great job. I mean besides the fact that they all come out looking gorgeous even though they've been beaten up seriously, I thought the plot was pretty kewl. I hope they make a sequel, and the clothes were pretty mad as well ) "},{"Title":"It Kicked Butt","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels kicked some serious butt, it is the best movie I have ever seen!! I have seen it ten times already and I can't wait until the second one comes out!!(I heard there was one coming out) and as well as all the great actors the music was really well........great!! Can't wait to see it again!! "},{"Title":"Angelic quality","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh dear, what a dilemma.  Having slagged off films with no substance and lame plots in the past, Charlie's Angels should get the same treatment but I loved it. Which proves it's not what you do but the way that you do it.Let's face it Charlies Angels was the Baywatch of the day.  And it would therefore be a mistake to expect the film version to have undergone the same transformation as the Mission Impossible series made to the big screen.It's certainly courageous for the film-makers to create something which is unashamed, unadulterated funny fun.  There is a tendency to design huge memorable action set-pieces and to write a plot around them as convincingly as possible - like Mission Impossible 2. Charlie's Angels manages it quite well although the racing cars sequence is slightly blatant irrelevant nonsense.  That was the second time the bad guy ran away for no reason just to have a chase scene.  People note that there were 14 writers who had their hand on the screenplay at some point.  Due to scheduling conflicts they had to start the film before the script was finished.  The last act was meant to be a last minute job but that works fine it's the middle section which doesn't quite hold water.  Although it has its faults I wasn't bored and I wasn't annoyed too much.   The tongue is clearly firmly in cheek and quite frankly the storyline with the typical British bad guy made me forgive everything.  "},{"Title":"No 'Sorry Charlie' here...","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In short....a fun film. I really enjoyed it. It possessed a good mixture of script, fine visually creative directing and the cinematography and fight/action sequences get a firm thumbs up. Plenty of chemistry between not only the actors, but within all the main ingredients to bake a well worth ticket purchase. If you take it all a bit tongue in cheek, then I'm sure you'll enjoy the ride this film gives. Strong soundtrack that is used very well and the final edit with just the right pinch. Cameron just lit the screen up with that sunshiny smile of hers and that wonderfully wacky shtick she so innocently delivers. Yet the strongest performances came from a man of two and one that uttered not a word. Sam Rockwell, (Galaxy Quest) and Crispen Glover, (McFly of Back to the Future). I was excited to see how comic booky and sinister Crispen poured from this character. And Director McG caught the true essence he portrayed. Sam got a juicy opportunity to play the semi shy computer geek that turns to stud muffin psycho dude. And what a performance he gave. Spitting food on Drew was such a nice additive. Helped to give that character a bit more bite, as well as when he twirled that gun like a majorette on New Year's Day.For a film that didn't even have a finished script by first shot and was handled by no less then seven (count em) seven writers, (or is it eleven...)I'd say it was put together quite well. Expect a second installment, but don't think for an instant it'll come cheap! Guestamating...13mill for Diaz, 5 for Lucy Lui, probably 9mill for Drew plus some additional producer kick back. Oh, and I'm sure Murray will want his penny shined quite brightly. More then deserved I'm sure. Then McG will get a good upfront and back end deal not to mention the offers assuredly pouring in about to cramp that schedule of his. I guess for the upfront piece of the pie, around 45 million. (Not including allll the rest) But I'll almost bet a lil golden statuette we haven't seen the last of Charlie's Angles... FC...  "},{"Title":"The opinion of someone who originally didn't want to see the film!","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have noticed that a lot of reviewers have criticised the film for being brainless and only interested in showing the female stars attributes. Charlie's angels doesn't try to be an intelligent film, that's not the point of it. It's supposed to be a film that you can have some fun while watching, and it achieves that perfectly. "},{"Title":"Hit and miss...","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Had this film kept to the promise of its opening, in that it showed three extraordinary women who had already lived extraordinary lives, this film would have worked. Unfortunately, after the premise is set up, the story quickly descends into another mindless actioner with the occasional sideline pun from Bill Murray. Not that this is necessarily bad in itself, but if I were walking down a dark street at night, the only member of this cast I would feel safe in the company of is Lucy Liu. The rest of the leads are dead weight.That goes especially for Cameron Diaz, who fails to look good or suspend disbelief. After seeing her in Very Bad Things and a million other films that show her only playing Cameron Diaz, the performance given in this piece of film can only be described as confirming my worst fears about her acting. Granted, there is no depth whatsoever to the character, but am I alone in feeling that I was just watching Cameron acting like an idiot rather than one of the fabled angels?Drew Barrymore gives a performance that at least suggests her character has a history and a mind of her own, so she deserves some credit. Of course, there's no prizes for guessing the real reason why Lucy Liu was cast in this flick, either. Along with Bill Murray, they form the only well-cast actors in the entire film. Someone was asleep at the wheel when the rest of the story was realised.And what the hell was with all of the product placements? This isn't Guess Which Mobile Phone Company Paid For This Film, it's supposed to be an update of a cheesy 1970s television show! Anyway, if you go in expecting to be entertained, you will not be disappointed with this film. Those of you who need something that is actually stimulating (as opposed to irritating) to the cerebral cortex, however, are advised to look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"great movie doesnt take itself seriously","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i liked this movie, especially cameron diaz- she was fantastic. the rest of the cast was also good. all the players of this movie seem to have fun and the cast seem to like each other (as opposed to popular rumour. the thing that made the movie though was the music use. every song was great and appropriate for when it was used. personal favourites were- baby got back- sir mix alot, and blind- kor. overall i liked this movie very much and will be seeing it again. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Angel's vs. Toy Story for film of the year.....","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that I was awestruck by Charlie's Angels. It was slick, fun, and kept the audience engaged during every scene.The fight scenes were incredible, and Bill Murray was superb. The most monumental point about the film though was the sheer elegance the female leads gave. Even when dressed in scuba equipment, they seemed to give off some kind of entrancing shine, and the magic of the film will be remembered for some time. If this doesn't sweep the MTV movie awards (as I'm sure the academy will pass this one over) I will be in shock. Toy Story 2?? What was that again??  "},{"Title":"Best Ever","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels (2000) is the BEST movie I have seen in years and years. Action packed and funny plus the bonus of 3 sexy ladies. There is a great story line and great ladies. What else do you want?? Nothing because the movie is easily 12 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Vapid derivate fluff.  I can't wait for the sequel.","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I should hate this film, I really should.  Unbelievable action sequences, a plot so thin that it would make a comic book writer blush, and so blatantly derivate that it must surely have cadres of intellectual properly lawyers cackling in glee.And yet the leads are so likeable, and the film is so unassuming that it's just not *possible* to dislike or over analyse it.  I tried, I really did.  But despite my best efforts to resist, it just caught me up and carried me with it, and I had a brilliant time.  I loved this film.  Pacy, deliciously cheesy and just tremendous, glorious fun.As an afterthought, isn't Cameron Diaz playing the part that Drew Barrymore will play in the remake of Barbarella? ;) "},{"Title":"A fun blockbuster","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CHARLIE'S ANGELS is the type of no-substance movie that guarantees an audience regardless of when the film debuts at the box office or whether the opening is marred with somewhat widespread critical panning. With the infamous stories of spite, jealousy and rivalry that emerged from the set during the past year, along with the three stars vying to wear the best scantily clad attire possible, this has in part fueled an increased awareness among the teenagers. Everyone else probably went along to compare the faithfulness of another TV/film adaptation, or to sigh at the possible ruin of yet another classic TV series. The movie seems to be built around stereotypes of the stars type cast persona, and surprisingly the screenplay seems to be doing all it can to back this up. If this film doesn't get Lucy Liu beyond her `Ally McBeal' credibility, or at least in terms of box office figures, it is hard to say what will. Her performance is definitely enjoyable, but once again, she seems to struggle past the dominatrix bitch that has probably influenced her film work since day one as Ling Woo. Yet she is the only Angel that can convince one of her suitability to the role. Cameron Diaz's transition to an action style flick hasn't allowed her to leave at home the familiar tricks of goofiness employed in `My Best Friends Wedding' with equally cringe-worthy scenes in both films and Drew Barrymore's heartfelt sincere moments seems to retread everything from `Ever After' to `Never Been Kissed.'Despite the comic implementation of Bill Murray, he seems to have few funny things to do, let alone lines to proclaim. While I enjoy Matt LeBlanc's performance on `Friends' for many weeks throughout each year, is it not possible to allow Joey Tribianni resting time during the film release season? If LeBlanc continues to reprise the dim actor in film appearances, it is likely that his movie career will become washed up after the comedy series comes to an end. It is probably Tom Green, Drew Barrymore's real life boyfriend delivers the goods in his hilarious and very welcome performance. The remainder of the film's characters seem to be hurriedly stolen ideas and spoofs of the quintessential film villain, which the screenplay makes no attempt to develop except in a abrupt change of pace that doesn't really work when culminated with false dramatics.Music video director McG has a somewhat coveted film debut with the popularity of the film at the box office. However, the surprisingly well executed action of the first thirty minutes of ANGELS begins to sag after this point, and never quite redeems itself even at climax. The opening credits of the film are in itself slotted together like a music video. Unfortunately, the light-hearted elements of the film are often a major let down, and are unfortunately few and far between, while I questioned whether or not I was obliged to laugh dutifully. This is merely the fault of the screenplay and its seventeen writers, in which its flaws are covered up with the obviously big-budgeted and purposefully, planted action sequences. It is quite difficult to believe that such a large pool of writing ability was unable to come up with a stronger story. The film's sound track is a mixture of 70s, 80s and 90s music, along with a few new additions. There's nothing too special here, but the music is often used at unnecessary moments in many sprinkled handfuls throughout. Obviously the biggest treat of the film was the Matrix-like action style effects. Sadly enough, I don't think they know what they're doing in there either.CHARLIE'S ANGELS the TV series was big, loud and cheesy. Merely it was all about the look of the show, and at the end of the day, what people thought of it. The film probably does credit to this factor. I enjoyed the film, and it definitely can't be taken seriously, but I hope it won't be necessary to alter my opinions if a string of sequels released for the sake of it follow.Rating 8/10  "},{"Title":"Cameron Diaz never looked so good!","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought the movie would be some flower power matrix rip-off. But it wasn't. Sure some their acrobatics were impossible,but it was all part of fun. McG did a great job with the action sequences. I was really impressed. And the clash of all the angels personalities were brilliant. And having Diaz, Liu, and Barrymore as the angels made it easier on the eyes! This movie goes to show you that women make the best spies. See this movie!You will not regret it. "},{"Title":"Superfun! One of the best movies this year!","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie really rocked! Three outstandingly good-looking women in body-tight clothing + posing in positions that cause men to drool and howl. And when you add Matrix-like acrobatics-slowmotion-kungfu-über-fighting, really funny jokes and a soundtrack that really is part of the movie, I can only say that I wasn't disappointed about spending my money and my time on this flick.And being a finn, I was delighted to see that the secret language the angels had was actually finnish (though pronounced with such a horrible accent that it was REALLY hard to understand).  "},{"Title":"Full of praise for this wonderful movie","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   When I saw who were starring as the angels I knew this film was a must see, but I didn't have much hope for a good storyline, and I thought that it would be cheesier than Kylie and Jason.  But boy was I wrong!  This film has it all.   The good storyline was married with excellent fight sequences, and Bill Murray gave his usual star turn as Bosley, the father figure to the angels. All three ladies were believable, funny, and just oozed sex appeal, I could not choose between them.  The Matrix style fight sequences did not look laughable as some might imagine, they worked very well, and at one point the film rewound for a few seconds and replyed the action which was a great touch.All the supporting cast were great, but credit to Ms Diaz, Barrymore and Liu, they were all fantastic and incredibly sexy.  How did they manage to spare Drew's blushes in her naked scene?  I'll never know, but it worked. All in all, a great film, go see it and roll on the sequal!Neil "},{"Title":"No frills entertainment - switch mobile phone and brain off first","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Available in a cinema near you in lobotomyscope and lycravision, Charlie's Angels kung-fu there way through this enjoyable spoof without wasting time on subtlety. Don't worry if you were admiring Diaz's lovely torso at a critical plot juncture - if you missed anything they will explain it again slowly a few minutes later. Diaz seems to have such a great time being a superhero that I wonder if she should have paid the studio a few million instead of the other way around - but at least she comes across with verve and a certain charisma. Sidekicks Liu and Barrymore realise this movie doesn't require too much acting skill and so don't lower themselves to such seriousness. From fantastic outfits to cool locations and the latest slow-motion bullet sfx (taken shamelessly from the Matrix), Charlie's Angels spends 90 million dollars without too much attention to plot, script or anything else except providing a feelgood action film with three lovely ladies strutting their stuff as they chase villains and lots of nice explosions and fast cars and things. Don't go to see it in a critical mood - make it the finale to a good night out on the town and soak up the entertainment value. "},{"Title":"True to the TV series","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was true to the TV series, although the special effects have been updated for the 21st century (a la The Matrix). And it's great to see women as heros instead of the wimps that they are usually portrayed as. And Bill Murray is great as Bosley. The movie doesn't have a really twisted plot line; it was made so that the viewer can have fun watching the movie. And it succeeds. It is fun to watch. And you leave the theater smiling, because it was worth the money that you paid to get in. This is 1 TV show that made the transition to the big screen. "},{"Title":"Quite a Surprise","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went in not expecting much but I came out with a Bigsmail on my face. This is the most fun I had at the moviesin a while. Sure its lite but it was good lite fun. It didn't take itself seriously where as the spinoff Mission Impossible 2did and it was a Big Joke.  I grew up with the show and I think overall it was pretty trueto the show, another thing Mission Impossible wasn't. Kudos to everyone who made it especially good ol' Drew. Can't wait till the next one. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie.  I had read a lot about it and it was exactly what I expected.  I think of it as a check your brain at the door movie.  A movie that you can have a lot of fun watching and you don't have to think too much about it. "},{"Title":"INCREDIBLE!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie's got it all action,comedy,drama,romance,suspense and what a great cast, actually is a very simple plot that'll certainly entertain you.The best part is that (unlike other films)you dont have to like the series or tv show to enjoy it cause they're all new angels. Its got some 60s details but in the 90s its really cool especially the soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Give it a break!","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't think I've ever read a worse review of a movie by the so-called experts.  I went to see it anyway.  And I can see why they tore it up -- dumb story, mediocre acting, bad visuals -- but you know what?  I LIKED IT! It's not near as bad as the experts think.  It was funny, the action was good, I loved hearing some of those old '70s and '80s songs.  I went out of the theater feeling good, so to me that makes the movie a success. "},{"Title":"Ah what fun it is to kick it...","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was sooo happy when I actually liked this movie!!! Yes the plot is not all that strong, but watching it I had as much fun as it seemed the main characters did.  It was funny and fun and the fight scenes got me pysched.  One thing that interested me though had nothing to do with the actual movie, well, slightly... Lucy Liu doesn't show nearly as much skin as the other two angels.. I wonder why, not that I'm complaining, it just stood out to me.  But back to the movie.  Predictable but fun, and oooh boy the sequel should be good. "},{"Title":"Great take on action movies","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The reviews here seem to be taking this movie too seriously for its own good.  If you look at this as another action movie, it's really quite pathetic.  Some of the hand-to-hand stuff is decent, but the Matrix sequences really do detract from the action alot, the slowdown taking the energy away from everything.  The nice thing about this film is that it definitely does not take itself seriously, and neither should the viewer. This movie pokes fun of itself and action movies in general.  There is not one serious, emotional scene.  There is no point to all of the nonsense, and it gratuitously mocks the Matrix.  It throws in some James Bond music, a scene directly out of True Lies, one out of Austin Powers, a comic take on a scene from the Great Escape, not to mention all the film connections I probably missed.  The director's take on this film wasn't to make an action film -- it was to make something fun and entertaining.  The clearly gratuitous shots of the sexy women, the flips of the hair, the unnecessary slow-mo, all of these point to a movie that was trying to be as ridiculous as possible.  Unlike c**p like the Matrix, which claims to have a (shallow) purpose, Charlie's Angels serves only to amuse.  Some of the gags were a bit overused, but all in all, this was an extremely entertaining and completely pointless entertainment piece -- which is exactly what it was trying to be.It is the quintessential Hollywood blockbuster, except it's smart and funny. And even Tom Green was amusing.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Hot, Hot, Hot, and Stupidly Hilarious","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie gets three hots for Cameron, Drew, and Lucy.  It gets a stupidly hilarious for Bill Murray and Tom Green (The Chad).  The Chad was funny.  I was worried there would be overkill with The Chad but there wasn't, The Chad was only in the movie enough to make it funny, no overkill (chest hair sandwich anyone?).  I usually find Tom Green's humor stupid but in this movie he was funny.  Bill Murray was funny, great, stupid, you name it.  He wittles a gun out of ivory soap, where/how did he get the soap?  It was weird stuff like this in the movie that made it unbelievable but yet funny.  Hearing an unusual bird call and knowing that bird only exists in one place helping the angles find Bosley is another stupid yet funny scene in the movie.  This movie pokes fun at 70's style TV.  When the movie first started I was thinking who would play Jill, Sabrina, and Kelly.  When each angel had a different name that took the movie in a totally different direction for me.  It was like good, they aren't mirroring the show entirely but giving this movie it's own character identity separate from the TV show.  I am a big Charlie's Angels fan from the 70's.  I was one of the millions of teens who had the Farrah poster on his bedroom wall (the pose with her on all fours in her bathing suit).  I enjoyed this movie for it's pure entertainment value only not expecting a serious movie.  This was much more of a comedy than a mystery or drama.  I rated this movie 8 out of 10.  I laughed so hard at Cameron dancing around her apartment in her underroos with the UPS guy arriving at her door.  Some parts of the movie were totally unbelievable like when Drew's character gets shot and falls out the window.  In closing, if you want to see a movie that makes you laugh and lust at the same time then this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"These angels don't carry guns; but they don't need to.","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I walked into the theater not really expecting much &#150; I was wrong.I thoroughly enjoyed this short (98 minute) film that takes a comedic view of the &#145;Charlie's Angels' television series.  The women were sexy, there was no plot to get in the way and even the makeup was appropriately cute after the explosions &#150; just the right amount of shadow in exactly the right places to accentuate the actresses' faces.There is no deep thought or greatness here &#150; but real laughs and fast and entertaining action.  The sound editing is especially good.This film is what `Mission Impossible II' should have been and was not.It did rely a little too heavily on the super-slow-motion sequences that `Matrix' created; but it was fast, furious fun.The only parts that seemed to drag were when Tom Green was on-screen &#150; the rest of the time it moved quickly with the requisite number of explosions, fight scenes and fast cars that any action film should have.I was pleasant surprised at the chemistry between the three leading women of the film  Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu, and Cameron Diaz.  They work together well and complement each other's talents &#150; I want to see more of them working together &#150; and I have the feeling I will be.I hope that the inevitable sequel will have the style, action, pace and lack of plot this film had &#150; I anticipate it eagerly.  "},{"Title":"Go See It!","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was true to the TV series. Any fan of the original should enjoy this one.Charlie's Angels was fun to watch, and didn't take itself too seriously. The dialog was full of innuendo, puns, and quotes (both from the series and elsewhere). The nods to previous movies, especially prison movies, kept me looking for the next reference, and added to the hilarity. The Angels were just that great looking, sexy, strong and independent women.This unbelievable story is unbelievably enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A lot of action","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie had plenty of action.  This movie was like Mission Impossible meets The Matrix.  Of course it had comedy in it.  This movie had it all comedy, sexy girls, action and a good plot.  This movie rocks!  I would recommend you go and see it.   "},{"Title":"Endless Fun","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie brings what a perfect day off would complement endless fun. There's really nothing else to it. awesome! go see it!  "},{"Title":"I Love Being a Girl","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a fun, campy, girl power movie!  Run to see this film. Doesn't matter if you've never seen the original TV series - I never did.  Cameron Diaz is fabulous - you'll see a little bit of Mary in her.  Lucy Liu is a total babe - wowzer!!  Drew Barrymore is not much of an actress but cute - think Never Been Kissed.  Lots of silly stunts and meaningless twists and turns but the angels deliver.  Loved it! "},{"Title":"Truly Excellent","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely loved it!  I loved the whole Matrix feel to the movie and it was cast beautifully.  I couldn't find a flaw in the movie and I was constantly on the edge of my seat throughout the whole movie.  It's by far the best movie I've seen in a long time and I can't wait to own it!  Nothing like watching 3 women kick the c**p out of the bad guys...especially George McFly!  GO SEE IT "}{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels is the best fight movie I've seen since The Matrix and Fight Club. Those girls no how to kick some serious butt as well as still having time to get a piece of *@%!I absolutely loved it and plan to go see it for the 3rd time this weekend. "},{"Title":"Low expectations lead to high returns.","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This flick really pulls a whole bunch of good stuff together and delivers actresses who are as fun to watch as they are hot with hilarious, well-written lines and visuals that entertain with their absurdity. Believe the hype. This is one of the best movies I have seen all year. Everything in it was on time and on target. What a blast! "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie was better then expected. it was a fun movie to watch.  really entertaining and makes you wanting a sequel. Go see it. I'll probably see it again. "},{"Title":"A Dynamic Trio","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  	In the history of the cinema, most feature films that are the progeny of a successful television series have been less than satisfying or able to capture the essence of the original.  There are exceptions, of course, and `Charlie's Angels,' directed by McG (Joseph McGinty Mitchell), and starring Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu, is one of them.  A great movie it is not, but it is fun, the trio of Angels are engaging, and it is non-stop action from beginning to end.  It starts with a dynamic skydiving stunt and never slows down.  Along the way a lot of things blow up, there's music,dancing, plenty of stunts, some clever lines and a bit of comedy relief from Bill Murray (Bosley).  There's just enough plot to keep things interesting, but it really doesn't make much difference; this is like a party to which everyone's been invited, and Angels Natalie (Diaz), Dylan (Barrymore) and Alex (Liu) are everything their T.V. counterparts ever hoped to be and more.  This is the way Charlie's team was meant to be. 	What really puts this movie over, though, is the Angels themselves; there's a natural camaraderie between them that seems sincere and never forced, and they all seem to be having a great time, especially the charismatic Diaz, who could easily win an Oscar for Best Supporting Smile.  Barrymore looks good and exhibits plenty of spunk, as does Liu, who has a captivating screen presence as well.  It's all played pretty much straightforward, there's no attempt at parody or heavy drama, and nothing is taken too seriously, which enables the story to move along without getting bogged down with any unnecessary business.  Murray is used just enough to make his presence welcome and effective, and he makes his Bosley fit nicely alongside this latest incarnation of Angels.  The action sequences are well done and the choreography (by Cheung-Yan Yuen) is exciting; the influences of John Woo and `The Matrix' are obvious, and the less experienced McG was wise to draw from the best, for it adds to the success of his film.  There's something of the James Bond films in here, and `Mission Impossible 2' (of course), but to McG's credit, it mainly plays like an extended, more detailed version of the original series.   	The supporting cast includes Tim Curry (Roger Corwin), the versatile Sam Rockwell (Knox), Kelly Lynch (Vivian Wood), Tom Green (Chad) and, in smaller but effective roles, Matt LeBlanc, Luke Wilson, and Crispin Glover.  The familiar voice of Charlie is once again supplied by the man who created the original, John Forsythe.     There's so much energy in this movie you get the feeling that the Angels must have always started their day's work with a triple from Starbucks; it's a high voltage romp that's upbeat and filled with fun and positive vibes.  In the end, `Charlie's Angels' is an entertaining, feel-good  movie that should satisfy a new, younger audience, as well as those with fond memories of the show that started it all a generation ago.  I rate this one 7/10.         	     "},{"Title":"They did it right","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Movies from TV series are usually beneath the planet of awful however this time it was done right. Sharp writing and editing. this film most assuredly does not take itself seriously. It's satire in the tradition of terry southern or buck henry(when he was good)The ladies are obviously having fun and as a result I had fun. I will see this again. Well done to all involved cheers.... diego77 "},{"Title":"fantastic, incredibly silly camp","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  charlie's angels is, quite clearly, the most FUN movie of the year. it's big, campy, silly, dumb, and an INCREDIBLE mess (i still don't know what the plot was?) and it knows it. i haven't had this much unabashed fun at the movies since...... well, i don't really know. it's great to see a movie that's not serious in the least bit and has not an inkling of pretension. great stuff. when's the sequel coming out?  "},{"Title":"Wicked send-up, but then, surprise!  Plot!","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels opens with this insanely implausible Mission-Impossible-esque mid-air dive from a plane scene, wherein LL Cool J is flying through the air with the mad ticking bomber, Lucy Liu defuses the bomber in mid-flight, and the three of them then make a 10 point landing in a speedboat driven by Cameron Diaz.  Then LL Cool J turns into Drew Barrymore.  And they laugh, and slap hands, and speedboat off into the horizon.  And that is what makes the first part of this movie so watchable.It's a great send-up of what are still totally impossible things for a human being to actually do but which we as an audience are expected to swallow whole in a spy movie.  And three girls in very high heels do them all. And laugh, and be bubbly.  It's hysterical!  There's even the inevitably super-creep villain's thug who collects bits of the Angels' hair.  And, also, Tim Curry, the quintessential superspy villain.  And it's a lot of martial arts and snappy one-liners and high-tech gizmos that are just plain eye candy, all the way up to about mid-point in the film.About that time, the film starts to really develop a nice little subplot that they've had cooking away ever since this movie started.  And you're taken aback, because by this time you're convinced that you're in for a silly wild ride with no plot.  And you're not!Because then comes the best part of Charlie's Angels The Villain.  He turns out to be slick, not oily; stylish, not smarmy, and chilling, not Boris Badinoff.  And he's challenging!  The Angels really have to work to bring him down, and you can tell that because, in his biggest moment of triumph, the Angels suddenly become less than beautifully perfect.  It's just a fantastic call on the part of the director.And then there's more of the great villain, and more of the creepy guy, and more of the gizmos and one-liners and all the stuff that makes so much sense now that the movie's come this far.  It's a great way to spend two hours, and you'll thank yourself.  Trust me. "},{"Title":"Oh yeah, a real winner","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I say that statement, please understand the sarcasm in it makes Dennis Miller look like George Washington.  Because, this film is a waste of time, in anyway you look at it.  The story (if worth following) has three girls (Diaz, Barrymore and Liu) who ditzy around in a case that even if you never saw the show know the plot.  A bad film on many levels, and isn't failed over here because of Barrymore's constant charm and sexuality and Bill Murray has a couple of laughs (but even he, the Veinkman, can't redeem anything here).  Even the action seems fabricated in a way that isn't even trying to be OK, but MTV violence.  D "},{"Title":"Great Action and Comedy","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It has awsome fight sceens and other great actions sequences, and it throws in a bit of humor as well. I never saw the series, but I hope there will be a series of movies with those actresses, they made a good combo. And don't get up and leave when the movie's over they have some outtakes that are funny. "},{"Title":"A Fun-Filled, Slam-Bam Ride","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I must admit that I wasn't too excited about Charlie's Angels when I saw the first couple of trailers, but to my delighted surprise I truly enjoyed the film. Cameron, Drew, and Lucy all pulled their own weight and kept the campy flirtatiousness that the film needed to resemble the series. Bill Murray was a little flat but still managed to keep me laughing and I was never bored when he was on screen. The effects were the highlight of the film obviously borrowing from The Matrix but fitting in better than those types of effects have in other recent films.  We're not supposed to be believing what's happening on the screen anyway so the fact that these people are doing these stunts is just more exciting.  Kind of like watching a really intense cartoon.I think special notice needs to go to both Sam Rockwell (for a great and versatile performance) and to Crispin Glover (whom I didn't recognize until the credits at the end. Over all the movie kept it's intensity and it direction throughout, never missing a beat or a laugh.  A surprise and a welcome one after a rather dismal year at the movies. "}{"Title":"A flick that shows women can kick ass!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was so great! The whole time watching it I was like ready to get up and kick some butt. I know that some people are saying that the movie is a little campy but if you even watched the TV show you know that this is an improvement BY FAR! One of my favorite things about it is that they don't use guns. I am against guns in most circumstances and I find it totally cool that they can get the bad guys without shooting everything in sight. THANKS ANGELS!!! "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very funny--on purpose.I don't normally go see action movies, but I went to this one because I'm a big fan of Sam Rockwell, who plays the kidnapping victim that the Angels set out to rescue. Well, Sam came through as usual, giving a performance full of subtlety and surprises, in a role that was written without much depth. I was also happy to see that all three Angels were able to give this movie plenty of humor and energy.I recommend it to anyone who is in a mood to see a fast-moving, funny movie. See it on the big screen. "},{"Title":"The Chad was Excellent!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie, the funniest action/comidey since Austin Powers. The only way that you could possibly dislike this movie is if you are a massive tool. Cameron Diaz is funny, Drew Barrymore is cute, and Lucy Liu is well Lucy Liu. Crispin Glover is a must see as the Thin Man. He is so totally awesome. Tom Green is funny, and so is Luke Wilson. Matt LeBlanc is useless in his cameo though. Some people are saying that this movie has no plot, it does and it's actually, a good one but you have to pay attention. Those who didn't notice a plot were probably distracted by Cameron Diaz's wiggling booty. But I say if you like action, butkickin females,chain-smokin' creepy Thin Men, Bill Murray,plenty of explosions, and a dancing Cameron Diaz (one of the movies funniest scenes) go see this movie now. It's a total blast. "},{"Title":"Pure Entertainment at its Best!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlies Angels was awesome. I have never been so entertained by a film in a long while. Now critics had it all wrong when they viewed this movie. Roger Ebert called it mindless and dumb. If he would've viewed this film from a an entertainment stand point he would've realized that this movie is pretty good. Instead he, and along with many other critics picked apart the plot. This isn't trying to be American Beauty people, it was made so we could have fun while watching it and i for one was very entertained.The acting is the best part mainly because the actors don't take the material too seriously and they know what kind of movie they're making. Drew Barrymore who was a driving force in getting this movie made, was my favorite angel. She's fierce, sexy and talented and she is becoming one of my fave actresses. Cameron Diaz is second. Boy she was hilarious. Wait untill you see the soul train scene. i was laughing so hard. Lucy liu ges to kick the most butt and this film shows that she can hold her on in a major motion picture. Bill Murrary is underused as Bosley but the scenes he does appear in are really funny and he was a joy to watch. Crispin Glover and kelly Lynch are so cool as the villians. crispin glover plays it very weird but his fight scenes are way awesome. kelly lynch is cool too. She's bad and kicks a lot of but.The fight scenes are another highlight of th film. they are well choreagraphed and they are really cool to watch. I especially liked Drew's fight scene towards the end. it was great.If you want to be fully entertained this is the movie for you just sit back and don't take it too seriously. 8/10 "},{"Title":"surpasses all expectations","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this movie was the coolest    i didnt think a group of 3 girls directed by a first timer in the movie biz could kick that much ass the action was incredible (maybe a knock off of the matrix, but ifound myself to enjoy this action better) GO SEE IT "},{"Title":"WOW!! Man, that movie was good!! (Possible SPOILERS)","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Where should I start? Charlie's Angels uses its best assets, the lovely ladies playing them. I must admit, at the beginning, I heard of all the bad buzz, cheesiness, infighting, blatant coping of Matrix-kung-fu. I really didn't know what to think. But let me tell you one thing, Charlie's Angels has one aim only to be a crowdpleaser. Charlie is going to rule theaters this autumn, and should be around much longer than Meet the Parents. The action left me breathless, and those actresses, they pleased the eyes so much they had me begging. Bill Murray was good in his scenes, Cameron D., Lucy Liu, and Drew did a great job. They enjoyed making this film and it shows. The camaraderie isn't forced, and each angel is given their time to shine. I saw maybe one and a half episodes of Charlie's Angels, but I'd see this movie again and again. Hardly no blood (good for the kids), but lots of babes and lots of skin (you decide whether it's good for the kids; at the right age, it may even be helpful), and lots of butt-kicking. Go see it, rent it, see it again. You'll love the action. Tim Curry makes a good villain, Crispin Glover has a mean streak he's been hiding, and the movie has a twist that you won't believe!!! Well, I said my peace. See ya! "},{"Title":"Delivers on all fronts!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My expectations for the film were that it would pay tongue-in-cheek homage to the television series, that it would be filled with fast-paced action sequences, that the Angels would look great, and that there would be plenty of laughs.  Charlie's Angels delivers on all of these expectations.  Not since I saw Goldfinger as an adolescent have I been so drawn into a film from start to finish.  I have no reservations about recommending this film to anyone with a pulse. "},{"Title":"A whole lot of fun!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was so much fun that when I left the theatre it actually kept me craving for a sequel (which does not happen often)! The action sequences were incredibly swift, cartoonish, and matrix like. I think Drew Barrymore deserves extra credit for this one because she obviously worked SO hard to get this film made and delivers an incredible performance. Cameron Diaz shows us that she really is a comedy actress, and Lucy Lui fits in perfectly and is quite funny. A must see for all!!!! "},{"Title":"Pure Entertainment at its Best!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I agree with one of the comments that was posted about this movie that some critics would tear this film apart. Now i've read some critical reviews of the movie and some critics liked it but for the most part i knew that they wouldn't get the concept. This movie is made solely for Entertainment value. so ignore the plot and just have fun watching 3 beautiful and talented ladies kicking butt and having fun doing it.i would waste time writing about the lack of plot but i will write about the things i liked and didn't like.The good The 3 angels are great in the movie. Drew Barrymore who also co-produced the movie is great in the movie. she was easily my favorite angel in the movie. she's beautiful and very talented. Lucy Liu was my sceond favorite angel. She's so sexy and very talented and i would love to see her in more movies. Cameron diaz comes up 3rd but she is the funniest angel and she's a great comic actress. i loved her in this movie.Bill Murrary is a positive in the movie but he's really underused. However, the scenes he does appear in are hilarious. he has great comic timing and was a great addition to the cast.The villians kicked ass. Starting with that hott chick kelly lynch who played vivian wood. she was great and had a chance to kick a lot of butt in this movie. Crispin Glover as the thin man was very creepy and weird but he was great and his fight scenes are  out of this world. The main villian however nox, isn't that great. he's effective but compared to the rest he's a weak link.The soundtrack is way awesome. some good tunes in this movie. that was a plus for me.The action sequences rocked the house. they were very matrix like but they were way cool. in my opinion cameron diaz and lucy liu handled their fight scenes the best. but drew's big fight scene when she's sitting in the chair is awesome and way funny.The Badthis is a dumb reason but it's too short and it made me wanting more and i guess that could be a good thing but i left the theatre wanting more of these angels.Anyway all you boring critics out  there get a clue and enjoy this movie and any other movie that is made dfor entertainment value. i hope critics get the clue very soon  "},{"Title":"Fantastic Fun, Worth The Time, Effort And Money","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was surprised by how well developed the movie was with  all problems you heard about on the set and with the cast.  I thought the writing was fun, the plot was amazingly well developed and the fight scenes were just stunning.  It held true to the orginal shows idea with a modern update  without overdoing it, or expecting too much from it.  It was perfect for what it was suppose to be.  Fun, Action, Women in charge, Hair and clothes!  The only thing I was  disapointed by was that none of the orginal angels made appearences... They should have shown their support.   I actually will be going to see this movie again.  Just  fantastic fun, great laughs, and good action scenes!   "}{"Title":"This film Rocks!!!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I went to see this film, the auditorium was packed! I have enjoyed the film, I liked Lucy Liu, she was hot! Drew is cool, and Cameron was perfect.This is No Kate, Farrah, Jaclyn, Cheryl, Shelly, and Tonya!I liked the fights, and this film rocks!!! "},{"Title":"Two enthusiastic thumbs way up!!!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am an action/thriller movie fan, and I thought this movie was one of the best I have seen since the Matrix and the X-men movie. It also has some humor in it too. I don't remember the TV series very well, but I am interested in checking that out sometime. Good job, McG! "},{"Title":"Thank God For Angels.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I must say that I have never had so much fun at an action movie! Based on the trailers and TV spots, I was expecting major cheese, but I went home happy (and if it hadn't cost me $7.25, I would have seen it again!)The movie version of the television series, which is now a cult classic, is explosive. The humor is satirical, taking advantage of the corny elements of the original series. The action sequences were incredible, but not too much (see MI2), and added to the storyline instead of overpowering it.Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Lui all were fantastic in their roles. You couldn't help but falling in love with each angel. Take down your Farrah posters, its time for the new girl. Bill Murray was funny as always, and Charlie had one great voice!Don't miss out on seeing this film in the theater. I'm not an action fan, but I loved this movie. Can't wait for the DVD! "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good movie.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is great fun. I can't remember when I had this much fun watching a movie.Even though this movie borrowed from The Matrix, True Lies, Mission Impossible, Mission Impossible 2 (it only borrowed the good parts from MI 2) and number of others, so you would think you seen it all, but as it turns out, you haven't.There is great dialogue in many cases (quite humorous as well.)This movie was designed to please the audience and it accomplishes that quite well.Highly recommended (Unless the only reason you watch movies if for a Plot and Character development.)   "},{"Title":"Fun, exciting, thrills every moment","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie. I had a great time seeing it and felt it was a good night out and worth the time and money to see it on the big screen. The audience reacted along with it, especially those who grew up with the original series. The sound track kept you going and made you envious of the screen (come on girls, didn't you want to jump in and fight along with them?). The humor, the style, the players all made it a great entertaining film. The action and stunts really kept you interested. If you want to see something to just have fun with, see this movie. If you are looking to tear it apart, then leave it alone. And everyone, stick around at the credits at the end. It is worth it.  "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great, giddy blast of fun.  This is the summer movie audiences were craving, but Sony decided to make it a Fall treat. Gloriously over the top, cheesy, sparked by the sheer joy and exuberance of Drew, Cameron, and Lucy.  They are having so much honest fun doing their wire kung fu, sassy, goof ball undercover disguised antics, that we can't help but be caught up in it.Cameron's 70's retro dancing, Lucy's dominatrix led computer class, Drew looking heavenly in her pit crew cleavage baring outfit, and Crispin Glover, coming out of nowhere to be one of 2000's great movie villains - and he doesn't say a word of dialogue.And songs, great 70s, 80s, and 90s Angel titled song tunes used APPROPRIATELY to spark the action.  All amplified in a sleek, visual, comic design by director McG.8 out of 10.  2 points lost cause Bill Murray is wasted  all his scenes lack the wise ass cleverness we come to expect ( except for his soap gun - I laughed at that ) and every scene with Tom Green - Drew loves the guy, but his two scenes brings the film to crashing halts  'Is it the Chad?' Gawd-awful.But these are minor quibbles. The 3 girls and director McG pump the movie so full of energy we are throughly entertained. And stay for the final credits for some amusing outtakes. "},{"Title":"Charming Cheese!!!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was great. Diaz, Liu and Barrymore were all exquisitely funny. Although a little cheesy at times, this movie showed the heroines in their best light. The laughter was always at the right moment. It was as if the roles they portrayed were made for them specifically because they fit so well into what the public sees them as, ie Barrymore, sexual and goofy Liu, dominant and goofy Diaz, sweet and goofy. Bill Murry as Bosley was dead on in the part. Crispin Glover was a ominous lurking bad guy and very convincing. Sam Rockwell who played the bad guy in The Green Mile still gives me the creeps with ease as Knox. This movie was better than I thought it would be. I was expecting a major 70's retro Austin Powers type movie but was charmed by a 21st century update of the original series. The martial arts were action packed but a little too over done with the slow motion effects. All in all, money well spent. I see a sequel coming and I will be there watching. "},{"Title":"charlie's angel's movie is a must","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  being a long time fan of charlie's angels,i watched the original show when i was younger,now tvland,has brought the rerun's back,i like watching show's i grew up with and this was one,at first i didnt know what to expect,with the movie,i honestly only liked the idea of drew barrymore as an angel,i wasnt to sure of carman diaz as one or lucy liu,then again i didnt really give it much thought on who else,would have been better,the karate,judo move's looked alot different from the original show,looking at the trailer,although feeling this way i still wanted to see the movie charlie's angel's 2000,and im glad i did,because i ended up liking the film alot,and i want to see it again,the cast drew barrymore, lucy liu, and carman diaz,were a great choice and worked great together,just like the cast did in the original show,it was modernized,and that didnt take away from anything,you cant compare the original show to the movie,charlie's angel's 2000 is based on the original show but made for today's audience,i ended up liking the action,in the movie,there was alot of it,and the karate,judo i liked as well,charlie's angel's is a must to actually see at the theater's,i thought it was great,and hope to see it many more times "},{"Title":"Great action, great cast, great movie!!!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have never seen the Charlie's Angels TV show, but this movie rocked! From beginning to end, the action is intense and the comedy is hilarious.  The cast is full of good actors and actresses who put their talent and athletic ability to use! The numerous action scenes were Matrix-esque, but in a GOOD way!  Go see Charlie's Angels! "},{"Title":"Why we go to the movies...","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First things first.  Charlie's Angels is going to get smacked up by the critics.  There's a reason for this, albeit not a very good one.  Pure entertainment.  This movie was pure entertainment.  No substance; no sentimental value that you'll go home with making you feel all warm and fuzzy toward the rest of the world... No.  It's simply there for our enjoyment.  Critics fail to see this.  They seem to believe that if a movie doesn't make people think about why they like it, it isn't any good.What makes this movie so entertaining, you ask?  Well, simple.  Key elements.  Action, comedy, special effects, good acting, and good music.  Some (Maybe I should say most...) will argue that these are not all the key elements you need to have an entertaining movie.  But it works for me.  The action sequences are unbelievable.  A combination of (although not to hold a candle to) The Matrix, a Bruce Lee movie, and the secret agent man himself, James Bond.  Slow motion bullets, kicks, and (yes...) back flips. Barrymore, Diaz, and Liu were definitely the best picks for this film.  Three beautiful women who know kung fu?  Yes sir...  Bill Murray is his usual hysterical self as Bosley, providing most of the laughs.  Crispin Glover plays a magnificent villain.  He even has his own theme song! (For those of you who haven't seen this film yet, you probably don't get my joke about the critics 'smacking up'; but you will...)To be blunt, and to bring this to an end, go see the film.  It's entertaining, sexy, thrilling, and even heart-warming in a three-gorgeous-girls-making-you-want-to-die kind of way.   "}{"Title":"I have new heroes!!!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  These girls kicked some evil butt!!  It had the elements of the old television  show, and added special affects makes me want to work for  an anonymous millionaire fighting crime now!!Its a have to see if you were a fan of the show or action movies with powerful women.  And it was good to see Crispin Glover on the big screen again. "},{"Title":"Great brainless fun","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An interesting, realistic plot was never Charlie's Angels' strong suit. The original series was fun to watch because of its style. This movie follows that same tradition. The Angels brush off physical damage that would kill a 300 pound NFL linebacker, never mind a 120 pound female. But the film has very interesting effects and visuals, lots of humor, and enough charm from all the major characters that it's hard to pay attention to the flimsy plot and unrealistic situations. Some of the fight sequences look very impressive (if very reminiscent of John Woo films), and the Angels have just the right combination of ditziness and kick-ass bad-girl toughness to keep the movie rolling right along. A great film if you want to have a fun time. "},{"Title":"FUN!","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had very low expectations of this movie after seeing the semi-cheesy trailers. The movie turned out to be Great! Very funny. Lots of action. Great costumes and hilarious performances from everyone involved. There are quite a few odd cameos by people I had no idea were going to be in this movie. I highly recommend it as fun weekend entertainment. I think it will be a huge hit. "},{"Title":"Nothing if not entertaining!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This remake of Charlie's Angel's treads dangerously but successfully between paying tribute and falling over the top.  But the result is a movie with electric action sequences and the ability not to take itself too seriously. Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu burn up the screen, and they were both funnier than I expected.  Crispin Glover turns in a dead on performance that has to be seen to be truly enjoyed.  Light on story but heavy with laughs, it's this years must see guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Simply the best Action-Comedy in a long, long time","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I must admit I was very skeptical before I attended this movie. But it only took twenty seconds, and all my doubts were blown away. Seeing the impressions of T.J. Hooker - The Movie on the TV-Screen in this airplane gave me the first of plenty good laughs, which combined with perfectly stylish action scenes and unbelievably high pacing. Not for one second I got bored in any way, but instead felt purely entertained in a way I didn't feel for a very long time. This great combination of nonstop action and comedy from start to finish is the best Blockbuster movie of the year. Absolutely hilarious. "},{"Title":"Not to everyones taste, but it should more than appeal to the masses","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw Charlie's Angels during an audience test session, and I must say that I was completely captivated from the opening sequence right through to the final scene.  An interesting blend of humour and action woven together with an excellent soundtrack certainly held my attention at its highest level. I never like to spoil movies by giving away the finer details, and I'm not going to start now...but anyone who has ever watched the original series will know the basic setup of the film, and will therefore appreciate that the storyline is never going to be the films strongest point.  Coupled with the fact that remaking the original series as a film would never work with todays audiences, the director has instead opted to emphasise the cheesiness of the original to comic proportions...and its effects hit the bullseye with great accuracy.  On the flip side of the coin, anyone watching this would be forgiven for thinking that John Woo had a hand in the action sequences, as they are certainly reminiscent of his style.  Over-the-top fight scenes with plenty of those 'IM 2' type stunts certainly made me check the credits again.  The strong performances of the equally strong cast are superb, with Bill Murray delivering his part to great comic effect.  The Angels (Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu) all play their parts beautifully, but I think Drew Barrymore deserves extra credit points for her performance. Crispin Glover also deserves a mention for his role as the villain...never has the villain looked so evil.  In summary, the film definitely stereotypes the original series, but it is so intentionally OTT that I have to admit, my friends and I have all said that we will go to see this movie again when it is released.  It won't (and will never) be to everyones taste, but in my opinion, if I had more thumbs, they too would be pointing enthusiastically skywards. "},{"Title":"The secret shame of a man......","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is full of adrenaline.The plot is simple; yet this film is more then just the plot. It has great fight scenes which are 'fantasy' based, yet appealing. The characters are all lovable and it provides great lines; that make the audience laugh out loud.The actresses are perfect for the role, Lucy fits the role of Alex; the serious detective, while Cameron Diaz sparkles as the bubbly Natalie. And Drew shines as the boyish Dylan.The costumes that the girls wear are hilarious. Personally I think the end fight scene is one of the best, its in my top five.A film for girls....but guys will enjoy it as well... "},{"Title":"Campy and ridiculous, but intentionally so","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A movie adaptation of an old TV program that actually bore some resemblance to its source material, a TV show that never took itself the slightest bit seriously, which was the charm and success of it. This movie captures that self-mockery formula, and plays it to the hilt.Like the 70's show, three beautiful ladies don such outfits as tight black leather jeans, exquisite nightgowns, and of course the old standby, skimpy beach wear. Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz, and Lucy Liu drop kick, sucker punch, and otherwise hammer the snot out of unsuspecting villainous extras, usually while telling one-liner jokes. The plot is something about stolen software, but who cares? The point of the whole thing is the Angels and their antics, nothing more.Bill Murray, an A-list celeb who occasionally pops up in supporting roles in crazy movies just for the fun of it, is wasted as Bosley, liaison to the mysterious Charlie, since all he is given to do is ham it up and mug a little bit. John Forsythe reprises his voice-over role from the TV show as the unseen boss of the outfit, a pleasant, nostalgic touch.It's a good thing that it's all supposed to be camp anyway, since Drew and Cameron couldn't box their way out of a paper bag. Their fight moves are so comically awkward, that you know it was intended to be absurd. Lucy Liu, however, is not somebody I would want to meet in a dark alley at night--she is sensational in the action scenes, and gives this movie whatever credence it does have.Just a joke movie all the way through. Laugh at it, or laugh with it; it'll be fun either way. Just don't even attempt to take this buffoonery seriously. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever made","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have seen some truly horrid movies, but this takes my vote for the absolute worst of the worst. Horribly miscast, completely unbelievable, and a film simply so bad that one gasps for air in an attempt to depict just how completely bad it really is. It is so dreadful that I cannot watch the whole thing at one time but have found myself having to shut it off and change channels after 20 minutes or so, only to come back and return to disbelief at watching its horrid resumption. There is just nothing good to say about this monstrously bad film. If one tried to deliberately make a horrible movie, they could not be any more successful than this bomb. "},{"Title":"Arguable the best movie ever made...","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is why1.) Great Script. Awesome Plot. Once again, those WGA guys have done a real great jorb here.2.) Great Directing. McG is one of the most talented directors around, but he truly did perform superhumanly strong here!3.) Great Soundtrack. Just check it out!4.) Great Acting. Cameron Diaz doing great as always. very strong Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu just awesome! Bill Murray not as strong as expected from a guy outta his league, but still great. Luke Wilson was awesome, I think he would have deserved at least a Golden Globe for that.5.) Great Girls! I mean, seriously, check those girls out! CHECK EM OUT!At least if you are not gay, man, this movie is hottest ever!P. S. Check my site out! Seriously, check it out! "}{"Title":"Funny.. McG must think he's actually a cool director.","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels boosts a good doze of girlpower, but it's a shame that McG thinks he's one of the Wachowskis. He is NOT. He rips off the bullet-time effect and uses a lot of slo-mo, but still something goes wrong. He takes the action too far and uses stupid looking camera moves. It doesn't help that this movie is loaded with more unintentional humor than the real thing. Charlie's Angels tries to be MissionImpossible (they've even ripped off a scene or two), but you just can't take anything seriously when every 5 seconds the girls flip their goddamn hair. Sam Rockwell does the best he can to bring some dignity in to this mess, but it turns out to be a lost cause. It goes to the bottom like the Titanic, but they won a few Oscars on the way!** / ***** "},{"Title":"Unbelievably far fetched","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's quite unbelievable how far fetched this movie is. I would have expected better from Diaz, Lou and Barrymoore, not to mention the script writers and the director. Even the sex appeal can't lift it's rather poor overall score.4.5/10 "},{"Title":"what a wast of time","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is just awful, no reasonable plot what so ever. This movie is an insult to everybody with more than one braincell. It may be apealing to young teenage boys, but that is really all that it is. "},{"Title":"A great example of the many unoriginal Hollywood rip-offs aimed at stupid teenagers without girlfriends and taste in movies","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS.I've decided to write something about this film for one sole reason I hate it and I think other people should be deterred from even thinking about wasting any amount of money into the pockets of whichever studio farted this abomination onto our screens. DON'T GIVE THE IMPRESSION THAT THEY SHOULD KEEP ON SPEWING OUT FILMS LIKE THIS! Too late you fools a sequel is already on the way. I was too late!It's a rip off and a waste of talent for most concerned. Which films to choose? Hmmm? How about 'The Matrix' (not just the style of wire work in fight scenes guys, THEY ACTUALLY USE BULLET TIME, badly), a 'Boogie Nights' style disco scene, 'Mission Impossible' acrobatics just before and during hacking into a computer, etc, etc, etc! Take it into account and if you actually watch this rubbish you will notice many more. And no its not a 'clever homage' to these great action/espionage thrillers, it is blatant and unsubtle stealing. Because er ... (Hollywood studio exec voice) aren't kids supposed to like this kinda stuff? What's that word ... er ... 'cool'? They think its cool don't they? See! the tasteless little brats actually watch it! We've made enough to make a sequel 'economically viable'. Great!.No. Not great. Very bad. Sooo very bad.But don't get me wrong these women are all beautiful and there are hyper sexy moments all round (Liu in a tight leather dominatrix style top and skirt brandishing a whip will have the spotty 15 year-olds and dodgy raincoat brigade wriggling in their seats), though their beauty is somewhat cheapened by the obvious and 'can you guess that I'm a music video director' efforts of Joseph 'McG' Nichol. Believe me that their showing of ass is far better than their kicking of it.The camera work is 'nice and colourful' (Brittany Spears video look - thank goodness they don't use her music!), fast studio editing and there isn't one original shot or sequence in the entire movie. The excellent Sam Rockwell and Tom Green are good but wasted, Diaz is talented (watch Being John Malkovich) but also wasted, Bill Murray is almost (but not quite) back to the comic standard of 'Kingpin' and opposite him Tim Curry tries valiantly to add some class to the movie.Great music is sometimes used The Prodigy 'Smack My Bitch Up' is a brilliant choice for a kung-fu action scene (Wachowski brothers please take notice!), but is instead wasted on just another lacklustre Matrix rip-off fight by people who know that sort of thing is cool but can't understand why.Humour that is pathetic and falls flat on it's arse + a plot that is unoriginal and formulaic + acting talent that is wasted + action that is flabby + not an ounce of realism + a lot of money = 1 out of 10. If there were minus points on this rating system I'd use them.I laughed at some of the comments posted about this movie if you believe them you'll be crying after this torture of a cinematic experience. Nasty stuff made by people who don't give a damn about good cinema or their audience. "},{"Title":"Grrrl Power!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  On TV, Charlie's Angels was dubbed a cornerstone of the jiggle TV genre.  In this movie, the Angels come back with a twist.  Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu star as the hottest crime-fighters around.  Their firepower doesn't come from firearms, but from their amazing moves.  Bill Murray does a good comic turn as Bosley (I'll miss him in the sequel!).  Not all angels have halos, but this movie has wings! "},{"Title":"worst film ever!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although i did watch this film to the end (it would be wrong of me to comment on any film after watching only 10 minutes) i really really do wish i had never turned on the TV and thought this would be better than what was on Channel 5(britons will know what i mean). i suppose the main reason for watching was to see the girls looking hot, but i should have at least turned the volumed off + they didnt look hot just stupid. The original series was charming and light hearted with genuine classy ladies that were hot, unlike these 3 bimbos. The film is so poor i am at a loss to why the staff of IMDB gave this an overall rating of 7.9.The best bit of the movie was destinys child hit song. this film has no redeeming features and why oh why are they making a second film? This is film making at its worst!  "},{"Title":"Great all around Action Motion Picture","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the greatest action movies of all time. I rank it up there with Mission Impossible 1. And what can I say about the musical coordination... The music was done and synced perfectly. I give McG the director a lot of credit and he really seems to know how to motivate and make his actors and actresses reach their full potential. First rate Movie and I cannot wait to see part 2 next year. Oh although all the acting was great Crispin Glover the Thin Man really stole the show to me. His energy and fighting skills were top of the line. And the electric scenes where he cut off the hair from the Angels the look on his face will be a classic scene of eroticism that pumps up the movie a few levels............... Way to go Crispin.... "},{"Title":"Great all around Action Motion Picture","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the greatest action movies of all time. I rank it up there with Mission Impossible 1. And what can I say about the musical coordination... The music was done and synced perfectly. I give McG the director a lot of credit and he really seems to know how to motivate and make his actors and actresses reach their full potential. First rate Movie and I cannot wait to see part 2 next year. Oh although all the acting was great Crispin Glover the Thin Man really stole the show to me. His energy and fighting skills were top of the line. And the electric scenes where he cut off the hair from the Angels the look on his face will be a classic scene of eroticism that pumps up the movie a few levels............... Way to go Crispin.... "},{"Title":"More fun for blithering pubescents","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This isn't really a movie it's a live action video game, with all the nonsensical ceaseless motion and none of visual inventiveness.  Like my homeboy Chuckles Cranky, I have no intention of trying to criticize this movie on any objective (or subjective) basis.  Instead, I'm just going to hit the odious highlights 1. If you're over the metal age of eighteen or your cultural taste isn't dictated by your gonads you're likely to find something vaguely insulting about Charlie's Angels. 2. See the emetic spectacle of Drew Barrymore parading her latest pet ferret around the screen for 10 minutes and then dropping him like a used kleenex (life imitates art). 3. If Bill Murray has any fans left after this, he may want to consider a run at daytime talk shows. 4. Ripped-off scenes from The Matrix and Mission Impossible that seem not so much 'homages' as imaginative bankruptcy and even copyright infringement. 5. During the credits we get to see a bunch of giggling outtakes, reinforcing the notion that the whole thing is a camp romp.  Unfortunately, we have two and a half gargantuan egos (and a drooling moron of a director) weighing down the whole project with ludicrous star posturing. 6. Yeah, okay, it's trash, but here's a little clue if you're going be cynical enough to offer obviously sub par material for public consumption, you should at least have the decency to offer it at a discount. This travesty was barely an hour and a half, with recycled action sequences, pathetic acting, lame satire and a singular lack of wit. I don't call that giving the audience their money's worth.  I call it consumer fraud. But for those who didn't learn their lesson with this 'film' Charlie's Angels 2 is coming out real soon.  "},{"Title":"not as good as some make it sound, not as bad as others make it sound","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is not a movie that you are going to think about. It's a movie where you're going to relax, laugh, eat, and enjoy... with your friends. So if the special effects are being complained about (which i enjoyed, i thought they were very funny because of the matrix, and i thought it was put in at the right time) then think about it this way, its not a movie that's going to put you at the end of your seat waiting for what's going to happen next. Its a movie that allows you to relax, and get in a few laughs here and there, and the general idea of the movie. I thought it was funny, well written, well acted, and well directed. It wasn't anything amazing, but it definitely deserves some credit. Watch it, expecting it to be nothing, not good or bad, and i assure you that you will enjoy it a fair amount. "}{"Title":"Matrix chix","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This rubbish should be given a paper medal for going way, way above and beyond the call of stupidity. I never watched the original series on TV and after viewing this drivel I feel fortunate indeed. What was the point of filming this piffle which could have been titled Charlie's Airheads? I figure it was made to sell to little teeny bopper girls who have bought into the women really are strong and bad myth. And these ladies were bad but sometimes bad is bad. My fave scene was when one of the airheads, sorry, Angels, fell several stories from a building, rolled several hundred feet down a mountain - naked, no less -and made a phone call. All with no scratches. Avoid. "},{"Title":"One of the few Hollywood movies that I loved!","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am impressed, this is excellent stuff here. Everything is there, Cameron Diaz in underclothes, Lucy Liu's in a tight black dress and of course, the main attraction is none other that the fabulous Drew Barrymore. She is amazing, her greatest role to date. I mean, this movie contain one of the greatest scene in cinema history, the one when blonde Drew Barrymore is in the car and she trying to distract the stupid guy. The scene is simply a classic. She is so hot, I hope that she will be in more scenes like that in the future. The only thing that keeps me from giving a perfect 10 is that there is no nude scenes with Drew Barrymore or hardcore scenes.The greatest movie of 2000!***1/2 "},{"Title":"Seen worse","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh well... I've seen a lot worse than this. It's brainless, its only selling point are the three gorgeous women and the script is stuck halfway between nonexistence and Never-never-land. Not completely awful, but still I have a hard time finding the point. But I'm guessing it's got something to do with money. "},{"Title":"Damn - I liked it - I didn't want to","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After refusing flat out to go and see this at the cinema (I never liked the TV series that much, but always had a thing for Sabrina)I got this out on DVD purely because I had absolutely nothing else to do, and the other half was out, so she couldn't moan at me oggling 3 gorgeous women for 90 minutes. To be honest, that's pretty much the only reason I rented it, watching these 3 beauties for 90 minutes was far more appealing than watching Dennis Norden host yet another hilarious series of clips which we've all seen before (sorry, americans you'll have no idea what I was talking about there)Anyway, I wasn't prepared for such a slick and well put together film, the action sequences were gloriously over the top, lots of that silly Matrix type stuff, which can look good in the right hands (I agree with one of the previous posters, the Matrix is a terrible film, and an insult to anyones intelligence)Is this film an insult to intelligence ? on the face of it, you would think so, but the whole film gently parodies it's genre and most importantly itself, you're not supposed to take this film seriously - that's the point.What a great way to spend 90 minutes (remember I thought it was going to be a load of old Pony) definitely one for the lads - would the girls like it ? - probably not, it would only remind you of how much cellulite you have before asking your boyfriend the inevitable question How come you never look at ME like that ? However, if you're able to accept that your gentleman friend has a genetic requirement to peruse eye candy - then sit back, relax, make a mental note to learn some kung fu, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"*SPOILERS* People were begging me never to see this movie...","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  But I did anyway. And those people were wrong. Charlie's Angels, while not showing up at any awards ceremony (although the people who run those might be wrong, too), is quite a good action flick. In fact, I don't often like action movies, but this one turned out to be special.I'll go through a few cons first before I get to what I did like the script is the biggest problem of the film. The action sequences almost always work, if not for the adrenaline rush then for the giddiness of them. It is the exposition that hardly ever works. The introductory vignettes give the film an immediate sour flavor, and, for a long time, the movie heads downhill. Don't worry, though. As soon as the next action scene starts, you'll forget about anything excessively crappy that came before. The humor of the script often worked, but not always. They went a bit too far with the tongue-in-cheek shtick. Wink wink nudge nudge. The only technical thing I can complain about is the constant desire to Matrixify the action sequences. I despised the Matrix, and I'll quickly tell you why it is NOTHING but an action flick with a script no deeper than Charlie's Angels YET it believed that it was speaking grand profundities. What's worse, audiences bought the pseudo-philosophic mumbo jumbo it was spitting out. As for that film's action, the first slo-mo scene is neat, but it is used so poorly throughout the rest of the film that it renders itself ineffective YET people still ate it up. Films that The Matrix influenced have sort of made better use of the technique, but, really, you can only go so far with it. Charlie's Angles does some pretty neat stuff with it. The bullet scene in Charlie's Angels, stolen directly from The Matrix, is put to decent use here, showing us the truth of a situation where in regular speed the truth would have escaped the audience (as it does the characters).Pros well, the action, dummy. This film has some of the most beautiful action sequences this side of Die Hard.Also, something that is never noticed with action movies, usually because they are so schlocky, but Charlie's Angels has some of the most beautiful cinematography I've seen in recent years. And that's not just because the frames enclose beautiful women or scenery. The DP and director know how to use the camera, especially how to move it. There is a long, unbroken shot in Knox's apartment that is truly awesome. A cinematography award would not be out of place here. It's techniques are often innovative, too, even if it does also steal a lot. The scene where Drew Barrymore gets shot out the window is amazing in the way it rewinds the scene to show us what actually happened. The use of split screen is also good. It is not new, perhaps, but I haven't seen it done in this way. I hope the director, credited as McG, directs even better action films in the future. All he needs is a great script and, bam, you may just have an action masterpiece, something that is rarer than the dodo.One actor has to be singled out, and it is not one of the angels Crispin Glover. He's always been sort of an odd fellow in his films, but it was impossible to predict him as a James Bond's-adversary's-main-henchman type, sort of like Jaws from Moonraker. He says not a word, but he's just so good at what he does in this movie. It would be kind of sad if he were from now on terminally type cast as that character, but I'd love to see him in another similar role.As for the Angels themselves, well,  they are gorgeous. I'm not a Drew Barrymore fan, usually, but she's pretty hot here. Lucy Liu is also good, and Cameron Diaz is a goddess.  "},{"Title":"All Hype But Little Substance In Return","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels essentially comes across as one of those so called Event Movies that gets hyped up by the press for months on end yet wallows in its own silliness and/or stupidity (and regardless, the movie will make a ton of money off of the almost brainwashed audiences).  The movie itself more than likely knows that it's playing down to the audiences' intelligence for the sake of trying to make high entertainment yet it's ultimately all over the map in terms of nailing down a particular tone (it really comes off as a major loose cannon of a movie in other words).  What exactly is this movie trying to prove and be, is it a comedy, a satire/parody, or an action film.  This question can perhaps be even more justified for a movie that allegedly used over 10 writers over the course of the production.In return, Charlie's Angels essentially proves to fall flat with some pretty embarrassing results.  Virtually everybody who's involved here are stuck practically making absolute fools of themselves right in front of the camera.  Yet they seem to firmly believe that they're already in on the joke and are so clever.  In the process, the cardboard and almost stereotypical (primarily based upon the opening scenes) characters are reduced to playing dress-up and spouting corny dialog (usually made up of awkward one-liners and innuendos) without much of a payoff or anything to really push it forward from a storytelling point of view.  Speaking of the story itself, it's basically something that doesn't have a good sense about actual reasoning for why certain things are happening on screen.Certain things occur ultimately without much of a point behind them for motivation in the first place like a scene involving a car chase (which was likely thrown in simply for the sake of presenting a car chase in an action film).  Most of the time, the movie is seemingly made up of a string of vignettes and some borrowed ideas from a string of popular action films (e.g. the Lethal Weapon movies, Mission Impossible 1 & 2, The Matrix, the Indiana Jones movies, The Rock, Rush Hour, the Die Hard movies, Batman, etc.) from over the past decade (it even throws in the old Which wire do I cut? cliche for good measure).  Along the way, we get some lame and unresolved sub-plots (some of which seemingly takes a page from the Batman and Superman movies concerning being caught in a dilemma when it comes to talking about your true identity) that comes off more like padding than something that in some form or another fit into the story.The Wire Fu style of action sequences (which is often made up of the defining of gravity and some pretty gratuitous usage of slow-motion here and there) really lacks a genuine sense of danger and tension.  This is needed for an action sequence to make an effective payoff yet the script is totally clumsy on where to lead this.  Charlie's Angels is just relentless with is camp factor but it's also so full of itself that it just about sucks most of the excitement and credibility out of it.  We already know going in that we have to suspend are belief towards what's going on.  While the problem isn't the action on screen, it's really the dialog that seriously ruins the atmosphere due to its absolute cheesiness as you really want to seriously cringe rather than feel amused.The movie makes the mistake of trying to incorporate comedy to a really high degree on a frequent basis.  The problem that can occur when it comes to comedy mixing in with action at the exact same time is that there's all of a sudden too much to think about all at once.  This is what helped seal the fate of Batman & Robin (another over-hyped so-called Event Movie) as being an absolutely obnoxious movie that was insulting to the intelligence.  Charlie's Angels likely believes that deep down inside it's providing some sort of positive message for young females.  But it ultimately (like described before) is left making absolute fools out of just about everybody (especially those characters are left with cheating and lying to certain people who are really close to them) who's involved and carries a major tendency of simply toying around with its own subject matter.The action in Charlie's Angels occasionally makes some sort of impact as it puts the MTV Film-making Style to some effective usage here and there along with the hard hitting fighting.  But the whole thing in a way, ultimately just comes off as simply a major stunt show.  What point does it exactly serve to provide a run down of the various out-takes and goofs in the closing credits other than to raise the level of questions towards what to make out of this movie?  To go along with the questions (as previously mentioned) towards whether the movie is meant to be some sort of parody (e.g. a parody of the Charlie's Angels TV series itself along with the prologue sequences, the various usage of music, and the usage of the TV show Soul Train which is only mildly amusing), a comedy that's trying to be pretty over-the-top as we see countless costume changes and disguises as well as the humor in-between the action sequences, or a martial arts film that you can argue is trying its hardest to be hip?          "},{"Title":"Charlie's Angels? I couldn't give a flying...","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  AAARGGHHH! This movie was truly awful. It is basically a series of comedy sketches, weakly strung together by a thin line of a plot. Overall, it becomes frustrating as there is a complete lack of consistency throughout.You can actually 'simulate' watching this film at home without ever going to the cinema, by simply flicking through 'MTV-like' channels on the remote control- frantically. You would probably achieve a more 'satisfying' experience with this method.If you must, and I mean Must, see this film, leave your brain at the cinema door.....then your whole physical self. Such a waste of time...DAMN YOU ANGELS!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Not terrible, but not great either","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First, I'm not a fan of the TV show.  That said, this is a fun movie, but don't expect too much.  The acting is not inspired, and the dialogue is not great.  But this show doesn't have many pretensions, and has fun on that level.  The leading heroines have a good time with this movie, and the fight scenes are straight out of The Matrix.  There are worse ways to spend a couple of hours, and this will probably make enough money to spawn a sequel, but don't expect any Academy Awards here.  4/10 "},{"Title":"Stay at home, water the plants, walk the dog","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  By the time the initial credits were finishing, I was already thinking what am I doing here?. It's sad to see so much production money spent in a movie that doesn't have a single positive feature.Go and see it only if you are a fan of the girls and don't mind what's coming out of their mouths... "},{"Title":"Consenting Angels","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Originals Sabrina Duncan, Jill Munroe, and Kelly Garrett are not seen, nor are subsequent graduates Kris Munroe, Tiffany Welles, and Julie Rogers. Charlie (John Forsythe) is still running the Townsend agency, and Bosley is played by Bill Murray. The new angels are Heaven Must Be Missing an Angel Natalie Cook (Cameron Diaz), Angel of the Morning Dylan Sanders (Drew Barrymore), and Undercover Angel Alex Munday (Lucy Liu). Those songs introduce the angels; and, the production is filled with music video-type songs.Ms. Diaz's bootylicious dancing proves baby has back. Ms. Barrymore's wide open shirt will push your PG-13 buttons. And, Ms. Liu's dominatrix scenes are to die for. The three as singing Swiss Maids (if that's what they are&#133; you'll know the scene) are wet dreamy. Mr. Murray's Bosley lacks the innocent fey-amongst-hotness manner which make David Doyle's portrayal so successful. The new angels are fine, but their screenplay is flat.**** Charlie's Angels (2000) McG ~ Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu "}{"Title":"One of the highest-powered crime flicks I've ever seen!","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Despite the fact that I haven't seen the TV show, this is one of the highest-powered crime flicks I've ever seen. Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, and Lucy Liu really dazzled as three detectives who are really good masters of disguise. If you ask me, they were also very pretty. They can really give a high-powered crime flick a nice touch. I was really surprised at the way Dylan (Drew Barrymore) used her karate skills and then said, And that's kicking your a**! CHARLIE'S ANGELS really kept me on the edge of my seat. It was really enjoyable. It was really suspenseful, too. Lucy Liu flick I ever saw. You go, girl! Go, Cameron! Go, Drew! "},{"Title":"The most deliciously fun movie I've seen in a long time","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Charlie's Angels'. Those two words will register with anyone who grew up in the 70's, but the movie version is a treat, a pure popcorn movie that never slows down.The plot is utterly disposable, but that's part of the charm You have the feeling Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, and Lucy Liu probably get more mileage out of an enterprise like this than a 'serious' movie. The film is a superb mix of three factors 1. The almost-unbearable HOT-ness of the three lead actresses. 2. Adrenaline-pumping action scenes. and 3. Comedy.The action is cleverly staged by director McG, who is a veteran of music videos. Unlike most of the quick-cutting maniacs that have come out of the world of MTV, McG lets us *see* the action and he keeps wild cutting, noise, and incoherent violence to a bare minimum.All the actors perform well You can't think of anyone else other than Diaz, Liu, or Barrymore for the Angels, Sam Rockwell is good, Kelly Lynch is a (female dog) on wheels (she and Diaz have a terrific fight scene late in the film), Bill Murray is Bosley, Crispin Glover is delightfully creepy as 'The Thin Man', and the invaluable Tim Curry is another villain (seeing him and Murray duke it out in sumo suits is hilarious).All things considered, 'Charlie's Angels' is a terrific ride that will leave you grinning. "},{"Title":"Excellent popcorn flick","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I first heard about the Charlie's Angels movie, I was prepared for the worst. How wrong I was. This movie is excellent. A very charismatic cast who look like they're having a lot of fun Drew, Cameron and Lucy, and Bill Murray as Boseley, and a hilarious role for Tom Green, who plays Dylan's boyfriend Chad.The plot has something to do with an old friend of Charlie's trying to find him and kill him, using some voice-recognition software or something. But that's not important.If you haven't seen this movie, go rent it now! It's great fun, great laughs and great action! The girls really kick ass!I give Charlie's Angels 6 out of 5! It's really that good! "},{"Title":"Arguable the best movie ever made...","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is why1.) Great Script. Awesome Plot. Once again, those WGA guys have done a real great jorb here.2.) Great Directing. McG is one of the most talented directors around, but he truly did perform superhumanly strong here!3.) Great Soundtrack. Just check it out!4.) Great Acting. Cameron Diaz doing great as always. very strong Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu just awesome! Bill Murray not as strong as expected from a guy outta his league, but still great. Luke Wilson was awesome, I think he would have deserved at least a Golden Globe for that.5.) Great Girls! I mean, seriously, check those girls out! CHECK EM OUT!This movie is hottest ever!P. S. Check my site out! Seriously, check it out! "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand why a lot of people didn't like this movie. The fact is, if you didn't like the main point of the TV series, or you don't like the main concept of the movie, you shouldn't see the movie! It was very colorful (to represent that its based off of the original TV series), it's very well thought, and it's good for entertainment! I loved this movie because they really made it seem similar to the TV series in different ways.Yes, some of it may not make the best of logical sense, but it captures comedy, action, and romance. It is a fun movie and really interesting to keep your eyes glued to the screen! The acting is great, the script is well-written, and the direction of the director is really well done! 10 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"The start of a new trilogy is born!","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angel's - Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu, Cameron Diaz, Billy Murray, Kelly Lynch, Sam Rockwell, Tim Curry.The plot - The three sensational duo have been assigned a mission to save a billionare. They are all in for a rude wakeing. The bad guy is after Charlie!!!!What I like about it - Well I think Drew is off to a great start in PG-13 movies. She rocks and I mean rocks. She is a role model to people and so is the others but Drew is cool.MY RATING - 10/10 I mean it was so awesome with Drew and some others but Drew wants to be a star I don't blame her. Charlie's Angel's rocks. "},{"Title":"Fun-filled fabulousness.","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my top ten films of all time.  It's so beautifully constructed.  The fantastic sets, the relatively original stunt choreography, the light but entertaining plot and the delightful camp feel all contribute to extremely fun film. "},{"Title":"BEST MOVIE EVER!!!","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think that this movie is the best movie ever & I've seen almost all the movies ever made (literaly). Everyone involved in this movie is a genious. If I ever say anything bad about this movie, I swear I will sue myself! "},{"Title":"Bad, really bad","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe this movie was even made.  I mean, I can, because I view Hollywood like a sewer churning out waste, but still....No plot, no acting, no dialogue, but lots of silly self-destructive action scenes for teenagers to watch and imitate.  Yeah, dude, let's crazy like they did in that car scene in Charlie's Angeles.  Huh, huh.I guess the rationale (not that there has to be any) for making a movie like Charlie's Angels would be, It's entertaining.  Hmm.  But entertainment at what cost?  Isn't there supposed to be something funny, amusing, enjoyable, worthy of emotion in an entertaining movie?  I certainly didn't see that here.What bugged me?  First off, the portrayal of men and women.  What message is this movie sending about men's and women's sex/gender roles?  (I guess those who say this movie is entertaining would say, No message, it's just entertainment, but even entertaining movies send messages).  Are Lucy Liu, Cameron Diaz, and Drew Barrymore supposed to be portraying strong women in the movie?  I certainly don't see that.  I see Charlie's Angels portraying women as teasing sex objects--little girl voices (What's going on with Lucy Liu's voice?  Is this the way she really speaks?)and punishing men by displaying their unobtainable bodies.  And men are portrayed as idiotic bumbling dupes or evil jerks.  It's just the same old stereotypes of our old cultural friend the patriarch/matriarchy reinforced and glorified again on the big screen.  But perhaps it's supposed to be a joke--this portrayal of men and women?  But even it's supposed to be a joke, I just don't find it funny.Related to this issue of the portrayal of women, I really felt that in some scenes in the movie Liu, Barrymore, and Diaz were struggling to act and read such idiotic lines.  I am sure that all three of these women are smart and had their own reasons for wanting to make this movie, but still.... Perhaps they thought it was humorous.  But it seems like the script is beneath them. The action scenes, no question, I am sure they were fun to make, but the dialogue.  God, it must have been painful for them to make those dopey giggling noises every time they talked to Charlie.And about the action scenes.  OK, I guess a lot of people think this type of thing is entertainment.  For me, the action in this movie (and other movies like it), is simply disturbing.  Why?  Because it portrays extreme violence as something fun and without consequences.  Examples  Car chases through the city in which dozens of innocent people would be killed and everyone's laughing at the end of the scene.  Fight scenes where people would be severely damaged physically and everyone gets up and walks away as if nothing happened.  Maybe I'm uptight about this kind of thing, but it just bugs me that our culture feels this is entertainment. "},{"Title":"Huh???","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, I know expecting to have some coherent plot would be asking too much from a Charlie's Angels movie...but did it have to be SOOOOOOO bad?  They wasted alot of good talent.  Cameron Diaz, Lucy Lui and Bill Murray can and HAVE done so much better.  It was sad.  I expected to laugh...I just wanted OUT!!! I have never felt so much like leaving a movie...mid-way thru...just wish they did not cost so much, or I would have! "}{"Title":"Worst A- movie I've seen in years.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember seeing this being extensively advertised in the fourth quarter of 2000 and friends of mine actually offered me the chance to go and see it. I declined the offer, and after catching this on TV a couple of weeks back I'm glad I did - VERY glad. Having this thrown in front of my eyes on a big screen, I would have had no other option but to walk out. This was not a so bad it's good movie or a so awful it's entertaining, I really and I mean truly hated this movie.Where do I start? Some revolutionary voice recognition software has been stolen and these Angels have been called out to retrieve it. OK, being an action fan, I'll admit that I've watched and enjoyed a good a few movies with just as paper thin a plot, and true, this could be overlooked if the movie itself was entertaining. Unfortunately for Charlie's Angels, it ends up being the cheesiest A-list movie in years, and ends up coming across as unbelievably dumb. The action and I use that term very loosely, as it can hardly even be called action, ranges from stupid to downright idiotic. The fight scenes are the worst part of it. The overall look and feel of them is completely ripped off from that of The Matrix. While I was never a huge fan of The Matrix, I'm pretty sure there was a given reason as to why they defied gravity in it. However, in this we're led to believe that these Angels can do it in the in the world that we live in today. Words cannot describe just how corny it looks. In most scenes you see a stunt doing all the work, then the next cut will show one of the three Angels flying through the air in slow motion and CGI is used extensively. It may look bright and flashy, but it's not big, it's not clever and if you know anything about real martial arts, it just looks downright embarrassing to watch.There are few scenes at all which don't insult the intelligence or strain the patience of the viewer. For example, in one scene the Natalie Cook character steals a race car and leaves the track with one of the enemies in pursuit. In this scene, they drive through heavy traffic and a green Ford Taurus moving at slow speed swerves out of the way to avoid them. In the next cut, for no apparent reason this car is suddenly rolling all over the place. It's the kind of stupid random stunt you'd expect to see in a Yossi Wein movie. However, it gets worse. The two race cars end up coming at each other head on on an empty bridge. The camera cuts back and forth, showing both coming head on and showing no signs of slowing down and till suddenly it cuts to the enemies car in the water and the other one still on the bridge. In reality I think it's pretty easy to guess what would or may have happened and this is certainly not it. I wasn't expecting realism, not even close and am always able to suspend my belief and watch a good hour and a half or more of mindless entertainment, but this just absolutely takes the p*ss. What is the point in watching a movie set in the present day and world when you know that basically everything in it is absolutely impossible? It's not exaggerated over the top stuff like in a Michael Bay film, it's just completely ludicrous stuff akin to a flying lamp for no reason. Not only that, but the aforementioned scene is one of many which leads to nowhere. In another scene, Drew Barrymore's character gets shot but the bullet bypasses her and she is left hanging by her dress out a window. Not only is there bullet time again ripped off from you know where, but when she falls down a hillside it is shown in a very poor distant CGi view. It looks like they just finally gave up after finishing all the awful flashy fight scenes and made this in 5 minutes. As you can see, in my opinion, this was a terrible, terrible movie. This is the kind of stuff I refer to as pop-cinema, aimed at the lowest common denominator. It has a big budget, sexy girls, all star cast, flashy visual effects, a PG-13 Rating and nothing else. All the sort of stuff that will appeal to youngsters and will sell by the bucketloads. The eye candy of the 3 leads is the only plus point, as they are all truly attractive but that just further backs up my theory of this being a financial product and not a movie. This isn't a movie in my opinion, it's a sad excuse for a quick buck and I hate it. It's incredibly sad that it's actually fulfilled it's goal and not only has a reasonable weighted rating on IMDb, but has even spawned a sequel which I will not be watching.Rating 01/10 "},{"Title":"the worst!","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Someone should not allow Drew Barrymore to buy any cool old series ever again. She totally ruined a cultural icon. I would have even enjoyed the old Angels reprising their roles (Hell, Tanya Roberts still looks great on That '70s Show). But this movie is not sure whether it's a comedy, an action or a mystery and it fails to deliver on all counts. If it's only for the women (Like the original was) how come there is so little nudity? There was more nudity on the Aaron Spelling tv show in the '70s!The only reason to see this movie is Crispin Glover. He's at his best in a non-speaking but very cool role. Maybe I should have just watched it with the sound down. It probably would have been watchable then. "},{"Title":"Avoid women producers. They ovulate! Do you have any idea what that does to an three month shoot?","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Charlie's detective agency is hired to recover a piece of electronic equipment to counteract an act of industrial espionage. The three foxy ladies of Charlie's detective agency are on the case getting caught up in a variety of hi-jinx that eventually puts all of them in mortal danger, and even threatens the life of their boss, the demure and debonair Charlie himself.Three little girls went to the police academy, their they were assigned very strenuous activities. However, I took them away from all that. And then, I was bought up by Drew Barrymore's production company to be made into this piece o' cr*p! This has to be one of the worst blockbuster's ever made, the women perform a variety of Matrix moves that happen for absolutely no reason apart from the fact that, er, the producers wanted them in there. Cameron Diaz dances in her pants, should be sexy, but comes off as actually quite sad, kind of like a man wearing a Borat style thong, as it seems a bit desperate really, which, for a film which is supposed to be about female empowerment, is just pathetic. Bill Murray clearly wishes he'd seen more of the script before signing on the dotted line and ghosts through the movie, although to be fair to his skills, his scenes in this production are one of the only good things in it, his scene in prison and with the sumo suits is great, but he seems to be wishing that someone would find money enough to make Royal Tenenbaums and Lost in Translation in order to rescue him from films like this.And for me, this is the biggest travesty of this film, that with a cast that includes Cameron Diaz, Bill Murray, Sam Rockwell (Great in Galaxy Quest and Confessions of a Dangerous Mind, here ...Dismal!) and the completely underrated Tim Curry, that such an apocryphal film should be made. Tim Curry is always underused, and both Sam Rockwell and Bill Murray's careers managed to survive this disaster, but in many ways this has had a devastating impact on Cameron Diaz's career. Before this she was arguably one of the most sought after light comedy performers in Hollywood, with a string of good performances from The Mask through to Soemthing about Mary with glimpses of more depth with The Last Supper and Being John Malkovich, however since these dismal outings she has largely become known as that woman that Justin Timberlake went out with and that great potential that she displayed not long ago now seems woefully underused.That this is so high a score on IMDb is a travesty to justice and an indictment to the power of advertising and hype as, like the Policeman said, there really is nothing to see here! PS If my memory is correct Akiva Goldsman was the script doctor on this flick. Nuff said! "},{"Title":"After seeing this movie, I knew what my least favorite film was.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With a screenplay rewritten close to thirty times, three actresses whose only duty in the film was to whip their hair and seduce their enemies, and finally a music video director credited as McG, what could we expect.  The only thing we could have hoped to save this movie were the Matrix-type shooting of fight scenes and the consistently funny performance of Bill Murray, who the director left out of much of the film.Many people have at least recognize that the film, as far as writing and acting, was not to be taken seriously and the only thing you were supposed to be paying attention to were the beautiful women and the fast paced action scenes.  But I can not begin to understand how anyone could give this film any credit at all.First of all, Drew Barrymore gives a horrible performance as Dylan.  Cameron Dias, whose work I have enjoyed in many other films, gives as equally an annoying performance as Drew Barrymore.  And Lucy Liu is no better than the rest.  The only thing I can say is, the cast relied too much on their director.  In fact, the only person I could stand in the film was Bill Murray.Even with the action scenes, the movie is terrible and the action does not help at all.  All in all, this movie is terrible, don't rent, don't even consider renting it, take your time to get a  good movie. "},{"Title":"Drew's Wish","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think I'm going to watch Drew Barrymore more closely in the future. She seems to have a real sense about how to pull something off and have it work. She made that nice little period cinderella movie (Ever After), then the contemporary get a date movie (Never Been Kissed). Both showed a canny sense of cultural positioning, a deft recipe of corn, narrative flow and production values.So she now wants to be an action hero. Who doesn't? Never mind that her instrument (face, voice and body) are ill-suited. She puts together a mix of Matrix, music video, and cheesecake that does what it is supposed to do, though probably for a different demographic than mine. There's no cinematic art here, just by now stock techniques. But what's impressive is her ability to do it at all. She could become a real moviemaker in the future. Winona has already fallen into the hopper -- maybe Drew will fly. I see she is producing and starring in a new Barbarella. Let's see. "},{"Title":"painfully, incredibly bad","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am stunned that so many people here liked this.  I just saw it with 3 friends (2 female, 1 male) and all of us thought it was one of the WORST movies we've ever seen.  What is it anyway ?  A comedy that's not funny ?  An action movie that's not exciting ?  An excuse to look at Cameron Diaz' butt ?  A parody of other films ?  Just wretched and painful to watch.Every time I think the American public's collective IQ has bottomed out I'm proven wrong.  This is a movie for the Jerry Springer generation, for those who think Adam Sandler is a comic genius, for those who are happy when they can answer the $100 millionaire question. "},{"Title":"No Angels Here.","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Charlie's Angels (2000) Dir McG / Cast Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu, Bill Murray, Sam Rockwell Generates for the very purpose of showcasing three women seducing their way to victory. They are not given personalities. They are simply Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu throwing their feet about. Diaz meets the mailman at the door in her Spider-Man underwear. Barrymore strokes her tongue on someone's steering wheel. Liu swings a mean stick as she addresses a classroom full of males. Charlie is heard but not seen as he instructs the Angels on a mission. Title suggests that these women are not timid. The plot is numerous martial arts scenes that bare nothing to the original show. McG films it like a music video, but one wonders whether he actually remembers anything from the original show because this is a total farce. Barrymore fights off opposition while tied to a chair. Diaz engages in combat while talking on a cell phone. Bill Murray is cast as Bosley their mentor and while there are hints of comic flair, it is obvious that the role is pure cardboard. Sam Rockwell plays the villain whose role is about as enticing as a kick to the family jewels. Its feminist view seems to encourage retaliation against male society. In return, the male society should retaliate against this stupid film by burning every copy in existence. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Must have a vagina to enjoy this Modern Feminism turd","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Believe it or not, this is actually the first time I'm watching it - and now I know I was smart to avoid this all those years It's a turd. I couldn't stand this strong women crap more than 25 min. Do I really have to describe to you how stupid this movie is? How embarrassing it is to see those lame presentations of so-called strong women? How watching Cameron Diaz dancing half naked, bra-less, in her underpants and telling the mailman he can put the stuff into her slot - doesn't go hand in hand in delivering that message? I predict that in 30 years or so, women would looks back and laugh at how pathetic all those feminist movies/messages were.Movies like these are as offensive to women as they are offensive to men. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, unloved gem of trash cinema.","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Take 3 hot actresses, some random, super old theme that was successful like 100 years ago and top that mess up with some random blabbering about stuff that is happening somewhere, somehow, something Welcome to Charlie's Angels 2000!!!If you ain't searching for a movie that makes you go Wow, have you seen XXX, that was amazing!!! years after watching it, but are in the mood for a fun, brainless ride with some laughs and giggles, fighting and scratching, this is the movie you have been looking for.To sum it up I liked it, but you gotta be in the right mood/mind set to enjoy this parade of laughable dialogues and We know this movie is crap but hey, we got tits and (almost) show them while beating up bad boys!!!.8/10 "},{"Title":"Fun.","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really liked Charlie's Angels. I liked it so much that I actually gave it an 8. Most people may disagree with me, but I really think Charlie's Angels is cool. I think that the second film is funnier and more realistic than Charlie's angels Full Throttle. That film had nothing to it. This film had more realism in one minute of the film than Full Throttle had in the entire movie. Charlie's Angels deserved more credit than it originally got. The Plot makes a bit more sense than Full Throttles did. Charlie's Angels Full Throttle's plot was incomprehensible. I really don't know what exactly the film was about. That film was forgettable, this film is memorable. I know that lines like  I think the client was blown away are stupid. But Charlie's Angels has a good soundtrack, and it's just plain fun. It's sexy and has tons of action, I don't know how you couldn't like it. "}{"Title":"Good movie but the show will always be better","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First off, let me start by saying, if you've watched the movie and liked it, you should go back and watch the show which is not on Youtube.We start by comparing the beauty of the Angels from here and then. Obviously Barrymore, Liu and Diaz cannot begin to compete with Farrah Fawcett, Jaclyn Smith, Kate Jackson or Cheryl Ladd and don't kid yourself by thinking they can.Now, the movie begins with an allusion to Angels in Chains, an episode from the 70's show (won't spoil what it is). I respect that. All in all, to make it short, it's a fun movie that pays homage to a revolutionary series and if you watched the movie, do yourself a favor and go on to Youtube or get the DVD's and watch the original series as well.7/10. "},{"Title":"Whats going on?","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The older Charlies angels series was supposed to be a serious one if I can remember it correctly. However, despite so much contemplation I still have'nt figured out of this lame movie is a really a parody or spoof or are the characters really supposed to act that way for real, making for quite a weird movie? McG (where did he come from?) must have been totally stoned when doing this movie. Thats exactly how it looks and feels. For purely entertainment purposes, there isn't much to say either. It may end up giving you a headache instead of giving you the satisfaction of efficiently wasting 2 hrs. There are one or two good moments but the utter ridiculousness of this movie takes over eventually. Is this also the billionth time that Prodigy's Smack my B*tch up song has been reused in a movie or show? "},{"Title":"Better than the 70's series","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was girl power at its best. This movie begins with three girls doing different things in life before being becoming active as charlie's angels. All these ladies have different ideas and different will power to fight crime. They work for a guy named Bosley who tries to help the government but the only thing is they do not see him only take orders from him off a radio. This story gets interesting when the girls have to solve a crime which is very secretive and the girls use their different powers to get things done but the closer they get the unusual things began getting worse, can the girls do it. I enjoyed it due to all the action the girls had. "},{"Title":"The only thing I'm complaining about is the LACK of Crispin Glover","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie a few years back and I thought is was good enough. Not actually being able to remember what my interests where back then, I did however by it on video when I got The Mummy 1 and 2. And I think I watched it once after that. But recently I've picked it up, after seeing the second one again, which I must say is a little corny, especially when the angel are about to fight Demi. (On the Desodo Case we know.....LAME)The second has less realism, less plotting and less.....Crispin. The first Charlies Angels is a really good movie. I cant stop watching it. For people who are paying attention no thats not the only reason. I like the fighting, I like the jokes, and come on every bodies got to like The Chad! Any way, I don't think bagging any ones going to solve the problem, but I must say Bill Murray made a better Bosley. And they should have had more Crispin Glover to, for lack of a better word, make the movie creepier. But all-round Charlies Angels 1 is a good movie and any body with spare time and a love of leather and go-go boots should watch it. The Chad is stuck "},{"Title":"Stupid beyond belief","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Another (Hollywood) remake of something that was popular... I haven't seen the original TV-series, but I tend to believe that it's a hell of a lot better than this. Despite huge star power and sex appeal, the film fails on pretty much every level. The action is dull and powerfully overdone. The plot is ridiculous... 30 script rewrites, and that's what they end up at? Jesus... the acting is good enough, I suppose, but for so many big names in the comedy genre I expect to actually laugh during the movie. The movie spends a lot of time referencing far better movies. The special effects are decent. Too much of the film is ripping off better movies... the slow-motion bullet effect is an obvious rip-off of the much better effect presented in The Matrix. The film is predictable and barely makes sense. The plot has multiple gaping holes. The only worthwhile thing in this movie(don't bitch about me saying this, I'm a guy, and the director is obviously as well), I'm sorry to say, is the sex appeal of the three main characters/actors. There are plenty of scenes that are really alluring and it's hard to completely hate the movie, due to that. The movie is silly, corny and cheesy, but if that's your thing, you might enjoy it. Otherwise, avoid like the plague... unless you're a straight (preferably teen) guy. Decent for a single watch and then forgetting, if you don't actually have to pay for it. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Disappointing, full clichéd film","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There's nothing really to say good about Charlie'd Angels. Maybe the whole movie just plain out sucked. This film was terrible. Girls aren't very strong especially, Drew Barrymore who beats the s**t out of Sam Rockwell and his guys which is physically impossible for her to beat up 8 guys at the end. What a farfetch'd movie. Bill Murray was OK and Cameron Diaz was a little OK but everybody else were either bad at acting or just couldn't make it up. The action is totally unrealistic and very fake. All I have to say good about Charlie's Angles is that most of the women were hot even Drew Barrymore. I heard there were more hotties in the second but I wouldn't dare to watch that movie since this first one was unsuccessful. Poor acting and action is all I have to say4/10  "},{"Title":"Pure Garbage","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Matrix has spawned the most imitated and copied special effects in history that this movie could've been the sequel...and that's not saying much. The fight sequences we're so fake I had lost my will to give it a shot.  As a martial artist, I was insulted by the Hollywood training the actresses received.  They looked terrible.  Outside of the action, well, that's all there was...no story.  Jacqueline Smith...you we're the best! "},{"Title":"Hits new lows","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've seen many bad films over the years. I've also seen a few which have been made solely for financial success, without any creative ambition. Charlie's Angels is possibly the worst film i've ever seen.It never actually seems to kick in. All we have is a montage of clips that don't seem to be in any particular order, all with countless short cutting techniques. McG seems to have forgotten that he is no longr making a pop video, and he has churned out a pop video of over 1 and a half hours. Was it to give the film a modern look? The only thing is succeeds in doing is making it appear over stylised and very self concious of the fact that it was going nowhereA film with over 18 writers and 30 separate drafts of the script does not sound good from the start. Then there was the fact no ending was agreed upon when shooting started. What on earth were Columbia thinking? I can't understand why they hired McG, who has made such a disasterous start to his movie career, that he is being hailed as the worst director of all time. He simplified the already simple premise of the television series. He made every angel the same, and they were reduced to just being a smiling bunch of assets. It is ridiculous that Diaz, Barrymore and Liu agreed, and Barrymore even owned the rights. At the height of their careers, why did they choose to make such a shallow and degrading film towards women.Bosworth is reduced to being the angels pimp. We may expect to have a few laughs from Bill Murray, well to be honest, we don't. I have rarely seem a film without one single redeeming feature to remember in hindsight. I can't think of one positive to take from Charlie's Angels. A bunch of big egos, and ridiculous ideas combined have made a shambles. It would have been easy to make a happy and cheery movie from the subject matter, true it would not have been groundbreaking, but it is nearly impossible to make such a catastrophy from such a likable premise. Every teenage boys wet dream must surely have become their nightmare. Let's not even start on the sequelFinal rating 0 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Silly, indeed","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A movie based completely on sexism, with beautiful actresses showing off their behinds in as many possible ways as the plot gives a chance to (which is a lot!) without going naked (a pity). There is no real plot to talk of, and what little there is is mostly poorly thought out. Still, I guess this goes well with the original series.Since the point of the movie is clearly to show off beautiful women, I would have liked them to make some better choices as far as the actresses go, but what can I do...3/10 for this one "},{"Title":"Give me more!! cause i love it","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you don't like this movie i feel bad for you.  your taking things too seriously.  movies aren't documentries they aren't showing you the 'real world' they push reality cause they can.  so don't give me 'oh you can't do that in real life' or 'that was a stunt double' duh people that's not why you are watching it.  this is such a good movie, full of jokes, and high action it's there purely for entertainment as all movies are, and it does it beautifully and though i'm not a girl power pusher, it's good to see three chicks with no help from a man in fighting.  loved it! "}{"Title":"CHARLIE'S ANGELS (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not one reviewer will risk his skin by admitting he liked this movie as it's the so-called example of the baddest taste there is and in all honesty Charlie's Angels is a bad movie but it works. The film is over before realizing and that's due to its videoclipstyle as there isn't one minute left for serious words, it's all glimmer and glitz (says enough about Superman V, the next movie that will be directed by McG). Of course it's all based on that series from the 70's...three girls do what they're told to do by some invisible multimillionaire called Charlie and this time the client who asked the help from Charlie has to get Charlie himself as he killed his dad in some war. The ladies are brilliant and not one moment that I could keep my eyes off Cameron Diaz and Murray does what he is famous for  being an idiot... Bad movie with a good taste....watch it on telly anyway as it's 90 minutes entertainment, without brains though "},{"Title":"First Movie I Found Tom Green Funny","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this movie is made from the old T.V. show charlie's angels. There are many well known actors in this movie including Tom Green. The movie attempts to be funny but at most times is not successful. 3 girls have magical super moves from nowhere and can fight amazingly. Kindaof like a cross of X-men and Matrix, but much more cheap. Tom Green is the only good part of the movie. Tom green plays the part of Chad, one of the angels boyfriend. He provides the laughs for the movie. i give it 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Just plain bad.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Actually, it wasn't bad, if I were watching a 2-hour music video. This feeling no doubt comes from the fact that this McGinty fool used to direct music videos. Anyway, I didn't enjoy this movie in the least. The story was dull and practically non-existent. The characters were vacant and poorly developed. At any time in the movie any, or all, the main characters could have died and it wouldn't have affected me at all. Unless it some how made the story more interesting.One last gripe, I remember the original Charlie's Angels being played by a much more attractive trio. Surely with all that Hollywood has to offer, they could have done better than the likes of the merely pretty Cameron, Lucy and Drew.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst action films I've ever seen.","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  1/2 out of ****A lot of people liked Charlie's Angels because they managed to enjoy it as mindlessly trashy fun.  I suppose I envy them, because I could only see the movie as mindless trash, a terrible film in every sense of the word.  I realize the intent here isn't to even make a good movie in the first place, just to deliver an hour-and-a-half of mindless entertainment.  And believe me, I'm always up for a fun action movie (loved The Transporter), but Charlie's Angles isn't that.  My idea of fun does not include unbelievably awful acting, an utter lack of anything resembling a plot, and overdone Matrix-style fight scenes (which, in consequence, have made me a lose a little respect for The Wachowski Brothers film, unfortunately)(just one more reason to hate Charlie's Angels even more).The story...hmm...well, it involves Charlie's Angels (Lucy Liu, Cameron Diaz, and Drew Barrymore) kicking lots of butt, balancing steady relationships with newfound boyfriends, showing lots of cleavage, and then some more butt-kicking.  Sophistication and intricate plotting is obviously not this movie's high point, but then again, neither is entertainment value.The film's martial arts fights imitate those in The Matrix, which was a smart and enjoyable sci-fi thriller, but as every action movie in America these days appears to be ripping off its setpieces (with only Equilibrium actually taking those concepts and surpassing them), it's hard to look back on the original and still take it as seriously (the same goes for Die Hard and Halloween rip-offs).  So for that, Charlie's Angels commits a grievous offense.  The action scenes in this film are neither fun nor exciting, simply jaw-droppingly inane and distracting.  We spend half the time watching the actresses' stunt doubles do the difficult moves and the other half watching the real performers floating in ultra slow motion.Action is half of Charlie's Angels' selling point.  The other half is sex appeal, namely the three leading ladies.  Unfortunately, I've never found Lucy Liu, Cameron Diaz, or Drew Barrymore particularly attractive (particularly Diaz, who's thinning body is starting to look rather sickly). But Barrymore has proven herself before as a talented actress, too bad those qualities don't shine here.  Only Liu even appears the slightest bit convincing doing martial arts, probably because she actually knows a few fight fighting styles, but she's arguably the least enthusiastic performer of the bunch.  With everything about this movie as awful as it is, I'm almost afraid to say it, but I actually think I liked Ballistic Ecks vs. Sever more than this crap. "},{"Title":"Truly awful","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've ever seen.  An exercise in poor editing, sound, action, and acting.  It looks like it was edited by a hyperactive, A.D.D. afflicted teenager who had never seen anything besides M.T.V. productions. Pathetic. "},{"Title":"A great remake of a silly TV show","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Doomed to disappointment are those who want to see Charlie's Angels as anything more than a grandiose episode of the original show.  Part of the TnA wave of the late 70's it was and is nothing more than a parody of spy and detective movies and shows.  The parody is achieved by having the heroines be foxy bimbos totally unrestrained by the narrow sexual roles of days passed.  They are over-beautiful, over-talented and the plots over-blown? You bet, for this is PARODY. The movie captures the spirit of the show completely and does a way better job than most TV show to movie efforts.  Like the TV show they fall, they plunge, they get abused and never wear a mark from it.  Between the three of them they are capable of every form of knowledge on the planet. Cameron Diaz is an awesome parallel to Farrah Fawcetts old character and likewise for the Lucy Liu Jacklyn Smith connection.  Drew plays the Kate Jackson (the pretty but not glamorous tom girl member in the old show) tough girl part real well but has a hard time escaping the glam girl look because Drew is a goddess and there is really no hiding that with clothing alone. They do take that tough girl and have her fall naked from a two story building, roll down a rocky, pine covered hill and emerge at two pre-adolescent boys house (who just happen to be arguing about whether one of them has really seen a grown woman naked or not)without a scratch, clad only in an inflatable pool toy.  Brilliant corn. Cliches abound because they are supposed to be everywhere in a film of this genre.  If you liked the show (or found it an occasional silly escape) this flick is a must see.  It is among my nine year old daughters favorite movies.  "},{"Title":"Why, why, why god why.  Caution spoilers.","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't like this movie because of the way it moves.  I think that too much slow motion was used in this film, for me it is okay to use it sparingly but in every friggin fight scene.  Even at points where slow motion is not needed.  I did think that the part where they rewind and show what happened was a neat idea.  Not to mention the three hot women throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"Makes me wonder what we are coming to","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so phony, so stupid, so terrible.  Yet, hoards of people on this site and elsewhere love it.  That concerns me.  If we stop valuing intellect (as anybody can see our society increasingly does), I worry about our future.  Are we going to just get more superficial?  Are we going to get still stupider? Is the prevailing attitude at all times going to be, just let me sit back and enjoy it?  People curse the superficiality of the eighties.  But the eighties was a time of boundless enthusiasm and intellect.  You didn't have to be mindless to be cool in the eighties.  You could actually have a brain.  Your friends wouldn't assault you with cries of, it's just a movie, in response to your criticism.  All drugs are bad.  But if a culture is going to be on drugs, cocaine--the so-called drug of the eighties--is probably better than heroin, the main drug of today.  Cocaine is associated with being up, on the go, and an overactive mind, perhaps, but at least one that is alert.  Heroin is the pathetic, let me feel nothing and not think and have no energy or aspiration drug.  Just using this metaphor (and saying again, drugs are awful and they destroy), heroin seems to define too much of this time.  If you have to turn your mind off to like it, it sucks.  Oh, and girls can't fight or play sports like men, either.  Get over it. "},{"Title":"Silly Fun","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is meant to be silly and it was. I had fun watching the action scenes. I'm a big fan of martial arts and these were some kick-a** moves. Sure, it was mostly strings, but it was cool to see. The plot was actually interesting too. Tom Green was odd of course and thank God Drew divorced him. The Soul Train scene was funny and the movie calls for it. It's serious when it needs to be and fun when it should be. I liked the fact that they were smart and used brain and boobs (when necessary) to get the job done. Cute movie though. "},{"Title":"GARBAGE!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This has to go into one of the top ten worst movies ever made!I went to this movie because I had a free pass and almost walked out! I only stayed so that I could see just how much more terrible it could get.  Worse than any Warren Beatty film!  **SPOILER ALERT**I can remember sitting in theatre during the opening sequence and having my friend nudge me and whisper, LL Cool J is the third angel.  I thought, No, that can't be true... that's impossible (a.k.a. my best Luke Skywalker impersonation) and sure enough... it was!  Despite the fact that no one could pull off a costume like that (in any believable sense), it was ridiculous to think (s)he could skydive out of a plane and land on a boat (with both her and the boat knowing they would be flying over just that place at just the time she would be sky diving).I hear for the sequel Crispin Glover will be returning as the Thin Man.  Who cares?  Was his character all that great in the first place?  It is a real shame because the movie could have been good given the source material.  Had they actually got attractive females to play the parts it would have been a help.  Instead of making a decent film they give us Charlies Angels the superheroes that can pull of the impossible.  Avoid this film at all costs!I only hope that there is enough backlash over the sequel to send Hollywood a signal that the public doesn't want anymore garbage like this!  I don't like to wish ill will but I really hope the sequel bombs!  The only reason the first one was successful was because it was new and nobody knew what it was about.  Now that people know it is going to be pure garbage (just look at the cheesy unbelievable trailer) I predict it will not do as well as the first one.  Save our souls if it does! "}{"Title":"Hey!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well for one thing shame on the people who said this movie was bad.  it was great!  First, and foremost the casting was great.  Drew Barrymore shines as being the bad girl. Cameron Diaz is funny, and a great dancer. She won the best dance sequence at the MTV movie awards fr this movie!  Lucy Liu really shines as, what I think the best actress, with great flare, and energy. they are a great team and have won the best on screen team, proving so. Bosley also really shined, but the best actors in this movie were probably Cripen Glover, and Tim Curry.This is a great action movie although I will admit there are plotholes, and inconsistencies.  But who hasn't gone to and Schwarzinegger flick just to see some macho action, and no plot.  At least this movie gives it a shot.The intro to the movie, was really something.  It grabs your attention quickly, and swiftly.  Although this might look like some Matrix rip-off it is definetly not so.  it is definetly more fun to watch!I think McG should live on making movies, and I can't wait to see the next Charlie's Angels.  I rate this mmovie 8/10~* "},{"Title":"Is this worth watching?","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rent this movie because of it's popularity, and I was completely disappointed. The joke was not funny at all, although I admit that the 3 angels did a pretty good job. However the plot doesn't flow, and the director try too hard to sell the sexiness of the three angels, which is over the board. If you are under 10 years old, you shouldn't go and see it and waste your time. "},{"Title":"I heard some people liked this.  I wonder about those people.","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Before I go in depth, let me begin by providing a short summary of this movie to those who are just glancing at thisAVOID THIS MOVIE LIKE THE PLAGUELets start with the main problems.  The director, McG, has up to this point only worked with music videos.  While skill at creating music videos can give a director an excellent sense of style and imagery, it doesn't give the director any skill at creating something meant to tell a story. Unfortunately for McG, neither does he have skill at telling a story, nor in imagery.  Which brings me to problem two. The general theme of the action and cinematography, in fact this movie, is a simple one.  Make it flashy, overdone and mind numbing.  And use techniques that made money for other people.  The Matrix made lots of money and it used wire effects in its combat scenes.  So they appear here, despite the fact that this movie's plot doesn't provide any reason for why the characters are able to perform these feats. The next problem is the plot.  It is full of holes and unlikely inconsistencies.  For example The evil corporation has its mainframe under very tight security.  Security that is so tight that even when you provide the necessary fingerprints, retinal scans, and pressing of two buttons simultaneously you still cant get into it without triggering the alarms.  I wouldn't like to be the repairman for that computer.  Furthermore, although their mainframe is under such tight security, three people can walk into their building, without identification, and get the workers to riot.  It seems that they spent so much on the mainframe that they couldn't hire a security guard or two. This is all forgetting about the fact that the plot itself isn't very impressive.  You know that a movie is reaching when it includes a 5 minute sequence of one of the lead actresses dancing around with the camera zoomed in on her rear for no reason.In short- this is a movie that aimed to, and unfortunately did, capitalize on American pop culture.  Like most things intent on that goal, it wasn't original, entertaining, or intelligent, and by no means good or even mediocre.  1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Just a straight out stupid movie.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not the worst movie I have ever seen, though not far of it, but certainly the dumbest movie I have ever seen.  How could such talented people like Barrymore, Diaz and Murray lower themselves to this dribble.  Supposedly a comedy, well I did not laugh once through it.  Full of stupid action scenes well that belonged in some kids cartoon.  The sound track was oh so dreadfull. Give this movie a big miss, like by about a million miles.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining...  NOT!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If watching chunky Drew Barrymore getting lifted up on computer removed wires so she can kick guys is entertaining... Then check out this movie. If you think that's a bad idea then stay clear. Very rarely can women convincingly look good acting tough and fighting. This film is no exception. "},{"Title":"Charlie's aren't","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This would have been enjoyable as a cheap 'B' movie. However, this implausible, badly written nonsense cost millions. Am I the only one who is sick of seeing wimpy looking stick insect women flying through the air and wiping out everyone in their path?. The director 'McG' is well out of his league, and has produced what all of his talentless MTV ilk produce - a long pop video. Most irritatingly, as a long time fan of the cheapo straight to video action movies, films like this are driving the likes of Cynthia Rothrock & Julie Strain off the shelves of the video stores. This movie aspires to be a camp  'B' movie, but in order to cash into the large pre teen audience, all the sleaze is removed - only implied. So we get the angels teasing with fake nudity, unerotic underwear and the trio stripping off on the beach - though of course the camera pans away before anything naughty can be seen.  It's a pity genuine and talented screen fighters like Rothrock, Kathy Long & Sophia Crawford or  sleaze queens like Julie Strain & Maria Ford will never appear in a film with  a budget like this. "},{"Title":"So what if it's a popcorn movie?","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Surprise, kiddies, this comment features NO SPOILERS!All I can say about Charlie's Angels is that it's the best popcorn movie I've seen in years. Its comedy is cheesy to the extreme, and its action sequences are fabulous. Casting of the title roles is perfect, and the design work is stunning.If you feel guilty for watching movies purely for entertainment value, I'd recommend hiring A Man Called Hero or Storm Riders.If, on the other hand, you agree that bubblegum has its place in any balanced diet, switch off and enjoy Charlie's Angels. It's fab. "},{"Title":"lame version of a lame show","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Bad as much of its output has been, even television has rarely plumbed the depths of awfulness that it managed to achieve week after week back in the 1970's with `Charlie's Angels,' a show designed for no purpose beyond allowing us the privilege of watching a trio of beautiful, scantily clad women playing (badly) at being modern day action heroes.   Now that we find ourselves, almost a quarter of a century later, faced with the prospect of the inevitable big screen version of the show, we are forced to ask the following question  is it possible to take a god awful series like this one and turn it into something more than simply a god awful movie?  Apparently not.  The movie version of `Charlie's Angels' turns out to be every bit as inane, cutesy, cloying and boring as the original series.  And even worse &#150; the actresses who play the new angels aren't nearly as pretty as the old ones.Never content to be an out-and-out parody like `Get Smart,' `Charlie's Angels' chose instead to cut a clumsy swath between fantasy and reality, with the result that it was never funny enough to be a comedy, never exciting enough to be a real action show.  The movie aims for essentially the same middle ground &#150; and achieves the same dismal results.  Despite the best efforts of an obviously game cast &#150; who certainly seem to be having a better time performing in the movie than the audience is having watching it &#150; all we get, essentially, is a string of highly incredible action sequences punctuated by unfunny jokes and slow motion close-ups of the girls making cutesy faces at the camera.  It's hard to blame Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu for being unable to provide what the script fails to deliver in the way of wit or imagination, although, if the truth be told, the film actually does improve a bit as it moves along.  Also, Bill Murray brings an assured comic touch to his role as Bosley, the go-between for the girls and their boss, Charlie.  I can't predict how fans of the original series will feel about this particular incarnation.  As a confirmed NON-fan of the show, I can only say that this version is yet another in a long line of films that demonstrate the utter paucity of quality story ideas floating around Hollywood these days. "},{"Title":"Quite the most dreadful film I have ever seen.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A truly appalling piece of modern cinema.  Not unlike an MTV video but absent the clever visual tricks, relying instead on obvious cribs from the vastly superior 'The Matrix'.  Unremittingly awful dross.  Poor characterisation, laughable script.  The only notable performance is supplied by Bill Murray, who almost certainly ad-libbed a large percentage of his on-screen time in an attempt to save face.  If I ever come into contact with this lamentable rubbish again I will do something regrettable to the person responsible for subjecting me to it. "},{"Title":"Would you rather sit through this or The Mod Squad? (Yeah, me too.)","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit that I never much liked the original TV show (well okay, maybe much is an overstatement), but the trailers for the movie made it look like too much fun to pass up. I went to see it on my birthday last year, and it was a good choice.First, a few caveats - yes, the plot couldn't be more diffuse if it had been a Tim Burton movie. Yes, it doesn't give the impression of being intelligent. And yes, it does have a layer of Mild English Cheddar all around it. But does it give the impression of wanting or even trying to be anything else? No; right from the beginning when we join a plane flying behind the Columbia Pictures logo and meet LL Cool J watching the inflight movie (Another movie based on an old TV show) the film makes it clear that, to steal a line from A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Forum, weighty affairs will just have to wait.Some fans are upset over the way it's not worshipful enough of the original show; no offence, but it's not as if they were taking an axe to a GOOD programme (in Charlie's Angels the original Charlie is still in charge, in Mission Impossible the character most associated with the series is sacrificed to Tom Cruise's ego. Which of these strikes you as more offensive?).It's kitschy, but it's fast-paced, often genuinely exciting, and filled with moments to treasure... Cameron Diaz shaking her thing in two setpieces (and let's not forget her scene with the postman - how she manages to say Feel free to stick things in my slot and make it seem genuinely innocent instead of a leering come-on is one of life's great miracles); the opening freefall scene; Lucy Liu's gratuitous but very entertaining sticking of her bottom right in our faces; Drew Barrymore taking out captors while still in her chair (plus comedy moonwalk); the inclusion of the musical sprinkles that ended the TV show's acts; Lucy's assertiveness; the disguises; Cameron's gymnastics in the vault; the great soundtrack; the ever-wonderful Drew graciously giving her non-producer co-stars plenty of on-screen time...The best film made out of a TV series I didn't like since Beavis and Butt-head Do America, and the best film made out of a TV series all round since The Fugitive. But if there's a sequel - no Tom Green, please. He's the one real flaw in this gem... "}{"Title":"It's a little better than the TV Show.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    Charlie's Angels rocked!  Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, and Lucy Liu all did excellent jobs portraying the 'angels'.  The girls have to stop an evil villain from destroying the world's satellites, and save their unseen boss Charlie from the villain who's also an ex-solider who's vowed revenge on him for killing his father.   The girls in this movie were very resourceful, smart, and tough.  Just like the Charlie's Angels show from the 1970's, but a little more innovative.  Another thing I liked about this was that there wasn't even any over the top political correction like you see in some movies nowadays.  I really enjoyed the astounding fight scenes between the angels and the bad guys, and Tom Green (Drew Barrymore's new husband) is loads of fun as 'The Chad'.  The special effects in this were uncanny.  Bill Murray was cool in this too, as the wimpy Bosley.  Another thing that's cool about Charlie's Angels is that it takes place in California!  One of the most beautiful states in America!  You can also see Carmel toward the end of this movie!  And to top it off, this movie provided some slapstick and has an all-star cast.    Drew Barrymore sure has come a long way from being that little girl from E.T. to a teenage hasbeen!  Now she's clean and back in movies and more popular than before.    Charlie's Angels may not be Oscar/Golden Globe material, but it's still an awesome movie to see where the girls kick butt!  I don't care what anyone else thinks, I liked this movie.  It's a movie every young girl and woman should see.  I give it 3 1/2 stars! "},{"Title":"Should not have gained blockbuster status.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  During an interview with Charlie's Angel's director, the announcer asked him just what inspired him to make this film.  He told the people at home that The Matrix inspired him. Hmmm.....The Matrix.  Funny.  If there is one movie that will make you sick and tired of The Matrix, it's Charlie's Angels. After seeing a couple of scenes from The Matrix used as clichés in the unfunny film Scary Movie, we are left without love for The Matrix, but after seeing Charlie's Angels, all we are left with is HATRED for the Matrix.At some points in the movie, we are shown one of the angels flying in the air to kick their opponent straight in the face.  This scene is a reminder. The action was poorly choreographed.  Great, if not excellent, action scene choreography is shown in the masterpiece Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. Charlie's Angels tried (desperately) to put three of Hollywood's rising stars (Diaz, Barrymore and Liu) in the action movie of the year that proves that you can be really cheesy and still be known as a blockbuster.The three angels are out to stop a madman from murdering Charlie.  That's the story.  The plotline is mixed with anything that gives us a reason to look at Lucy Liu's fine butt, or a Drew Barrymore's body.  If you ask me, I'd say that Cameron Diaz was only put on the set as a star because she is such a big star.  Yes, I know, she is a great actress, but please. Cameron Diaz is terrible as an Angel.The movie itself is based on the old hit TV show, and Farrah Fawcett (one of the angels from the show) could not save this film.  I never saw the show, maybe because I wasn't even born when it was on television, but I know that it was written way better than this.  Charlie's Angels script was filled with ditsy jokes, body humor, and sexual jokes.  Also, Charlie's Angels script was the only thing good about the film, seeing as how funny it was. Lines like Feel free to stick things in my slot were very clever.  But, why all the unoriginality?The actors were less than good.  Drew Barrymore forced herself in the fighting scenes, and really looked like she was trained well, but her character should have had more depth, instead of a one-dimensional tough woman.  Cameron Diaz was ditsy.  Lucy Liu was another thing that was good about the film, she was tough, yet not in an army cadet sort of way, and she was sexy.  Also, unlike her two co-stars, she knew how to fight.  The bad guy (I will not tell you who), was absolutely unbelievable as an evil figure.  He tried a whole I'm a mean guy mixed with a hitman sort of thing, and missed the point.  If you want to see a really, really bad enemy, feast your eyes on The Patriot.  The cast should not have been handpicked like this...Some parts were funny, and some parts were ditsy.  Some parts were impressive, and some, like when -(mild spoiler)- Drew Barrymore is in a scene where she dodges a bullet, were just so Cliché'd-Matrix style.  The script was funny, if not hilarious.  But that's really not the kind of script we are looking for here in a big blockbuster action flick.  When the film finally tried to take itself seriously, the actors would make fools out of themselves.The cheese!  Oh god the cheese!  Ask anyone, this movie was cheesy.  If it wasn't for the script (branding this supposed action flick into a comedy), and Lucy Liu, this film would be a fail.  But the cheesiness was the major reason why this film was such a letdown.All these good and horrible ingredients made Charlie's Angels a completely mediocre film.  To make it easier for you, I don't know why people hated this film, and I don't know why they would love it.  I didn't hate it, and I certainly did NOT love it.  I just......didn't like it, but there were two major redeeming qualities, Lucy Liu and the funny script.4/10 (Mediocre) "},{"Title":"Drew, of course, but mostly a let-down.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I'll admit I was foolish to think Mission Impossible would be as fun as the series, and I was fooled by Mr. Magoo as well, but I did not expect much from 'ANGELS, and I got what I expected. The plot is silly and has been done before.  The effects are top notch, but talk about silly and been done, remember the Matrix fight scene with people running up walls and such?  Well, if you liked that, this may be your type of movie.The saving grace, if there is one, is the appearances by Drew Barrymore, who is perky and cute, as usual.  Nice costumes, but not nothing overly erotic. Wait for public broadcast.  gb  "},{"Title":"Why do people like this?","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What you'll find in Charlie's Angels  - Simpering - Hair-flicking - Giggling - Matrix-style kung fu - MTV directing (no shot lasts for more than three seconds)What you won't find in Charlie's Angels  - Characterisation - A storyline - Depth - Anything to think about - ActingEven as popcorn entertainment, it's shameful that such a film could be produced. It's a 2-hour mix of things that are popular, not a film in it's own right. It's disgraceful and quite saddening to see the movie industry reduced to this sort of thing.  "},{"Title":"Pure trash...none of the fun","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've seen a lot of trashy films in my time, and you know what I think of most of them?  I actually thought they were pretty cool.  So I want everyone to know that I'm no cinematic snob.  I've endured tons of criticism for liking Starship Troopers, The Avengers, Hollow Man and films of that type.  But this time...I wasn't having any fun.  But I'm sure the guys are thinking, When an action-packed movie has three hot chicks, what can go wrong?  Watch this movie and you'll know.The jokes are so cheap, the action is so noticeably faked and the whole film is edited like a music video--It was directed by McG whose only previous experience was with music videos.  Coincidence?  People complain about Michael Bay's films having too much cutting.  Watch the opening action sequence of this movie, and you'll see what it means to have too much cutting.  A story seems almost non-existent, so it looks like just a series of vignettes with the girls changing costumes by the minute.  I've never watched the old TV show, but I'm pretty sure this is another overblown Hollywood handling of a classic program.  Never underestimate the uselessness of a big budget.I got tons of criticism from angry men and women who thought this movie was awesome and thought I was a tight-a** for not liking it.  Well, I'm pretty sure my private message box will be filled an hour after I post this review, and I don't care.  This movie was just so unbearable for me to watch, and I found it more unbearable thinking of how much money these producers wasted redundantly on these mindless action sequences.  With all this money that could've been contributed to a worthy cause, Hollywood is fleshing it out on junk like this.This movie takes the trash factor to an all-time low.  There is a scene where Drew Barrymore--apparently--gets shot.  The window behind her cracks and she falls out of it.  I guess we're supposed to assume she's dead. Please keep in mind I'm holding in my laughter right now.  A couple scenes later, we see Drew rolling down a hill and a flashback of what REALLY happened in that scene.  We watch a slow-motion replay--which would've been suitable if it were a football game and not a movie--of the bullet barely missing her and shattering the glass from the window.  Sure, the audience is now nodding their heads and saying Ahhhh.  So THAT'S what happened.  This is a pure insult to one's intelligence.  This is the type of movie that is so dumb it seems to reach out to a target audience of 9 year olds. Probably even they could point out every flaw.If you ever watched the Pamela Anderson show VIP you should know how it's going to feel watching Charlie's Angels.  Tons of hot chicks, yet unbearable to watch.  Seems like an oxymoron, but it's actually true in both the cases.  As I said, this is trash without the fun.  This is guilt without the pleasure.My score  3 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"An action packed fun house!","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really don't know, but there is just something about this movie that I loved. Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu were superb. The director (who from the DVD special features, looks like he'd be a blast to work with) and the stunt coordinators and everyone made the Angels look great in their action scenes which were amazing and by far the best parts of the movie. Some may say that they were biting off The Matrix. Maybe, but I loved this movie even more. Sure the plot was kind of weak (The Angels get an assignment from Charlie to stop some bad guys and they go out and kick some ass!). But it's actually not about that too much. It's about the action, the Angels and the high tech wizardry and at least the cast had fun making the movie and if you ever see the DVD special features (which were some of the best special features I've ever seen on DVD) they *do* look like they're having fun, and you definitely have to give the Angels credit for their hard work, time and dedication on the movie. They spent like 3 months, for 8 hours a day, for 5 days a week before shooting practicing gymnastics and martial arts to make themselves look as good as they did on screen. Overall, Charlie's Angels kept me entertained for 98 minutes of fun, action and sex appeal and I can't wait for a sequel.My Verdict 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not your fathers angels.","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you're old enough to remember the original TV series then you'll know that this film is nothing like it. While the girls still have that Jiggle TV appeal, these girls can kick butt. It combines action/adventure with cheesy comedy. Rent, buy, borrow, or steal this movie, you gotta see it. "},{"Title":"Pure viewing excitement!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't understand all the negative feedback. This movie is about FUN people! It has all the ingredients of an awesome movie experience. Fast cars, sexy women kicking major butt, rich, vibrant colors, great special effects, camerawork and editing. Charlie's Angels just explodes on the screen and it's awesome that a new director like McG can come along and put a new spin on an old tired genre. This is a new addition to the standard of action movies that The Matrix introduced and all I can say is ROCK ON!!!  "},{"Title":"Loved Every Minute!!!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a fan of Kate, Farrah and Jackie (The original Angels) I was prepared to hate this film. Well I was wrong. How can anyone hate a good old fashion action film with modern day technology? Drew, Lucy and Cameron easily hold there own next to the originals. My only regret is that Farrrah Fawcett turned down the cameo as Drew's mom.Since I tend to keep video rentals until I've racked up thirty bucks in late charges, I'm glad that I shelled out twenty bucks for the DVD.I would recommend the same. "},{"Title":"The film only Hollywood could make.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels has it all. Comedy, drama, action; state-of-the-art effects, stunts, pyro, sets, sound, music, costuming, makeup, etc., crouching babes, hidden hotties, and even a hanging Chad. Nonstop in-your-face big budget entertainment front to back but sadly only worth about 7 out of 10. Hooray for Hollywood! "}{"Title":"Charlie's bad movie","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let's skip the plot there isn't one,and get to why this movie is so bad. First, there's the actresses who can't act. Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz, and Lucy Liu spend half the movie chasing bad guys while stupid music plays in the background. Then there's the directing. This movie looks like it was directed by a monkey. Many parts are played in slow motion over again and the ones that are not are too fast. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was by far the best movie i have ever seen. The fact that i have seen it 11 times since it's been out in the cinemas obviously means it's an awesome movie! I think it was Drew Barrymore's best movie and she has been in 48 movies. Cameron Diaz and Lucy Lui were also excellent in this movie! If you haven't seen it already, see it other wise you don't know what your missing out on "},{"Title":"I got some action!","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Though this movie is way different than the TV show, I find it better. The TV show originally focused on guns and karate chops. This, however, focuses on martial arts and things blowing up. Do you think those moves that the girls did looked familiar? That's because they used the same fight/stunt choreographer from The Matrix. This is a wonderful movie for new and old generations to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is, not what you think it should be...","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This year I have seen a number of great movies. I've also seen some real howlers. Charlie's Angels has both feet firmly in the first category, and is easily one of the best movies of it's genre, ever.Yes, it's cheesy. Yes, it's slickly produced. But, unlike so many recent films to which that description could be easily applied (Hollow Man, The Cell), Angels is so obviously aware of it's own blatant ridiculousness. For this, it is to be applauded. Sitting through MI2, another 70's action-based TV show turned into a slick, effects-driven third-millennial movie, you get the horrible feeling that the directors really believed they could turn a ridiculous, campy TV show into some deep and meaningful social critique. No such high-brow pretentiousness in this film - from the opening scene, which slots in a barely-audible conciously self-mocking one-liner, all the way through every clever reference and spoofed scene, through every pointless chase and exaggerated fight-scene, through every nodding innuendo, predictable plot twist and traditional baddie, McG and his cast have made a film which acknowledges all the tongue-in-cheek sass and cheesiness present in the original.70s TV cop shows, of which Angels was perhaps the perfect example, revelled in their lack of plot but enormous amount of explosions, random car chases and beautiful characters. The clichés in this film are not lazily slotted in through lack of invention, but deliberately sprinkled throughout to give the whole piece a knowing quality. Even the cinematography is deliberately plagiristic of the 70s TV show.In fact, Angels is nearly as referential as anything Kevin Smith has put his name to. Just check out Drew Barrymore's ET shirt for proof of that. I get the impression that alot of people were expecting a MI2 style remake, and thus missed the point of this wonderful film.If you want a great Kung-fu movie, go rent Enter the Dragon. If you want a deep and meaningful plot, Fight Club has just been released on DVD, and Dancer in the Dark is still in cinemas. If you want a day-glo cross between Mystery Men, Austin Powers and any James Bond movie you care to mention, all wrapped up in a stunning soundtrack (NOT replicated on the CD, sadly) and very modern effects, go see Charlie's Angels.Seriously, if you have any memories at all of Farrah Fawcett and her high-kicking pals, you'll adore this film. I did. "},{"Title":"Praise for Charlie's Angels","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow!!! What a film!!!  I loved this film as you can probably guess, and there's not much in this movie that's not to love.  The three angels are stunning, the fight scenes are incredible, special effects are awesome, and there's never a dull moment.  I loved every minute of this movie, and I would easily go and see it again.  For anyone going to see this movie,  don't take it too seriously and just enjoy this incredible cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"Looking good isn't enough","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Charlie's Angels. They kick butt and they look damned good doing it. Unfortunately you need more than good-looking women to make a good movie. For starters, you need a story. And in the story department this movie fails miserably. The plot never engages at all. The surprises aren't surprising. The villain's big scheme is a total dud. Eventually the movie dispenses with the plot altogether and just starts stringing action sequences together. This wears thin very quickly as do the attempts at humor which go from bad to worse as we move along. A movie such as this is meant to be silly, lighthearted fun. Well they got the silly part down. Fun? No, fun is in very short supply.The movie drops any pretense of realism or seriousness right at the start with an opening scene which is absurdly, ludicrously over-the-top. But maybe that's not so bad. Who wants a serious Charlie's Angels movie, right? But the movie never really gets going. It has its three babes, played by Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu. But it doesn't know what to do with them. It seems director McG's guiding principle was When in doubt, have Cameron shake her butt again. We're treated early on to a scene of Diaz dancing in her underwear, shaking it for all she's worth. And then later on they put her up on a stage and just have her dance all over again. Because this movie really has no other ideas. The other girls do get their moments. Barrymore has a scene where she hops in a car, tries to set the world record for most cleavage exposed in a PG-13 movie, and does an interesting thing with her tongue. Liu has a somewhat amusing scene as some sort of corporate dominatrix with a leather fetish. But outside of that one scene Liu shows very little personality while Barrymore is not particularly convincing as an action hero. If any of the three girls could be said to shine it's Diaz. She's the funniest, the hottest, and the kick-buttingest if kick-buttingest is actually a thing. But pretty much everything which surrounds her disappoints. The plot stinks, the villain is a snooze, the dialogue is bad, the humor falls flat and by the end the action sequences are repetitive and interminable. In a movie sorely lacking personality the movie has the wonderfully wacky and unique Crispin Glover on board and then makes no use of him whatsoever. Bill Murray and Tim Curry mail in their performances, not that I can really blame them. The less said about the desperately unfunny Tom Green and Matt LeBlanc the better. Sam Rockwell, Luke Wilson and Kelly Lynch are all here and they all add pretty much nothing to the proceedings. Basically the three girls have to carry the movie on their own and they can't salvage it. Diaz is pretty good, Barrymore and Liu at least passable. But this movie really is a mess. Maybe they should have just let Diaz keep shaking her butt. It's the best thing the movie had to offer. "},{"Title":"your basic cute girls beat up bad guys and save the day","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this movie was completely embarrassing. The acting was nothing like the original show and there was a lot of cheesy unneeded special effects. We all know that Lucy Lu is the only one with martial arts experience which made it unbearable to see Drew Barrymore and Camron Diaz fighting. What they should have done was got some real serious actresses taught them to fight to make the movie more believable. Kinda like how they did with Keana Reeves in the Matrix. There's really no need to comment on the sequel because it was worst than the first movie. A lot of extra extra cheesy special effects and impossible action sequences. this movie was a complete joke and should be erased from action movie history. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It is enough to state that it is a ridiculous, boring movie. I watched it only for 20 minutes, started reading while TV was on, changed program finally. I had enough.Maybe I missed the best part, but I did not want to waste my time. Sometimes I wonder how primitive film making is and what the hell the people who are dedicated to produce it are thinking about their job? Where is the responsibility for the audience? Unthinkable that in the forties or fifties they would have done sth like that! I am told to ad more lines. The idea of 3 angels is not too bad, but it should be filled with life. I think the art of film making should contain to make the story believable even if it is not likely at all, supposed that one is telling fantasy stories. The onlooker should always be in the situation to accept what he sees, although he knows that it is just a story. I miss this here totally. Waste of money. Waste of actors talents. "},{"Title":"Charlie's Angels","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I had seen the odd bit of this, and knew the three leading actresses, so I suppose it was necessary to see the film based on the popular 70's TV show in full, from director McG (Joseph McGinty Nichol). Basically a mysterious guy named Charles Townsend, or just Charlie (who we only hear the voice of, by Dynasty's John Forsythe) runs a private investigation company, and he has three female agents working for him, Natalie Cook (gorgeous Cameron Diaz), Dylan Sanders (the beautiful Drew Barrymore, also producing the film) and Alex Munday (stunning Lucy Liu). Their mission, with a little help from their boss John Bosley (Bill Murray), is to find stolen voice-recognition software, created by Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell), owner of Knox Technologies. The big suspect is Roger Corwin (Tim Curry), and they also keep coming face to face with the Thin Man (Back to the Future's Crispin Glover). Also starring Kelly Lynch as Vivian Wood, Luke Wilson as Pete Komisky, Matt LeBlanc as Jason Gibbons, Road Trip's Tom Green as Chad and LL Cool J as Mr. Jones. The fight scenes can be stupid and too much similar to The Matrix, the special effects don't help much, the story has hardly real point, and the only good reasons to see this film are for the good giggly support by Murray, and the titillation by three beauties, but that's it. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Film-making without Due Care and Attention","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The original Charlie's Angels, which ran between 1976 and 1981, was a highly successful TV series, but nobody at the time thought to make a big-screen version of the adventures of Jaclyn, Farrah and Kate or their later successors. And with good reason. The original format was deliberately constructed to fit American television's one-hour-minus-commercial-breaks timeslots and could not easily be extended to the two hours of the average cinema feature. In recent years, however, Hollywood's dearth of original concepts for new films has led it to turn to old television shows as a source of new ideas.The Angels of the title are three young women who work for a private detective agency. Every episode of the TV series used to begin with the three sitting on a sofa and being given their instructions by their boss, Charlie. Charlie never appeared in the series and the angels never got to meet him; instead he communicated with them by a speaker (presumably connected to a radio link). The Angels' adventures were all crime-fighting or espionage-related exploits, told in a light-hearted style reminiscent of the Bond films. Although the series showed women as strong and capable, it was sometimes criticised by feminists for concentrating too much on its heroines' physical charms and for an occasionally patronising tone, such as the way in which the voice-over which accompanied the opening credits always referred to the women as three little girls.The film version keeps the same basic idea. The three Angels in this version are called Dylan, Natalie and Alex. One morning Charlie gives them their instructions on their latest case, the kidnapping of a software expert, presumably by a business rival. They quickly manage to trace the kidnapped man and free him, only to find that they have got involved in a scheme to murder Charlie himself.That, at least, is the basic plot. It actually gets a lot more complicated than that, but plot is not something the film takes seriously. Come to that, it's difficult to say exactly what the film does take seriously. It is never sure whether it wants to send up the original series or to celebrate it. At first it looks as though it is being satirical, replacing the original voice-over with a more feminist-friendly one about how the three little girls grew up into women, but any intention of satirising seventies sexism is soon shelved.Shelved, but not replaced with anything tangible. The plot is generally either implausible or incomprehensible. Characterisation is negligible; the three Angels seem to have interchangeable personalities and the villains are all completely colourless. At first I thought that Tim Curry's arrogant, overbearing tycoon would prove to be the exception, but it turns out that he is not the real enemy. The heavily stylised fight and action sequences are unconvincing; if the oddly-named director McG thought he could achieve a similar balletic effect to that found in Chinese martial arts films such as Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, he was sadly mistaken. All the film has to fall back upon is the physical charms of its three heroines, and while these are considerable (Lucy Liu looks particularly lovely), glamour alone is never enough to ensure the success of any film (except perhaps softcore porn).The film aims at being light-hearted but ends up as simply lightweight, the sort of brain-dead popcorn blockbuster put together without any real thought. For me two things stand out as symbols of this slapdash approach. The role of Alex was originally written with Angelina Jolie in mind; when Lucy Liu was drafted in at the last minute, the scriptwriters neglected to change the character's Anglo-Saxon surname (Munday) to something more suitably Oriental. An important plot-point hangs upon Natalie's ornithological skills, specifically her ability to identify a Pygmy Nuthatch, but the bird we see is not a nuthatch at all but a member of the oriole family. McG and Drew Barrymore (who acted as producer as well as taking the role of Dylan) should be charged with film-making without due care and attention. 3/10. "}{"Title":"Shame on you McG","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There is no exact word that can describe the absurdity of this film, the estimated Budget of $92,000,000 could have saved a lot of lives, yet it was used to create this Schlup fest of a movie,this movie is a tease we are constantly teased with the idea that this movie some how is going to entertain us, one good example is making any excuse to put the angels in all sorts of fetish outfits threw out the movie,you know sex sells right,so this movie is full of T&A The most astonishing feature is the personalities of the characters, Natalie(Cameron Diaz)is supposed to be the smartest of the 3...or more intuitive yet she is portrait like she is in special needs, like Tara Reid in Josie and the pussycats,Dylan(Drew Barrymore)is the bad girl why because in the beginning of the movie the montages told us so like smoking in a high school bathroom dressed like a punk,yeah thats a bad-girl alright, Alex(Lucy Lu)well you have to figure it out for yourself honestly i couldn't find anything of a character in her.The action in this movie is retarded these women can do stunts that could put the matrix movies into shame,I was hoping that they were bulletproof that could explain a lot of the action scenes, there was nothing redeemable in this movie its stupid and dull this movie could be used to drain brain cells honestly i cant find any other use to this film tan that. "},{"Title":"McG tries too hard for High Octane fun","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Natalie Cook (Cameron Diaz), Dylan Sanders (Drew Barrymore), and Alex Munday (Lucy Liu) are three girls recruited to work for the mysterious Charlie. Natalie is geeky brain with the body. Dylan is the rough and tumble rebel. Alex is the rich girl with ambition. Bill Murray is the new Bosley. Chad (Tom Green) is Dylan's weird boyfriend. Jason Gibbons (Matt LeBlanc) is Alex's clueless actor boyfriend. They have a new case to find kidnapped tech entrepreneur Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell). They are hired by Vivian Wood (Kelly Lynch) and Roger Corwin (Tim Curry) is the lead suspect.McG doesn't waste anytime and tries to push this high octane reboot of the campy 70s TV show. It's action, skimpy outfits, and more action. Bill Murray does his Murrayest best but it's obvious McG didn't write him much of anything. Then there is the oddball Tom Green. No matter how hard they try, they're unable to bring the comedy to this movie. The best thing about this is Cameron Diaz. It's always great to have her shake her assets in her underwear. And the girl can surely kick. At least, she goes all out dancing a storm with a smile. Drew and Lucy doesn't have Cameron's energy but who does? Crispin Glover plays a great villain. Overall it's a lot of flash but it's not quite as funny as it wants to be. It's not as fun or exciting as it should be. It's McG overload. "},{"Title":"The sucking of soul","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's been a while since I've felt so distant watching a film. I think the last time was when I watched and reviewed Film Socialisme, a picture that's idea is still unfathomable to me today. But while that film was a piece of indulgent French cinema, Charlie's Angels is a piece of mind-numbing American cinema, so pick your poison.I have yet to encounter a film based off a Television show from decades past that has amused me enough to earn a recommendation rating. The Dukes of Hazzard was a hackneyed and a cherry-picking reboot to a show that must've had more appeal than mindless car chases (the show was unseen by me), the film Starsky and Hutch was elevated just barely by Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson's capable casting, but everything else was seemingly on autopilot, and do we even need to mention Bewitched? And don't even get me started on those CGI/live action hybrids...Back on track with Charlie's Angels, the film I should be discussing. Its basic story concerns the three angels, Natalie Cook (Cameron Diaz), Dylan Sanders (Drew Barrymore), and Alex Munday (Lucy Liu), and their mission, which they choose to accept, involves safely returning Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell), of the famous Knox Enterprises, back from Roger Corwin (Tim Curry), a satellite-communications expert who has kidnapped him for one reason or another. The angels use their sly and sexy skills, if that's what we're calling them, to infiltrate the scheme and rescue the man as fast as possible.Am I not mistaking? Isn't that how the back of the box would describe Charlie's Angels The Video Game? I would say so. The film looks and plays less like a movie, but more like a cheap, video game demo involving three girls who hunger for action that were summoned straight out of a lonely geek's head. There's even several pointless scenes (and there are many of these, but these kinds are certainly the most pointless ones) involving Natalie dancing in her underwear as soon as she gets out of bed or grooving it to that ever-so-mindless Sir Mix a Lot jam, Baby Got Back on Soul Train while numerous people chant, go white girl, go white girl! It's scenes like that that make me wonder if a film even cares if we pay attention to it or not.The same thing Hollywood would later ruin about The Dukes of Hazzard becomes Charlie's Angels most glaring problem; the insulting simplification of its story, plot, and characters. When Hollywood proposed the idea of creating a Dukes of Hazzard film, they most likely thought up the most logical thing to feature in a film with them Duke boys and that thought immediately was car chases. When the executives thought up the most logical thing to feature prominently in a Charlie's Angels film, it was the character's sexiness and fulfilling the urge to blow somethin' up real good. That's exactly what it did. It doesn't even have the humor and barely passable idiocy Michael Bay's Bad Boys had, and I can't believe I'm complementing one of his films for having something that another doesn't.If development would've been taken into consideration, if a wider range of ideas would've been explored, and if the route of featuring flyweight women in tight leather suits would've been traded for some serene wit and at least some sign of intelligence, we might have a decent, memorable Charlie's Angels film. But that's asking a lot from an industry that sucks dry everything likable about something classic and reworks and remolds it into something of total banality.Starring Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu, Sam Rockwell, Tim Curry, Crispin Glover, Luke Wilson, Bill Murray, and Tom Green. Directed by McG. "},{"Title":"Action meets Fantasy meets Sci-Fi meets Adventure meets etc. equals Not a Good Movie","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are genres you can classify a movie into. There's action, adventure, sci-fi, thriller, suspense, comedy, romance, rom-com, mystery, family, etc. And a movie is classified into one or three genres because they clearly and cleverly exhibit the characteristic of such genre. An action movie is something that focuses on a conflict that results to a clash of physical forces. An adventure is one that focuses on encounters with another world. A sci-fi is a movie that deals with scientifically-based conflicts. And so forth (I am not discussing types of movie genre but I just needed to refer back to these references later for the sake of argument).With all that said, I have to say that I cannot seem to identify which genre this movie belongs to. Action, it could be... but there is too much exaggeration in all of the fight scenes and nothing seemed realistic. Every action movie has at least one realistic fight but this movie has none. I am personally practicing a form of defense fighting and it totally annoys me to see a lot of non-sense forms of fighting used in this movie. They are not even effective in real fights! This may lead one to speculate that this movie can be classified as fantasy because of all the not-so-realistic action scenes. However, this can't be fantasy because the setting is in our real world and that is the irony because nothing is even realistic in this movie. Sci-fi, I don't think so because some events even violated the laws of science (eg too much flying, flipping, all those unbelievable stunts). Adventure, definitely not because there is nothing adventurous in all the characters' encounter.Another flaw of this movie is the main characters. Their behaviors made me believe that those ladies are acting smart and intellectual when actually they are dumb. There is also too much posing and unnecessary acts that even silly people don't do. There was never an intelligent conversation in this movie.Bottom line, if you are a serious movie goer, don't take this movie seriously or you'll end up very frustrated you'll want to tear this movie. Don't even watch it if your intent is to feel good. This is not a feel-good movie. Watch it if and only if you want to get silly. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie that is also a little silly","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is not a favourite, but it is entertaining. It is a bit loud in places, and the script has its ups and downs. The film is about three women who try to find a kidnapped computer boffin, and the prime suspect is a man named roger Corwin. It turns out that the kidnapping was a set up, to kill their boss, so it's up to the girls to stop him. The music does get a bit much, but it is common in films like these. The stunts were actually better than in most Jean Claude Van Damme movies. On the acting front, the acting is a mixed bag. Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu and Drew Barrymore were great fun as the girls, while Bill Murray gives great comic relief as Bosley. Sam Rockwell isn't really up to my liking, but you would disagree. Tim Curry has been better, but in a small role, he was good too, as were Crispin Glover and Kelly Lynch. Worth watching, but avoid the sequel! 6.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Geez...","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I knew this one was gonna suck, but it was worse... except for the few sexy moments (note that they are all ultra short) like when Barrymore is rolling down the hill (a shame that wasn't her own naked body there ;-) and a few of the action sequences this whole thing was a big load of c**p, just like one of the other reviewers said. The story is a bad excuse, the acting is awful, it's sexist (not that I care tho...), and in general nothing in this movie makes sense. Take another example for a really horrible action movie Mission Impossible 2... at least its story made some minor sense. But Charlie's Angles... my god. What a waste of time, money, and special effects knowledge.Most importantly this flick has nothing in common with the old TV show. In that old show the actresses had (at least) some style and they were doing what they were supposed to do. Charlie's Angels (the movie) is more like a parody on action movies.Finally, McG should immediately leave the director's chair. McG, leave it. Take your fingers off directing. NOW!My ratings acting 5/10, story 3/10, action 7/10 (not too many of the sequences), effects 7/10 (some very nice, but nothing new and the bullet time... well, it's easy to copy other people's ideas a hundred times isnt it?) - overall 5/10.Not worth watching cept you like 'girlie power' or MI2-like immensely dumb action movies. "},{"Title":"Bad Bad Bad","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is so bad it will make you vomit blood from your eyes.The three leading ladies, although all very attractive, have about as much charisma as a dried out dog turd, and the only kind of film I think they could carry would be some kind of Nazi Lesbian death camp flick.To sum up...... The comedy wasn't funny. The action wasn't exciting (think Matrix without the style, imagination or thrills). The plot didn't show. And the editing, my god the editing, imagine an MTV video on fast forward and you wouldn't even come close.I can't believe they made a sequel to this, what are they, Sadists? "},{"Title":"Show me your tits!","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie very much because I followed the advice of another poster here This film should be watched in a state of extreme drunkeness.I have no idea if this flick is an extreme parody of the original series or the result of a serious 3 angles revival party.Kinky asses, tits and Kung-Fu action. Braindead story and acting. Remember the scene where Cameron Diaz tries to rescue Bill Murray in the tower?But it was good to see Kelly Lnych, Tom Green, Tim Curry and Crispin Glover again and my wife and my daughter loved the girlie power.  "},{"Title":"Delivers What it Promises...","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Charlie's Angels has been taking a lot of heat for being stupid, ridiculous, immature, etc...and while it's definitely not a great film, I can't help but half-enjoy it.Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu fill in the shoes of the Angels, from the hit TV show Charlie's Angels--remember that show? Well, in this film, the Angels must stop a madman from doing something bad somewhere in the world. I'm not really sure what the plot was, because there really is no plot per say. This film is an excuse for two of Hollywood's prettiest women (Cameron Diaz & Drew Barrymore) running around blowing stuff up in bikinis. I'd have to say that the only thing that keeps this movie from being a better piece of entertainment is the annoying (and horrible actress) Lucy Liu. According to IMDb.com and shows like Entertainment Tonight and Access Hollywood, Bill Murray (who played Bosley in this film) did not return for the upcoming sequel because he didn't like working with Liu. I can't say I blame him. Just the sight of her ugly face on screen makes me cringe. I remember an interview with Murray back on the set of the original film, and they asked him about alleged arguments with Lucy Liu on set. He said the accusations were false, but I could tell he was lying.But apart from her, the cast is quite ensemble. The hilarious Bill Murray keeps this film from becoming nothing more than a bikini advert, and the enjoyable Tim Curry helps Murray a lighten the mood a bit in one of the scenes.Sometimes the film uses very odd filming techniques, and McG, the director, seems to try and go too much for a modern look. But, in a way, it gives the film more of a summer-flick feeling than anything memorable, which is all I want Charlie's Angels to be.The person going into this expecting Oscar-material has a screw loose.This movie is a lot like the film MI2 (Mission Impossible 2) it delivers a whole lot of action for a nice night in. It's a summer flick, and nothing more. Pure Entertainment. Maybe a bit whacky at times, but nevertheless entertaining and fun, regardless of some flaws.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Charlies Failure","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a waste of my time, not only was the acting poor, the film was totally unbelievable. it relied on a good soundtrack and big actors to take this movie to the top, but now that ive seen it i dont believe i will be going to see a sequal if theyre doing one, hopefully not. DONT SEE THIS MOVIE! i wanted to turn this off after half an hour. The only thing good about this movie was having the common sense to wait for it to come onto t.v and not pay 2 see it at the cinema.1/10 "}{"Title":"Mindless, needless belly-ache","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Charlie's Angels is a Happy Meal with the box but not the meal. It comes with three pretty packages &#x96; Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu and Drew Barrymore who do nothing of importance in the film besides pose, spout sexual innuendo and stand in front of over-cooked special effects (which, come to think of it aren't that special). This is grating to the film lover because these three actresses have done some really good work in the past, they are charming, intelligent and talented so why, oh why, would they choose such a hollow log of a project? I detect a problem when every single scene in the movie that I am watching feels like it would be more at home in a commercial for McDonalds, Mentos, Nike or Lite FM. Charlie's Angels contains not one single scene that breaks that movie out of its Happy Meal packaging or tries to manner anything resembling a story. It is an advertisement for itself, an over-edited revamp of the popular 70s television series but beyond the title you wouldn't know that since none of the actresses playing the Angels are playing the characters from the show. Maybe that's because the movie isn't really a movie, it's a collection of scenes left over from the music video &#x96; any wonder that it's directed by a director of music videos? He directs the film like a fast food commercial (he comes credited as McG!!) The movie's intentions fold back on themselves. The director seems to want to make a movie satire about movies based on television shows but ends up with a movie that is just as empty, tired and frivolous as any that have come before. Therefore, the movie's joke is really on itself.The movie strings a story somewhere as connecting tissue to get the actresses to strike a pose, wiggle their behinds and tease the males. Diaz, Liu and Barrymore play three, uh, detectives I guess who are sent on missions given to them by their boss who is heard but never seen (even by them). He instructs them on the case and they follow it through. What's the case? Does it matter? I mention that the movie is a tease and that's correct, starting from it's tagline 'Get Some Action'. The basic shot in the film consists of 'almost, but not quite'. A shot involves the Angels emerging from the water and Diaz walking up to the camera pulling off a wet suit (topless underneath) and having the scene fade within centimeters of the movie maintaining an PG rating.In a movie containing a lot of sexual innuendo I found that the biggest tease isn't even sexual. At one point Barrymore finds herself at gunpoint in her lover's apartment. He has her at bay by a 40th floor patio window, he shoots and she appears to have been shot because she falls backwards through the window. I perked up because I wondered how she would have ever survived, then I started to work it out in my head. Three seconds after the moment the director shows us in slow-motion how she got out of it &#x96; the bullet whizzed past her ear, shattered the glass and she fell backwards hanging by her fingernails over the balcony. Only moment before, I thought that the director was allowing me to think &#x96; Now that is a tease and a cruel one at that. "},{"Title":"A Flawed Remake Of A 70's TV Series","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is yet another in a long list of movies that Hollywood has put out in the last couple of decades based on old TV series from the 60's and 70's especially (which to me, more than anything else, suggests a lack of creativity on Hollywood's part, since these old shows and premises just keep being recycled one after the other, but that's a whole other story.) Some of these remakes have worked; others haven't. Charlie's Angels falls more into the latter category to be honest.The TV show was never one that could be taken especially seriously, but for the most part it did try to be serious. This movie, on the other hand, sets serious aside almost from the opening moment. It's heavy on martial arts fight scenes, and is more of an action movie than anything else. The story (about the attempt of a villain to identify and kill Charlie) lacks coherence and isn't especially logical, but on the other hand the story is really just an excuse for everything else that's happening.In fairness, the fight and action scenes are pretty well done, and the Angels (played by Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu) are quite lovely, and the movie makes no attempt to hide the fact that it's going for sexiness (all in an acceptable PG type manner, of course.) Bill Murray adds no sexiness, but he is along for the ride as Bosley. Charlie, as in the TV series, is never seen but is voiced once again by John Forsythe.Generally speaking, though, the story here is simply weak. I wasn't in the least riveted to the screen while watching this, and it really (to me at least, and I admit that I wasn't a big an of the show but I did see a few episodes) didn't capture the spirit of the original Charlie's Angels TV series. (4/10) "},{"Title":"Why did we do to deserve this?","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Why? Why someone would destroy the legacy of this classic series? Because This movies sucks, and sucks great. The history is ridiculous and who in his 5 senses will believe these pretty chicks are skilled enough to kick villains' asses? This can't be even a guilty pleasure. Stupid movie, it stole matrix movements for god's sake, what a creative flick!Why? Why someone would destroy the legacy of this classic series? Because This movies sucks, and sucks great. The history is ridiculous and who in their 5 senses will believe this pretty chicks are skilled to kick villains asses? This can't be even a guilty pleasure. Stupid movie, it stole matrix movements for god's sake, what a creative flick! "},{"Title":"it in powers womam","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There's no intellectual challenges made in this movie's plot, and that's how it should be; the characters are only slightly more fleshed-out than any of the ones from the TV show, and that's also not a bad thing - if you put too much seriousness into this kind of film, you wind up killing the roaring-good times to be had. What really makes the film work is the charisma ( & physical charms )of the 3 leading ladies, combined with well-choreographed action sequences and the tongue-in-cheek script. If you enjoy Diaz, Barrymore & Liu ( not to mention Bill Murray )when they're on the screen, you'll love this flick. "},{"Title":"Whoa, this is BAD","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What can you say about this? The mere idea is a ridiculous one Three sexy female detectives take on second rate villains who apparently couldn't find the time to challenge James Bond. I guess even Bond has his standards when it comes to villains.The story is that three airheads (played by Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu) are assigned to solve the kidnapping of a famous computer industrialist. This leads to a film that makes no sense and moves along at a slug's pace.The whole cast is just wasted with the three stars making total fools of themselves with the only thing keeping it entirely afloat is the unique chemistry between Tim Curry and Bill Murray and a rather interesting bad guy played by Crispen Glover.The action is lame and rather cartoonish which leads to an identity crisis who was this film intended for? Kids will be bored and even adults will tire of the endless and tasteless t&a jokes.Bottom-line? This is a crash and burn mess. It is moronic, sexist and full of some hammy acting by some otherwise talented people. What a lousy movie! "},{"Title":"The good times are killing me","Date":"3 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What are all the things in the world? Are they to be considered separately or as one lump sum? Remember when you were a child, how long ago was that? And when you were then were you ever really there, y'know, looking back now? Hey, did you know this was a Charlie's Angels movie? It came as some surprise to me. If you have enough money you can make any kind of movie. Money made this movie happen, you can tell just by watching it. Something glorious barely ever lived then died and it was put on film, half dream half sh*tty soul crushing multi-million dollar enterprise. No matter of any meaning was at all in any way mentioned through-out this entire motion picture- what is the value of that? Show your work for the equation "},{"Title":"Wasn't Half As Good As the Original Series","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Although the critics loved this film and showered it with a ton of awards I have to say that this was probably one of the worst movies based on a television series I have ever seen. The action scenes were awful and the humor was practically non-existent. Not only that but if you're going to do a remake of Charlie's Angels then it's really important to understand what made this show so successful in the first place. To that end let me just say that it was no accident or mere coincidence that Farrah Fawcett, Jaclyn Smith and Kate Jackson were easily the most beautiful team of females to grace the television screen back in the mid-to-late 70's. Call it chauvinistic or politically incorrect but what made this show so special was the fact that they were all gorgeous. And back then everyone knew this. That said, realizing the effectiveness of this simple formula, whenever one of these lovely ladies left the series the producers always ensured that they found other incredibly attractive women to take their place (Cheryl Ladd, Shelley Hack and Tanya Roberts). In that regard I thought that both Lucy Liu (as Alex Munday) and Cameron Diaz (Natalie Cook) were adequate selections. But quite frankly, Drew Barrymore (Dylan Sanders) has no business being one of Charlie's Angels. She simply doesn't have what it takes. As a matter of fact, Kelly Lynch (as Vivian Wood) would have been a better candidate than her. To make matters even worse, I thought Bill Murray totally botched the role as John Bosley. He was awful. At any rate, to sum it all up this movie wasn't half as good as the original series and I have rated it accordingly. Below average. "},{"Title":"These Angels Rock!","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was a great follow up to the series, I loved the casting. I found the movie to have a great sense of humor (spoofing itself) and the stylized action sequences were great. Bill Murray was outstanding as Bosley and the Thin Man villain was unique. I won't really bother with the plot because the plot is not why you would go to see this movie. My only problem with this movie was the matrix like action went on too long. I was not expecting anything close to reality from this movie, however, even in a state of suspended disbelief, I had trouble. In this movie not one of three angels has access to a gun or weapon of any kind??? Interesting in this day and age! Can't women carry secret gadgets? Is this some kind of union rule? Even spy kids get gadgets! All in all, this was worth viewing...go for the fun and nostalgia not the plot! "},{"Title":"Oh, those silly angels, if only they weren't so exploited","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember in 2000, I was a sophomore in high school, so naturally, you'd think this movie would've been perfect for me. But I got so annoyed with how advertised it was and how Cameron, Drew, and Lucy just wouldn't stop holding hands! It was just so annoying and Charlie's Angels proved to be that this was the director's wet dream when he was a pre-teen looking up at those famous Farah Faucett posters.Charlie's Angels was a fun TV series in the 70's about three very attractive ladies Alex, Dylon, and Natalie who fought crime and just had so much fun with their sex appeal. It was a fun time and wasn't too exploited, well, if you watch this movie, forget all that. I decided to wait until I was ready to watch this movie without being so judgemental, well, it reached my expectations when I was 15! Basically, the girls are just trying to save Charlie's life from a villain who thinks Charlie killed his dad. This film made me wonder, the 70's action sequences worked so well, so why did we need all the CGI effects in this film? Not to mention, Cameron Diaz could break easily, this was so not believable.Cameron, Lucy, and Drew, these girls just didn't seem like the perfect angels. But maybe that's just me. Charlie's Angels wasn't as bad as I expected, but still, that's not saying much, it just couldn't stay on the right direction and was too exploited. I wouldn't mind taking a peek at the sequel, I'm hoping maybe they might do something right, but if the rating on IMDb is right, maybe I should think first.5/10 "},{"Title":"don't waste your time watching dumb movie","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this is the stupid movie that ever made . the movie is boring .the acting is terrible .the Director Joseph McGinty Nichol is really amateur .he don't know any thing about Action movie .also Cameron Diaz do bad acting with that woman call Lucy Liu that she really mast stop acting and at last Drew Barrymore i want ask her what she was thinking when she agree to do that movie.in the end i can say that movie make me hate that kind of movie that woman do action ?????? and when they jump they mack me remember superman but in this case super woman . how can it possible woman like Lucy Liu do action she have alittle body . she cant punch aguy and make him fly .realy i want the Writer be actual. "}{"Title":"Sexist, stupid and boring","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow!  What a load of c**p!  I didn't think it was possible, but this movie is even worse than the TV show!  The plot is beyond stupid--to be totally honest I can't really remember it.  Anyways, it's just an excuse to have Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu and Cameron Diaz get into VERY tight outfits and prance around.  I'm really surprised this film got a PG--there's so much flesh shown on these girls!  It goes VERY close to an R more than once. Also the jokes are very stupid--one of them has Liu being a lousy cook!  I thought that stereotype disappeared in the '50s!  As for the acting--Lynch is very good in her role; Bill Murray looks miserable; Barrymore looks confused; Liu can't act; Matt LeBlanc (as Liu's boyfriend) is basically playing Joey from Friends and Tom Green is REALLY annoying as Barrymore's boyfriend.  Only Cameron Diaz gives out a good performance--she's so lively and fun.  Also Luke Wilson is very good as her boyfriend.  Those two have great chemistry together.  So, I gave the film a 4 only for Diaz, Wilson and some good fight scenes.  Otherwise, this is a mess. "},{"Title":"Just Terrible","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie starts out as if it was in the 70s setting then suddenly gets modern.It's too fantastic, too unbelievable. I can't believe it made as much money as it did. Let alone warrant sequels.Nothing redeeming can be said about this movie. The acting BAD, the stunts LAME, barely a plot, overly loud. Littered with mistakes.It's sad that Jonathan Forsythe wasted his time reprising his role as Charlie from the original TV Series. He was the only one that showed any promise.Don't waste your time with this movie. "},{"Title":"Please no more You go girl flicks.","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ***Contains Spoilers*** Hollywood really messed up with this film.It is nothing like the original Charlie's Angels and contains a bunch of anti-male ideology mixed in with stupid stunts. The oriental lady looks like she's slow, Drew Barrymore is fat, and Cameron Diaz is no one's martial artist. The girl weighs 90 lbs' soaking weight and they have her beating up 250 lb. men.It appears male bashing is a big industry. Imagine man-hating feminists performing Matrix stunts and the director of the film being Gloria Steinem. You'll have Charlie's Angels in a nutshell. "}]