[{"Title":"Awesome guilty pleasure!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Wesley Snipes has always been trusty in the action genre.  He has great charisma and looks totally cool when kicking the crap out of the bad guys. Ever since his breakthrough role in Passenger 57.  There are many great moments of action in The Art of War.  Sure, the plot is far from compelling, but the energy and fast pace keeps it fueled.The Art of War is not a work of art, but it's a great popcorn flick and one that won't put you to sleep!  I just wish they could've done something about the cliches.  I'm not going to give anything away, so I'll just say, Why is it in these movies the characters never seem to know who their limo driver is?  It's an overused cliche and a cheap surprise.My score  7 (out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Good plot and acting, but confusing presentation","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"34 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Most people can't differentiate between a bad film and a film they don't like.  Many people didn't like this motion picture because of its liberal subtext.  That doesn't make it a bad film.  Most people don't realize that this was a Canadian production and that probably explains the political slant.  However, as action films go, it was intelligent, high tech, stimulating, bordering on believable (seldom are action flicks actually believable), with plenty of violence.  I didn't particularly agree with its `New World Order' message, but it was still a solid film.The main criticism I have of the film is the editing.  In an attempt to make the story more intriguing, it is pasted together in a convoluted way that makes it very difficult to follow.  All the factions and motivations are eventually explained, but one has to pay very close attention or see the movie a few times to catch them all.  The screenplay suffers from an excess of subplots, which makes following the story that much more difficult.  The biggest sin committed by the producers and director was that they did not understanding their audience.  This film targets action lovers, who are a visceral lot.  They want to be stimulated, not confused and intrigued.  They also tend to be more conservative politically (God, Guns, Guts).  So naturally, the film bombed.Wesley Snipes delivers a strong performance in the intelligent action hero role.  Snipes seems to be locked in the action genre when he is really too bright for the roles he plays.  He should take a lesson from Samuel L. Jackson and look for scripts that are more dramatic.  Jackson still does action films (Shaft), but he picks parts portraying complex characters and scripts with strong character development, instead of straight macho testosterone parts.  Snipes would have done well in some of the roles Jackson has had.  Anne Archer does a fine job as the manipulative career diplomat, pulling everyone's strings behind the scenes.  Donald Sutherland is a bit flaccid in this film, but his character really didn't have a lot of bite.Overall, this film is a strong entry into a genre dominated by mindless body count.  I rated it an 8/10.  Those who like their action flicks to be completely believable subtract two points.  Subtract another two points for those who don't like confounding story lines.  For those who abhor screen violence, don't even bother. "},{"Title":"Underrated Conspiracy Thriller","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Snipes puts in a fine performance as Neil Shaw, a united nations defence agent who is wanted for the assassination of the Chinese U.N. ambassador at a time where U.S. and Chinese relations are already strained.Snipes teams up with a beautiful U.N. translator (Marie Matiko) in a search for the truth behind the conspiracy that is engulfing the duo. The Art of War delivers action, thrills and good plot twists and overall is a satisfying thriller. However it is not without some minor flaws, the story although complex and interesting is somewhat dis-jointed in its delivery and the ending lacks impact, even if it does ring true to the plot line.All in all 'The Art of War' is a good, yet less than perfect action thriller, that will certainly satisfy Snipes fans.7/10 "},{"Title":"It wasn't THAT bad&#133;","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I've read some seriously negative reviews of The Art of War. There are IMDb users out there who hated this movie to no end, which leads me to wonder why I rented it in the first place, having read many of these reviews already, and why it was seen as so much worse than anything Wesley Snipes has done up to this point. Snipes has made some good movies, and some bad ones, just like almost every actor out there (although there are certainly some that only make good ones and some that only make bad ones, but Snipes seems to have about an equal amount of each, maybe leaning slightly in favor of the bad), and I don't really think The Art of War is any different. It's a typical action film in which he plays virtually the exact same character that he played in Rising Sun, except here he's been framed as an assassin and, as is always the case with movies in which the good guy has been framed for some crime, he has to set out to prove his innocence with no help from the police and without knowing who he can trust. (spoilers) Michael Biehn stars as Robert Bly, Neil Shaw's (Snipes) ill-fated partner. Biehn has been largely missing in action (pun intended) for several years, his only notable appearances since the spectacular Terminator (and since being deleted from Terminator 2) being an excellent role in The Rock and his thoroughly enjoyable performances in movies like The Abyss, Aliens, and Navy SEALS. Given this iconology, it's strange to consider the role that he was given in The Art of War. Naturally, actors are given roles that go against their iconography all the time (a recent example would be Tom Hanks in The Road to Perdition), but there is generally a reason for that or at least something about that actor's personality or charisma that fits with the role that they are given. In The Art of War, there is little reason to have Biehn play the role that he plays other than to cover up the plot twist near the end of the film. That's just weak writing.Like I said above, I enjoyed The Art of War more than many other reviewers seemed to. The introduction of the conflict is particularly impressive. The chase through the building early in the film is not only exciting, but thoroughly convincing so that you really don't guess what's really happening. Regardless of how the mystery is created (whether or not it be because of the strange role given to Michael Biehn), consider how well the frame was set up. Shaw is running through this building chasing the bad guy, he hears his partner shot twice on the radio, so just as he bursts into the street which is crowded with police, his adrenaline is pumping and his face is contorted with the grief of knowing that his partner has just been killed. It's easy to understand that the police could have mistaken his expression for grief at having been caught trying to escape the scene of the crime that they think he has just committed. I might like to take this opportunity to point out that while I certainly found The Art of War to be at least a mildly entertaining action film, I did not find it to be any more than that. It is most certainly a vehicle for some good Wesley Snipes action, but is there really anything wrong with that? I personally enjoy watching Steven Seagal movies and Van Damme movies, just because they're entertaining and, quite often, more amusing than anything else. Given that, I would not be being fair if I condemned The Art of War for not having much intellectual content to speak of.I am normally not one to forgive stupidity in the movies, but the thing that allows me to forgive the cheesy action in The Art of War (as an example of how seriously the movie takes itself, consider the extensive kung-fu fighting scene that takes place during the New Year celebration early in the film, to the grand enjoyment of everyone in attendance, who are all lucky enough to see it close up on the big screen) is that it doesn't pretend to be anything else. Unlike a Bruckheimer film, it does not throw in all of the necessary ingredients to attract every kind of audience that can be attracted to an audience, which is an unfortunately prevalent tactic that results in a lot of movies that could have been great but instead come out as muddy messes. The Art of War is a straight up action film, and whether you loved it or hated it or anything in between, you have to respect it for allowing itself to be seen as such in a society that more and more seems to condemn purity in the movies.  "},{"Title":"Good thriller  - lots of action","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" First off the technical aspects of this movie were superior in every sense. The sound, the editing, the camera work, all of it was fantastic and made this an enjoyable treat.You have to enjoy all that because, with the exception of Donald Sutherland who is always on, the acting isn't there. Wesley Snipes is one of my favorite actions heroes, but we all know that action heroes can't act. Well, maybe Bruce Willis is the exception. But for an action hero, Wesley is great and does a great job here - for an action hero.And, hey, Marie Matiko was easy on the eyes.If you liked Enemy of the State, you will like this movie. "},{"Title":"OK crime thriller","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The last decent film Wesley Snipes has made to date, THE ART OF WAR has him playing a dirty-tricks agent who is on the run, framed for the murder of a high Chinese official and connected to a container full of dead Asian refugees. The movie has two things going for it A great title and some action sequences right out of the John Woo stylebook, especially the final showdown in an office building between Snipes and Michael Biehn. The way the glass shatters and falls in slo-mo as the two struggle and crash through a second floor barrier adds to the film's arresting visuals. Chalk one up for Snipes, who seems to churn out as much crap these days as Van Damme, Stallone and Seagall combined. "},{"Title":"A reasonably good, high energy action flick.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  In The Art of War, Snipes plays a UN deep-cover operative whose cover is compromised. Though the film features plenty of stunts, chases, crashes, shootouts, fights, and pyrotechnics mixed with a typically convoluted spy-type plot, we've seen better of all in other films. The flick does have a female protagonist but there's little romance or sexiness in this flick which lacks the spit and polish of Bond films and seems to be begging for something more than just a lot of busy heroics and magical futuristic microelectronic snoop stuff. Ok but far from Snipes better films.  "},{"Title":"fairly intelligent political thriller","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" this political thriller isn't too bad.it's not really fast paced paced,and there is some predictability to it.but it should have enough twists and turns to keep you guessing.it's also a fairly intelligent movie.it's also compelling enough to maintain interest.at least i thought so.i also found it more stylish than many movies of the genre.Wesley Snipes is the main star,but there are some other well known actors here.these include Anne Archer,Maury Chakin,Donald Sutherland,Michael Bien,Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa and James Hong.for this type of movie,this one is not as over the top with ridiculous action scenes.though it does have a few scenes with strain believability a bit.for me,The Art of War is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"What a good action movie should be!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Disclaimer first This is not Citizen Kane, obviously. But THE ART OF WAR is about as fun as an action movie can get.Yes, Snipes is a runaway agent wrongly accused, we have seen this in US Marshals and Murder at 1600 (by the same Writer.).  But this movie has two things that those movies lacked, STYLE and an enjoyable supporting cast. ART, with all its chase scenes and fight sequences (and there are a truck load), is beautifully shot.The sets and camera work are great, and most importantly (partially because I live there) you buy that you are in NYC. Few signs of the Canadian stand in, Montreal. Everything is slick and well shot.Behind Snipes are a great cast of action cronies, Maury Chaykin as Capella the FBI agent who doesn't know whether to arrest or help Snipes,  Marie Matiko, Julia the VERY attractive hostage/eyecandy (Hollywood should learn from the TASTEFUL handling of her strip scene) and a bunch of good character actors who could be of course our villain(s).Yes, ART OF WAR has too many twists, it tries hard, too hard at times. But it is better than the other action flops that have stopped trying all together.Bottom line this is The Fugitive meets James Bond (with a little Jackie Chan).  Its a fast paced, slick, action flick, that has half a brain in it. Snipes is awesome in it and should look to move forward from roles like this.  Ignore the cynical critics who are obviously trying to suck the fun out of action movies and see it. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Wesley Snipes is back better than ever in The Art Of War, a movie that is so good it deserves to be among the top ten of the summer.There are many reasons why I enjoyed The Art Of War. The first reason was the supporting cast. When I first saw Donald Sutherland in this movie, I knew it would be a thing of beauty. He brought great credibility as he made a good movie, that much better. Anne Archer is one actress you can always count on to give a good performance. The Art Of War turned out to be a montage of The Fugitive series and Enemy Of The State. While this is the only negative thing about this film, it didn't deter me from enjoying it to my heart's content.There are many other things about The Art Of War such as the high-tech wizadry and action-filled sequences that were very enjoyable. However, the best thing about this film was the storyline. The Art Of War had beautiful twists toward the end of the film. In addition, there are scenes in this movie that are so good they must be seen to believe they are that good.  "}{"Title":"What the hell was that??","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" When I watch, either in the cinema or at home (as I did this one), a truly awful movie I get up and do something a little more useful. Such as watch paint dry.This baffling, pretentious, infantile effort was so bad it was almost watchable - just for the masochistic feelings it provoked.I commend whoever wrote the plot synopsis for IMDb - so far as I was concerned there was no plot worth talking about from the beginning to the end. Gratuitous violence, yes. SlowMo fights, yes. Blood - lots of it, yes - even though it was pretty fake. Did I mention gratuitous violence? That too.But plot? Not to my mind, no.A plot, to be interesting, has to have a beginning, middle and end. That's not to say that it has to be predictable far from it. But the threads have to hang together and, in some way, come together to round off the experience. The art of war only has a myriad of characters, locations, broken glass, mobile calls and long drawn-out aerial views of New York to substitute for a even remotely logical story. (Did I mention gratuitous v..... yes, I think I did.) Sutherland is, as usual,Sutherland. The director probably intended his brogue to be an analogue of a Canadian accent. It isn't.Anne Archer intones her lines as if she's just caught sight of the script (*was* there a script??) and can't really believe she will be paid for reciting them.Snipes does the best he can with a woeful screenplay, takes an awful lot of punishment, absorbs a bucketful of lead in exchange for about the same amount of (fake - *really* fake) blood and comes back from the dead for the sequel. (That's not a spoiler, BTW - it's about the only obvious scene in the movie.)A stunningly bad example of how destroying cars, buildings, glass walls and, of course, people, isn't anything like enough to make a grown-up movie.1 / 10 but only because zero isn't an option.Edited 4th Feb 2011. I have just re-read my review above and realise that I cannot remember anything at all about this film! Not the plot, the scenes or the characters. After a couple of months. There must be a clue here! "},{"Title":"trash with merits","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I did not want to see this movie.  I had low expectations, and was slightly tired.  The first scene is cool.  It follows one of he rules of The Art of War Don't give them time to think.  The movie has constant motions and quick cuts.  The first scene is especially bad for this, and you can never grasp a single idea.  The credits looked especially horrid though.However, I ended up somewhat liking this.  The movie actually has elements that make it slightly stand out from the rest.  First, it ripped off one look from one of my favorite movies Natural Born Killers  ****Spoilers*********Spoilers******* in the end scene, Wesley Snipes, I think, throws the gun at a plate of glass.  This looked exactly the same as the knife going through the window in the opening scene of NBK.  I almost expected opera, or something.  Another bonus is the look of the internet.  It has small writing, and the images are choppy.  It looks like real internet, as opposed to glossy, DVD quality streaming video.  *Ahem*Plot Indecipherable.  I couldn't figure out what the hell was going on until the last half hour (after an eight minute nap).  Apparently it is about some trade treaty was being prevented from being written.  Something like that.  I dunno, just let it flow.Pacing  Fast as lightning and yet slow as molasses.  The movie has scenes that are about 2 minutes long, but seem alot longer.  I checked my watch 15 min into the movie, and approx 5-10 min after that.  However, alot happened in those 5 minutes.  I wish that they would fix these problems. Acting  Like there is any.  Come on.  However, Snipes can do cheesy action.  'Nuff said.Direction  Quite cool.  However, I was wondering who was the one who had ADD.  Was it the director, the editor, or the writer, or all 3.  They could not stay on a static image for more than 1-2 seconds...tops.  The rest was quick cuts and quick moving camera.  It was dizzying, which may not be that good of a thing.  So, in the end, this is one to see if there is nothing else on, or at the theater.  Personally, I think that everybody should go home, or petition the theater, to bring back Face/Off (woo's masterpiece), The French Connection, The Matrix, The Fifth Element, Die Hard, Alien, Aliens, Terminators, etc. to bring action back to its good qualities (and yes, I realize that The Matrix was last year, and MI 2 sucked.)  So, all in all, I must give it a 6, simply because it had elements of decency, but I can't really say it was that great, but somewhat entertaining.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Had potential but took the easy way out. Still, not bad.","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" In this tale of betrayal and conspiracy, secret agent Neil Shaw (Wesley Snipes) finds himself framed for the murder of the UN Chinese Ambassador. What follows soon after is a palate of action sequences that are easy to the eyes and references to real-world politics, though sometimes far-fetched.The story is okay, but it could have been so much more. They should have focused more on the crumbling relationship between the US and China as shown in the film, with a lot of truth mixed in. But alas, they had to add in some predictably cheesy plot twists to make it more audience friendly. The action sequences, although well filmed, looks lost in this film. And there are some obvious plot holes here.Actors are average. Snipes gives his usual action-hero persona we've seen in Murder at 1600. Marie Matiko is gorgeous with her sultry eyes and accent, and gives a good performance, making her not just eye candy. Donald Sutherland, although brief, gives the best performance in the film as the Secretary of Defense, but I think he needed more screen time. Anne Archer is also quite good in her role, as Shaw's head Hooks.Direction wise, Christian Duguay did the job. His direction is gripping. The music by Normand Corbeil suits the atmosphere of the film, and is not cheesy or overblown. The editing is fast.In short, it could have been an intelligent thriller, but it opted for the easy way out, filled with clichés, plot holes and a lot of action. The latter I can live with but the former two needs some corrections. Still, it's not bad. Not bad at all.Entertainment 7Overall 6 "},{"Title":"No art, and no war either","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Wesley Snipes plays a secret agent for the UN.  Okay.  Let me say right now that already this was looking real bad for me liking this movie.  Excuse me?  The UN?  Like the UN exists as an organization on its own?  Like the UN has an agenda on its own?  Never mind.  Apparently this is one of those suspension of disbelief things.So Wesley Snipes is a secret agent for the UN.  Oh my GOD I CAN'T BELIVE I WATCHED THIS WHOLE MOVIE!  I knew in the first FOUR MINUTES it would be completely devoid of intelligence!  I'm not that stupid!  Really!  *sigh.*  Let me start over.  Again.So Wesley Snipes is a secret agent for the UN.  He has a name but it wasn't important.  Apparently there's some kind of China trade thing going on and the UN has decided it will happen, or something, I never really figured it out.  So this secret agent .. *restrains self* .. says he wants to retire but his secret agent boss somehow convinces him to stay for one more easy assignment.  Ok now I think the guidelines tell me I have to say I'm giving a spoiler before I give it, but I would really call this a saver rather than a spoiler, as it might save you from watching this movie.  What happens is, his boss sets him up.  DUH!  As if this didn't happen in EVERY MOVIE!  You know what?  It's not a surprise anymore!  But it was worse here because it actually didn't make sense even in retrospect.  The whole idea apparently was that you watch this movie for two hours and get like one decent fight scene out of it, and realize it had not ONE clever moment, not ONE well-acted scene, not ONE interesting character, not even ONE good idea.You know a woman gets partially decapitated here but ends up living?  They COULD have had her be STABBED or something... but apparently they couldn't make up their minds between having something happen that made sense to the plot and having a little extra blood.  Maybe I'm giving them too much credit here, they probably didn't even notice.Oh yeah, and at one point, Wesley Snipes goes on a tour back through the route he took during a chase near the beginning apparently figuring things out or something.  Only I didn't realize what was going on and I went into ventricular fibrillation thinking that HBO had accidentally cut to an hour and a half earlier in the movie and that I'd have to watch it again.  AAAAAAAAAaaaaaaaaaaaaaa.  Agent for the UN.  God help the human species. "},{"Title":"really stupid premise","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Neil Shaw (Wesley Snipes) leads an United Nations covert team under the control of the Secretary-General Douglas Thomas (Donald Sutherland) and Eleanor Hooks (Anne Archer). They are able to blackmail the Chinese into a political deal. Some time later, FBI agent Frank Capella (Maury Chaykin) finds a shipping container full of dead Vietnamese refugees from Hong Kong presumably under the control of the UN. In a banquet, assassins attack. Businessman David Chan (Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa) is injured and Chinese Ambassador Wu (James Hong) is killed. As Shaw chases the killers, he is captured by NYPD cops thinking he's the killer. Julia Fang is a witness who proclaims his innocence to Capella. As Capella transports Shaw, they are attacked and Shaw is taken but he escapes. Then Thomas and Hooks are blackmailed to cancel the Chinese trade deal.The secret UN squad idea is really stupid. I appreciate the Wesley Snipes kung fu fighting but it just adds to the stupidity and the ridiculous nature of the plot. I don't why this has to be about the UN. It's the least sexy way to add international intrigue. Director Christian Duguay is only able to give passable action scenes. If the script could be straighten out and shorten, this could be a reasonable B-action movie. At two hours, it's way too long. For about an hour, I could overlook some of the stupidity but it becomes too much to bare. "},{"Title":"Fun Snipes action/thriller","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" &#x84;The Art of war is a fun little action/thriller movie. It's nothing great , but the familiar story moves along nicely despite some clichés. I only didn't liked the Hollywood's favorite message &#x96; all right-wing politics are evil people.TAOW mixes few styles in it.The beginning reminds a bit of James Bond movie , the chase in the rain feels familiar to Seven and for most part the movie feels like Fugitive or Enemy of state . Christian Dugay is a solid craftsman , and here he directs the movie in a confident way. Only the final shootout between main hero and the villain looks rather ridiculous instead of cool. Wesley Snipes (White men can't jump) is not bad. Donald Sutherland (Ordinary people)is slightly disappointing and Michael Biehn(Terminator)is really fun . Cary Hiroyuki Tagawa (Showdown in little Tokio) gives a typical for him performance. Anne Archer (Fatal attraction) gives the best performance in the movie - she is really good.There are a bits of good dialogue here , some humor there , some nice action there and one good twist . I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz, Hey, Wesley Snipes is hitting someone, then.. Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz !","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Another action flick. But it looks like an average B movie which you find at the video store near you to not rent, or to rent and be regretful, or to rent and be satisfied yet for a night! So, why is that ?!! It's too episodic. The viewer doesn't get the right information in the right time. I consider myself a good viewer, but for instance I caught on the fact that (Wesley Snipes) was a secret agent the UN hired only when I read a review about the movie after I finished it !! The action sequences are solid. Maybe a bit artistic compared to your typical Hollywood action movie. But they're longer than the space this movie specifies for anything else. So it could be the most brainless movie got a brain! (Snipes) wasn't funny enough. Catchy enough. Human enough. He was more like a robot, doing his stuff not that interested. The female lead was less interesting herself. I know that I didn't remember her after the movie! There is a strange sense of bore during the (The Art of War); where the action is running, so the lead, but not your brain! At this moment, you lose contact with anything the movie shows, so how about non-stop empty action, between dry and nonexistent dialog, and too thin to be seen plot ! The only things that I still remind from this movie are  Snipes runs, Snipes goes into restaurant by his car, and Snipes fights someone in a long martial arts match in the UN. The verdict  I didn't like it as a whole. It's silly most of the time, and couldn't attract me with anything I love (save couple of action sequences).Movies like this put me perfectly to sleep. "},{"Title":"Predictable, Predictable, Predictable.","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Yes. Predictable, Predictable, Predictable. That says it all. I saw this movie with a couple of friends, and the only fun we had came from the fact that we knew what was going to happen next... throughout the WHOLE freaking movie!. From the beginning to the mid-movie 'plot' to the ending... twist (?). We guessed the shooter's identity right away; we knew who the bad guy was. No surprises. Every cliché you have ever seen is here. I didn't give it a 1 rating because some scenes were somehow kinda cool to look at. Recommended only for Wesley Snipes hardcore die-hard fans. The rest of you people... stay away from this movie. "},{"Title":"Complete rubbish","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Like most reviews here acknowledge - this is indeed a crap movie. But one thing I would like to get of my chest is this Why, oh, why do recent films insist on doing totally, unbelievable bullet dodging action? This film was the worst I've seen it done in but Face Off is another big culprit. I mean, for God's sake, I can understand it being done in something like The Matrix (where everyone lives in an artificial world ). They may as well have made Wesley Snipes fly off like Superman. Tell me - how can you dodge bullets from a gun fired off a couple of meters away from you? HOW?!!? When I saw Snipes & Biehn in that scene, I felt like walking out of the cinema. Do not waste your time watching this movie (even if you are looking for something to put your brain in neutral). * out of ***** "},{"Title":"A DARK and INCOMPREHENSIBLE MESS!!","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  What a disappointment this was! And I'm a Snipes fan.First of all, the entire movie was dark and dingy; every scene seemed filmed with barely enough light to see by. Plus, there was more rain around New York than Seattle in the Winter. The entire dreary look of the movie was depressing; caliginous, too!The sound engineer should never get another job. People talked over each other, mumbled, and were often as inaudible as in a Robert Altman film. Most annoying. The byzantine and convoluted plot was never credible. Supposedly the United Nations is a world power with it's own force of James Bond style secret agents carrying out various Impossible Missions for the benefit of the U.N. and its Secretary General - who appears to be an American, which is an absurd scenario.In this plot we have an array of backstabbing and doublecrosses that could make your head spin, and give you a headache trying to follow it.There is no real chemistry between Snipes and the Chinese female lead. And there is none of the usual Snipes humor either. This movie takes itself so seriously.The screenwriter is not beyond turning this film into a Political Message movie, also. It advocates a powerful United Nations, full trade agreements with Communist China, and in effects mocks concerns about human rights abuses there, along with other real worries about the Chinese military stealing and purchasing vital missile technology from the Clinton administration with illegal campaign cash. So, we get a left-wing message along with a dreary unbelievable movie.I did not enjoy myself for a moment, and was sorry I went. SKIP IT! And if you ever get it on DVD in the future be sure to TURN UP THE BRIGHTNESS! "}{"Title":"Officially bad","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It's officialWesley Snipes + Asian girl = Bad Movie If you don't believe me, go rent One Night Stand.  * Silly plot, unbelievable situations. * Tries too hard to be a black James Bond. * Asians are all bad guys. * Asian Female heroine and Asian heavy played by Japanese. * Both attempt to speak Chinese with funny accent, but can't tell the difference between Cantonese and Mandarin. * Director has a penchant for rain.  90% of the scenes in NY is always raining.  In 2 hours I have seen more rainy days in NY than in 10 years.  Even rains in France in the final scene.2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Could be worse...no...no it couldn't.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ever seen a movie you thought was going to be bad and after watching it you were surprised how much you liked it? This is not one of those movies. It had the potential to be as good as XXX or James Bond...not much depth but a decent action movie. But this movie started bad and got worse. In a halfhearted attempt to hide the villain, create suspense and prop up a horrible script, a team of monkeys cut together random shots of Wesley Snipes Running and Driving in circles. If you are ever given the opportunity to watch this movie, tape over it and don't waste 2 incredibly long hours of your life that could be spent watching grass grow or shooting yourself in the foot. "},{"Title":"Not a great plot but some good action if you're in the mood for that alone","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Neil Shaw is an operative for the United Nations.  In particular he is a covert agent for a unit that doesn't exist that officially has done nothing but in reality gathers information and caries out missions to help with the brokering of peace.  When a freight container of dead refugees is found in America and the Chinese ambassador is assassinated, Shaw is framed and he is forced onto the run.  As Shaw attempts to clear his name, his bosses are contacted with false exposure for diplomatic crimes unless they stop the new trade agreement between the US and China.Despite the fact that this film didn't do well enough to warrant a cinema release in the UK and that professional reviews were less than complimentary about it, I was in the mood for an action thriller and decided to give it a go.  The film marks out it's attachments with reality in the first 10 minutes as it opens with a scene of espionage that would fit as well in a James Bond movie.  Once you have realised that this film is aiming for that sort of slick action-movie reality, it is easier to sit back and enjoy it. Of course, as with the genre, the plot is not up to much even if it aims for a solid thriller storyline of double crosses and action.  Sadly it creates too many holes for itself and the exaggerated action takes away from the reality that it's plot is trying to exist within.Despite this, the action scenes make it worth watching.  Just like the slick opening mission, the rest of the film continues with plenty of consistently enjoyable scenes that will please you if you are in the mood for that type of thing.  Duguay directs the whole film with the slick and polished feel that he brought to the action scenes - even though they are not original or realistic they are still quite exciting considering the plot fails to really engage.  Moments of John Woo-style standoffs are good as well as lots of running and jumping!  I watched this film on a Friday night and can only suggest that that time of the week with some friends and some beers must be the best time to watch this.As well as the action and direction, another reason this film worked for me was the presence of Wesley Snipes.  Over the past decade he has successfully turned himself into a good action star and he shows his qualities here. As with Blade, he is best when he is able to shake off the shackles of `normal' characters and play things a bit more superhero/Bond as is the case here. He has a good charisma here that kept me with him as well as showing a nice sense of humour at points as well.  Matiko is quite cute but her character is less clear in terms of how she fits in at each stage.  She doesn't give that good a performance but the film doesn't ask very much of her - the biggest problem I had with her was that her character's name (Miss Fang) made it sound like everyone was calling her `Miss Thang' in a Ricki Lake style!  Archer is not very good and isn't used by the film well at all despite the key role of her character.  Sutherland looks about as rough as he could do - couldn't he even have brushed his hair? He makes a very unlikely Secretary General!  Tagawa is a well known face and plays his character with his usual style, while Michael Biehn is quite good and enjoyable in his action scene.Overall, this film has some topical interest as we have just found out recently that the Secretary General was spied on by the US, but that doesn't stop the plot being full of jumps in plot logic and having elements that just don't really fit.  However despite this the action is slick, from the Bond school of excitement and is helped by stylish direction from Duguay. Add to this a good centre pin in Snipes' fun performance and you have a film that is enjoyable and rather exciting if you are in the mood for a fun thriller. "},{"Title":"ignore the film snobs","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Irony.This is one of those films which the film snobs beat up when it first appeared.Years later, when it turns up on a streaming channel, viewers invariably ask, Hey, why don't they make em like that anymore? Answer because of the aforesaid film snobs.The plot is tight, as is the casting, the acting, the direction and the cinematography. Archer is great. Snipes is at his peak and it shows.The film does exactly what it was supposed to do, then and now.It engages, it entertains.But for some people that is not enough. "},{"Title":"The Art of Bore.","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The Art of War (2000) Dir Christian Duguay / Cast Wesley Snipes, Anne Archer, Marie Matiku, Michael Biehn, Maury Chaykin About as artistic of a bag of crap. A school boy could create better art just by picking his nose. Wesley Snipes stars as the head of a team of United Nations covert agents assigned to monitor the Chinese ambassador after Vietnamese refugees are found dead. The Chinese ambassador is believed a suspect until his assassination, which naturally has Snipes framed and on the run. Marie Matiku was the ambassador's translator possessing a tape that identifies the assassin. None of this is remotely interesting and much of it seems to be constructed out of pieces of films that are every bit as bad. Director Christian Duguay does his best with drab locations and recycled action clichés. He previously made Screamers as well as that crappy TV movie Model By Day. After this crap one could assume that Screamers will become his action after realizing how bad this film really is. Snipes is either running or in combat but that hardly seems a surprise. Anne Archer is totally cardboard. Matiku is promising but the role is still straight forward with little surprise. Also wasted is Micheal Biehn as Snipes's rival. There is no reason to see this crap, not even for action lovers. About as artistic as the entire town square covered in pigeon sh*t. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"good action, good location shots","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I like Wesley Snipes and have always liked Anne Archer, two of the stars of this film.Shaw (Snipes) works for a UN squad that does everything and anything it can with the goal of peace and enemy countries negotiating. Blackmail, violence, threats - they stop at nothing. When a shipping container with dead Vietnamese inside shows up, and the Chinese ambassador is shot, the new trade agreement between China and the US is in danger. Shaw finds himself accused of the murder, and has to escape from gangsters and the FBI to find out the truth.Lots of action, some of it pretty spectacular, including Snipes parachuting off a building and having his parachute shot full of holes by a sniper above. It has all the action elements- car chases, explosions, athletics, etc.Some of this was filmed in Canada (actor Maury Chaykin was a giveaway there), but there are lots of shots of New York. Unfortunately, as one who lived near Ground Zero, it was heartbreaking to see that at the time the film was made, the World Trade Center still stood. That immediately brings one back to 9/1/1 and the horror.While I enjoyed the action, I became confused and didn't really know what was going on -- too many twists. Part of the problem is I wasn't as involved as I should have been, since twists in a story don't bother me. For some reason, I didn't get into it.Nevertheless, some good things, including Wesley Snipes, who is excellent in this type of film. "},{"Title":"All kinds of low that wants to be high.","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" If you like your films filled solely with exposition, cliché, choreographed fight scenes, bad dialogue and like to willingly suspend your disbelief to unreasonable proportions then this is the film for you. My god, you're going to LOVE this film. It has exposition, cliché, choreographed fight scenes up the yin-yang, bad dialogue and what's more, you have to willingly suspend your disbelief to unreasonable proportions like a mother-lover. Did you know this film was actually released in cinemas? No lie. It wasn't a straight to video, self-funded-by-some-idiot-who-had-more- money-than-sense-but-just-wanted-to-produce-a-movie venture, you know. With convict Wesley Snipes in the lead role that ISN'T Blade, the scientology follower, Anne Archer and Sean Bean's brother Michael Biehn in any role after 1990, you just know you're in for a treat. Donald Sutherland just wants to say his lines and get paid, as does everyone else. This film is just rubbish. Really rubbish. Not sure why I didn't give it 1/10. Maybe it's because the editing was good. I don't know. It just didn't feel like a 'Twilight Saga Breaking Dawn - Part 2', 'Tank Girl', or 'Nights in Rodanthe' bad to me. This was a 'This Means War' bad. Annoying as hell, but you just can't justify to yourself giving it a '1'. Apart from that it was great. Just remember to shove hot needles into your eyeballs and knitting needles through your eardrums after you press play so you don't feel the adverse effects of the film like I did. Blindness and deafness are small prices to pay. "},{"Title":"Audacious Opening, frantic middle, got lost from then on..","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The opening sequence of a Millennium eve Party at midnight, with cameras twirling and hovering above a very expensive-looking set, Wesley Snipes gets ready for action. Very impressive, very promising...so far.Big issues and very important subjects - a Chinese Ambassador is bribed (by showing him in a 'compromising position' live on big screen at said party) and hey ho, he manages to get North and South Korea back around the negotiating table. Damn! Politics is SO easy, sometimes!Unfortunately, this illustrates the level of intelligent writing and plot and whilst I have abbreviated that sequence a little, the story should really be seen as a rather weak and tenuous link between a lot of frenetic - and often spectacular - action. It's often at a dizzying and blinding pace that should keep all action-heads entertained.Snipes is fine, for what he does, which is a lot of running about, fighting and shooting and such stuff. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of Donald Sutherland and Anne Archer, the former playing the UN Secretary General no less and Archer as head of covert operations. They churn out boring plot-lines to each other, as if reading from a poorly translated manual and it all means nothing, frankly.There are such an array of filming styles, a lot of very different people who we don't recognise that it's all like putting one's head in a spin dryer. I'm not criticising the film as much as I might be making it to be but it's far from good and the fact that this $40,000,000 (2000) budgeted, two hour long movie has almost no customer reviews here and has an IMDb score just scraping above a lowly 5/10 bears this out. Disappointing. I saw it on TV, channel 5 USA. "},{"Title":"Densely plotted thriller","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This complex Wesley Snipes thriller is spoilt by the presence of director Christian Duguay (SCREAMERS), who shoots his movie so poorly and in so dated a fashion that it looks a good decade older than it actually is. Full of '90s-era editing, the style is so in-your-face that it takes away from the tricksy-turny plotting. Give this film the same kind of style as the BOURNE films and it would actually be very good indeed.Saying that, it's still pretty good, with an intriguing race-relations backstory that keeps you guessing as to the nature of the villains. There are enough twists and turns for a couple of films here, and although the action scenes are slightly irritating due to the aforementioned direction issues, there are a couple of decent chase scenes thrown in en route.Wesley Snipes's attitude is what sets him apart from other action stars and he's on good form playing a tough, no-nonsense agent. Solid support comes from veteran Asian actors Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa and James Hong while Michael Biehn, Anne Archer and Donald Sutherland represent Hollywood and unknown actress Marie Matiko is strong as the female lead. While this isn't as good as another Snipes political thriller dealing with a similar East-meets-West theme (RISING SUN), it's a lot better than much recent dreck with the likes of Steven Seagal. "},{"Title":"A Passable Action Fare...","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Christian Duguay's 'The Art of War' is a passable action fare, that has some engaging and captivating moments working for it, besides the high-packed, violent action sequences.'The Art of War' tells the story of an operative working for the United Nations, who gets blamed for something he hasn't done. The film begins with a bang, and it must be said, that the chase sequences are among the mainstay of the film. But, the film dips in the middle. The writing gets soft, and even the highly anticipated climax looks too far-fetched. The Screenplay could've been more power-packed, while Christian Duguay's direction is good. Stunts, as mentioned, are super.Acting wise, Wesley Snipes does reasonably well in the central role. Anne Archer is first-rate. Donald Sutherland does an okay job, while Marie Matiko is very sincere. Others fill the bill.On the whole, a must watch only for those who thrive for action-packed cinema. "}{"Title":"Have you eaten?","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I enjoyed the sexual tension between Wesley and Marie, his strong and dominant nature, and her resistant but at the same time feminine and soft, submissive character.  However, the ending was kind of dissapointing.  You can not expect realism from the movie like this, but when they just met in Paris and the immidiate have you eaten as oppose to splash of surprise and exitement from seeign each other... that is a little to much.  And all the tension is gone... "},{"Title":"Okay well no fine!","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Yet another one of those movies that follows the same old in and out... good guy saves the world from the evil politician. Given that Snipes is the ultimate plain-clothed 'good'-guy... but I find it hard to believe that he has managed to dig himself into the rut of receiving ONLY this type of script.I know it sounds strange... but throughout the whole movie... I was constantly reminded of US Marshalls!  Go figure!The plot is slightly unbelievable... but has some fabulous twists in it. It makes you think... which is nice... better than the latest Barney release. It was nice to see New York City used to it's fullest capability. Fabulous shots of this magnificent city.All in all... I think this is a very good movie... one that I would definitely add to my DVD collection for one of those rainy nights with the boyfriend and a bottle of wine.4 flaps out of 5! FD "},{"Title":"pathetic and silly storyline, but well executed","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  wesley snipes delivers one more mindless action movie. they are not so bad in themselves the problem with this one is that it pretends to have some sense. the whole movie defies believability. the plot is outrageously stupid.having said that if you're willing to sit through all that, this movie is a lot of fun, the action scenes are quick to come, they dont keep you waiting too long and they are fast and well executed. dont ask any questions (you wont get answers in this movie). just another mindless well-made fast action flick.a mediocre 5! "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Have you ever wondered how the United Nations is able to keep the peace as well as it does? We find out in this movie that they have a secret espionage group led in the office by Anne Archer and in the field by Wesley Snipes. Wesley is great as the Bond impersonator framed for the murder of a Chinese ambassador and now on the run from Chinese terrorists and American Federal Agents. There are plenty of twists and turns that sometimes border on being hard to follow but the action is what moves this one along. Wesley is able to showcase much of his martial arts skills to their finest abilities in this.   "},{"Title":"You can waste good ideas","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Based on R1 DVDNeedlessly convoluted and pretty brainless after a good start sums up 'Art of War'. The basic idea is good and might make for an interesting movie someday but this is not the day nor the movie.Nice bond-like start to the movie; lots of gizmos and a para-glider jump for a very tall building; quickly fades in the mind as the movie switches to thriller/chaser mode. Snipes if far from good, Archer is cartoonish and Sutherland is very weak.Best viewed after a few beers or your spot the ending from 60 minutes away.5/10 watch while drunk. "},{"Title":"hell this is bad","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  first of all i really love movies with wesley snipes, but this one is so bad i want to warn you about.1.) the plot  it all starts out to be a great movie about suspicies and some politics but after all this is only about some politics ruling the world. the script writer seems to be searching for another enemy than the usual one and finds it where you never would be searching. 2.) the stunts. well wesley snipes is good for some neckbreacking stunts after all but these runing and hiding in places you would be found in 5 minutes is to much for my sense of humor. 3.) the actors. the actors seem to come from b or even c movies and dont play their part believable, even a bit.after all this movie should be a lesson to mr. snipes and i hope it would be his baddest. from now on the ledder could only be going up.  "},{"Title":"This movie should have been good...","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Considering the really interesting premise, and the fact that secret agent flix are supposed to be quite intelligent, THE ART OF WAR should have been a blockbuster hit on the grounds on action AND brains. But alas, it fails to focus on the IQ aspect. So Wesley Snipes playsa spy framed for the murder of a Chinese ambassador and must find out who had set him up, how that happened, and why it happened. The film did answer some of the questions, but not a great deal. What, is this supposed action movie just withered and die when it came to logic? Not only that, THE ART OF WAR was terribly predictable. (SPOILER) Isaw a mile away that Michael Biehn's character would fake his own death just to betray Snipes. For one thing, the former seemed like he had a screwloose somewhere to begin with, so he must've been thevillain behind all this! The producers should have known that there is a good number of people in the audience that are smart enough to realize that plot twist.   "},{"Title":"A Good Rental on a Hot Sunday Afternoon","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  You know you're watching a formula action flick when the villain takes a moment of pause to recite the wisdom of Sun Tze. Yup. The Art of War is that kind of movie, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. Wesley Snipes is Neil Shaw, a covert operative with the United Nations who is framed for the assassination of a Chinese ambassador. With Sino-US relations on the line, Shaw sets out to exonerate himself and finds himself embroiled in a web of intrigue involvin fellow renegade colleages, a sagely FBI agent who is not as dumb as he looks (Maury Chaykin) and a tycoon (Snipes' Rising Sun alum Cary Hiroyuki Tagawa) with triad connections. Directed by Christian Duguay (Screamers, The Assignment), AOW is a mean-spirited variation of Mission Impossible but enjoyable post-Cold War yarn imbued with a Hong Kong action sensibility. What it lacks in intelligence and originality is adequately compensated by style and energy. Holding the bedlam together is Snipes who cuts an iconic presence as the man on the run and shows off some nifty unarmed combat moves. In one scene that establishes the film's comic book tone, Shaw leaps off the balcony and lands on the a scaffold without his balance or cool. The John Woo-ish showdown in the final act is another attraction. For a B-grade blockbuster, AOW makes a fine rental on an idle afternnoon. But one thing bugs me. With the entire budget splurged on the sets and pyros, the filmmakers probably had little money left to hire dialect consultants. How else could they account for the atrocious Mandarin and Cantonese spoken by the Chinese characters (to be fair, some of them are played by Japanese actors). or maybe it's arrogance on the part of the director who cares if it's Mandarin or Klingon?  "},{"Title":"okay, but as an action flick - it falls flat","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The way the movie was portrayed to me, it sounded as though it was a high espionage, action flick - but action there wasn't. Sure there was one good fight scene at the New Years party, but other than that, it wasn't really up to snuff.I will give it to Michael Biehn, for giving a quite convincing portrayal of a sort of bad guy. The plot was a bit too transparent in places, in that I figured out 1/3 of the way through the movie that he was still in the picture. The action just wasn't there except for the opening scene in China and a few places throughout the movie. Maybe it was supposed to be more of a thriller? Even then, the plot falls a bit short of feasible.It kept me interested, but not by much. I would give it 3/5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie because it featured good acting skills by Wesley Snipes, an interesting plot line, and nifty high-tech gadgets.  A movie that I found similar to The Art of War was Enemy of the State.  Both movies are equally entertaining and I will be watching them both again. "}{"Title":"Great stuff for conspiracy buffs","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  If you're into conspiracy theories, if you believe in black UN helicopters, then this movie is for you. OK, there's no black helicopters, but there IS a top secret branch of the UN that is engaging in blackmail and other types of covert ops as a means of enforcing its will. Its top agent is Wesley Snipes, who works for Anne Archer who in turn is close in with the UN chief, played by Donald Sutherland. There's lots of plot twists and sinister motives, such that throughout most of the film we really don't know just who are the good guys and who are the bad guys. It short, it's a great movie for a die hard conspiracy theory buff.As for the rest of us, it's a competent action thriller. At times this movie seems to be one long chase scene, with Snipes either in pursuit or being pursued. The stunts are good (although some scenes of Snipes jumping from great heights seem unrealistic, he lands unhurt on hard surfaces when in real life he'd probably end up in a hospital) and the plot moves along at a brisk pace. The acting is generally solid, although Sutherland comes across more as a college professor than a guy who wants to rule the world. Snipes is energetic, Archer is cynical and manipulative, and basically the viewer gets his money's worth out of this film (rent, don't buy). But it's pretty standard Hollywood fare, nothing that hasn't been done dozens of times before. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A kinetic, wall-to-wall action movie!!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  High-tech gadgetry. High Powered armaments. They're all weapons of choice as Shaw unravels a murderous scheme to destroy a historic summit with china. And there are other weapons that come into play manipulation, cunning, control - tactics favored in the Sun Tsu handbook about victory without combat. The art of war is a suspenseful. action. "},{"Title":"Oh man, what a total joke","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time tonight.  While I wasn't expecting much out of it, I must say it pretty much surpassed my expectations in terms of how bad it was.  Now, when I say bad, I pretty much mean clichéd.High-tech gadgets that, let's face it, probably don't even exist in real life.  People getting up after jumping two stories onto a car (but then when it's needed for dramatic effect, they appear to be injured by rolling through some glass).The surprising revelation or whatever could have been written by a four-year-old.  Certainly a four-year-old could have figured it out, as I did, oh, about an hour and a half before it happened.  You need only to apply the #1 iron-clad rule of Clichéd Action Thrillers with Twists, which I won't reveal here in the interest of not spoiling this movie.The one thing I would say this has going for it is it's definitely a date movie.  Once you've figured out the end 20 minutes in, you can spend the rest of the running time engaged in other activities. "},{"Title":"Sniping at Snipes","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A mindless, mind-numbing exercise in techno-violence if ever there was one. To think that Wesley Snipes was the actor who appeared in 'Mo Better Blues', Jungle Fever', 'White Men Can't Jump' and 'Down in the Delta' seemingly a hundred years ago. Now his career has spiralled downhill in gutter 'action' tripe like this one, 'Murder at 1600', 'US Marshalls', 'Money Train' and many more. I can't believe that there aren't any good parts around for someone of his talent. Maybe you make these kinds of movies between the rare good ones. Only trouble is, your reputation slides so much you don't get offered the really juicy parts when they come along. Keep up the bad work, Wesley! 3/10 "},{"Title":"it starts off well","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  but soon goes into a third rate action pic which builds up to not very much at all.this movie snipes has done many times before and if you like snipes you are better off watching US Marshals which has a similar plot better script and more entertainment value "},{"Title":"Excuse me, sir - is this your plot?","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A strange one, this it's as if they deliberately out to splice together two previous Wesley Snipes films (Rising Sun and US Marshals) to try and make a brand new one. Problem is, at the end of the day only the US Marshals elements (i.e. the bits where Wesley Snipes beats people to within an inch of their lives and makes jumps that would break anyone else's legs) actually work. Basically it would have been a lot more enjoyable as a standard-issue Snipes action-fest, with the running time cut down by half an hour or so through the removal of some convoluted and idiotic triple-bluff political plot twists.Also, something went horribly wrong with the casting performances from charismatic actors like Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa and Donald Sutherland usually spice up a film no end, but here they're totally wasted. In fact nobody but Snipes and Michael Biehn (who looks scarily like Joe Pantoliano in his first few scenes) seem particularly bothered about putting in any effort at all.Still, the action's good, especially that last scrap in the UN building (so what if they ripped off the bullet-time effects? At least they're consistent - they ripped off every other action film from the last ten years as well), so all you have to do is fast forward through all that 'political intrigue' rubbish. In fact, fast forward through any scenes relating to the plot - you'll thank yourself for it. Just get it to see Wesley Snipes kick people in the head as hard as he can. Business as usual, then.  "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie, and an interesting fact.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Art of War was a good Wesley Snipes film, with plenty of action for a two-hour movie. The movie starts out slow and complex, so do not be worried if you don't understand it in the beggining. Some people think that the movie is rather predictable, but I actually had no idea who had frammed him for the murder.When the movie was over, I knew that it had been my moneysworth. I will give this movie a 7 out of 10.The interesting fact is that in Passenger 57, Wesley Snipes was reading the book of The Art of War on the airplane before it was hijacked.  "},{"Title":"Worst major release in recent memory","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Convoluted plot, brain-dead script, inane dialogue, choppy editing, hammy acting (especially Anne Archer), pointless flashbacks, pseudo-artsy camera tricks. Perhaps Snipes had such a good time kicking Japanese butt in Rising Sun he thought he'd try it again with the Chinese. And Tagawa, a Tokyo-born actor who played the Japanease playboy in Rising Sun, is woefully miscast as Chinese tycoon here. The only interesting thing about this cast is that one of the few sympathetic Chinese characters here (the assassinated ambassador) is played by a man who has made a career out of playing cruel Vietnamese army officers and Chinese/Vietnamese heroin dealers/ganglords.Did I mention this movie sucked? "},{"Title":"Hey, what did you expect? The Movie is worth every second.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I'm really surprised by the bad comments this movie gets. I'm not a particular action fan, but this movie was better then expected. I don't think I need to tell the story again. I liked the plot and it made sense, at least it is more intelligent then most of the so called action movies, and especially Blade and other stupid flicks. Snipes does a good job although I admit his abilities to jump and safely land on the ground is not very credible. Anne Archer plays superbly and her role gives her the surprising chance of being somebody completely different we all thought she'd be. Even Donald Sutherland doesn't spoil the movie! Who's going to blame the Director to give his beautiful wife Lilina Komorowska a supporting role? She does a great job and I wished I could see more of her. The movie has artistic parts, a reasonable plot, is entertaining, good camera guidance and is - bottom line - worth watching. "},{"Title":"Well...","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This was a OK film. Not good, but not the worst film Ivé seen. Mainly because of talented actors like Michael Biehn and Donald Sutherland. Both of them steals every scene they are in. Wesley Snipes is awful and so is the chinese girl involved in this mess.Sorry for bad english. "}{"Title":"Do you know who the enemy is?","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This film is a good action film, with some excellent fight scenes, gun battles and car chases. Although the plot is not a complicated one, and the ending one that could be expected, the film certainly builds up to an excellent end. Wesley Snipes is on top form, but the main reason I watched this movie was that Michael Biehn was in it, and he is supreme in this role! With Anne Archer and Donald Sutherland included to spice up the cast even more, the film was very enjoyable! "},{"Title":"A nasty, nasty review.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  When I watched the latest Snipes action pic, I was expecting something along the lines of a good Snipes action movie, like Demolition Man or Blade, but not as good, but it's even worse.Not only is the plot unbelievably unbelievable, it rehashes all of that 'techno-subterfuge' into one giant mess of a movie. There are many glaring problems, some insignificant, with The Art of War. For example, for one scene, Snipes literally jumps off a 50-foot building and survives it, rolls and continues running. He's a freaking spy not Spider-Man! Another scene has Snipes literally shot to death, blood and everything, and walks away. I'm talking 20+ bullets here!The plot? Doesn't really matter, but here goes A CIA agent is framed for a murder he didn't commit, has to run away from thugs and good guys who think he is bad before it's too late because of an international conspiracy and blah blah blah. Other films have used this tired vehicle for a movie and it worked because it was a 'fun' movie. This is not a fun movie, no hilarity whatsoever.Also, it blatantly rips off the matrix, in a bad way, and all of the action scenes are HORRIBLE. One has Snipes up against the guy who framed him (of course, he was his friend) and they are shooting each other 4 feet away and neither lands a single shot. It's got bad choreograhpy also and good choreography is very important for an action film.Bottom line Not even hardcore action movie fans will find it worthwhileRating  2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Fascinating action pic that wastes very little time.","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Art of War is a fascinating action pic that wastes very little time. The film stars Wesley Snipes as Shaw, a swift and smart U.N. operative who gets framed for the murder of a high-ranking Chinese official and is forced to discover who really did it.  Snipes is fine here and so is the fairly decent supporting cast (Anne Archer, Michael Biehn, Maury Chakin, Donald Sutherland, Marie Matiko, etc.)  Archer is quite good as the villain.  What kept me drawn to the film was the stylish and gritty photography of the Big Apple by Pierre Gill, who must know how to get a terrific shot here and there.  The only question that I have about the film is why the confession is placed near the end instead of the mid-point.    "},{"Title":"Convoluted but cliched plot. And Michael Biehn dies - again.","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This average (but no more than average) action movie has many plot twists and turns, but is ultimately very predictable in its outcome. The plot holes are numerous, with various things left unexplained.  The chase scenes are pretty boring, some of the stunts strain credibility (to say the least) and the bullet-dodging sequence towards the end is just plain ludicrous. The Snipes movies in a similar vein - Passenger 57 and Murder At 1600 - were far superior efforts. And can anyone name a movie apart from (if my memory serves me correctly) Navy Seals in which the character played by Michael Biehn DOESN'T get killed? And before you all shout Aliens, remember that they killed him off in the opening 5 seconds of Alien 3 so that doesn't count!! "},{"Title":"The first half-hour was all I could stand.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This comment is for the first thirty minutes of the movie because that's as much as I could watch it. The movie was boring and cheap looking. The plot was the average cheap action movie plot. Also, despite the fine cast, I felt like I had rented a straight to video movie.The rest of the movie may have been great though. "},{"Title":"Flashy direction and excellent production values can't save poor script and derivative ideas.","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I like Wesley Snipes, I love Michael Biehn, and I wanted to like this movie, but it just had too many fatal flaws.Good things about The Art of War1. The movie is very flashy with good direction, cinematography, art direction, and obvious high production values. These factors keep most of the movie somewhat interesting at least in a visual sense2. Several great action sequences - (e.x. Snipes escaping from the clutches of the Asian hitmen).2. Very cute Asian chick (Marie Matiko) as leading lady. She does a good acting job and is plenty hot.3. Wesley Snipes is more than competent in his role. He's always been able to play the badass kind of character well. Though this type of character is cliched nowadays, he still pulls it off nicely.Bad things about the Art of War1. The main problem is a compelete lack of originality in the storyline. It stole from countless movies. Not to mention the huge plot holes that one could drive a buick through (e.x. the Villains' motives don't make any sense whatsoever).2. I am a huge Michael Biehn (Aliens, the Abyss, the Rock, Terminator) fan, but I hated his horrible 100% cliched crooked-friend character. He does the best that could be expected given his horribly written character and cheesy cliched-villian dialogue. His talents were completely wasted in this movie; The whole last half hour made me cring. It made me sad to see him in such a bad role.3. Whoa! Does that last half hour drag!! The movie had some twists and turns but the last half hour climax (I use quotes because it was anything but) was super predictable and thus completely boring.4. The final slow-motion bullet dodging scene makes me want to puke. ATTENTION movies everywhere Stop ripping off the Matrix!!FINAL VERDICT Flashy direction and excellent cinematography can't save this movie's complete lack of originality. There was no suspense and I suspect few will be surprised by the twists in the story. Action sequences generally good except in the last half hour which almost put me to sleep because it was so boring, derivative, and predictable.Final Rating 4/10 - Positive attributes don't outweigh the bad ones.  "},{"Title":"The matrix meets blade?","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  What dis go through Wesley Snipes'mind when he did this movie, there is no plot, no action and a pointless climax, what a complete bummer after Blade. Wesley Snipes is an actor bound to play in nobrainer movies, he belongs to the dying breed of the one man army guys and tries to share ranks with a Steven Seagall in better days and an Arnold Schwarzenegger. I've caught him saying in an interview that the only reason he wanted to make action flicks was because of the money, a statement he made in the days of Passenger 57. Unfortunately he just missed the boom with this kind of movies, and now he's making these kind of dated films that would have been fun in the 90's but now?? The plot deals with a pack of elite agents, double crossing, some gadget's and ofcourse explosions, all not worth mentioning, get a nice soft pillow and doze off.. This movie clearly shows that A Snipes is a wannebee and probably never will be capabele of taking a strong lead pure action role, without the FX ( Blade) to please the public. B  Donald Sutherland did not pay off his tax debts with the money he got from an earlier disgrace ,Virus, what the hell is he doing in a movie like this? C  Michael Biehn is just about ready to wear a sign around his neck with the text please James Cameron give me a good part, I can't do it alone, this guy's acting is best suited for a wooden puppet with a big pointy nose or something like that.. Not worth seeing at all!  "},{"Title":"Film for entertain","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ok this film is not anything new on the world, but it is not as bad as I thought it is. If you turn off your brain and watch it, it is an entertaining movie with good performance especially from the supporting roles of Anne Archer, Maury Chaykin and Michael Biehn. Wesley Snipes is just Wesley Snipes in this movie. The poor thing in this movie is the script, but good work of Christian Duguay holds this flick above the hole. "},{"Title":"** 1/2  Not too bad, but pretty dull","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Sad example of how far Wesley Snipes has fallen-he's not even given a chance with the good action movies anymore. He plays a cop (or something) who goes undercover to retrieve something computerized and I can't remember anything else except that I was always seventeen steps ahead of the plot (which means I'd already forgotten the movie when I was twenty minutes into it). B-movie regular Michael Biehn (who once had a promising career thanks to his roles in earlier James Cameron movies) co-stars, and the film does feature gorgeous photography of Montreal locations.  "},{"Title":"Wow, what happened here? (Spoiler alert)","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Art of War was billed as an intelligent, captivating thriller that would take you through twist and turns in plot and finally leave you amazed at the complexity of strategy and spywork. What it was was an absolutely brainless action flick, with an ending that you could see coming within the first few scenes in the film.  Oh, and it was bloody.  Very bloody.  Disgustingly so. The producers of The Art of War were rather obviously hoping for another The Matrix.  They had martial arts, gun stunts, and Matrixesque special effects (which were so cool in The Matrix because we all knew why these stunts worked- they're in a computer and they can bend reality.  The special effects were appropriate because they emphasized that.  So...where's the explanation for this movie?).  Unfortunately, they did not have the other things The Matrix had- namely, a plot, characters I cared about, and an underlying meaning. The Matrix proved that action films could still be cool with a plot and without lots and lots of blood splattering everywhere.  Think about it- even in the scenes where the heroes beat-up/shot lots of bad guys, there was very little blood or gore. The Art of War reversed that.  It took away the intelligent plot and replaced it with showers of blood.  It took away the amazing acting and characters and replaced them with such stunning people as a Generic Evil Executive and a Foolish Police Detective.  Wesley Snipes, for his part, portrayed his character decently, but it was never really clear if he was supposed to be a James Bond-like action star or a more intelligent actual spy, as he often uses good strategies to set something up and then throws them out the window to do something that gives us more action.  And how horrible is it that when the Intelligent Computer Girl was being bloodily beaten up, I largely didn't care?  Just like I didn't care when Snipes' character killed her killers (also bloodily) or beat up his former partner (VERY bloodily) that turned on him in a way that was MUCH better done by Peter Graves in Mission Impossible? If you went in expecting a brainless, bloody action flick, its actually a pretty good one.  But if you were expecting something that would make you think, that would have some plot twists...go elsewhere.  Oh, and bring a barf bag.  There's a LOT of blood, and if you're at all bothered by such things, you'll probably need several barf bags. Recommendation to avoid...unless Mystery Science Theater 3000 comes back and has fun with it, anyway. "}{"Title":"Dull and monotonous when there's no action.","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  ** out of ****The Art of War is the title of Sun Tzu's treatise on war, and it's also the title for Wesley Snipes' latest action film, a potboiler that makes little sense in terms of plot, but works when the action's there, making this a watchable, but nonetheless underwhelming experience.  That's a disappointment in itself, considering the fact it doesn't live up to its name.  Still, this is a vast improvement over Snipes' last thriller, Blade.Neil Shaw (Wesley Snipes) works for the United Nations as a member of a small covert group of highly trained operatives.  The team is usually sent on secret assignments to hold the peace between nations.  There is a particular crisis brewing between China and the United States, and things get worse when the Chinese ambassador is assassinated, and Shaw is framed for the murder.  He races against time, with the help of a smart, young woman named Julia Fang (Marie Matiko) to find the real people behind this.Yes, I realize plot is rather moot in Wesley Snipes' films, but The Art of War is a bit incomprehensible.  It's almost as if though director Christian Duguay tries to make it as hard to understand as possible so nobody will notice the flaws.  The film also features major predictibility on all all levels.  The identity of the real killer is far from a major surprise and there's little doubt in the one-on-one finale as to who's going to come out victorious.The movie's saving grace is the action scenes.  Many scenes feature a good deal of excitement, but there's not enough adrenaline-pumping excitement in the whole production.  The action is only sporadic and not sometimes it's not thrilling enough.  The showdown in the finale obviously got some inspiration from The Matrix, with the bullets moving in slow motion as the characters try to dodge them.  It actually works fairly well in this movie, even if it is only for style (or in other words It looks cool as I imagine Duguay probably said as he filmed the sequence).Surface wise (not to mention the fact the movie has no depth), the movie bears similarities to the Mission Impossible films.  Clearly, it's not as good as either.  The plot is never as intriguing (but sometimes equally infuriating) as the first MI and the action never reaches the exhilarating heights of MI-2.Every actor involved takes this film in a by-the-numbers approach, without ever showing genuine emotion.  Wesley Snipes is like the film, good when he's taking down opponents, bland when he has to handle plot and dramatic moments.  Marie Matiko delivers the film's strongest performance, creating a genuinely likeable heroine, though it would have been more fun to see her do something other than act like the damsel-in-distress in the last 15 minutes.  Donald Sutherland and Anne Archer look like they're just present to say some lines of dialogue in a semi-convincing manner and collect a paycheck.  Michael Biehn is solid as usual, and it's a pity this talented actor is relegated to roles like this.  Am I going to recommend the movie?  Well, let's say that if it's a rental, then by all means go ahead and see it.  It's not a particularly bad movie, and there are some exciting scenes, but too often it feels lackluster, and thus keeps The Art of War from being the high-energy action/thriller it so longs to be. "},{"Title":"Suprisingly Good","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I thought this movie would barely be a good way to pass a lazy evening due to the low rating and all of the bashing that this movie received. I was extremely surprised at how excellent this movie actually is. Of course there are a few cliches, but there are also some truly great moments. Don't miss this "},{"Title":"BELOW PAR ACTION VEHICLE FOR SNIPES.","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  THE ART OF WAR is a very lacklustre by the numbers would-be thriller from Snipes who post BLADE should be doing better action movies than this.I say action in the loosest of terms for what little there is is sometimes confusing and also inadequately choreographed.If Snipes character is so tough how come he can dispose of half a dozen or more high-kicking assailants in the first fight and then have so much trouble with one older and less fit opponent in the last one.Snipes is visibly going through the motions here and was probably using the movie as a workout for the forthcoming BLADE sequel.PASSENGER 57 and DROP ZONE were both better than this.A shame too to see the once beautiful Anne Archer now obviously losing her struggle against the ravages of aging. "},{"Title":"So unoriginal. But movies like these are fun to watch.","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I enjoyed watching this movie, but by no means does it mean that this is a great movie.  Only slightly better than the movie I watched the other night (Battlefield Earth) this movie rips off from alot of other movies.(Spoilers included.. and maybe not just this movie but others)1.  Mission Impossible-- TAOW takes off the overused idea that the friend gets shot and killed but is he really dead.2.  The Matrix--  Oh how many times will we be watching bullets fly by in slow motion.  Please I beg of you... I'm not the six million dollar man here.3.  The Fugitive--  Oh Gerrard, we've found your replacement. (what you already killed him... oh well)  the head FBI dude here is no Gerrard, but you get the idea.  Smart FBI dude and Wesley Snipes... Isn't this a rerun? Wasn't this in US Marshals????4.  The Thirteenth Floor-- (maybe unintentional but) Yikes, it's an empty building and there's a woman being chased by a man. o_O er uh Deja Vu!!!!!!I had been going at a 6 but gave it a 5.  Just too many rip offs in this movie.  I'll admit though, Snipes partner was quite interesting. This is a movie for people who like brainless movies such as Hard to Kill or Out for Justice.  But not for people who like their brains. "},{"Title":"surprised","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  i am surprised as how low the rating of this film, since it's actually a very good one for me. It's clever and do not waste much time to reveal the tense of the plot. It has a good premise and background story. Wesley Snipes plays a UN undercover agent running some scams in UN favor to keep the peace intact. The black operations is a new way of the UN to provide ammunition against many side at the other side of the peace treaty. But in dealing with a prospect of Chinese becoming a new member of the World Trade Organizations, there are many who believe it will affect their suitable purpose. So, they decide to create a scheme and using Shaw (Wesley Snipes) as their scape goat, and turn what suppose to be a treaty to become a mess that could bring the world back to cold war ages. The action is top notch... now much to write more, so i'm just gonna suggest you to watch this if you had spare time.  "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Art of War is a definition of a sub-par action movie. I didn't want to believe that but it's the truth. First of all, it has a WAY too complicated plot-many times I'd view a scene and then later wonder what it's about, or what was going on. However, the worse thing of all are the characters-none of them have any real personality, all fitting cliches (although the guy from Mortal Kombat was cool) and when the twists at the end occured, I was halfway between shock, and feeling cheated. The movie could have been good-the first  3/4 or so of the movie is pretty solid, good action. However, the ending is an exercise in cliche-ville. And to make things worse, we get two unsatisfactory twists, a semi-ripoff Matrix climax, endless scenes of the chick in the UN office, and a horrendous chase that recalls the chase in the beginning. Art of War may be tedious in the end, but doesn't completely fail as a whole thanks to three main factors The soft-core porn feel it starts getting into (sorry, but I am a guy), some decent action scenes (the beginning is more suspenseful than the climax), and through most of the movie you do keep guessing about the plot-until the end, and then by that time you figured it all out. I wouldn't warrant a purchase-but if you have nothing else to rent and are in a mood for a mediocre action flick with nekkid bits, than Art of War is up your alley. 6/10 "},{"Title":"More than I expected.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I want to say that this movie is better than I thought. For me, I think it's like half Mission  Impossible and half Lethal Weapon.If you like action movie, see this film. And you will know what I mean. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining government mystery action movie.","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"   I wasn't expecting much but a fun little movie to watch, which is probably what made me enjoy it so much. I was surprised at how good this movie was, it was full of clever trickery, good action without being too outlandish, a lot of twists, a good story and good cinematography.Definitely a good popcorn movie for a rainy day. One of the best movies I've seen in a few years. "},{"Title":"Mediocre until nearly the end.  Last half hour a total waste of time.","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is one of those movies you just ride along with for the entertainment value.  Unfortunately the last half hour devolves, literally, into a real groaner.It begins with a predictable plot (you'll not only make the bad guys within 10 minutes, but you'll experience déjà vu throughout--yes, you *have* seen this before) and continues with lackluster performances and direction. And what's with this Faster than a speeding bullet, leaps tall buildings in a single bound&#133; business?  The Superman gig made sense in The Matrix.  Here it's just silly. And exactly why does Matiko take off all her clothes (including her dopey glasses) to drop a bug, yet *keep* her handbag?Throughout the final battle scene I found myself repeatedly groaning aloud.  So were the combatants, and perhaps for the same reason.  Couldn't have been physical pain, since Snipes already dug a scalpel an inch into his shoulder with nary a flicker--didn't even stop chatting.  Clearly it wasn't effort either.  But the final corridor scene simply has to be seen to be believed-a lifeless, blue clone of Matrix.  I felt cheated when they faced each other (prone on the floor of course) and forgot to say You're out. You are too. The last half hour also bores us with a series of pointless and confusing flashbacks and Matiko idiotically stumbling around the UN building for a *long* time.  And let's not forget the labored, gratuitous gore and soft porn throughout. This movie is just box office fodder and not even tasty at that.  I give this movie a 5 for the first three quarters and a 1 for the last=4.  "},{"Title":"A Skillful Thriller","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Wesley Snipes plays Neil Shaw, a United Nations secret agent who is framed for killing the Chinese Ambassador. With the help of a woman who knows too much, Shaw has to question whose on his side and who his enemies are. THE ART OF WAR is a skilful thriller with a good script and some very amazing action sequences. Director Christian Duguay has made a well crafted film. Good Montreal and New York locations. 9 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Very, Very Predictable","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Its not that I didn't like The Art of War. The action sequences were good and I am personally a fan of Wesley Snipes. The problem here is the fact that this film is so predictable that it becomes silly. Figuring out storylines and plot twists is not something I am either good at or enjoy doing, but this film leaves nothing to the imagination, and that is disappointing. I had all of the story figured halfway through, which made actually watching the action unfold boring and disappointing. Art of War is formulatic to a fault, and offered nothing new in the way of cinematic elements. If you've seen The Fugutive, Matrix and any number of dozens of other action films, you've seen this one. I was disappointed. "},{"Title":"Can I please have my money back?","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Good production, good direction, interesting story, clever plot twists, characters that you care about and want to follow. All or certainly almost all of these are the qualities found in most good movies. My opinion is that almost none are present in `The Art of War.'The staging is such that most of the time you are trying to see through the fast cutting and fades to make out what is happening. The plot is basically unbelievable and too predictable. The characters are all caricatures (except for the FBI agent, who I thought was the only interesting element in the movie), and what's with these guys jumping off of 50 or 100 foot buildings without even thinking about it?It is very strange to me is that this movie -- which has at its base the Asian culture and philosophy -- does not delve into Asian culture at all. The exceptions being the cliche pretty girl, triad gangs, slavery sweatshops and sex clubs fronted by food stores which appear in the movie for no apparent reason. If I were Asian, I think I might feel abused and insulted by the producers of the film.I'm sorry I paid to purchase this DVD. This was definitely a renter and not a keeper. "},{"Title":"Good action- good money, no action -no money ?","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I thought the movie was all right, some good action scenes, a  fairly good story although somewhat predictable. However, I found something a little odd... The final scene Somewhere in France is filmed indoors (in a soundstage) although it's supposed to be an exterior shot, and well... it looks bad ! You can clearly see that this scene was shot inside - I mean the sunshine was no stronger than my desk lamp for instance...  -(   My question is, did they run out of money ? All the special effects and stunts must have cost a bundle, and then when they needed one tiny exterior shot with no action. They could only afford an interior shot -and a poor one at that !!!  A shame.   They should have called it Somewhere in Ohio and filmed it on location instead !  -)))My two cents... "},{"Title":"An enjoyable flick that makes great use of visual imagery","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The plot is fairly predictable, the twists seen in many other films and yet I still enjoyed watching this. The imagery, especially with glass and mirrors, was used to good effect.Snipes (Shaw) was good in his role, coming across as a self-assured professional suddenly finding himself floundering after a series of incidents leaves him without the protection he had become accustomed to.Matiko (Julia) and Archer (Hooks) both slipped into the required persona with ease, making very believable but diametrically opposite characters, one naive, the other very worldly-wise.For me, however, the film was stolen by Michael Biehn (Bly) whenever he appeared. He revealed far greater depth of character, from joker to professional, leaving Shaw often appearing two-dimensional in comparison.The action was good, the end scene with Bly and Shaw in particular. However, the final ending was far too predictable and weakened the film. Would have been far better if the film had ended on a stronger note. "},{"Title":"a good movie to watch.","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It was a good movie to watch and the suspense and story was a thrilling one and I do recomend it to see it. I do like Wesley Snipes and of course Anne Archer she is a good actress. The other women in the film is good aswell.  see it and buy it. I will do it later in England.  "},{"Title":"Nothing new here","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The CIA/United Nations has a top secret Impossible Missions Force/ espionage team which it employs to obtain, against incredible odds, information which it can use as leverage against unfriendly powers. The team's highly resourceful point man, Ethan Hunt/Neil Shaw (Tom Cruise/Wesley Snipes), is being hunted for an assassination he didn't commit. Aided only by the one beautiful woman who believes him to be innocent, Hunt/Shaw has little time in which to prove his innocence and trap the guilty insider.This film isn't rubbish, but as my outline of the story indicates, it has the same basic premise as Mission Impossible. There's nothing new here. Wesley Snipes puts in a very steady performance in the role of Wesley Snipes. I generally enjoy his films and I have to say that this one was no exception. However, with nothing novel to offer, it's very much a film for a quiet Monday night. Some of you might even decide to wait for the video. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable action romp","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Interesting storyline involving conspiracy and betrayal with a colourful chinese setting - not too complicated, but also not too simplistic you're bored after 5 minutes. The stunts, while somewhat unbelievable, were well choreographed and helped the pace along nicely. OK, so you can pick fault with it, but if you're prepared to not take it too seriously, then you'll be rewarded with a good, enjoyable thriller which is not at all predictable. Take it for what it is - a vehicle for Snipes to create possibly his best performance of recent years, and you won't be disappointed, but expect something deeper and more meaningful and you won't like it. As far as action thrillers go, this is pretty high up the list though. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Any real potential gone in first 30 minutes","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I went to this film in hopes that it would be one of those good Wesley Snipes action movies that we've all come to know and love.  Unfortunately I was disappointed.  I'll admit there are some good action scenes in it, but the movie, taken as a whole, approaches an almost ridiculous level.  The plot tries to be complicated and very intelligent, but it just comes off as silly, contrived and depending on how well you are at reading movies, predictable.  Simply put, this movie isn't very good, and you'd be remiss if you chose it over the many other worthwhile offerings there are in the action movie genre. "},{"Title":"I've seen more grace in a prison rape","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  this movie sucks! don't waste your time unless your in the mood to puke because your watching something so bad! This movie is just plain trite, and filled with poorly executed and overtkill gratouitous violence. So, for the love of god, don't watch this movie "},{"Title":"General comment","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This was a pretty good 'guy-blows-up-a-lot-of-stuff' flick that was typical in content and story line but fun nevertheless. Snipes is as he always is, a brilliant star stuck inside an actor's body, while Biehn didn't seem to experiment with his character but chose rather to simply present it as is. Martial Arts fans will be amused to watch Snipes kick serious Asian butt in a technique of combat that Asians are famous for but, besides the rather predictable outlay and some questionable stunts, The Art of War was good value for action movie-buffs! "}{"Title":"*sigh*","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I was disappointed at this farcical affair, with a predictable plot and poor performances, not to mention one scene that was so blatantly flogged from the Matrix I couldn't help scoffing out loud. Wesley Snipes plays a UN agent and finds himself mixed up in a conspiracy involving US - China relations blah blah snore snore groan...Snipes was more active than usual, but showed no real depth and seemed to enjoy most of all jumping of high buildings, a stunt repetitious to nauseum. There were some interesting screen-play elements, the memory flashbacks most notable here. Overall pretty poor really, 4/10. "},{"Title":"real good","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie uses an excellent story,and the acting and action fights and choreography are real good. It uses some elements from movies like Matrix, yeah, so what, it doesnt matter. The story is the best of it, the directing by Christian Duguay is superb, since the movie The assignment, he just gets better at what he does. This movie is not a landmark though is just a real good action movie with a real good story.  "},{"Title":"What Is This Movie On About?","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I cant say much about this film.The reason is i didnt enjoy it at all yeah the cliches,twists & action did play minor roles in this blatant movie,but never have i see so many Boring Cliches,Confusing Twists,and Extremely Unrealistc Action in my life.Basically this movie had many Gadgets like in Mission Impossible,People jumping and flying all over the place like in Batman,the weather was as if shot in London,and never have i seen so much bullc**p scenes in my life.Honestly the scenes were that bad,the movie all put together WASNT a disaster,but it was a hell of a disappointment with such a good idea. Ive also noticed so many bloopers in this movie,like when the asian spy female,gets caught by Wesley,and she gets pushed to the floor,and is standing there for 2 seconds staring at the floor waiting for him to hit her,many times people would stare at the camera,and the jumping from building to building scenes were pathetic. Now ill get to the good points,it had lots of detailed action and violent scenes,and the plot was excellent,but disappointly badly acted out. I expected Wesley to do better,and the character didnt suit Wesley at all.Overall i give THE ART OF WAR 5/10.GOOD POINTS OF FILM Excellent Plot/Few Good Action Scenes.BAD POINTS OF FILM Very Unprepared/ Many Bloopers/ Highly Unrealistic/ Very Confusing Plot. "},{"Title":"The Art of Whore","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The summary above has probably already been used by a ton of critics to describe this movie. As long as Wesley Snipes is willing to sell his talents and screen presence to the highest bidder (what other motive could there be) to appear in such stuff, he deserves that description. A few attractive sets, stunts, and pruriently engaging scenes of bare boobs did not merit my four dollars and two hours.Although I think Marie Matiko's a babe, when are we going to see an action movie sequence where the male hero (for purely businesslike reasons, of course) has to take off all of HIS clothes? I know it would have woken up the women at my theater.  "},{"Title":"Confused...","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  For those who don't feel like reading my whole review, here's what I thought; entertaining, has some cool moments, but slightly confusing. Nothing groundbreaking.Snipes is good as the main character but I found it somewhat difficult to keep up with the twists and turns that the plot takes. Mind you, I'm not exactly the sharpest knife in the drawer when it comes to putting two-and-two-together in movies (Mission Impossible took me 5 times to get the WHOLE thing) but I consider myself reasonably competent at it. Regardless, I still got lost. So did my friends, so they were no help.The Matrix-esque bullet-trail things were cool but a bit too much of me-too-ism for me to appreciate them more fully.Oh well. My recommendation; solid action movie, nothing special though. It belongs closer to the top of your To Watch list. "},{"Title":"All dressed up with no where to go","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Art of War is one of the strangest experiences I've ever had.  Some movies can give people mixed feelings; I have had this one stirring through my head for a week.  On the surface, the movie seems good.  It is well made, it has a good plot, and possesses great acting.  But none of that can seem to save this tedious movie.The plot is as complex as Wesley Snipes's kung fu.  Snipes plays as Neil Shaw, a United Nations spy whose job is so secret that his boss doesn't even know who he is.  He is sent on a routine mission to eavesdrop on the ambassador to China by placing a small microphone on his lapel.Everything is going as planned until someone fires a bullet through the ambassador's head right in the middle of his speech.  Shaw sees the assassin and gives chase.  Because Shaw's agency is so secret though, he is mistaken for the killer and thrown in jail.  While he's being transported to the city court, the secret assassin frees Shaw and kills the guards to make it look like Shaw escaped.  Shaw has now been set up with even more murders.The main problem with this movie is that the movie tries to mix a smart political thriller with a stupid chase movie.  Because the movie deals with the United Nations, it is packed full of more foreign policy than CNN.  In any other movie this thriller plot would be enough, but it doesn't come across as smart.  The movie has a basic thriller plot but shows off like a stupid action movie.  This tug of war between intelligence and stupidity continues throughout the film.  The Art of War has a real identity problem as it tries to be smart, but just can't make it.As far as action goes, this movie falls short of what I expected.  The movie is filled with great chase sequences, which are one of the few things it does well.  One such sequence has Shaw jumping from a moving car to a big rig wearing handcuffs.  As far as Wesley Snipes's signature kung fu goes, it is very disappointing.  Snipes's fight sequences are well shot, but are extremely short and there are only a few of them to begin with.  So, most of the movie is filled with boring story-building scenes which are hyped up with dramatic music.  When will directors figure out that putting dramatic music in during non-dramatic scenes just seems awkward? But the most disappointing thing of all is its lack of originality.  The plot is old and recycled from dozens of old movies. Most of the movie's plot comes from one of Snipes's previous films, US Marshalls.  Seeing how this movie was produced by the same people who made Battlefield Earth, I'm not too surprised.  A scene later in the movie is a direct rip-off of the subway `bullet-time' scene in The Matrix.  The only thing new is its dramatic style, which will amaze even the most sophisticated film critic.  The movie is shot with bright, vibrant colors that stand out amidst the dark backgrounds.  The camera moves and ducks like no movie I have ever seen.  The filmmakers also use a lot of wide angle lenses, lenses that bind light to make the camera see more than normal.  This effect can be kind of nauseating, especially when most of the movie is shot like this.  Even so, cinematography itself is reason enough to see this movie.But despite all these problems, I enjoyed this movie.  It may be really boring in some places, but some of the chase sequences will wake the audience up if they fall asleep.  If you want action, this may not be the movie for you.  It is filled with talk of foreign policy and UN chatter. If you don't mind the overdone plot, or the lack of originality, this can be an enjoyable movie.  While it is not a good movie, it is one I thought was worth $7.50.    "},{"Title":"`The Art of War` is a treat for smart and `die-hard` fans","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  `The Art of War` is one of this season`s hidden gems.It may sound crazy but the new Wesley Snipes vehicle offers more substance and philosophy than most of this year`s slate.This movie enters the streak of great Wesley Snipes movies that was initiated by Norrington`s `Blade`.This time around Mr.Snipes provides us with a sharp B-actioner that stimulates movie buff memories of the eighties.At the same time `The Art of War` opens a couple of important political issues.`The Art of War` is the refreshment for contemporary action fare.Of course only true action afficionados can understand its true poetry. Christian Duguay`s picture takes us back to the world of exploitation aestethics which means that all the cliches are employed.Most of the landmarks seen in the past actioners rampage all over the big screen here.Fans should be especially glad to see 80s cliches like heroes that risk their lives for no apparent reason,women that throw away their fancy clothes so they could fight comfortably and finally,the explicit scenes of violence performed agaist women and old people.Audience that can`t notice `hommage` to John Irvin`s `Eminent Domain` or people who don`t feel an urge to see Michael Biehn molesting civilians (like he did in James Cameron`s `The Abyss`) should skip this one.The refreshment comes in the form of edgy,violent and brutally simple story with no plot which is told in a competent way.This concept is miles away from the politically correct quasi-witted mainstream actioners.`The Art of War` is a valediction for `die-hard` action fans who loved Joel Silver movies before he became hip and legit with `The Matrix`. Let`s be real,people started noticing Silver because of The Wachowskis. His true fans were always regarded as supporters of rough,dirty and high-bodycount action fare.Well,`The Art of War` is a movie that was made for us,the faithful Joel Silver fans...`The Art of War` is well-directed by Christian Duguay,one of those rare contemporary authors that have a shaped body of work.Duguay should be crowned as the king of mid-budget movies that either enter the darkness of theatres near you or end up in the obscurity of videostores.His opus includes two `Scanners`-sequels and a couple of pretty good flicks- `Live Wire` (New Line release with Pierce Brosnan),Philip K.Dick`s `Screamers` and `The Assignement`(also a hidden gem).Duguay certainly lacks Frank Capra`s divinity but at the same time he has all the efficiency of Don Siegel.He also knows the genre by heart and his editing shapes the dramatic grammar of his features.For example,the action scenes in `The Art of War` are consisted of chases,shoot-outs nd minor martial arts duels.Each one of these situations is edited in a different way so that the same substance could fit the narrative blueprint of the modern cinema.Snipes` radical African-American involvement gives this movie a strong political point.Like every `Amen Ra` labeled feature (`Amen Ra` is Snipes` production company) this one also has a strong balck supremacist background.Unlike `Shaft`remake,`The Art of War` represents the true revival of `blaxploitation`.This movie is the ultimate proof of BLACK IS COOL tag-line that can`t belong to Singleton`s shameful `Shaft` remake.Politically `The Art of War` resembles Ridley Scott`s `Gladiator`.In both movies slaves (Russell Crowe`s Maximus) or ex-slaves (black heroes) shape the historical path of their homeland and choose between empire and republic.In `Gladiator` Maximus creates a new Roman republic while in `The Art of War` Neil Shaw establishes America as an empire.`The Art of War` is made for moviegoers that grinded their teeth on early McTiernan and everlasting Shane Black.So,go and see `The Art of War`, the true symbol of American genre cinema that can`t be faded by Singleton`s `Shaft` or McQuarrie`s `The Way of the Gun`... Others beware     "},{"Title":"A good idea spoiled...","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is a movie which has a very interesting starting point, but in the end, it just falls apart, and becomes predictable.  This is sad, because for the first half, I really enjoyed it, the cast and the photo are good, the direction is not bad at all...  But I still feel Duguay is on the right track, and I liked The Assignment more than this, so I know he can make it happen. "},{"Title":"I may not know about art, but I know what I don't like","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Screenwriter Wayne Beach probably wanted to make a smart, politically savvy action film that addressed the issues of Sino-American relations, the same way Three Kings took on the Gulf War.  Instead The Art of War is a racist, sexist, cliched action film with more holes in it than Swiss Cheese.The plot (what there is of it) involves the assassination of a Chinese diplomat and the UN operative (Wesley Snipes) who is set up to take the fall for it.It's real easy to spot the bad guys--they're mostly Chinese.  And only one major Chinese character is unquestionably good, but she's merely a sex object.There's almost no dialogue, and what little there is tries way too hard to be clever, to the point of making no sense.  It reminded me of the dialogue of Saturday morning superhero cartoons, only with more expletives.And am I the only person sick to death of seeing a Matrix homage every time a gun gets fired in the final act of a movie?I give the film 6 stars out of 10, but the sixth star is only earned by the presence of Snipes and Donald Sutherland, both capable actors with declining careers, being forced to do garbage like this to make a living.  "},{"Title":"no art in The Art of War","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Let's play a little logic game.  True or false If `art' is equal to `creative perfection', and `war' is equal to `horrendous dialogue', then `The Art of War' is equal to `the perfection of horrendous dialogue'.  The answer, both logically and literally, is true.`The Art of War', Hollywood's latest foray into the action genre, displays director Christian Duguay's passion for guns and bombs, and his brazen confidence to use a Technocrane for every shot possible.  (Hey, those things are expensive... but so are good actors&#133; oh, the choices one must make.) Mr. Duguay also likes wide-angle lenses and women's breasts, either at the same time or just alternating back and forth between the two.  And he must absolutely LOVE Anne Archer and Donald Sutherland, or for that matter anyone with a speaking part, since he apparently didn't want to hurt their feelings by telling them to re-do takes because they SUCKED.  I haven't seen acting this bad since George Lucas decided he was a director.  Did I say that out loud?Action-wise, `The Art of War' retains enough intensity and drive to be moderately interesting, however I was disappointed by its refusal to allow more martial arts instead of just bullets, although the audience seemed to enjoy the splooches of blood and guts.  One act of pure visceral violence received actual cheering and clapping.  But, my point is that obviously Wesley Snipes can do karate, so why doesn't he do more?  The opening sequence teases us into thinking all the fights will be engaging and smartly choreographed, but then the movie gets started and, well, then they're not.Plot-wise, this film equals-and possibly surpasses-`The World is Not Enough' in lack of purpose and excess of down-and-dirty obfuscation.  What's it about?  Well, explaining it is like reading the opening pages of a classical Russian novel, with three pages of characters and no sense of how they connect to one another.  There are some bad Chinese guys and some good Chinese guys and there are some good Americans and some bad Americans. They're mad about a trade agreement that is discussed at length during every scene featuring dialogue, however I couldn't tell you for the life of me what it entails or why the movie centers around it.  There's a secret agent who is framed for killing a Chinese ambassador, and then there's a Chinese interpreter who complains a lot and then gets locked in a bathroom with a cell phone that's low on batteries.During what seemed like the two longest hours of my life there are also various acts of violence; stabbings, punctures, slashings, chokings, shootings, beatings, breakings, snappings, crunchings, decapitations, and, everyone's favorite, the classic shard-of-glass-in-the-neck.  Actually, `The Art of War,' despite its name, is not what I would call a violent movie. Instead, I would say that during parts that usually gravitate toward violence, it gravitated&#133; and then smashed onto the surface of Planet Carnage.With regards to the acting, I have much to say but none of it is nice. Donald Sutherland looks like he showed up five minutes after waking up, ran his fingers through his hair, quickly read over his lines, and then ran off to do `Space Cowboys'.  Ann Archer displays an impressive talent for reading lines without any inflection whatsoever, and Wesley Snipes has maybe 20 lines throughout the whole film, all stolen from the trash can of the `Rambo III' scripting room.To conclude, `The Art of War' presumes too much, even going so far as to include `art' in its title.  It presumes that a convoluted story and even more contrived and tortuous dialogue will be enough to interest viewers while they're not watching guns and explosives and the occasional boob.  It presumes that as a contemporary action movie it must drench itself in technology and ridiculous gadgetry, yet refuse to be imaginative with ackwardly placed flashbacks that are in slo-mo grainy black and white.  And finally, it presumes that flashy photography and gaudy sets will make up for the fact that the only thing happening is the squandering of a lot of money. "}{"Title":"Not the best Snipes vehicle, but a good contender","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Watching some movies created outside of the core Hollywood system sometimes tends to make many mainstream moviegoers realize how spoiled they've become from watching years and years of stereotypical, slam-bang actioners. We not only require the obligatory reckless car chases, building explosions, and martial arts contests; we expect for a movie to impress us over the last one we may have seen from that genre. This consideration is helpful when consuming The Art of War, a slick action thriller that breaks some rules basic to the blockbuster formula to which so many Hollywood writers and directors subscribe. The resulting feature is surprisingly long on characterization and relationships, but may be disappointingly short on pure action for some fans' tastes. Nevertheless, this film is definitely worth the price of admission. Versatile actor Snipes has had the ambition and design on becoming a bonafide box office movie star; a draw by himself...and through an interesting number of hits and misses, he's done just that. Now, to see a Snipes movie is, with few exceptions, to see a certain level and caliber of entertainment that appeals to the masses. He is able to shift effortlessly from dramatic roles (Waiting To Exhale) to comedic roles (White Men Can't Jump) to action-adventure roles (Passenger 57). His masterful display of martial arts prowess in the cult favorite, Blade, has earned him fantasy hero status as well. He's had his share of dogs, like Demolition Man, Boiling Point, and Money Train, but what major male Hollywood star hasn't? Even lesser-acclaimed roles sometimes reveal new depth, such as Sugar Hill and One Night Stand. So, the question arises whether The Art of War will fall on the plus or minus column of the Snipes film appreciation list. The answer depends on your qualifications for intelligent-yet-entertaining actioners. Together with a mostly Canadian team of filmmakers, Snipes has co-executive produced a mostly-intriguing tale of a United Nations covert operations team that specializes in influencing political situations with world leaders to our government's advantage. When Snipes, as agent Shaw, is framed for the assassination of a Chinese official, he is pursued on all sides, but quickly turns the tables to uncover deeper levels of terrorism, corruption, and double-crosses within the intelligence arena, including his own agency. The murder takes place before an audience gathered for a U. S. /China trade announcement, which could mean billions of dollars in commerce. Throughout the movie Snipes is solid and reliable, possessing the kind of confidence we've grown to trust over the years. Chief among Snipes' interactives is Anne Archer as UN official Eleanor Hooks, Maury Chaykin as FBI officer Capella (in a marvelously subdued performance), and newcomer Marie Matiko as Julia. Julia, on hand at the Chinese official's assassination, becomes Shaw's unwitting assistant in his quest to get to the bottom of the plot to stop trade arrangement. Matiko is quite likeable and sincere in her role, and has a genuine chemistry with Snipes. The Art of War is directed by Christian Duguay, little-known in Hollywood circles, while the story comes from Wayne Beach, who shares writer credit with Simon Davis Barry. Beach also wrote another Snipes vehicle, Murder at 1600, a film that carries traits similar to The Art of War. In both films, Snipes is at the center of highly-sensitive political controversy, involving matters of national security. And in both films, Snipes is paired with a female that must be slowly won over to his side. There are action sequences here that are expertly executed, but they are quick and to the point. The norm in mainstream Hollywood is to draw out these scenes as long as possible, destroying as much property as is humanly possible. Additionally, some scenes in this film don't pay off the way we expect them to; just when we think the shot composition is setting us up for someone to suddenly jump into the frame...nothing happens. It's a refreshing change...but is it too sensible for today's audiences? In short, The Art of War is a good tune-up film for Wesley Snipes, while we wait on his next blockbuster, whether it be Blade II or something else. It's sensible pacing and thoughtful characterization may be too tame for some, though I think the quick-but-effective fight scenes balance the film out. Time will tell if this is a hit or miss for Snipes, but regardless of the outcome, this movie stands on its own merits. "},{"Title":"Spy Thriller with a subtle tone and a lot of action","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Mission Impossible 2 was this year's high energy overloaded spy action film. Everything was over the top and above and beyond normal action standards. The Art of War is a spy action thriller that has all the action but doesn't come at you with the over the top feel. This film is very subtle. Wesley Snipes stars as Shaw, a secret agent for the UN that wants out of his job. His boss Anne Archer doesn't want him to quit and has a last job for him. He is hired to survey a UN meeting that will reveal a new trade agreement with China and the U.S. But when things go completely wrong, Shaw is the only one man suspect for the crime. He's is the only one who can find out what's going on before the trade agreement falls through. Wesley does his job perfectly being the very cool, very smart secret agent. He holds the film as everyone else does the best with what they have. The only film I can compare this to is Assassins. They both have a lot of action but it comes in subtle ways. Most guns used are silenced for an added tension feel. Also the both contain very few explosions. The only thing that this film has over Assassins that ups the action level is the fights. There are a few good martial arts fights in this one. But the one scene that blew my mind and that will most be remembered is a the hallway shootout in near the end of the film. You think the two characters will drop there guns and begin a fist fight but they don't. They start shooting at each other with silenced weapons. It has a little Matrix feel as the scene is slowed up so it's able to see the bullets buzz by. In the end The Art of War is a very cool and style spy action thriller. It has enough action to hold people down before the big Wesley film, Blade 2, comes out. This an different kind of action film and it works well.   "},{"Title":"a great action filled movie with great twists and turns.","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I found this movie a great action movie that involved Jackie Chang like moves. A great move all round. I expected some twists and turns but some I was baffled by. Snipes with his best movie yet.All though some people thought it was a bad movie I found it enjoyable. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not even close to Mission Impossible","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Art Of War *1/2(out of 4)The filmmakers really wanted to turn this into a franchise. The ending blatantly calls for a sequel and just makes the movie even worse. I couldn't help but laugh at the ending since there will never be a sequel and in 10 years it's going to look even dumber. It's like if there had never been a Back To The Future 2 even with the first one ending with `To be continued.' Going in to the theater, I wanted to like this movie. The first 20 minutes or so started all right but it was downhill from there.This movie has some good action sequences but there aren't enough. It tries to be an action packed summer flick with great comic relief. The action works on a certain level but 85 % of the attempted humor falls flat. Michael Biehn was the only one who had funny lines and unfortunately they all came in the first 20 minutes. Wesley Snipes was only funny when if he was deadpanning a line but the rest of the time he was just stupid which was displayed very well in his conversation about McDonalds.Snipes stars as Neil Shaw, a secret agent for the UN or something, who gets framed for the murder of a famous Chinese guy. That's about all the movie wants you to know. Snipes is only adequate in the lead role. His best scenes are ones where he's shooting people or snapping their necks. The two good performances come from Donald Sutherland and Michael Biehn but their screen time adds up to about 10 minutes combined. The rest of the cast is awful. Notable Marie Matiko as the woman on the run with Snipes. She gives what may be the most annoying performance ever. And those stupid glasses she wears in practically every scene don't help at all. Anne Archer is also surprisingly annoying but in her own way. Her voice becomes unbelievably tedious to listen to after her first scene. I would compare her voice to fingers scratching on a chalkboard. After each of scenes I would pray that it was her last but of cource she's in it until the end.However there are 4 or 5 solid action scenes. The two best are the chase sequences in the beginning and near the end. They were both unbelievably well directed. These scenes are far too good to be stuck in this load of garbage.Another complaint of mine was all the things stolen from the first Mission Impossible, straight down to glasses that have hidden cameras in them. And the whole `surprise' ending was identical to Mission Impossible. Even the lap top scenes were reminiscent of the retrieval of the NOC list in Mission Impossible.  "},{"Title":"I haven't laughed so hard at The End... of a movie!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Sloppy, lazy, incoherent, movie making. This movie betrayed itself at every turn. How could this plot be predictable when it offered almost no information except through serendipity. Everything just seemed to happen! No logic no sense just stuff happening! The makers forgot that intelligent folks may end up seeing this movie.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst films of 2000","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  In an already bad year for movies, The Art of War ranks among the very worst. Wesley Snipes once had a flourishing career, and may flourish yet again. But right now he is in a bad slump that has reached its zenith with this tripe.I won't bother to try to describe the needlessly complicated story to you. Let me just point a few of the MANY things that make this film not only bad, but amateurish. Twice that I counted the camera catches actors looking at the camera having missed their cues. Why this wasn't edited out is beyond me.The final showdown is a real howler. Snipes, our hero (of course), and the bad guy are battling it out in the lobby of the U.N.(!!!) building. They stand mere feet apart shooting at one another and duck out of the way of the bullets. Then, as they flail on the floor across from one another, they continue shooting at each other and missing!!! You may ask where the security guards are during all of this? Well, they have cleverishly been lured away from the area but once the shooting begins they never reappear!!Wasn't there ANYONE on the set to tell the director how stupid all of this was? Didn't Snipes beg and plead to at least try to make things credible? Perhaps he realized it was too late by then anyway. Or, even worse, perhaps he was just in it for the money and could care less the kind of product he is representing here.Either way this film is a total piece of junk and would be worthy as the worst film of the year..... had Battlefield Earth never seen the light of day. "},{"Title":"Wesley still has the stuff","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Wesley Snipes is back better than ever in The Art Of War, a movie that is so good it deserves to be among the top ten of the summer.There are many reasons why I like this movie. The cast is the number one reason. When I first saw Donald Sutherland in this movie, I knew it would be a thing of beauty. He brings credibility above and beyond what it needs; in other words, he makes a good movie, better. Anne Archer is one actress you can always count on to give a good performance. The Art Of War turned out to be a montage of The Fugitive series and Enemy Of The State. While this is the only negative thing about this film, it didn't deter me from enjoying it to my heart's content.There are many other things about The Art Of War  that I really enjoyed including the high-tech wizadry, action-filled sequences but the best thing about this film above everything else was the story. The Art Of War had beautiful twists toward the end of the film. In addition, there are scenes in this movie that are so good they must be seen to believe they are that good. On a scale of 1-10 The Art Of War is a solid 7. "},{"Title":"Not a very good movie, but entertaining nonetheless","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  First of all after seeing all those comments saying that it was ridiculous that the U.N. had its own MI-like team, there's something you've missed. It's a three people team paid under the table by diverting U.N. funding by a single person, and two persons are aware of it's existence. It's quite far from MI or any sort of government agency.This said, let's move on to the movie. The plot was predictable and quite lame, the characters mostly uninteresting and the movie in general quite a mess. But if you take scenes on an individual basis, there are many that make the movie worth seeing, especially the end gunfight. Almost on the level with a Woo movie although it wasn't as graceful as a Woo gunfighting ballet. The running chase scenes were much more interesting than the ones in The Matrix, although the directing gave more power to the scenes in the Matrix. And some other, less important scenes (like the breaking of the mirror in the hideout) are memorable. However, the hand to hand fight at the beginning of the movie was way too fast and frenetic to be really enjoyed.Also I really liked their coding and ways of communicating.All in all, I give it a 6, and although it will never be part of my collection, I still recommend seeing it if you're in need of muscled entertainment. "},{"Title":"Builds up but doesn't deliver","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  _The Art of War_ shapes up for the first hour and a half as a solid action picture.  It doesn't break the bounds of the genre or anything, but it looks like it will entertain. In the last half-hour to forty-five minutes, the movie takes that promise and smashes it to pieces, rendering the movie a pointless exercise whose sole real message is Dialogue matters.The plot involves some major suspension of disbelief. Wesley Snipes is a UN covert operative, strange not because of Snipes, who has the requisite panache and physical presence, but because the UN simply doesn't have the power to do what it does in this movie.  This is a minor problem, however, and easily overcome, after which the plot moves along nicely, if somewhat murkily, into a man-on-an-island plot where a trade treaty with China hangs in the balance of some evil doings, for which Snipes is set up to take the fall.Fine, so far.  The dialogue is hokey, but the movie isn't relying on dialogue, but on tension, as potential allies are eliminated and the trap closes on Snipes.  It's when the movie takes a turn for home that things go to pieces. Scenes of honest tension are replaced by jarring flashbacks that serve no purpose, and the revelation of the Supreme Baddie is laden not with shock but schlock.  The scene is devoid of drama and motivations are silly and cliched where they are explained at all.  The closing action scenes, shot in darkness and silhouette to show the director's mastery of shadow or confuse and annoy the audience, I'm not sure which, are drawn out to self-indulgent tedium rather than dramatic effect.With passable writing and a tighter closing scene, _The Art of War_ could have been at least mediocre.  As it was, the script and the director lost focus entirely, turning what could have been a taut, interesting suspense movie into a crashing bore. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie was good if you are looking for a cliched, shoot em up, big explosions, and lots of special effects.  But if you are looking for anything more then you should go some place else.  This movie doesn't have much of a story line and the plot is a little weak.  Everything that did happen in the movie, that was supposed to be shocking or plot twisting could be seen coming a mile a way.  But again if you are just looking for a shoot em up movie then The Art of War is the movie for you. "}{"Title":"Cookie-cutter","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I was encouraged to see this film by an interview w/ Snipes in which he claims, among other things, that he took pains to portray the protagonist as a simple, understated man. Interested in seeing Snipes create a new wrinkle in his standard action-flick fare, I bellied up to the ticket counter-- only to be sorely disappointed. From start to finish this is the same ol', same ol'-- predictable plot, shallow characters, and a cocky, wisecracking Snipes.  Though there are some good scenes, there is nothing in this film that makes it stand out as Snipes implied it would. I look forward to Blade II, a continuation of the only Snipes action vehicle where Snipes exhibits a significantly different persona-- and still whups a*s. "},{"Title":"Did not engage the emotions","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I liked the trailer for Art of War and had expected to like the film.  However it did not engage the emotions.  I never cared for any character.  I never rooted for the winner, never boo'd the bad guys.  I never saw any reason why the hero might begin to like the heroine at any time.  In fact she was constantly nasty to him.  Also, forgive me, there isn't any other way to say this, this heroine is not pretty. I've seen her in other movies and she didn't look pretty then either.  How pretty she looks to Asians I can't say.There was a lot of nice cinematograpy and other good technical work like foly.  Nice to keep those guys in business. "},{"Title":"Good, old-fashioned Action-Thriller","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The ART OF WAR is a good, old-fashioned Action-Thriller about terrorist attacking the United Nations. Without the usual Happy-End this movie would have been the best I have seen since THE MATRIX. Some People might say that the story is bad, but who needs a good story in an action movie. "},{"Title":"The Art of Moviemaking","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie has all the standard special effects, action and violence one can stomach.  The story line is a little hard to swallow and the bottom line is pitiful.  If our country were left to the kind of characters portrayed in this movie, God help us.Hollywood would have us believe that corruption is running rampart, especially where politics are concerned.  If we have these kinds of criminal minds at work for us, we need to concentrate on a whole new govenment rather than watching movies.  And I love movies.The Art of War, if you don't try to analyze it, is at best entertaining. "},{"Title":"a.k.a. The Ancient Art of Bad Film Making","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I have no proof, nothing to back this up, but Director Christian Duguay, and Writer Wayne Beach must have gone to really lousy schools.  I strongly urge both of them to leave the film industry as soon as possible.The film has some good concepts at the start, but immediately goes into bad execution as soon as it finds a way to do so.  Wesley Snipes somehow got caught up in this script and ends up playing a man that no one will care about.  This movie tries to be political, but instead turns into layer upon layer of cliche with no message. Maybe if it had had some heartfelt narration, telling more story than the silent expressions used throughout the film, it may have been better.  Who really knows? If you need to see an action film, wait for the next one and save your money.  "},{"Title":"Convoluted plot, not enough action","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Granted plot is not really what matters in a movie of this genre, but this one was extremely difficult to follow. I gave up on following it and hoped that the action would make up for it.This was too far and in between though and most of it was Hong Kong style, meaning people kept jumping off ordinarily lethal heights with not even a scratch.Wesley Snipes has a lot of charisma and I would love to see him in something more suited to his skills. "},{"Title":"So much potential wasted","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Warning, possible spoilerI had low expectations going into this movie.  After all, it is a Snipes movie.  When I came out, I found myself disappointed, not by a particularly bad movie, but by a mediocre movie that could have been a pretty good show.The plot obviously needed some work.  Again, this was supposed to be a Wesley Snipes action movie, so don't tell me you saw this because you wanted an inspiring story-line.  The central focus of the United Nations is a weak one, and would have been better replaced as a secret agency that doesn't exist.  The story revolving around relations between China and the Western world isn't so bad an idea.  However it's not exactly at the top of current events so the relevance is a little lost.Background aside, the plot is too close to Mission Impossible to resonate as a unique movie.  Too many plot devices could have easily been altered to produce a more entertaining experience.  The partner being a villain is far too obvious and tired.  Poorly executed.  Not even seeing him die is just telling us they hoped the audience was stupid.  This problem could have easily been solved by *gasp* actually having the guy die and not be the villain!  Is that so much of a stretch?The female lead in the movie provided a great opportunity for a great character.  When she first appears, I immediately thought okay here's Snipes' Asian female counterpart who may or may not be one of the good guys.  Instead, she's just there to provide some distraction and someone for Snipes to talk to when he's stuck trying to decide what to do next. Why waste a perfectly good opportunity to introduce a poor excuse for a romance?The Art of War title could have been used to a much better extent.  Have Snipes' character be well versed in the Sun Tsu text and have him recite snippits of it at the beginning.  Make his troubles revolve around Art of War's principles leading up to a great final confrontation after some hard thinking.  Or just make it a cool title that has nothing to do with the movie except for a psycho's ranting for two minutes of the movie.Snipes' martial arts skills should have been exploited for this film.  The fighting at the beginning of the movie was satisfactory and I was hoping that it would improve throughout the film.  Guess I was hoping for too much. Why have him matched up with geezer Michael Biehn who's clearly no threat to Snipes (except maybe at basketball).Speaking of geezers, Donald Sutherland is another actor who doesn't provide any presence expected from a veteran actor.  He just comes across as a man with no backbone.  The Canadian peace man was a good joke though...Another comment noted the poor language use in the movie and I have to agree.  I don't even speak most of the dialects used in the film but even I could tell most of the Chinese was horrible.  The lead's (Marie Matiko) Cantonese was atrocious.The action sequences were decent but could have been more.  The chase sequence was alright (yeah I know the jumping...), even more so the second time around bringing at least some feeling of intrigue to the film, but was not explored enough to leave a lasting impression.  The Matrix effect was clearly not used properly, intended to give a fancy look to a sequence that could have been more intense using conventional cinematography.Small explanations would have been helpful too like who's apartment was that?  Was it Snipes'?  He DID play basketball just outside...  Was she just a member of the team or was she also his lover?  Or was he just stalking her and pretended to like playing ball there?The Art of War was a film full of potential but ended up letting me down at every turn.  Hey here's an interesting plot twist... oh wait you just took the stupid way out and hoped nobody noticed...  The script just needed a looking over and would have been an entertaining old-school Snipes film. Instead it ended up being an over-budgeted mediocre thriller.  "},{"Title":"The Art of Snore.","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A famous General once described war (to paraphrase) as long periods of boredom punctuated by brief moments of excitement. Pretty much sums up this one. An overly long, tedious film insufficiently relieved by moments of action I've been a fan of Wesley Snipes' for eons and I wound up feeling a little sorry for him on this one. Save your $$$$.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies I've Ever Seen","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Was exciting and hard to understand, like Mission Impossible and the Sixth Sense.  If you like action movies you'll love this one.  It is probably my second favourite  movie ever made, and I've seen a ton of movies. "},{"Title":"A horrible mess with a confusing plot","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie is almost a complete disaster.  Wesley Snipes is one of my favorite actors and I had high hopes for the movie, but the product completed disappointed me.  From the very start the movie became too unbelievable.  Some action scenes were completely unrealistic and impossible (jumping thirty feet down onto hard ground without even a groan).  The movie is supposedly modern-day, yet the technological attributes of the familiar objects in the scenes were completely off the charts (somehow an infrared port on a laptop has the speed of a 100BaseT LAN...).As the movie progressed, things became worse, much worse.  The characters were extremely difficult to comprehend.  The movie tried to introduce a lot of elements in order to insinuate a web of intrigue and deception, but unfortunately it backfired and the result was a net of messy, half-done characters, leaving the viewers trying to figure out who was who and did what.  I myself couldn't understand much of the supposedly finely interwoven plot, there were the UN special agents, the Chinese, the Americans, the triads, a right-wing Nazi and somehow, out of nowhere, there were a bunch of Vietnamese.  For most of the movie, I sat there and tried to sort out what was going on.The ending was one of the cheesiest I've ever had to witness.  First the viewers are forced to imagine a public, world-famous building as a dangerous killing ground, then we are gifted with a quasi-Mission Impossible-esque fighting scene with people dodging bullets.  That was when the movie hit the absolute dirt.  The dying scenes were way, way too deliberately overblown, in a corny attempt to show the pain and the force and whatever the director had in his mind when he was finishing up the movie.All in all, the worst part of the movie was its sorry excuse for a plot, if you've watched Mission Impossible before, you will have the plot figured out fifteen minutes into the movie, I promise. "}{"Title":"This movie is very good!","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  'The Art of War' is very good. It has most of the sequences for a good action movie. The fight sequences were well staged, and the final confrontation between good and evil was handled well. My only concern was that the theme should have been bigger, but besides that caveat 'The Art of War' is very good, and I recommend it! "},{"Title":"A movie where paranoia is a survival skill...","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The movie's title is take from the famous book by Sun Tzu and seems to try to go over most of the teachings of the book in the movie (not literally mind you). While not original in any respect, this is still a good action flick with a fairly good, fairly tight plot. This movie could have simply been called Wesley Snipes Kicks Butt as Snipes uses this movie to remind us he makes a good action star when he is given a good script.Overall its worth your money. "},{"Title":"It's WAY better than critics would let us believe","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  As usual, those fat and out of style critics miss a point. The reviews state that the movie is full of cliches and pointless script, yet these are the same critics that gave the 'X-men' thumbs up??? The movie has a fast story line and unlike most of the action movies this summer, this one actually kept me in suspense. Now of course it has some BAD lines, and parts of the story are a little hard to believe, but for the most part it kept me in the seat, and not looking at my watch thinking when is this crap going to end. Wesley Snipes does his usual tough-guy act it's not an Oscar caliber performance, but we'd never expect it from him. The movie also has some fresh faces on the screen that I found quite refreshing. Marie Matiko is very cute. If any performance that wasn't up to the par it was that of Donald Sutherland. Sorry... I'd rather see Sly Stallone as the Secretary General of the UN. So go on ditching the movie, oh God-like critics, but it will make its millions of dollars even without your help. "},{"Title":"Action flick wrapped around a disturbing plot - not worth it.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  If you can tolerate the notion of the United Nations running a covert operations organization to twist arms of member countries with extortion and murder, enjoy the idea of a UN Sec Gen who would be World Sovereign, and can stand the tedious, meandering plot then by all means go see this movie.Aside from that, it's just an action flick, and a slow one at that. Wesley Snipes has done better work than this. "},{"Title":"Not as disappointing as the rap","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Perhaps my low expectations of the movie before seeing it made me enjoy it more. Or maybe because the movies that have been coming out recently are disappointing, makes this Wesley Snipes action the most exciting picture around. In any case, I believe The Art of War deserves more than the 2/5 stars the local newspaper critic slapped on.The plot is basic, and the outcome is neither unpredictable nor obvious. Wesley Snipes is still the believable hero, following Willie Mays Hayes in Major League, Harlan Regis in Murder at 1600, and Blade, to name a few. Although many say the action is impossible thus unbelievable, it's a movie - most aren't. (MI2?!) The effects and stunts are definitely refreshing and entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Not as disappointing as the rap","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Perhaps my low expectations of the movie before seeing it made me enjoy it more. Or maybe because the movies that have been coming out recently are disappointing, makes this Wesley Snipes action the most exciting picture around. In any case, I believe The Art of War deserves more than the 2/5 stars the local newspaper critic slapped on.The plot is basic, and the outcome is neither unpredictable nor obvious. Wesley Snipes is still the believable hero, following Willie Mays Hayes in Major League, Harlan Regis in Murder at 1600, and Blade, to name a few. Although many say the action is impossible thus unbelievable, it's a movie - most aren't. (MI2?!) The effects and stunts are definitely refreshing and entertaining.  "},{"Title":"been there done that","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  My summary may sound negative... But it's an above average movie. Mega Predictable....just like most action movies i seeBut It didn't have that many slow moments, which is a big plus for me.Action was there...a lot of it i've seen in other movies but it still was able to interest me. And i just went to the movie to get my action fix and it worked )Still liked Blade better though. hasta  "},{"Title":"Quality end of Summer action Movie","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I hadn't read many reviews of this before seeing the movie, but the general concensus is any action movie released at the end of the Summer has to be mediocre at best.  Art of War is surprisingly good.On the surface the plot seems to be the same as Most Wanted, secret agent gets caught and the agency disavows any knowledge of he operative and he has to solve the real crime to clear his name.  But Art of War has extra subtlety involved.  Much of which can't be revealed without spoiling the ending.The action scenes are quite good, with hard hitting martial arts and a few pretty neat stunts.  Although there are a couple of times when belief must be suspended, and one super cheesy gun fight.  Overall I gave it 8/10.   "},{"Title":"Artistically shot and dramatically effective action thriller.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Although the trailers for this film make it seem a little trite, it does have some good content and some really clever dialogue. Mr. Snipes' dramatic choices in character and scenes are some of his best, especially considering that it is an action, political thriller.  His subtlty of emotion is well thought out and aptly performed, bringing the audience in and attracting their empathy without weakening the hero.  The action is shot and performed extremely well, and the look of the film has an artistic flare that is unusual within this venue. The special effects used are some of the most recently popular effects, however, they are used within the context of the scenes to explain and demonstrate what is going on in the scenes, and they are not over used simply for the sake of having visual effects, as some films have recently done.   This film is definitely a good ride and worth the trip and the price.  There are many interesting characters to watch and the relationships between Mr. Snipes and his female co-stars are filled with fire and ice.     "},{"Title":"kinda gave me a headache","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Art of War is an action-packed technothriller with a decidedly Chinese flavor, as the somewhat convoluted plot is tied into the fragile state of Sino-American relations. This was a great role for Wesley Snipes, and the overall cast and acting was solid.The gadgetry is almost 007-like, while the violence is definitely more intense. The body count gets pretty high. While the storyline included several twists and turns, and was hard to follow in some places, the overall big picture was quite predictable. You'll probably figure out who's ultimately responsible for the mayhem well before the midpoint of the movie.While Art of War was certainly entertaining overall, it was just too long, and the believability factor was stretched, even for this genre. "}{"Title":"Art of War? No, not really.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Wesley Snipes is a secret agent for a covert ops arm of the UN. They're trying to save a World Trade Agreement w/ China but there are bad guys trying to stop the agreement. If you've seen the first Mission Impossible movie, you know the rest of the story except there are no rubber masks, nowhere near the special effects or chase scenes. Really, this would be better classified as a thriller than as an action film. There is quite a bit of violence but not disgustingly so. But it is quite a bit of a rip-off of Mission Impossible. One of the opening scenes even has Snipes using a parachute to jump from a building just as Cruise did in MI2. The Art of War isn't even really an appropriate title. It comes from one of the characters quoting one passage in one scene. Wait for it to be at the $1 theaters. "},{"Title":"Action entertaining.  Story non-existent.","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Another Hollywood action-oriented money-making machine attempt. Absolutely no story which is the writers fault (but studio executives probably rushed him).  The director's next TERMINATOR 3 (with Arnold and Furlong attached); he can do it as long as the writer delivers a story.  "},{"Title":"Sun Tzu must be rolling over in his grave...","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Art of War  A secret government operative is framed for the assassination of a Chinese ambassador, and has twenty-four hours to clear his name and restore confidence to the UN.Coincidentally, the first time I saw the trailer for The Art of War was the same day I began re-reading the book of the same name.  Penned by Sun Tzu in the fifth century BC, the book is a treatise on warfare - a delicate balance of common sense and clever insights, its lessons can be applied to almost every aspect of life.   The same cannot be said for the movie.I don't expect a lot from an action movie a decent plot, semi-believable characters and action.  I do not think that's asking for too much, yet I'm consistently disappointed.  The Art of War is an exception - it is fantastically bad.  I'll start with the plot.  After watching the first ten minutes of the movie I literally could have walked out to the lobby and written an accurate outline of the rest of the movie.  I must admit that I would have missed the ending as it is so contrived and has been done so many times before that I couldn't believe that someone would try it again (and do such a bad job of it).  I was especially amused with the rhetoric about the strength and importance of the UN - most people recognize it for what it is, an arena filled with partisan politics and spoiled bureaucrats that like to scream a lot and accomplish nothing (do Rwanda or Yugoslavia ring a bell?). As Robin Williams once noted, maybe it's time the UN went condo.   Okay, enough of the plot bashing, let's look at the action.The fight scenes are amateurish and poorly choreographed (I've seen better in Jeffrey Speaks films), with combatants flailing wildly and rarely connecting.  Worse yet characters repeatedly drop three stories onto concrete, and not only do they not so much as sprain an ankle, they don't even break their stride - this is not The X-Men.  The most grievous sin however is the unashamed theft of the bullet tracing scene from The Matrix.(there has to be a lawsuit there) which was obviously included because it looks cools, as it serves no discernible purpose.I could go on, but why?  I give it a week in the theaters.  If you're a Wesley Snipes fan (an oxymoron if ever there was one), rent it. "},{"Title":"A great film, from a great director!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is a great action/thriller film from genius director Christian Duguay, who directed the wonderful movie Screamers in 1996! Wesley Snipes is great in this film. It is possibly the most entertaining film of the year!With great performances all around, do not miss Art Of War. "},{"Title":"High-tech espionage goes way beyond belief...... **1/2 out of ****","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Saw this at a Cinema-in-the-park preview , sponsored by a local radio station (Anniversary celebrations).First of all, it's written by the same guy who did `Murder at 1600' - another Snipes vehicle. This is pretty much in the same mould . And of course its rather unbelievable but none-the-less entertaining.Expect a predictable ending. I did.p.s.  Another Hollywood film that bashes non-Caucasians for bad language - even the Chinese speak terrible Mandarin and Dialect. Where does the movie budget go ? "},{"Title":"Raw deals...","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Wesley Snipes stars as Neil Shaw,a secret service agent who is framed for the murder of the ambassador, however both the FBI and the triads are after Shaw and he must survive long enough to find out who framed him, bring justice and clear himself. I'm not 100%, however I remember there was something like this made in 1994 under the title Hong Kong 97, which featured the same story, the only differences was that the protagonist was an assassin. Asking if the movie is a legit good movie, is a ridiculous question, since any film which rips off an obscure B.movie, renders this unnecessary. Is it a guilty pleasure though? Well I did enjoy the action sequences, it was nice to see Michael Biehn working again and basically it was dumb enough to remind me of a late 80's action flick. Indeed this works quite well as a fun bad action movie. Although let it be said, that the acting is horrid. Snipes the worst offender, making his stoic act in Blade seem like Oscar work. Also everyone else is pretty bad. Acting isn't why we see flicks like this though, it's about watching ass kicking and by it's rock bottom standards, this isn't so terrible. It's bad but entertaining. In other words it's the perfect guilty pleasure.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"Great gunfight at the end, otherwise totally worthless","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" AoW is a truly bizarre movie in that it is just as bad as any of the Wesley Snipes direct-to-video s-ckfests he's churning out twice a year these days. The story and dialogue are stupid, I hated all the characters, and its attempt at intrigue makes my eyes roll so hard I can see into the past.However, then you get to the end and there is this beautiful 5 minute gunfight between Snipes and the main bad guy that's one of the greatest shooutouts ever filmed. There's skill, technique, and clever filming at play. So if you love action movies, rent this and fast-forward to the end of the film (seriously, there's only 3 seconds-long other action sequences elsewhere in the movie and those are all terrible and terribly short). Otherwise, stay very very far away. "},{"Title":"Not bad but not great.","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I'd actually like to see Wesley Snipes in a really good movie.This was okay. Too much of it reminded me of Mission Impossible, especially the plot twist. Nice use of rain and flashbacks though. I really don't have 10 lines worth of things to say. This is one of those movies that I watch and don't remember that I watch. It's still better than most trashy movies, but I probably wouldn't be renting it again for a second watch. Of course I haven't seen it in awhile so I may be wrong. The things that stuck in my mind were the usage of rain and flashbacks, and many similarities to MI. I don't remember what the other similarities are.  "},{"Title":"Good God...","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I can't believe I wasted my hard-earned money watching this turkey in the theatre.  It's dull, predictable, and no better than a made for TV movie. Even in terms of action, it comes up short.  Wesley Snipes gives an uninspired performance.  Don't bother. "},{"Title":"Wesley Snipes' Weakest Film","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Wesley Snipes can deliver better action than this. This 2000 Warner Brothers release has him portraying a U.N. operative who finds himself being framed for the assassination of a Chinese ambassador (James Hong). Snipes is drawn into some rather desperate measures involving kidnapping in an attempt to prove his innocence. Definitely not the kind of action/suspense/thriller for Snipes to be in. "}{"Title":"Can the UN actually be blamed for dirty doings?","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Get ready for a meandering story and a lot of martial arts. The latter is what makes this movie interesting and even exciting. The wisdom of mastermind Sun Tsu's Art of War is manipulated into enhancing politics and business. Wesley Snipes is an operative for the United Nations and is excellent in doing covert tasks for his employer. At the moment of Y2K an important Chinese diplomat is shot dead through the forehead and Snipes gives chase of the shooter only to find himself being framed for the killing. After escaping capture, he seeks help in clearing his name...but a lot of the help he gets is all part of a double-cross.A very good supporting cast in a story that leaves you wondering what and why. Notable cast members include Marie Matiko, Anne Archer, Michael Biehn, Donald Sutherland and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa. Snipes did most of his own stunts and proves that he is one of the most hardest working men on the silver screen. If you watch for the martial arts alone...you should be very pleased. Great F/X. "},{"Title":"Only one enemy","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Do you know who your enemy is?, YES, i do know now, this movie.Hell, what were they thinking?  Such a bad, VERY bad movie.  No logic, not a good story, strange plot.  Also for th action which is soooo boring.  It's about a chinese invation in the US.  All this movie is, is a look-a-like from the same old stories told in the middle 80's movies, nothing new under the sun.  Unfortunately, not ONE good word from me for this one. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Because I had anticipated it to be so much more. Did mr. Beach even read The Art Of War? There is no intrigue. There is no scheming. Donald Sutherland plays the same old coot he's been playing ever since he did JKF in **1991**. Anne Archer only looks older than she did when playing Patriot Games. Who was in charge of casting for this movie?The biggest letdown is because of the title, because you're expecting intrigue mixed with action. Instead, there's just a rip-off of Mission Impossible and lots of stunts that were done better in US Marshals and Se7en.And, as this is supposed to be a James Bond type movie, Wesley Snipes again doesn't get the girl?? No Moneypenny, I'm just polishing off a little Danish, no oh James, you're such a cunning linguist. At one point, he orders Marie Matiko to take her clothes off, which she does, only to put on a different set? No one can tell me that mr. Beach never saw a James Bond movie. This is not what's supposed to happen. -<So let me see... There is a lousy plot, a transparent bad guy, mind numbing twists, no sex, and action scenes that were much better done in US Marshals...A true let down. One day, I hope to see Wesley Snipes in a movie like this that really lives up to it's potential, but I don't know why they didn't do this the first time off. Getting rid of the writer of Murder At 1600 would be a start. Getting some truly integrated team for writing, casting, production and marketing would be a second consideration. I think the marketing was the most effective part of this undertaking.Too bad, I was really looking forward to this movie. "},{"Title":"Silliness personified!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It's hard to actually get into words just how silly this film is, in that it it's Wesley Snipes as a covert operative travelling the world troubleshooting for the United Nations.Not really worth mentioning too much else, this is just dumb. "},{"Title":"this is so bad!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  excessive violence filmed like it were documentary stuff important to watchers of the world, stupid plot, stereotypes etc.spoiler below. this is bad. Snipes as a (not human? he flies from building to building like spiderman) UN agent. the end is very complex and kind of funny to watch. it is a mix between Matrix and bad horrormovie (like Valentine). Just before the Matrix-fight (which made me laugh for 5 minutes) the scared chinese girl walks around in the NY UN-building like it was a horrorflick. dark, no exits, one psycho with a gun (instead of a meathook - after all there is a thriller dimension in this movie... ;) and shes walking slowly down the hall... Just because it is located in a UN building it is not a political movie...Besides that? Clichés and violence. Like one of those old Steven Seagal-movies (not Nico - thats a ok movie). I hope this movie didn't make budget so the director (who also did the terrible Joan d arc) will never do a movie again. "},{"Title":"Disappointing with few action and too much talk.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Neil Shaw is a covert United Nations officer where he trashes a Chinese millennium party, exposes secret weapons, pounds a few guys in, and makes the defense minister of North Korea 's life a living nightmare publicly displaying his taste in women. And this happens in the first ten minutes! With a slamming action introduction to our hero, you would expect THE ART OF WAR to be a fun, non-stop action extravaganza. After the entertaining beginning though, things quickly plummet into a political murder mystery.When the plot begins, we find that an ambassador may be responsible for the death of some Chinese refugees. Once this ambassador is mysteriously murdered, it's up to framed Neil to dodge the Triad and police to uncover the truth about what really happened and who is responsible.Because we want to find out the truth, there is so much talking that it makes THE ART OF WAR far too long and boring. Also, with so many twists to the plot, it is hard to make out the actual why 's of the characters in the movie. One particular why that is confusing is the main villain 's speech where it sounds like the character is whining and mumbling about the United Nations' faults.One thing worth noting besides the beginning is the actual direction. Everything was visually well done and there were no faults to the style of the film. though unique. One note was the climax between Shaw and his main adversary. The slow motion effect done with the bullets fired was nicely done to compensate for the ridiculous close range both of them were in.But from beginning to end aside, THE ART OF WAR is a terrible waste of time, filled with (and should have been advertised as)political babble mixed with conspiracy. With Wesley Snipes, you look for action, but with THE ART OF WAR, you walk out with two hours of life short and a sore bum from slouching. "},{"Title":"At least it's something","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Sure this film may have a few flaws and may not be all in check, but hey, at least it is somewhat better than a lot of the worthless drek out now.  And hey, you can almost never loose with Wesley Snipes (or is it Pipes).  Sure he's better at Blade, but this film wasn't bad with him at the Helm.  The plot is pretty tangled in deciet, espianoge and of course, fight and action sequences.  Not the best of It's kind, but definately not a complete waste. B- "},{"Title":"Most people didn't like it, but...","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Most people thought this movie was confusing and hard to understand but its not if you pay attention.  I don't see what people don't understand.  The only part I didn't understand was the very end, like the last few seconds.  But I think I have that figured out too.  If you can't pay attention to the movie and have absolutely no idea about politics or a little bit about conspiracies, then you shouldn't see this movie.  But, it is a very good action movie.  I very much enjoyed it. 7 1/2 out of 10.Personal Note  (Don't read if you haven't seen it) I didn't like it when they showed Eleanor's death.  With the blood and the brains and all.  I kinda liked her.  They could have just made a gunshot sound. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie ever","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" In a world where nations do exist and there is in reality a political struggle for power, this movie couldn't be more timely. It uses a play on the theme of the ancient Chinese military philosophical writings by Sun Tzu. Sun Tzu said that you don't attack your enemy until you know you can defeat them and you defeat them form the inside, using their weaknesses against them. This movie brilliantly applies this philosophy into the world of international relations. This movie does all of this in the one man vs. the world schema, in the light of all modern classic action movies(Segal, van Dame, etc) but it does it with real acting, real plot and suspense, plus a few phony explosions and action sequences. I loved the acting by Snipes and the police detective Frank Capella played by Maury Chaykin- and Donald Sutherland did a good job as well. All in all you will love this movie and watch it again and again. I promise this film is worth watching! "},{"Title":"Art of War is a great action film.","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I too believe the film had a liberal message. As an action fan with conservative leanings I did notice the liberal slant but I could never say Snipes didn't deliver. I've seen this film several times and I have to say I did like it a lot. Before this film I never got to see Snipes do this style of action except in Blade. This beats out Passenger 57 and his other films easily. I think his Blade movies top this one but it is still on my favorites list. I just like to see Snipes kick butt. That's what I came for and that's what I got. I know some people hate this film but it's not bad at all. I wouldn't mind seeing a sequel to it actually but I doubt they'll make one.-Mav "}{"Title":"Surrender to tediousness","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" THE ART OF WAR (2000) *1/2 Wesley Snipes, Anne Archer, Maury Chaykin, Marie Matiko, Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa, Michael Biehn, Donald Sutherland, James Hong, Liliana Komorowska. By the numbers action thriller that suspends all belief in this conspiracy theory set up with Snipes as an undercover government sanctioned agent up to his neck in international espionage and covert double-crossings invovling the UN and China. Slam-bang action and quick cutting editing try to compensate for the wooden dialogue and even though Snipes is quicksilver on the ass-kicking he needs to get into an A rated production and fast! (Dir Christian Duguay) "},{"Title":"Wesley does what he does best","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Wesley Snipes is back better than ever in The Art Of War, a movie that is so good it deserves to be among the top ten of the summer.There are many reasons why I enjoyed The Art Of War. The first reason was the supporting cast. When I first saw Donald Sutherland in this movie, I knew it would be a thing of beauty. He brought great credibility as he made a good movie, that much better. Anne Archer is one actress you can always count on to give a good performance. The Art Of War turned out to be a montage of The Fugitive series and Enemy Of The State. While this is the only negative thing about this film, it didn't deter me from enjoying it to my heart's content.There are many other things about The Art Of War such as the high-tech wizadry and action-filled sequences that were very enjoyable. However, the best thing about this film was the storyline. The Art Of War had beautiful twists toward the end of the film. In addition, there are scenes in this movie that are so good they must be seen to believe they are that good.  "},{"Title":"Interesting story supplied with great acting.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ghristian Duguay succeeded well in this movie. After seeing this movie, I'm really looking forward to see Screamers. This movie has a great story, and it doesn't spoil itself with too much violence. It was nice to see familiar actors in the movie. Wesley Snipes was in good shape, and Michael Biehn as the bad guy made me feel really good. He sort of returned to the good movies. Like every movie, this was it's own kind and there will never be anything like this.   "},{"Title":"Very sad","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  What a big piece of bull. This must be the worst action movie I've seen in years. Horrible acting, horrible story, horrible level of realism. Oh my, just skip this MI-alike cra*, you won't regret it.My rating **** out of 10 - hell, what's that?  "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Yeah, this one worked and kept my attention till the end. I watched it on cable and I spent a good Sunday evening. There is suspense and many action. The stunts were great but some scenes had to much violence. It's a mix of James Bond and Terminator. Wesley Snipes did here a better job than in his second Blade which was very bad. If you can look away and don´t take the story too serious you have a top thriller. It´s worth to rent it. No doubt The Art of War was better than I thought. Too undervalued. My wife and me vote 7/10. "},{"Title":"Snipes as secret UN operative","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Wesley Snipes seems to have joined the martial arts bandwagon. First it was Blade and now this movie, which both demonstrate the fact that he trains in real life and has the money to do so. Snipes is entertaining and believable as the secret UN operative trying to figure out what is going on with the assassination of a high ranking Chinese official, and what it might have to do with a trade agreement. There is lots of good support in this movie from an array of old pros like Anne Archer, Donald Sutherland, Michael Biehn, and James Hong. The real find is Marie Matiko, who, as Snipes' unwilling assistant, exudes a shy, quiet sensual charm. She started out as a confident looker with a head on her shoulders, but quickly deteriorated into a helpless, diminutive female in need of saving. This is too often the case with action films of this type. Usually a romance develops at some point, after some uneasiness and trust issues. This was implied eventually, but never overtly explored. Perhaps the public isn't ready for hot action between a Black man and an Asian woman yet. We could have used more character development. I would have liked to have seen more interaction between Snipes and Marie Matiko. The title of the movie isn't touched upon until near the end of the movie either, which is disappointing. I would like to have seen more of a cat and mouse game, incorporating more of the ancient philosophy of the book by Sun Tzu. As it is, this is a combination of action and excitement delivered with efficiency and performed with precision, although we've seen it all before. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Why Make This Movie?","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  On the strength of trailers and a glowing review by an action-lover friend of mine, I rented this movie only to find that I was left with one question after watching Why?Once upon a time there was a tv series called The Fugitive. Then a marvelous action movie was made of it starring Harrison Ford as the fugitive and Tommy Lee Jones as the agent chasing him. Then, this spinoff seemed to merit a sequel and US Marshals was shot. So far, so good. USM was a fairly good, though unoriginal action flick, but it was a sequel to a tv spinoff.Then why make Art of War? It's USM all over again! After re-watching USM recently, I confused the two so much I expected scenes from AoW at every turn, and was disappointed and surprised when the surprise ending of AoW wasn't at the end of USM. I am at a loss to explain what possessed the producers to make this movie at all.Other than that, it's an unoriginal but watchable action flick with a convoluted plot and fairly spectacular action sequences. Not guessing who the bad guy is in the first 15 minutes says more about your IQ than about the cleverness of the movie, and the finale is a stretch, but this is a movie that will entertain you if you're into the genre. "},{"Title":"Could have used more action and a more comprehensible plot.","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  * out of ****Why are action movies getting more needlessly convoluted these days?  Can't the filmmakers just keep the script tight, throw out the chaff, and then pile on the fights?  The Art of War attempts to involve international espionage, like Mission Impossible, but comes off as an even more incomprehensible film than the first MI flick, with hardly enough decent action to make up for its confounding plot.Why is it filmmakers still look to Wesley Snipes to headline these action potboilers that ought to go straight-to-video?  The man has never been a proven box office draw and he's not much of an actor, either.  He may be skilled in karate, but I've seen more convincing action heroes out of those who have no genuine martial arts training (i.e. Matt Damon in The Bourne Identity).  The film reaches its most ridiculous levels when it actually tries emulating The Matrix with the bullet time effect.  Seriously, if you want to see two guys have a gun duel, see Equilibrium instead for something truly unique and amazing.  If you want to see a Western-style martial arts thriller with virtuoso fight choreography, see The Transporter.  They're both far better than this forgettable bore. "},{"Title":"Tight action bone buster","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This delivers.  Pacing, direction, acting.   When in the mood for one of these -- you got it. Has that neat up close & personal quality of a Willis Die Hard film. Rocks right along.  "},{"Title":"Rubbish!","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Save yourselves the pain of renting or watching this load of steaming excretion. I hugely enjoyed Christian Duguay's The Assignment, which inspired me to rent this, hoping it might be as good. After suffering the limp repartee, stupid plot, and mandatory number of action film dialogue cliches, I turned it off during the gratuitous torture of Snipes' female offsider, which really stinks. Sole compensation for viewing is the bright lights and colors of the cinematography.  "}{"Title":"Why does Wesley Snipes get these lame conspiracy films?","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Wesley Snipes is too talented and charismatic to remain relegated to the one-notch-above-straight-to-video quality of U.S. Marshalls, Murder at 1600, Rising Sun and Art of War. Having played basketball with him at the Nike world headquarters, I know he at least deserves some roles in the athletics genre (Jerry Maguire, Any Given Sunday). Murder at 1600 I understand, anytime you get to act as a love interest for Diane Lane, dignity must be set aside. SPOILERS!! Art of War had some nice visuals and action scenes but the plot was so stupid I could scarcely believe my eyes. That the U.N. would have a covert ops division sort of defeats the purpose of the organization. That the leader of this division would have right wing ideals is even more laughable. Considering that 16 of the 17 individuals identified as responsible for the foundation of the United Nations were later found to be members of the American Communist Party, it is unlikely that anyone of a right wing political persuasion holds a position of importance at the U.N. Michael Biehn was clearly the bad-guy from the first chase scene so that no suspense was created. Maury Chaykin had a nice, distinctive turn as a police officer but most other performers were average at best. Don't waste your time.  "},{"Title":"Sad.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Seemingly advertised as a psychological spy thriller with lots of twists and turns, Art of War ends up being just another action movie, and not even a good one at that.  Just about everything in this film has been done far better someplace else--the general plot in Mission Impossible, the special effects and stunts in The Matrix (where they actually made sense), the fighting action and gunplay in any given John Woo film...Art of War is a completely underwhelming experience any way it's viewed. The story is poor, mostly a Mission Impossible ripoff with the intelligence taken out and replaced with lots and lots of bloodshed and wanton violence. The characters, through no fault of the actors for the most part, are one-dimensional and seem very fake, thus being impossible to care about in any way.  When good things happened, I didn't care.  When bad things happened, I didn't care.  When the big, secret, unexpected villain was revealed, I didn't care, in part because I'd predicted with no doubt what would happen in the opening minutes of the film.  So had most of the people near me in the theater. To those who say, Well, it's an action movie, just turn off your brain and enjoy it, I say that there is no reason an action movie should be any less well-written than a drama.  Mission Impossible II had a nice plot, and characters I could care about.  So did The Matrix.  Even Hard Boiled had more real characters than this.  Filmmakers--the plot is important too. Maybe in a couple more years I'll be able to put aside my disappointment with this and forget how much I was hoping it'd be good, but for now, this film actually angers me, almost two years after I saw it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable action conspiracy thriller","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsEver reliable action movie leading man Wesley Snipes headbills his latest action flick.It's a little overlong and the motivations of the bad guys are never made very clear.But Snipes is a good actor as well,making the chemistry with screen baddie Cary Hiroyuki Tagawa as engaging as it was meant to be.*** "},{"Title":"Could have named this The Art of Charlie's Angels","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Everybody knows Wesley is a bad mother, right? Not this bad though some of the jumps he made would have bought the black 007 a bevy of busted limbs. As in all spy shows I was totally baffled as to what was going on but who cares, I like watching Wes work. Plenty of excitement, blood, guns, karate and babes for any action nut, but I've been there/done that with Art of War. Even the double whammy ending has been done. "},{"Title":"The Slick Wesley Snipes","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Wesley Snipes enters the 21st century as Executive Producer of this film, as well as a skilled, martial arts Hollywood legend. He is no longer the urban hero that we came to know and love in 'New Jack City', and his roles are far more refined and polished. He is without a doubt, a middle class university graduate. "},{"Title":"cold often confusing espionage thriller","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  As a piece of storytelling, `The Art of War' often borders on the incoherent &#150; but if you stick with it to the end, you will find that most of the narrative elements do eventually fall into place and sort themselves out nicely.  It's getting there that's the problem.  For long stretches of the film, we really have no idea who is doing what to whom and the sad truth is we often really don't care.  The question then becomes  how far can a film try a viewer's patience and, even more to the point, how long can it expect him or her to stick it out waiting for the climactic revelation?  In this case, at least, the overall quality of the film may not justify all the time expended on the effort.In theme, this is definitely not a film designed to appease right wing paranoiacs.  Essentially, the film hails the United Nations as a force for world peace, while it simultaneously demonizes the anti-China trade crowd in no uncertain terms.  Wesley Snipes plays a hot shot undercover agent working for the U.N. who suddenly finds himself unsure of who his real enemies are when a high Chinese government official is assassinated right on the eve of the signing of a big international trade treaty with that Communist country.However, it would be foolish for anyone to take this film any more seriously that its superficial action movie format warrants.  For all its high-minded attempts at contemporary political relevance, `The Art of War' is generally a typical entry in the action film genre, emerging as basically little more than a series of elaborate but often quite preposterous stunt sequences loosely held together by an over-complicated plot.  From a technical standpoint, these action set pieces are efficiently executed (particularly impressive is a foot race that takes place over rooftops, through alleys and along major thoroughfares of New York City in a pouring down rainstorm).  Yet, the film seems needlessly violent at times and one questions the appropriateness of using a tragedy like the mass extermination of some Asian immigrants as window dressing for what is, essentially, a routine action thriller.And routine it ultimately is.  There is very little in this film that commands any genuine audience interest.  Without anyone for us to really care about, we lose the motivation to try and unravel the tangled narrative skeins that the filmmakers manage to dump in our laps.  Thus, for all its pretensions to social significance, `The Art of War' (despite a very good closing shot, I might add) turns out to be just another traditional shoot-em-up, just another entry in a genre that seems for some reason to be a perennial favorite with the movie going crowd these days.  "},{"Title":"The art of ...........Dullness","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It's hard to explain what this film is about , partly because it was a little confusing but mostly because i lost the will to live half way through the movie. The art of war is one of those films that has lots of special affects and high tech gadgets but a poxy script and some lousy acting, especially from Maury Chaykin and Ann Archer but the person i really blame for this stinker is the director Christian Duguay. He didnt seem to have a clue how to make this film watchable. On the cover of the DVD it says A Kinetic , wall to wall action movie. I dont know what Kinetic means but i can only presume it is another word for Crap. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"UGH!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Not since Here on Earth has a movie moved me enough to write such a horrible review of a movie.  The Art of War is nothing more than a sick excuse for a movie.  It's a clear-cut case of stealing other stories, and rehashing them into making this movie.  Our hero, Neil Shaw, is just another wanna-be James Bond, while trying to save the world from the bad guys he discovers that he has been framed for the Ambassadors murder.  Throughout this movie, it is hard to trust that Shaw is the great hero the movie wants us to believe. There are many scenes that the viewer will recognize from other movies he or she has watched recently, all the way down to the Matrix-like gun fight between Shaw and the villain.  Not only are there holes in the plot big enough to drive a truck through, but there are so many effects shot that are hurtful to watch (such as the scene in the beginning of the movie with Snipes in the foreground, and the fireworks in the background). Wesley Snipes is not the right person for this job.  He was excellent in U.S. Marshals and Blade, but he should have just left this one alone.  Anne Archer and Michael Biehn round out this awful cast, and never does the director, Christian Duguay, make us believe that there is anything between the `love interest' and Snipes.  The directing is awful, the storyline lacks anything remotely original, and the choice of actors was downright WRONG.  It seems to me that the movie studio thought that with a name like &#145;Wesley Snipes' in the trailer, it would attract the necessary crowd&#133;they were wrong, as this movie took a horrific nose dive from the moment it hit the (sorrowful) theaters.  The movie studio should publicly apologize for their blatant mishandling of what could have been a pretty good 007 movie.   "},{"Title":"Has anyone noticed how bad this movie is?","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I am surprised to see that this horrible, predictable, unoriginal, stupid and relentlessly boring has earned an OK 5.1. This movie was the kind of movie that had me to tired to walk out. It started off pretty poorly with a fight scene that was way beyond belief, then some more stupid situations, some more, and more until I couldn't handle it anymore. This movie would have been an hour short if all the scenes of Wesley Snipes jumping off buildings were cut out. There are so many scenes that have been ripped off other and better movies, including a laughable Matrix-style shootout towards the end. This movie should have at least been entertaining, but there's no sign of believability, suspense, originality or anything a good movie needs. Next to Battlefield Earth as the worst movie of the year. 1/10. "},{"Title":"Worthwhile","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I liked this movie and I was glad I spent the money on it but the direction was awful. Christian Duguay tries so hard to inject flair and coolness into the movie but fails badly. Filters and rain do not make for flashy and original direction, it's been done a hundred times before. Also, the constant rain adds a REALLY depressing mood to the film. If you're upset or want to escape from reality it's not a good idea to see this movie.Wesley Snipes is very good in his role. He always is, he is probably the most versatile actor out there. The way he can be cool without being over-confident or is refreshing. I hate seeing arrogant actors show off (Nic Cage and John Travolta in Face/Off done my head in) and ruin the movie.Five minutes into this film you will know who the bad guy is. No director will ever have Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa as a good guy. Although he always is a great villain, smooth and smart, it's no big secret as soon as you see him. But he was half the reason that I saw the film. You can always be guaranteed a quintessential villain when he plays the part.The action was quite cool. The scene with the car driving into the diner was impressive. It was my favourite scene. The huge leap of the skyscraper was eye pleasing, it was a great opening to the movie.It may be better than most other junk that's out in the theatre but the direction lets it down big time. But it's worth it for the hero and villain and the action. See it for yourself. "}{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie stinks.  Never have I felt so bored in my whole life! The reason is that of bad directing and lame characters that I didn't even cared about.  Wesley Snipes is totally wasted here.  Cheezy lines ran rampant, reminiscent of those Van-Damme movies.  I have seen over 5000 movies in my lifetime, good and bad ones, and this movie ranks up as one of the worst bigger budgeted films out there.Heck, it doesn't help that this movie is just a plain, racist, good old fashioned Hollywood movie who depicts Asians as the bad guys who will never ever be accepted as normal human beings.  Boy what fun, its like being transported into the 1930's.  Thanks goodness Jet Li refused to do this film in the first place.  Hollywood should wake up and smell their own dirty underwear.So save your money and don't make the same mistake as I did.  If you want really good action films, rent ones from Chinatown releases with Chow Yun-Fat in it. "},{"Title":"Sickeningly god-awful hunk of junk","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Imagine diving into a pool of action film outakes, piecing together random snippets with a stapler and then blowing the whole thing out of focus with a jarring and brash sense of color and sound and you've got ART OF WAR.In the ART OF WAR Snipes is a shadow of a star, the other random actors and characters are formulas waiting to congeal. Absurd and comical, the film explodes in a orgy of cheese, recycling every cliche known to cinemaplex fanatics -- it not only rips-off tripe like ENTRAPMENT but has the gall to rip-off THE MATRIX with half-boiled SPFX and pop-corn kung-fu. Simply terrible, this film is a good example of how far off track Hollywood has gone. "},{"Title":"Dazzling cliche! Standard fare brilliantly rendered....","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie has absolutely no surprises. Even the plot twists and turns have all been done many times before. In fact, this movie is a splice job of several genres-- James Bond, techno-thrillers, caper flicks, etc.But I must say they did it all with incredible style. It is a dazzling production, even if it is totally cliche. This mix of standard fare is brilliantly produced and presented. I say this without any sarcasm-- I highly recommend it for those who delight in action, glamour, intrigue, brilliance, etc. I gave this an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"2","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is another predictable action film, with a story done by the numbers. The typical mission impossible beginning, a plot twist in the middle, and the climatic ending.  The other down fall to this film is Wesly Snipes lack of acting, he acts emotionalist, with a stone cold look through out this film;  maybe if he plays bad guys he would do better. His demeanor is more like a harden killer, bad guy etc.  The part that bothers myself the most is Snipes represents the U N, when did they ever have power to do anything. "},{"Title":"An unimaginative telling of a tale we've already heard. ** (out of four).","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  THE ART OF WAR / (2000) ** (out of four)By Blake French	The Art of War refers to an ancient handbook by a mighty Asian general named Sun Tsu, who hypothesized that wars can be won without physical combat. Numerous powerful leaders, including Napoleon, defeated their enemies by using the ideas of Sun Tsu. According to the action flick The Art of War, Tsu's theories apply to the world of business and politics as they do to war.It's about strategy, manipulation and control, all the way through, says director Christian Duguay, whose credits include TV's Joan of Arc, and The Assignment. The whole film is based on the theme of manipulation and the idea that things are not what they appear. That's what I think makes this film very unique and exciting.Or how about confusing and hard to follow, better words to describe what Christian calls one character manipulating the other, who is manipulating still another. The production notes inform us on the ancient techniques and strategy of manipulation, but The Art of War is not the movie to justify those principles. After half a dozen plot twists, even more action sequences, and probably more hidden character motives, this film becomes exactly what Tsu condemned the actual fighting of war. There's enough action in this movie to classify it as a mixture of material arts and a James Bond, but after one perplexing situation after another, we simply toss our arms and stop caring altogether. Instead of a plot description, let's examine the sources of this movie's recycled story. First, we get a man who is wrongfully accused for a murder he did not commit. In a strike of luck and personal investigation, he gets the chance to prove himself innocent after escaping from the police during a transportation accident. Yes, that sounds like The Fugitive. Now throw in the film's follow up U.S. Marshals, about an accused government agent using his insider knowledge while an Asian thug tracks him down. Combine the two similar plots and you get something like The Art of War, straight from the recycling plant to your personal viewing pleasure.Working with a forty-million dollar budget, Snipes himself performs many of his own stunts and combat sequences. The film does offer some exciting, if conventional, action sequences, but I wanted a smart plot about political tactics and clever espionage, not run-of-the-mill action. Anne Archer and Maury Chaykin contribute effective performances as the villains, and Snipes does good things with his character. But the plot just doesn't work. It houses too many characters, too many plot complications, and too much technical government stuff. The Art of War  is pretty much an unimaginative telling of a tale we've already heard.   "},{"Title":"The Art Of Left Wing Propaganda","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"13 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Wow, what a Liberal propaganda film this turned out to be! It not only promotes the United Nations, a new World Order, International Socialism, but Communist China and even gives thumbs up to President Clinton giving away military secrets to the Chinese! Unbelievable! It gets worse near the end when the true character of Eleanor Hooks (Anne Archer) comes to light.It's too bad because, generally speaking, it's a fun action film with some spectacular stunts and brilliant color in here. Actually, it's almost gaudy at times. However, the story isn't very cohesive nor involving....and you, it's getting tiring to see film after film of the right wing being the bad guys and the left wing being the good. The film world sure is fair and balanced, isn't it? "},{"Title":"waste of time !!","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is , to me, the worst movie of Wesley Snipes. Basically a simple murder story but the film elevated and exaggerated it to a great extent without any meaningful and worthwhile goals. There is plenty of action but none other than useless crap. I won't recommend it to anybody. The only thing to note is the truth about Chinese politics mixed with Chines triads in New York. I think the U.S. government is aware of this and corrective measures are being taken. I do not know if the story is based on a fiction book or just written for the film. In the former case, the book should be thrown away. Anne Archer has always been my favorite actress but what she did in this films was total disappointment "}]