[{"Title":"Dudley Did All Right","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This actually wasn't as bad as you might think. It's harmless fluff, silly in many parts but also a movie filled with likable characters and good adult jokes that go over the kids' heads. It's clean stuff references to other movies and things. It's one of these films you find yourself laughing more than the kids but the next day you really can't remember much that you saw. In other words, you will be entertained but it's not a memorable movie.The horse might be in the running as the most memorable character in the film. Even the villain isn't despicable. He's more cartoon-like than evil. Alfred Molina does a nice job as Snidely Whiplash. Eric Idle and Sarah Jessica Parker are also good in here.Brendan Fraser, playing the title role, was on a role their for a couple of years, playing these silly, comedic roles and being successful in doing so (i.e. George Of The Jungle, Bedazzled, etc.)Don't dismiss this as totally stupid. It will surprise you. All of us can use a good laugh and this movie provides plenty. "},{"Title":"Silly can be good, just don't expect every film to be the Godfather","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This was a silly and funny little movie. Everything from the narrator to the faux Indian tribe was done for laughs and it was clean family worthy viewing. Alfred Molina makes a perfect Snidely Whiplash and how anyone can watch this film and not notice his timing, his interaction with the other actors and not be impressed is beyond me. It's not a bad way to kill 77 minutes. "},{"Title":"Avoid this film","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Brendan Fraser wasted his time and talent and Sarah Jessica Parker made the biggest movie mistake in choosing to star in Dudley Do-Right.Dudley Do-Right is the type of movie everyone hopes will be a success. Unfortunately, the writing did not measure up to the level of talent that signed on to the movie. It is always fun to watch comedic spoofs if they are written well and are logical. However, this film broke both these rules.It was clear that there was no plot or humor in Dudley Do-Right. The only thing that made it bearable was the narrator because he is the only character who kept my interest. SKIP this movie because you will be sorely disappointed if you don't  "},{"Title":"A Big, Fat, Hot Mess","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" What we have here is a failure to communicate any of the satire created by genius Jay Ward! Mr. Wilson made so many mistakes in telling Dudley's story that I believe this is simply not the Dudley Do-Right story, this was someone elses story. The set up should have centered more on the Mounties and less on Whiplash's plan, which dominated the entire film. Never once did Dudley have to rescue Nell, in fact, she seemed smittened by Whiplash. This gave less-than-attractive Sara Jessica Parker very little to do, not that as an actress, she has much to bring to the table. Aside from this, her character, Nell, was (under) written as though the writer (s) didn't want the character in the first place. Maybe, because Parker was re-cast in the role. Second Choice?The character of Horse, which could have been an interesting character asset to Dudley were is not for the fact that he disappears a quarter into the film without explanation, was handled wrong. Likewise, Eric Idle's character seemed as though he might have been three separate characters in an original draft of the script. And now strung together, so the producers could use Idle's talents.The flavor of the original cartoon is no where to be found.Fraser and Alex Rocco were as wonderful as Parker and Molina were not up to snuff. However considering what they had to work with -- they were all okay ... silly set-ups, no pay offs and a script that seemed aimless at times leaves devotees of genius Jay Ward saddened. "},{"Title":"Dudley, Done Not Quite Right","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I liked George of the Jungle so I was looking forward to the movie version of the Dudley Do-Right cartoon.  I was pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed it.  Although from seeing previews, I was ready to be disappointed.  The movie presents a very loose adaptation of the original cartoon.  I don't really mind some of it, but I didn't really agree with the liberties taken with historical context.  The original cartoon was set at the close of the 19th century.  So I had something of a problem with Dudley driving an SUV and using a cell phone.  But I did enjoy the slapstick, which keeps in pattern with George of the Jungle.  And while Brendan Fraser as Dudley Do-Right and Sarah Jessica Parker as Nell Fenwick don't quite hit their marks, Alfred Molina makes a perfect Snidely Whiplash.  So for all its faults, Dudley Do-Right is still worth a look, and a laugh. "},{"Title":"This fairy tale is truly fractured...","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Jay Ward's cute but bland cartoon about Canada's No. #1 Mountie plays even worse when brought to the big screen as a live-action comic adventure. Brendan Fraser is spirited and very adept at buffoonish slapstick, but he's not the right actor for Dudley Do-Right; he's a big, handsome lunk, and he's cheerful enough, but he doesn't know how to mug, nor is he helped by his limited voice (a deep monotone). It's always nice to see Sarah Jessica Parker in a film, but she isn't cast right either; as love-interest Nell, Parker gets no funny lines, she's too modern and grounded a presence, although she does help enliven a dance sequence about 47 minutes into the proceedings. Alfred Molina attempts to have fun as egomaniacal villain Snidely Whiplash, but his voice and fake mustache are his only props. The pithy announcer gets some dryly comic lines and Dudley's horse (named Horse, ha ha) shoots off a few raspberries, but this is a very dim slapstick vehicle, short on inspiration, poorly conceived and even more unmemorable than its cartoon predecessor. * from **** "},{"Title":"I thoroughly enjoyed this film.","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" After reading nothing but terrible reviews of this movie, I finally felt compelled to weigh in. I loved the Jay Ward comics... their irreverence and ability to be entertaining on both an adult and child level. I found the movie sweetly amusing and very loyal to the classic cartoon. All the actors were great in their roles. The writing was clever.I gave it to my twin nephews for their birthday, knowing they will enjoy it and my sister will love it. After reading such dreadful reviews, I watched it twice to make certain I wasn't missing something. NO. It's funny. "},{"Title":"All the good play on names for this stinker are taken!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  First, may I humbly beseech the forgiveness of the Canadian People, for yet another AWFUL characterization of your people and your country. You have every right to be duly proud of the heritage of the R.C.M.P./Gendarmerie royale du Canada. DUDLEY DO-RIGHT, the motion picture (yet another money seeking parody on cartoons of the 1960's...BORIS AND NATASHA, GEORGE OF THE JUNGLE, etc.) had the potential. Brendan Fraser is a very talented actor, and is not too darn hard on the eyes...*ahem*. Sarah Jessica Parker, Alfred Molina, Alex Rocco, Eric Idle and one of my favorite character actors, Robert Prosky, head up the cast. So, what exactly went wrong? Well, how about a lame, unfunny script that made for 83 minutes of painful viewing? I think we're getting WARM. Very few chuckles here, provided mostly by Eric Idle and Alex Rocco, who do the best with what they have. This was the only thing that saved DUDLEY DO-RIGHT from being a complete catastrophe. If this is the only thing left on the video shelf, make a night of it with a game of Monopoly or Yahtzee, instead. You'll thank yourself in the morning.     "},{"Title":"George of the Tundra sucks like a Tornado, eh?","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  My five year old adored Brendan Fraser in Disney's George of the Jungle. I loved the movie too, and we saw it a total of nine times over the four months it ran at local theatres in the summer of 1998. We now own on it DVD; it was the first one we ever purchased, and its publication prompted us to buy the player for my computer, in fact. What made George of the Jungle so great was that Disney remained true to character of the cartoon George and built an exciting and well-written plot around a very fine performance by one of the cutest actors to ever come out of Hollywood. My son and I would sit in the theatre and laugh ourselves silly as joke after joke had the kids and parents rolling in the aisles. George was sweet, funny, and (for the moms) very, very sexy. You could see Fraser's talent and intelligence shining through in places and the result was incredibly likeable.Unfortunately, Fraser's Dudley is less than stupid, inconsistently clumsy, and completely lacking in any charm whatsoever. I think that Fraser's underlying intelligence actually works against his moronic character, and despite playing opposite a convincing Snidely Whiplash, Fraser's performance is frankly- horrible! I'm not sure if it's Fraser's fault, though. What can anyone do, no matter how much he dimples, to win over an audience to what has to be the most inconsistently developed and poorly written characters of all time? One moment we are asked to love Dudley for his clumsiness and purity of heart. Then we are asked to applaud Do Right's transition into a machine gun toting biker bad boy who is suddenly and inexplicably traipsing about (in an animal skin loincloth, no less) like a Solid Gold dancer. (And of the Native American musical just how does one clog in moccasins and bare feet? Even the sound effects in the film were senseless.)I wasn't the only one who hated the film, either. Bored with trying to read my son's Batman comic book during light scenes, I looked around sometime near the middle of the movie to find kids fidgeting in their seats and parents yawning. A few adults were close to tears with boredom and I noticed that precisely at 820, when there was still time to grab tickets for the next showing of A Dog in Flanders, almost half of the audience left the theatre. I grabbed our things, but my son, excited to see Fraser again, made me stay. How I came to envy those parents with children less stubborn than my own! Only twice I heard laughter, and once I joined in. There were a total of four clever lines in the film, in the scene where Dudley is being trained to be bad by some innocuous dirty miner who simply shows up for no discernible reason. He tells George Now, say&#133; I am dangerous. Dudley replies, You are dangerous. The miner makes a face and says, No, say you are dangerous.I already said that. says Dudley.This is almost as clever as the repartee between Bugs and Daffy in the episodes where they vie to convince Elmer which of them he should shoot, but Warner can certainly sustain this kind of thing longer (and I don't have to shell out over twelve dollars for my son and myself to see it.) With Dudley things simply went from bad to worse and culminated into a cinematic experience that I found even more disgusting than that hitherto greatest of all celluloid stink-bombs, Highlander 2. You would think that such a simplistic character as a bungling Canadian Mountie could have translated fairly easily onto the big screen. What's not to understand about Dudley? He's drawn in simple lines, has predictable dialogue and only comes in three colours. Yet Disney managed to fail utterly. They even misunderstood Nell, if you can believe that this version of the irritating little blonde has a string of graduate degrees and then has trouble deciding if she should choose Snidely over Dudley. Of course, this Dudley was so lame that he did make Snidely look good, but I still think that two hours of re-runs of the cartoons would have been more entertaining than the plot-less wonder I was forced to see till its end. Not only did the movie fail to portray Do Right within any scope of reasonable resemblance, but they went on to change what the filmmakers obviously did not understand. If you make Dudley bad, or graceful, you completely lose any coherence in his character. He simply doesn't make sense any more and that's not amusing, that's punishment for parents whose children won't allow them to leave early. In sum, although my five year old defends the film, it is this adult's perspective that this movie sucks like a tornado, eh. I truly hated it. If Fraser doesn't get himself a new agent and do some better work, I don't know how I can take my son see another one of the travesties on film that he's been getting himself caught up in. For shame Disney, for shame, what you did to that wonderful young man (and to your audience)!  "},{"Title":"Didn't the directors ever see a Dudley cartoon?","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Who started this trend of turning '60s cartoons into new live action? I'd say Spielberg with The Flintstones. That one, at least, worked. But it was, sadly, the camel's nose under the tent.Did Hugh Wilson even WATCH any Dudley Do-Right cartoons as a kid? Did he rent videos or catch the Cartoon Channel? None of that shows.The classic scene of the cartoon, Snidely tying Nell to the tracks ... is STILL a cartoon here. They didn't even try to render the credits it in live action as with The Flintstones.Dudley, a blonde in the cartoon, was a brunette actor. He smiles a lot, has a big hero's chin, and is sort of dim but not such a stumblebum.And Nell, a redhead in the cartoon, was a blonde actress. But wait ... Sarah Jessica Parker isn't REALLY blonde. She had to color her hair or wear a wig and STILL got it wrong.Nell in the cartoon was content to live at the camp. But she was NOT stuck between Dudley and Snidely. Rather, she was stuck on HORSE!! And what happened to Horse's Mountie shirt and hat? This one in the movie was just a regular saddled horse. Inspector Fenwick in the cartoon is the camp commandant, a fist-pounding boss, not a soft-spoken retiree. And he wears the red uniform, just like Dudley. Was Hugh Wilson being accurate by having someone of the inspector's rank wear black? Why bother being accurate on this obscure point if you can't get the obvious things right?The real Snidely Whiplash has green skin. I forgive Alfred Molina for not donning greasepaint through the film. But at least we get a scene of him with a green face in the mudbath. Snidely is the ONLY character they got right.Other problems The cartoon very obviously took place during the Klondike or Yukon Gold Rush days. The player-piano score gave it away. We;re talking late 19th century. They would NOT have helicopters, cars, tanks, etc.I remember, back in the '60s, the trend was the turn our beloved live-action heroes into cartoons and see them REALLY soar. Gone were the expenses of having to string George Reeves up on wires to have Superman fly. Now we could see Superman really fly and take on actual comic-book supervillains instead of always gangsters. And we got the Lone Ranger, Batman and eventually Star Trek in toon form and they all worked by doing things that would have been way too expensive in live action.Don't any of the directors remember that these cartoons were made for a reason? Too expensive to film live!Spielberg made The Flintstones work as nostalgia because he has the cash to be exacting in detail. For Hugh Wilson and all the rest, the lesson is simple Watch the cartoon, note recurring themes, and most of all, don't do the show if you ain't got the dough! "}{"Title":"Don't bother.","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Meh film. -2 DIE. Seriously, this is one heck of a trainwreck. The plot is riddled with gaping, raw plot holes; the acting is a joke, and the scenes are highly thrown together. The producers decided to desecrate the Dudley Do-Right name by putting as little thought into it as possible, and the only plus is that they were rewarded with making 10 million on a 70 million dollar movie.People actually making a movie this bad is highly worrying social decay. All in all, this movie is simply awful. If anyone out there is seriously considering seeing this, however, their mental issues should probably be their primary worry. "},{"Title":"great family film","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This movie is what to be expected. Dudley Do Right is a live action movie based on the popular 60's cartoon.It has its moments, and if you are a fan of the cartoon you will find it enjoyable.Sarah Jessica parker plays his love interest in this film, you may think that she is the horse he rides through the movie, but its not. really i checked it on IMDb and she is not listed as the horse.She helps Dudley get places and he feeds her oats. The horse not sarah Jessica parker.I just can't stand to watch this film, its so frustrating trying to figure out if its his trusted horse or Sarah Jessica Parker. Really Sex in the city star, more like Sex in the Barnyard.Its really a funny movie with many funny slap stick moments. I suggest that you check it out today. "},{"Title":"Silly but great fun","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best slapstick movies I've seen. I've seen it 4 or 5 times, and still get a kick out of it. It's not perfect, but still very enjoyable. I feel it has a lot of the nonsensical charm that the cartoon had. Alfred Molina is the perfect Snidely, and Brendan Frasier is a hoot. It was a let-down that Nell didn't have a bigger part, as she did in the cartoon. The authentic corn festival dance had me laughing out loud. I like it much better than George of the Jungle, which I found very disappointing. I loved both cartoons as a kid. Rarely is a substitute or remake as good as the original, but Dudley Do-Right does a decent job. No deep thoughts, no logical plot, just laugh out loud fun. "},{"Title":"Simplistic, Ernest-like Fun Nine of Ten Stars","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" All right, so this movie will never win an Academy Award for Best Picture. So what? And while it can come off as infantile and clunky, it's just plain and simple fun in the tradition of Ernest Saves Christmas. You have Brendan Fraser (George of the Jungle) in the title role of a clueless Canadian Mounty both vying for the hand of Nell Fenwick (Sarah Jessica Parker in, oddly enough, the least phoned-in role of her career) and struggling with the evil Snidely K. Whiplash (Alfred Molina). Before he can mount his flatulent horse (named Horse, of course), though, he's reduced to taking vigilante lessons from a prospector (Monty Python's Eric Idle) who recently made a splash on the Regis & Kathy Lee Show.Ridiculousness aside, this was a funny, lightweight, enjoyable movie that didn't match the cleverness of The Dudley Do-Right Show, but still provides a laugh and does well as a guilty pleasure. Know what I mean? "},{"Title":"More Like a Dudley Do-Bad Film","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Brendan Fraser as Dudley Do-Right is really the only one interesting in this film. Somehow he seems to fit in these bad and silly films. I remember the cartoons in the 60's and this is no Jay Ward cartoon even if it would be better as a cartoon. In one scene in the film, Fraser makes the comment that he would be called Dudley Do-Wrong if he stole something which I think Brendan should take to heart about some of his film choices. Brendan has so much talent to waste in a film like this.  "},{"Title":"Another sad example of a live action cartoon movie.","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" After the failure attempts on George of the Jungle. They now try another one, Dudley Do-Right.About an entirely dumb Mountie who tries to make the people feel safe to walk around. Right until the villain of the town, Snidely Whiplash has stolen all the gold and money with his hundred henchmen and plots to spread it all over the rivers of Canada to create a new Gold Rush. And using the stolen money to buy out the town and turn it into his own domain. And no ones wanting to arrest him because he's giving away free gold in the river. Dudley Do-Right must find a way to stop Snidley, and show the towns people that Snidley is still the villain.The movie has a load of pet peeves. Including script, plot, jokes, cast members, direction, and acting.The script needed to take away all the part that sucked and replace them with stuff that doesn't suck.The plot needed a better idea, but it didn't it made the movie unbearable within the first 1 minute of the movie.The 3/4 of the jokes were either lame or stupid. Including the usage of the characters thinking there are vampires. It was like they couldn't think of anything that is funny.Cast members, really poor choices and unsuitable roles. Brandon Fraiser should of skip doing this film. While Alfred Molina had far better roles than this movie.Direction and production, the whole movie was unorganized and the director probably didn't care it was going to bomb the box office without even trying to make the flow of the movie any good. And I can tell they waisted so much money on the sets and the props for a movie that didn't even deserve to be on the silver screen.Overrall this movie was so bad the DVDs and Videos of it are very scarce at the retail stores cause no one in their right minds would buy a below C rated movie.Even if you manage to find it at your rental store, just be worn that it's no where close to being good. "},{"Title":"The truth about Dudley Do-Right","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  What you can expect from a 77-minute family movie with an IMDB user rating below four? I expected nothing, but I got disappointed. You know, from time to time, I need to watch a bad movie to appreciate the good ones. However, this was way too much. Dudley, or if you prefer Dulley, tries to be funny, but he's just a moron (nothing else.) Whip, however, is better, mainly because he's around world champions suckers. Even Nell, with a good education and many degrees as she said, is stupid as Dudley, not funny at all, and worse of all, nearly a whore (switching between Dudley and Whip.) Who seems to be the most intelligent character is Horse, the horse (doh,) because most of the time it's gone (Horse knew that to be in another movie it should reduce its exposure on this one.) The story is the standard the good guy beats the bad guy and gets the girl. You can't even consider that a spoiler, it's just a fact, knowing what the movie it's base on. If you think this movie can entertain your child, think again; you would be better with any TV cartoon than with this. Believe me. If I have to rate this one, I'll give 2 out of 10. Yes, above two is overrated.  "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I though this film was going to be nothing but juvenile nonsense. How pleased I was when I discovered that it was a lot livelier and energetic than I predicted.The voice-over never once annoyed me as I thought it would and everyone in this movie seems to go overboard with their characters. Yet, despite all the energy and frenetic comedy, the film never feels indulgent.The plot is, of course, nonsense. But then again you hardly want a family movie to have a labyrinth plot. Dudley Do-Right may have flopped but I don't know why. It's in the same field as the terrible Waterboy but that made over $100, 000, 000. This I won't understand. Maybe it's only because Canadians will truly love the intellectually-challenged Mountie. "},{"Title":"Gawdawful","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  It's the script, stupid!  So should the producers of this bomb have been reminded before allowing a single camera to roll.  Basic premise the audience must empathise with the hero or heroine.  We didn't--nothing compelled us to do so.  The characters were so poorly developed that empathy was unlikely, at best.While the cast is superb, their performances are anything but  to a person, each looked embarrassed to participate in this ill-conceived outing.  Characterization?  Forget it.  The director makes no attempt to capture the essence of the cartoon.  Where is Dudley's nasal-tenor voice?  The inspector's high-tone speech pattern?  Nell's ramrod-straight bearing?  Snidely's CHIN, for Pete's sake???  (Molina's Snidely is the one almost-OK performance here.  Pity that the addition of a moustache isn't enough to transform the moon-faced Molina into the Snidely we hoped to see.)Skip this one, folks.  It won't be hard to do chances are that its theatrical life will be short indeed. "},{"Title":"This is Canada, Nell. Things are real up here","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" There are two kinds of bad comedies. The first kind - let's call them the 'Adam Sandlers' - lazily try to dispute their indisputable 'bad' status. Braying with smarmy self-importance and bleating for affirmation, they're all the more contemptible for it. The second kind are the Dudley Do-Rights sweet, innocent creatures, either dopily unaware or uncaring of their fundamental mediocrity. Content to simply be, they provide the basest of childish entertainment at all costs. We're talking the kind of cinema where the same 'getting bonked in the head by a loose floorboard' gag, if you can call it that, is repeated not once. Not twice, not three times. But upwards of eight. You know -in case you didn't get enough in Brendan Fraser's former George of the Jungle. But that's not the only trick up the film's sleeve! Love farting horses? Then oh boy do we have a show for you!Tone is everything, though. And it's because of this that Dudley Do-Right, almost worrisomely idiotic as it (mostly) is, is resoundingly hard not to take to. It's unflinchingly cheery and earnest, banking hard on every Canadian stereotype in the book without a hint of ironic revisionism. In doing so, it steadily wears the viewer down until it's almost impossible to resist a sheepish smile creeping across their face. It helps that creator Jay Ward's sly sensibility of playing things so ludicrously straight that a sneaky cleverness creeps up (we get a welcome reminder in the film's fantastic, old-timey 'Fractured Fairy tales' opening short) is dutifully replicated, if not perfected, by writer/director Hugh Wilson. He makes particularly good use of a joyfully hokey narrator, and allows occasional cheeky bits to creep in, enough to keep adults from drifting off entirely amidst the lazy slapstick and tritely wholesome morals. For example here, uber-fiend Snidely Whiplash has evolved past simply tying damsels to train tracks (but don't worry - they've left one such sequence for posterity) to a more devious scheme involving rent-controlled properties and converting the superbly named Semi-Happy Valley into an exploitatively garish, faux gold-rush tourist town. It's a ploy so grotesque that it's, naturally, almost too close to home to laugh at, especially when Ottawa signs off on it for economic stimulation and job creation, leaving contemporary Canadian audiences flinching with unwanted flashbacks to the methodology of a certain unsavoury former administration (but let's not harp on about that).Sure, there's a bit of a clash between the film's overall rustic (read cheap) look and the oddly inflated production values in its dance and vehicular chase scenes (though I'll never say no to impromptu tanks in a climactic showdown). And yes, there's a recurring bit involving a First Nations community which isn't as tongue-in-cheek as it'd like to think, dabbling in dubious racial politics (and don't worry - Brendan Fraser gets in on the redface too. Errgh...). It's mitigated (barely) by the superb commentary of how intensely 'authentic' it is, while the Chief later grumbles that they're basically doing dinner theatre here, with their Riverdance bit being a particularly good seller. But hey - if Wilson's tentative forays into sociopolitical satire aren't for you, there's always a woodland training montage with a gamely silly comedy drunk Eric Idle, a surprisingly tasteful nod to Raiders of the Lost Ark with Alfred Molina, and... y'know...a bit where Dudley crashes around his lodge wearing a giant moose head. And you know you're a hoser if you can't appreciate a giant moose head gag.Brendan Fraser has built a career around playing adorably dim live action cartoon characters, and is astute enough to play Dudley's clueless earnestness wholly straight. He doesn't have much to work with here, but he pours on the charm like no tomorrow, and is winningly affable for it. Similarly, the always superb Alfred Molina is exquisitely cartoony, bagging the majority of the film's meagre laughs, and embodying Snidely Whiplash's trademark sneer with such outrageous commitment that it's almost alarming to see him turn around and realize he's still a three-dimensional, live action human. The normally intolerable Sarah Jessica Parker delivers the film's most remarkable feat by being...tolerable; in fact, her simpering vacuous Nell is almost likable, even vaguely funny at times (although juxtaposing her apparent slew of postsecondary degrees with her voluminous stupidity is a conceit which wears thin very quickly). Finally, adult viewers caught in the existential throes of 'how did I get here' might recognize Jack Kehler, otherwise known as the Dude's awkward landlord from The Big Lebowski, playing an expanded version of the same character as Snidely's second-in-command here, which brings delights of its own.Dudley Do-Right is not a good film by any stretch of the imagination, and even the youngest of kids are likely to call the bluff of its lazy, repetitive, shallow attempts at humour. And yet, Wilson's touch is so perennially chipper that the simplistic adventures of everyone's favourite cartoon Mountie here - thanks largely to tireless efforts by Molina, and Fraser's innate, goofy charisma - are still liable to raise a smile. And if you aren't able to suspend some measure of disbelief and ride out Dudley Do- Right with kernels of the most forgiving enjoyment... well then, take off, eh?-4/10 "}{"Title":"Dudley Do-Wrong.","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Dudley Do-Right (1999) Dir Hugh Wilson / Cast Brendan Fraser, Alfred Molina, Sarah Jessica Parker, Eric Idle, Robert Prosky From the creators of George of the Jungle and proof that they haven't improved. Brendan Fraser plays Dudley Do-Right, a Royal Canadian Mountie and together with his horse named Horse he will attempt to reclaim the dignity he lost when the evil Whiplash took over the land. Lame and predictable with the same appeal as an episode of Sesame Street. Misfire by director Hugh Wilson who at one time made hilarious comedies such as Police Academy and Blast From the Past, the latter featuring Fraser is a less embarrassing role. Fraser overplays a joke involving falling off a chair. That doesn't help the fact that Do-Right is totally unsympathetic due to his juvenile stupidity. Alfred Molina brings correct humour to the role of Whiplash but unfortunately the role is flat. He basically takes over and Do-Right eventually stops him. Sarah Jessica Parker plays off the humour as the otherwise standard damsel. In a broader role Parker would shine but here the role is a dud playing off every lame cliché within reach and never surfacing as anything she should have been a part of. Eric Idle is wasted as a gold digger who teaches Do-Right the ropes. There is no purpose to this junk other than to resurrect a T.V. cartoon into a poorly contrived crap fest. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Might be good for kids &#x96; real little kids","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Released in 1999, Dudley Do-Right is a live-action version of the 60's cartoon with Brendan Fraser in the title role, Alfred Molina as Snidely Whiplash, Sarah Jessica Parker as Nell and Eric Idle as Dudley's master. The movie was advertised as brought to you by the producers of George of the Jungle, which of course implies that it might be in the same ballpark in quality. Unfortunately, that's not the case at all. While the two movies share a couple of the same producers they don't share directors or writers. Dudley Do-Right was directed and written by Hugh Wilson who directed/wrote the amusing Blast from the Past, which came out six months before Do Right. As such, you would think Do-Right would be a decent goofy comedy, but it's not. It's starts off with an overlong, irrelevant and pointless cartoon and never recovers. The zany jokes fall flat except for a couple and this is from someone who enjoys stoo-pid humor.What's utterly amazing is that Do-Right cost a whopping $70 million in 1999 dollars. Blast from the Past only cost half that much and George of the Jungle (1997) $15 million less (than Do-Right)! Where'd all the money go? You certainly don't see it on the screen or in the writing. Of course, Fraser is likable and fitting as Dudley and Molina eats up the role of Whiplash, but their jokes are lame and unfunny. Parker might have worked, but she's underutilized. Really, the only sequences that perked my attention are the Native American theater scenes and, in the third act, when Dudley morphs into a bad dude to beat Whiplash, but even these scenes aren't anything to write home about.Simply put, Dudley Do-Right is a DUD.The film runs 77 minutes and was shot in British Columbia and Santa Clarita, CA.GRADE D "},{"Title":"A dud? No, thanks to the very nice cast","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Dudley Do-Right, Canadian Mountie (Brendan Fraser) is on his post in a remote village in Canada. A lifelong resident of the area, it was Dudley's childhood dream to become a Mountie. He lives in a small cabin with only his horse, Horse, as a companion. Yet, two people from Dudley's past resurface in the small, nearby village. One is Nell (Sara Jessica Parker) who Dudley has loved since their tweenage years. She has returned from a trip around the world and is more lovely than ever. But, alas, the other returnee is the dastardly Snidely Whiplash (Alfred Molina). He was Dudley's rival for Nell's affections long ago, despite his evil and conniving ways. Soon, Snidely has taken over the town's businesses, by hook and by crook, and is making a big play for Nell's attention while Dudley manages to upset the ruling party in Ottawa and is fired from his post. The world is looking pretty harsh to Dudley, that is for certain. Will he recover his job and win the heart of Nell? This is a second, cartoon-based film for Fraser, after the infinitely more successful George of the Jungle. The same creative minds were at work here but the results are far from perfect. Don't blame the cast, however, for Fraser, Parker, and Molina, with a bit of help from Eric Idle and Alex Rocco, are the reasons to see the film at all. Simply put, they are terrific and rise above the mundane script and uneven direction. Certainly, there are some very funny scenes, such as the one in which Snidely orders a poor lady and her children out of their home or where Dudley has the bad luck to have a moose head fall on him during a critical moment with Nell. Now, that's entertainment. Unfortunately, though, a few good scenes do not a great film make. Yet, if you like silly nonsense with likable stars, you might take a chance with this film. Yes, it may elicit a yawn here or there, but it's truly not a bad way to spend a couple of leisure hours. "},{"Title":"Then I'd Be Dudley Do-Wrong!!!","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This movie wasn't bad at all I first say it when I was about 10 I thought it was hilarious 8 years later I still think its funny The best scenes have to be the ones with Snidely (forgive the spelling). Like the DD scene, where he asks his goons what the letters DD are doing in the wall in bullets and they all try to guess what DD stands for Also a great scene is where he's painting then Dudley rides up and just keeps outsmarting him in everything. Its paint by numbers your not wearing black Snidely, thats dark blue classic. You gotta love how SNidely tricks 999 criminals to going to Africa to get him...even though hes standing right there wearing a bandana over his face. And the Moustache....Its also a riot how he refers to himself as the bad guy throughout the film. Over all, good movie Not the best, but its still fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Dudley Done Wrong!","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This was one of my favorite cartoon characters growing up.And while the movie tries to catch some of the flavour of the show and quirky humor, Brendan Fraser is all wrong in the lead role. His doesn't do Dudley's voice, and they didn't even add a large chin! I usually enjoy Sarah Jessica Parker (being the fan of Sex and The City I am), but even she was kind of wasted in this movie.Alfred Molina was a good Snidely Whiplash, but aside from him, there really isn't too much to speak of.Only Eric Idle's cameo is in line with the humor from the show. His scenes alone make some of this worth watching.I haven't seen the Rocky and Bullwinkle movie, but I hope it's better than this! "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable...","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  What people fail to realize is that Brendan Frasier is an incredibly gifted comedic physical actor. This and George of the Jungle are my absolute two favorite performances. I am still pretty dang young, not even mid-twenties, but I grew up on the cartoons, which were shown along with the Rocky and Bullwinkle ones. Brendan does an admirable job of keeping Dudley stupid, but smart. If you know what I mean. True, I am not a fan of Snidely, but you're not supposed to be. Sarah Jessica Parker, doing her own singing I might add, does an incredible version of sweet, dopey Nell. (that is her name, right?) Very enjoyable, to repeat myself. Horse, as Horse, act's just as I would expect. And I don't know how snidely ever ends up making money, considering the fact he has all those henchmen who don't want to be paid minimum wage.  "},{"Title":"Not a spectacular movie, but I had fun","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Here's the thing I remember the cartoon series from when I was a kid. The movie does a fair job of reproducing the goofy humor that Jay Ward invested in the original. It was Silly with a capital S, and the movie is just the same. I wish they'd bleached Brendan Fraser's hair to make him look a little more Do-Right-ish, but the main thing is that, if you are familiar with the original cartoon, the movie shouldn't be too much of a disappointment for you. Alfred Molina isn't bad as Snidely Whiplash, and Sarah Jessica Parker is a pretty good Nell Fenwick. It's goofy, to be sure, but that's what one should expect from anything with Jay Ward ancestry.  "},{"Title":"Yep, should have known. Was a bit of a disappointment.","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Why did I buy this DVD? Brendan Fraser, and a price tag of $5.50. Still, I wish I hadn't. Sure, it is a TV cartoon series brought to life, but while it has a few genuine funny parts, overall it simply isn't funny enough for the genre. Even the two 14-year-olds, who love silly movies like 'Clifford', couldn't quite get into this one. There isn't one specific failing, it just doesn't all come together as an an entertaining 80 minutes. Alfred Molina was his usual good self as Snidely. Sarah Jessica Parker Broderick was cute as the love interest. The horse who played 'Horse' did his job without complaint. The background music and extras were appropriate. But, the whole thing just didn't gel for me! "},{"Title":"SKIP this film","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Brendan Fraser wasted his time and talent and Sarah Jessica Parker made the biggest movie mistake in choosing to star in Dudley Do-Right.Dudley Do-Right is the type of movie everyone hopes will be a success. Unfortunately, the writing did not measure up to the level of talent that signed on to the movie. It is always fun to watch comedic spoofs if they are written well and are logical. However, this film broke both these rules.It was clear that there was no plot or humor in Dudley Do-Right. The only thing that made it bearable was the narrator because he is the only character who kept my interest. SKIP this movie because you will be sorely disappointed if you don't.  "},{"Title":"Awful for a number of reasons...","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"     --SPOILER AHEAD -- Some films are bad because they were made by uninspired producers, directors and writers on a shoestring budget with cheesy production values all around.  Others are what I call awful because they were made by uninspired producers, directors and writers with a big budget and good acting talent.  With those resources at their disposal, one would expect a better end result.  Not this one; it is not only unfunny, and a waste of time, but actually has a bad message it is ok for a person to favor money and power over decency.  The character of Nell in particular stands out.  Dudley's girlfriend dumps him and falls for Snideley Whiplash solely because of his money and influence, and we are to believe that she is worth Dudley's efforts to win her back.  I would have liked to have seen an ending where he sees the light about her and dumps her!   It would have given the film one redeeming virtue.  Alas, it never happened. "}{"Title":"'Dudley Do-Right' is carelessly do-wrong","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Dudley Do-Right (1999) Brendan Fraser, Sarah Jessica Parker, Alfred Molina, Eric Idle, Robert Prosky, Alex Rocco, Jack Kehler, D Hugh Wilson.Inept live-action treatment of Jay Ward's cartoon about the title character, a clueless Canadian Mountie (Fraser) stopping his wily nemesis, Snidely Whiplash (played by an enjoyable Molina) from taking over the town of Semi-Happy Valley and snagging his darling Nell (Parker).Broad, silly physical comedy may go for kids, but no one else will find constant clumsiness genuinely funny. The funniest thing is the announcer's voice by Corey Burton! Regis Philbin and Kathy Lee Gifford give pointless cameos as themselves on their show. Running Time 77 minutes and rated PG for mild comic action violence, and for brief language and innuendo. RATING * ½ (out of ****)   "},{"Title":"Worst Brendan Fraser movie ever!","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  What can I say about Dudley Do-Right that hasn't already been said?  Once again, a very funny and enjoyable cartoon has been turned into an utterly horrible film.  The movie is slow, uneventful, and just plain bad.  Fraser makes his past performances in George of the Jungle and Airheads look like Brando in The Godfather or Kilmer in Tombstone.  Sarah Jessica Parker, an actress with great skill and ability, looks uncomfortable and out of sync in this movie.  Why she would ever be in a movie so horribly out of her league is beyond me.Whatever you do, whoever you are, STAY AWAY FROM THIS MOVIE!!!2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"arrrghhhh","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Brendan Fraser...what were you THINKING??  Ten minutes into this and I turned it off..I NEVER turn a movie off...did they make it up as they went along?  It is a real credit to your star power that this didn't destroy your career.  Are you really the same guy who went on to make the quiet american?  Thanks for the mummy pictures anyway. "},{"Title":"Dudley Don't","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I wouldn't reccommend this movie at all! It's childish, foolish, and immature. But isn't that what little kids want? So it's perfect for them, right? WRONG! It would be, considering it has humor and child related- plot lines, but it's PG for tihngs that aren't suitable for children. Bottome line? Dudley Do-Right is a Dudley Don't "},{"Title":"Loved George of the Jungle hated this...a word to the wise","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"   I have been a life long fan of Jay Wards irreverent and hilarious cartoon characters. Dudley Do Right is one of his best.  After enjoying George of the Jungle I looked forward to this sort of sequel.Dudley most recent incarnation is a major disappointment. It is silly but not funny. The dialogue and gags are heavy handed and miss Ward's light yet biting, wilding imaginative spoof of cultural stereotypes. Don't waste your time with this one.. "},{"Title":"Very weak and stupid movie","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie I found to be very weak. The jokes are so lame and uninspired. I guess the guy who played Snidley Whiplash was okay in his role, but that's it for good things about this film. Also, Brendan Fraser I think should stick to doing The Mummy movies, he was even funnier in that than in this film which is meant to be a comedy! Besides, Dudley-Do Right was a side cartoon for the Rocky And Bullwinkle show along with Peabody and Sherman and those fairy tales. If only Jay Ward were alive today he would've made this film something respectable.Grade D- "},{"Title":"Genuine Dud","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  If you think it is difficult to turn a half hour comedy show into a two hour reunion, imagine how difficult it is to turn a THREE MINUTE cartoon into one.  Hollywood did manage to successfully turn George of the Jungle into a movie; but, if I remember correctly, the episodes were about 20 minutes.  Here, they are not at all successful doing the same thing with Duddey Do-Right.  The biggest problem is the storyline. Dudley is jaw-dropping dumb when he is being good, yet clever and resourceful when he is being bad(???) In the show, Nell was nearly as thick as Dudley.  Here, she is brilliant but shallow. Now, let's get to the casting.  Brendan Fraser looks all wrong for Dudley and doesn't do the voice (I understand he can).  Sarah Jessica Parker is just as bad as Nell.  Only Alfred Molina as Snidely really captures his character.  One could imagine a much better Dudley Do-Right with Casper Van Dien and Kate Winslet, even with this awful writing.   Just about the only thing that works in this thing besides Molina is the Kumquat River Dance parody.  However, the choreography is excellent, more in fitting with a straight film rather than a spoof.Most certainly, DudLey Do-Right is a genuine dud. "},{"Title":"Dudley Do-Nothing and go to sleep forever.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I thought it would never end.  A movie like this would likely make me jump ship altogether and stop watching movies.  It makes Titanic look like heaven.  If I were in hell, I'd name this movie as the last one I'd wanna see. Horrible plot (what plot ?  it wandered from hither to shick) Casting? Way too short.  If you wanted to impress me slightly it had to be longer.  The plot was barely set up before it was over.  Whoever wrote this piece of trash needs to be brainwashed in the art of comedy.  It was so unfunny.  Sure it had it's moments.  Which saved it from being a 1/10 but come on folks.  The same people who brought us The Mummy are trying to sell this movie?  Good god.3/10Quality 1/10 Entertainment 210 Replayable 2/10 "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I was very surprised when I watched Dudley Do-Right for the first time yesterday.  Here is a G-rated film with some genuine humor that an adult or child can appreciate.The Fractured Fairy Tale that started the DVD was great, especially with June Foray providing some of the voices.  The movie itself was unassuming, and the majority of the humor was visual, but there were enough little in-jokes and asides that made the film very enjoyable.  Brendan Fraser played Dudley with suitable aplomb, though once Dudley determined to be bad, he came off as simply Brendan Fraser.  Eric Idle's performance is one of the highlights of the film. "},{"Title":"Just Awful","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  You would think that if you started with Brendan Fraser, Sarah Jessica Parker and Eric Idle in a movie based on a Jay Ward creation, you would get at least a few laughs even if they just read the phone book.  The laughs in this movie are few and far between.  The writing is awful.  The characters are annoying.  The movie lacks any of the wit or charm of the original TV series.   It seems like the writer for this movie never saw the original series or just did not understand what made it funny.  For example, Dudley gets hit in the head by a loose floorboard about 10 times.  I don't think Jay Ward ever used the loose floorboard joke in the original series, and it is not funny in live action.      "}{"Title":"A funny and silly film- definitely worth watching at least once","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  If you like a good giggle, then this film is for you!  It is full of one liners and lots of opportunities to have a jolly good laugh.  Brendan Fraser is, as usual, wonderfully unique and versatile in this role. Starting as an innocent and finishing as a 'dude'.  It gives him another stepping stone for his already successful career.  Eric Idle and Alfred Molina also star as does Sarah Jessica Parker, each offering the film their individual brands of humour respectively.  A jolly good watch and definitely one for Brendan fans! "},{"Title":"Very dull.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The good stuffBrendan Fraser is the best klutz in Hollywood, Eric Idle is hilarious as Kim(I am evil. Evil!), and the guy who plays Whiplash is perfectly cast. However, the laughs are few and far between, the best gags being Eric Idle's training of Dudley, and the sight of bikers playing violins. Also, Whiplash's laughter is funny, but can only carry the movie so far. Stick with George of the Jungle instead. Also, Sarah Jessica Parker's character is absolutely terrible!  "},{"Title":"Not just a kids movie","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I went to this film to beat a hot Brisbane summer, and was pleasantly surprised.  Brendan Fraser is, of course, a hunk, and I drooled through most of the film.  I thought however, that the movie lacked that special something until Eric Idle came on the scene, and then it was superb.  I laughed myself silly, and enjoyed the little Riverdance, Karate Kid and a few other take offs.  The only problem with watching a kids movie is having to put up with the kids in the cinema. "},{"Title":"Dudley Do-Wrong in this awful comedy","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I have a feeling that every few years there needs to be a movie like Spy Hard and Inspector Gadget; however, it needs to have really funny jokes; Dudley Do-Right didn't. Brendan Fraser really wasted his time and talent in a movie that clearly had no plot or humor. The only thing that possibly stood out in my mind as being good was the narrator because he is the one who kept it interesting for me. "},{"Title":"Horrible!!","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  How stupid can you get? I cannot believe how unbelievably corny this movie was. A good preformance by Brendan Fraser as usual in a movie that is really bad.  The only good scene is when  Brendan arrives in a leather jacket on a motorcycle.  But this film stinks big time!  The best I can say, is you don't have to worry about children watching it!  As I recall there is no language in it, and nothing but one simple kiss towards the end of it.  Sarah Jessica Parker definetly does not deserve any award for this role. She did a damsel in distress turn, and was disappointing.From one to ten (ten being the highest) I'd give this movie about a three.  It really was a waste of a perfectly good hour and ten minutes!  That's how long it is!If you have a chance to see this movie, go ahead and watch it if you're into that dorky corny sort of thing, but otherwise, don't bother with it! "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  To the nay-sayers, critics and otherwise, this might not be for you, but I smiled all the way through it. I also liked the actors, Brendan Fraser (who again gets his role just right), Alfred Molina (great as the bad guy), Sarah Jessica Parker (good, but not quite enough to do in this one), Eric Idle (just right, as usual), the Indians (!!!) and Horse.  To all who brought this together, good job! "},{"Title":"Hang in there, it gets better!","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  If you can stand the interminable establishment of the plot, the movie improves. By halfway through, you're experiencing moments of pleasure, and by the last third, you're downright enjoying yourself.Since I took my kid to see Dudley Do-Right as a substitute for the zoo on a rainy day, my expectations were low. I was pleasantly surprised. There is a lot wrong with this movie, but there is enough right about it to keep the adults going while the kids have a party.The musical numbers are funny and sharp. There is a fairly funny (not as funny as it THINKS) sequence in the middle of the movie where a master (Eric Idle) trains Dudley in a parody of everything from Karate Kid to Mask of Zorro (the master is qualified because he owns many Pokemon).Prior to this training, Dudley himself had no character at all except stupidity, making him nearly unwatchable. Afterwards, he is a lot of fun and Brendan Fraser's appeal becomes evident.The ending is a kick. I wouldn't say go see it, but if you HAVE to see it, it's not too bad.  "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This film is just horrible.  Discards the charm and wit of the early 20th century silent films from which Dudley Do-Right was inspired for modernized explosions.Characters have no character or charm.  There is more development in a four-minite Dudley Do-Right cartoon than in this 70 minute flop.One redeeming point  The cartoon prior to the film knocks this film out, by far. "},{"Title":"Real slapstick in the spirit of the original cartoon.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  When we saw this movie a Fractured Fairy Tale was included as the short -- just like the Saturday morning cartoon with Rocky and Bullwinkle.We were somewhat surprised to be only two of 4 people in the theater.  This movie deserves more of an audience.There are some great one liners...   To paraphrase  'The only other time they were received so badly was at their all-male revival of Little Women.'So you can see that the humour is not just for kids -- there are many jokes for adults too.In my review of Iron Giant I bemoaned the fact that all children's movies feel obligated to hit you over the head with some kind of moral message. Not so here.There is a bit of a moral message -- but it doesn't grind it into your face like many other kids movies do.  In fact, I am not really sure exactly what that moral message would be; except possibly Be True To Yourself.Brendan Fraser was more than adequate as Dudley -- when you compare this role to his part in Gods and Monsters his range becomes quite astounding... I can think of few (if any) other actors than can play the love interest of a gay film director, a boy/man that has been locked in a bomb shelter all of his life (Blast From the Past), an archeologist (The Mummy) and then the hero of Saturday morning cartoons -- all in about a year's time.Eric Idle, of Monty Python fame, has a very sweet part -- with a great bit right at the end; prepare to laugh out loud.But one of my favorites was Alex Rocco as the Chief  You know we are not really Indians.  He was great.It's not necessary to take the kids -- see this movie just for yourself. "},{"Title":"Well, I'm not ashamed.  I had fun.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  All right, all of you serious movie lovers.  This is not the movie for you.  This is a movie for people who a) enjoyed the cartoon and b) like going to the movies for fun, and not just for spiritual enlightenment.  To be honest, when the movie started and that familiar curtain rose on the cartoon Dudley backwards astride his horse I wanted to cheer but I had a mouth full of popcorn at the time.The casting of the leads is nearly impeccable.  Brendan Fraser is the only actor who could play this role with complete earnestness.  Alfred Molina simply steals the movie as Snidely Whiplash, a role he seemed to relish as he chewed every piece of scenery he could lay his teeth on.  Sarah Jessica Parker was pretty unremarkable as Nell.  Fortunately, she doesn't get in the way of the fun.  Finally, Eric Idle adds some truly memorable comedic moments as Dudley's Mountain Man Mentor.Go expecting nothing more than an unrepentantly silly movie which lasts a mere hour and twenty minutes.  And there's a cartoon to boot!  It's fun.  Go and laugh. "}{"Title":"A great movie for kids and the kid in you","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  OK, a simple, funny, slapstick movie for kids and the kid in everyone. Movie starts out with a fractured fairy tale cartoon and does not get much deeper. If you like kid movies, this is great. Horse farts and makes raspberry sounds and sticks out his tongue when he does not like something. Loose floorboards get the best of Dudley. It is a simple movie with no deep plot, no bloodshed, no killing, no sex, and no computer special effects. Just fun and silliness. A great movie for the entire family. I watched and heard the kids at the theater roar with laughter at some of the silliness. No offensive anything in this movie. "},{"Title":"Cute, witty live-action cartoon","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  What seems to be missing from most critics' reviews of this movie is that plain and simply, it's meant to be a live action cartoon.  Not an Oscar contender.  So it's up to the creators and certainly the actors to create the proper atmosphere for gaiety and a lighthearted attitude for the audience.  With this, they are quite successful.  Eric Idle adds some very Python-esque humor, with Brendan Fraser playing the sweet lovables for which he is so often known.  All of the actors do wonderful jobs with their parts, in fact.  There are some very witty, unique things going for this film, and as a cartoon fare, it excels.  It's supposed to be silly, and it is, but it also has shades of satire and thankfully, a smaller number of bodily function noises/actions than George of the Jungle.  So if you watch it, watch it as it is meant to be- as entertainment, as escape.  It's not Brecht.  It's a joy!   "},{"Title":"Dudley Do Quite Right Indeed!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I feel somewhat pity for Jay Ward, the cartoon genius who essentially created the tongue-in-cheek joke for kids.  He has missed out on the fruits of his work turning into great live-action movies.Upon entering the theater, I felt hesitant.  The trailers seemed to show only a broad slap-stick side to Dudley (getting hit on the head one too many times).  If the movie was unable to recapture the silly mood of it's predesessor, it would be a total failure.  Call me a skeptic if you wish, but I was expecting the worst.  Thankfully, I was wrong.  Dudley was a fine ol' comedy that is great for adults but perfect for kids.In case you don't know, Dudley Do-Right was a cartoon created by Jay Ward.  Dudley was a idiot Canadian Mountie who was always rescuing his beloved Nell from the evil Snidely Whiplash.  He's tie her to the railroad tracks, he's someone end up saving her.  But in the process, Dudley's antics (along with a sarcastic narrator) left you rolling in stitches.The movie tells the tale of Dudley (Brendan Fraser)and his evil counterpart Snidley (Alfred Molina). Snidley has been planting gold in them thar hills of Semi-Happy Valley in Canada.  When a prospector by the name of Kim Darling (Eric Idle) finds this gold, it turns into the biggest gold rush ever, turns Semi-Happy Valley into Whiplash City, and do to a mistaken case of vampires and government conspiracy (thanks to Snidley), leaves our hero kicked out of the Mounties!  And to top it all off for poor Dudley, Nell Fenwick (Sarah Jessica Parker) has fallen for Snidley and Horse, his horse (played by McFly, no lie), has run off!!!  So Dudley must become bad to out bad Snidley's bad which has turned the delapitated town into a thriving community which is good.  Confused?  Well, it's not that tough.Dudley Do-Right, while overall very similar to the cartoon, is also very different.  The saddest part to me is that Dudley had the voice of Brendan Fraser and not something closer to his original tone, which is a shame because Fraser did the voice on The Daily Show With Jon Stewart and he was perfect.  Another difference is that while Nell was helpless and in love with Dudley in the cartoon, in the movie she seems to love Snidley more often and in a woman of the world.  This added part to her character makes us not like the character at all.  If Dudley doesn't get the girl, lucky him!Now on to the good parts of the movie.  The plot zips by at a frantic speed, slowing down for all the good parts. You get just enough of the story to know what's going on and then onto the jokes.  And laughs there are a plenty.  While there is plenty of that aformentioned slapstick, it thankfully is gone after the first 20 minutes.  Once you get to the Indian Dance number, you're home free.One of the better gags in the movie involves the indian tribe of the Kumquat nation (all of them apparrently straight from New York).  The Chief (Alex Rocco) owns a dinner theater complete with a musical extravaganza and fireworks.  If you thought the native american shows you've seen were kind of hokey, wait till you see the Kumquat nation Riverdance.  Another good riff is when the prospector receives his fifteen minutes of fame...on Live with Regis and Kathy Lee (yes, you get to see his appearance).  Once he becomes a bum again, he goes around uttering I was on Regis and Kathy Lee and I know Bette Midler personally (no, you don't get to see her appearance).But Kim Darling, the prospector isn't just there for a joke or two.  When Dudley becomes fired, Kim takes Dudley under his wing and turns him into a great hero following three steps We'll start with two, for the sake of consistency 2. trust, 1. bravery, and 3. instinct.  The training may be the oddest thing ever and remember, this is Eric Idle of Monty Python fame, so somehow, it seems even funnier with him in it.Of course, the best gag is shown in the trailer, but I'll mention it anyway. Dudley, in his first bad doing, steals Snidley's gold he's going to place.  Then he leaves a little message for him ala Dick Tracy with a machine gun.  He leaves his initials D.D..  Snidley, in a fit of anger, yells Do you have any idea what this could possibly mean?  The replies include Doris Day, Dom Deluise, Daniel Day Lewis, Snoop Doggy Dogg, David Duchovney and another name, which I won't tell to ruin the punchline.One odd little note is that Fraser did The Mummy before Dudley Do-Right and it seems to show.  In several occasions, he jumps into action star mode (one that suits him well).  Especially during a strangely thrilling motorcycle race that is very reminicent of Return of the Jedi's swoop bike scene but only with a bit more humor.  The action is very intense for a kid flick and it's choice of music to get you in the mood(not during the scene), Born to be Wild on classic instruments, seems to work.(A quick message here.  Right before the movie is a cartoon of Fractured Fairytales.  This cartoon, entitlted The Phox, The Box, and The Lox was so enjoyable, it makes you wonder why Universal doesn't start making more new cartoons for it's movies.  Or how about bringing them back to a TV show?)As for the ending of the movie, it leaves you feeling content yet yearning for more.  You can't help but wish there had been more or maybe something during the credits.  Do you hear that Universal, when The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle comes out, there better be gags in the credits!  As for Dudley Do-Right, it may not be George of the Jungle, but it's so close you could swear you see him.  And yes, before you start E-mailing me about it, I know. "},{"Title":"Not great but better than i expected","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I read some of the reviews here before watching this and was expecting a bomb but it surprised me to the upside. Fraser does a good job as dudley though why they had him play the role 30 pounds overweight, i don't know. I've never liked Sarah Jessica Parker because she's not pretty but she's well cast here as Nell, who is not supposed to be that good-looking anyway. In the cartoon series she played something of a vamp constantly chasing the clueless dudley. In the movie they inexplicably left that side of her out and she's just dudley's (and snidley's) girl. Speaking of snidley he is, as expected, the real star. Alfred Molina does a great job. Without him this show would have been a bomb. "},{"Title":"A great family pick!","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I grew up watching the cartoon as a child. I found this movie to be very funny and wholesome. It is hard to find entertaining movies that both adults and kids can enjoy together. Not only did Brendan Fraser portray a believable Do-Right, he also, with the help of his sidekick (that comic Monty Python man, Eric Idle), makes a GREAT Do-Wrong (said with a French accent). Even better, Alfred Molina is hysterical as Snidely Whiplash!!! It is clear that he enjoys pouring on the smarm for the bad guy role. I don't believe anyone could have played a better comedic bad guy that he does. There is a real need for quality G-rated family movies and I believe this film fits the bill! "},{"Title":"Glad I'm not a Canadian.","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  If the Canadians that are represented in the film as a bunch of british wannabes whose accent sound as slow as a New York Bronx resident, then I will continue to always regard Canadians as dumber than the average American bear. I have never watched the cartoon, but it is no excuse to be extremely corny and flat out totally dumb. There was another film called Inspector Gadget that took it's idea from cartoon, though it wasn't exactly like the cartoon, there were many elements which made up for it unlike Dudley Dooright. I didn't finish watching the movie because it was becoming an eyesore/earsore to continue watching a bunch of British wannabe Canadians trying to make the film funny. "},{"Title":"Shame on you!","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" No, not one tiny bit of this movie can be said to be even remotely funny. How come that so many seemingly sane people get involved in a movie that only two or three persons in the whole world would find funny? Were they tricked? The slapstick was downright pathetic and all the overcliché'd jokes make this one painful to eyes and ears. OK, there was the scene in which fireworks were being shot at attacking boats, but this scene was over before I knew, so even this will not change the rating I generously bestow on this hopeless attempt at creating humorous content. "},{"Title":"With the emphasis on Dud","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  My two young children didn't even like this film. Save your time and money. I thought it would be worth a try since my kids enjoyed George of the Jungle to the point that we later bought the video. This piece of disjointed garbage was obviously an attempt to follow up on the relative success of that film--but it fails miserably. The jokes were simply not funny and the script gave the impression that they were making this thing up as they went along. The slapstick didn't work at all and whoever played Whiplash, should be given at least 30 lashes-- just a terrible performance. Eric Idle tried to add just a little comedy to it, but even he couldn't save this dud. "},{"Title":"Just don't do it","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  A jaw-droppingly bad film, in the league of The Avengers and The Pebble and the Penguin.  And this is from someone who loved George of the Jungle.  The story doesn't make any sense (why does Dudley get dismissed from the Mounties?), most of the jokes fall flat, and the Canarsie Kumquat Indians gag is lifted wholesale from F Troop.  At the end, Dudley manages to ride Horse across a wide field straight at two tanks (yes, tanks) that are firing at him for what seems like an hour.  I know this is supposed to be satirical humor, but there has to be some element of believability to make the satire work.  And there is none here. "},{"Title":"The worst movie adaptation to date!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The blending of time frames and clothing styles just makes things bad, NOT funny.  The only amusing part of the movie is the scene with the rocks. I don't want to ruin it for you if you are tied to a railroad and made to watch this... "}{"Title":"Bad......","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie really sucks. I was dragged to it by a friend, but found myself nodding off. This movie is so boring, and so ridiculous, I can't remember the last time I have seen such a poor film. A complete waste of the seven bucks I paid for the ticket. Avoid it at all costs... "},{"Title":"Even Worse Than The Usual Cartoon-To-Live-Action Attempts","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" There had been a fad in Hollywood decades ago for making live-action versions of old television cartoons. None really worked, but this one has done more badly than the others. Of course, it didn't help that Dudley Do-Right cartoons were invariably shorts, rather ones that beget complicated situations.The cartoon had the premise of a strong and handsome but dense hero doing battle against the villain Snidely Whiplash, succeeding in the end when he finally uses his head. (One episode has him fooling Snidely into thinking some dynamite exploded when it didn't because he tricked him using a recording of an explosion-but Dudley had failed to defuse the real dynamite.) So what happens here? Snidely starts a fake gold rush, and Dudley eventually foils his plans. This could have been the basis of something good, but a confusing and unfunny story, ethnic stereotypes, and performers who don't correspond very well to their cartoon equivalents make this a bad movie. Even Dudley Do-Right completists should stay away. "},{"Title":"More like Dudley-Did-Bad-On-the-Silver-Screen","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Around the 1960's, there were the hilarious cartoon series featuring the adventures of Canada's most birdbrained but lovable Mountie, Dudley Do Right. I'm not sure who voiced Dudley Do Right, but I sure wish to congratulate him. I got the DVD version of the 1999 movie of the same name. But, wait a minute! Why is it all in live-action?! Shouldn't it all be in animation? Who's responsible for this crap-fest?! Brendan Fraser as Dudley Do Right?! What the flying flip is wrong with this guy?! All the characters in this movie(Including Snidley Whiplash) look absolutely nothing like the characters in the cartoon. Again, who's responsible for this abomination?! Let me guess, it's the same guy who made Barney's Great Adventure, right? What?! It's the same guy who made George of the Jungle?! Good grief! "},{"Title":"Um","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" If this movie was made to intentionally be as dumb, silly and stupid as possible, then I give full props to them. They did a great job. However, if this was a legit attempt at a movie (of which turns out to be based off of a TV cartoon show or something?) then they failed badly. I almost wished they were intentionally trying to be bad.It comes to the point where sometimes you want the bad guy to win just because the good guy isn't good enough, the script is terrible, or whatever the case may be. In this case, the pure fact that the gags in the movie were so dumb makes me wonder.I was rather impressed with a few gags here and there, and yes some of the jokes were rather funny, however all in all I just think it was rather dumb. At least there were no musicals... eck that would be been horrible! PRated 4/10. "},{"Title":"Horse Feathers are Funnier than Horse Farts","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" In pleasant Semi-Happy Valley, brave but naive Brendan Fraser (as Dudley Do-Right) grows up to be a Royal Canadian Mountie. His wicked rival Alfred Molina (as Snidely Whiplash), faithful girlfriend Sarah Jessica Parker (as Nell Fenwick), and steadfast horse (as Horse) also appear. The threat of vampires in the valley occupies Mr. Fraser's mind at first, but Mr. Molina poses an even greater threat... This live action version of the 1960s cartoon character, originally part of the Rocky and Bullwinkle shows, does not translate into a feature length film. Naming an American Indian Standing Room Only and the cheeky Molina garner a few chuckles worthy of Jay Ward and his writers, but the satirical whimsy is missing.*** Dudley Do-Right (8/21/99) Hugh Wilson ~ Brendan Fraser, Alfred Molina, Sarah Jessica Parker, Eric Idle "},{"Title":"It's OK , but I liked the cartoon better!!!ZZZZZ's(I fell asleep it 's so slow!!!","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie is based on the cartoon series of the same name. It  felt like watching a overlong cartoon of the show!!The movie is loosely based on the classic series that was part of the Rocky/Bullwinkle cartoon series!!This movie actually put me to sleep!If you must see this movie, find a ,matinee and waste you hard earned money!But if I were you , consider waiting for the DVD or video!!!But if you want a quick nap go see this and catch some ZZZZZZ's BTW, this movie is the slowest one out there!!Even Superstar was faster than this flop!!! "},{"Title":"Dudley can do no wrong","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Dudley Do Right is a faithful live-action adaptation of the classic Jay Ward cartoon from the 1960's. We first met the square-jawed Canadian Mountie, his sweetheart Nell and the evil Snidely Whiplash on The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show. Brendan Fraser stars as Dudley, Sarah Jessica Parker is Nell and Alfred Molina (of Boogie Nights) is the bad guy, perfect casting in each case. This movie is a strange creation that can have a theater full of kids laughing at fart jokes one minute, then have adults grinning at Riverdance references the next. It's smart slapstick, a Three Stooges film with hip in-jokes added.  Hugh Wilson wrote and directed Dudley Do Right, and the creator of the TV series WKRP in Cincinnati and Frank's Place finds just the right tone for this material. At times I was reminded a bit of the pace and spirit of Blazing Saddles, although this picture is aimed at a more of a family audience.A short subject precedes the film a brand new Fractured Fairy Tales cartoon. If you remember FFT, Sherman and Peabody and the rest you will appreciate it, but for teens and young adults there may be no nostalgia factor for cartoons they never really watched. I fear that core movie audience won't see this very funny film. "},{"Title":"A movie that's a joke in itself","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Dudley Do-Right has a title that its badness could suggest be used for various puns of the sort. I believe a number of jokes could be made at the fact that it failed to recoup roughly eighty-six percent of its $70,000,000 budget. I seem to have an ounce of sympathy for the fact that numerous talents such as Brendan Fraser, Sarah Jessica Parker, and director Hugh Wilson in such a desperation for a quick-fix or a cash-grab that they needed to make a film based off a character I'm sure American audiences could've stomached not seeing again. So making a joke from this material seems sort of beneath me; at any rate, the fact that a studio and investors spent $70,000,000 on a Dudley Do-Right movie is a joke in itself.I can't remember the last time it was such a chore for me to sit through a seventy-seven minute movie. I became so restless that I couldn't even focus. You know how the new theater trend that is slowly emerging is autistic-friendly theaters, which are theaters that lack previews, remain a bit lighter during the show, are a tad quieter, and blunt movement and conversation is allowed, even encouraged? That kind of theater experience should've been a standard for Dudley Do-Right during its initial release. To expect an audience to remain silent during this under normal theater conditions is an act of pure torture. The only way I could've remained silent is if I slept.Preceding the film is a short called The Phox, the Box, and the Lox, which involves a conniving Phox tricks a bone-headed Lox into opening a box that states whoever opens this will die to recover the treasure inside. This short only lasts about five minutes and it's a drag to sit through. How infrequently do I see a film with a preceding trailer that maintains the same sort of mood and effect that its successor will soon have.The film focuses on our title character, of course, a Canadian Mountie played by Brendan Fraser, who is often victim to his naivety and do-right attitude about everything life has to offer. His childhood friend Snidely (Alfred Molina) now has ambitions to take over the area where Dudley works, resulting in one of the biggest gold schemes in history. Dudley teams up with his childhood crush Nell (Sarah Jessica Parker) in an effort to spoil Snidley's plans at success and domination.Does this sound like the kind of gripping tale you want to let yourself and your children indulge in? Why on earth would you take them to see this film? Passing entertainment? Something to do because it's wet outside? It looks harmless enough? It's for their own benefit? Wrong, wrong, wrong. I consistently hear that obesity is a form of child abuse and constantly feeding your kid unhealthy food should result in some of punishment for the parent. So should taking them to view Dudley Do-Right, which is about as unhealthy and unsubstantial as a pack of Hostess cupcakes.Brendan Fraser, who sporadically appears in a film worth watching, must be given credit here for persevering through a role that is as unforgiving as a roadside mascot for a car company. The extremely high budget suggests he was compensated well, but his dignity was left undernourished as we see him victim to horse-farts, blows to the head, blows to the ego, etc. It gets beyond monotonous. How many times can you watch the same joke be repeated before you, as the helpless viewer, throw your arms up in utter defeat? I have never seen the Dudley Do-Right shorts that spawned this film and, much like after I watched the Scooby-Doo film adaptation, I have no plan to now. However, from a relatively quick glance, they seem like the kind of drudgery that was undoubtedly boosted in quality by how much sugar was in a young boy or girl's system. I don't believe any amount of sugar could make this film more bearable than it is.Dudley Do-Right is not a funny movie by any stretch of imagination. Its exposition is tired and facile, its self-referential toilet humor is ridiculous and redundant, its actors succumb themselves to some of the driest material, the sight-gags are routine, and its hero is so dreadfully incompetent that one wants to show him the way to the wardrobe for a costume change and into the breakroom.Starring Brendan Fraser, Sarah Jessica Parker, and Alfred Molina. Directed by Hugo Wilson. "},{"Title":"Mr. Magoo Meets George Of the Jungle","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  If you liked Mr. Magoo and/or George Of the Jungle, you'll most likely enjoy Dudley Do-Right. I, personally, found it better than George of the Jungle, even though Dudley has some very stupid moments. Together as a whole it works, even if it is...well...stupid.3/5 stars on a stupid fun scale -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Dudley Do-Right? Universal Do-Wrong more like.","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Rocky Do you know what an A-bomb is?Bullwinkle Certainly. 'A - bomb' is what some people think of our programme.Rocky I don't think that's very funny.Bullwinkle Neither do they, apparently.Still beats this movie.I've always liked cartoons, and I've never had much time for people who don't like cartoons. So I usually approach live-action versions of same with caution - usually justified (not least if they're made by Universal, whose track record in making big-screen versions of TV shows leaves something to be desired; like Leave it to Beaver and McHale's Navy but unlike The Flintstones and Jetsons The Movie, alas this one skipped UK cinemas and went directly to video). Dudley Do-Right is no exception.Written and directed by Hugh Wilson of Police Academy and WKRP In Cincinnati fame (which should be enough for some people), the film's merciful lack of length is one of its few real virtues; unlike the delightful George of the Jungle, the makers have no real affection for the source -  not only is the movie set in the present day, but Nell actually returns Dudley's love (as fans of the cartoon character know, she always preferred his horse) - with tiresome slapstick, flatulence jokes, unamusing cracks about how Americans and Canadians view each other, and even machine-guns and a motorcycle chase thrown in.Even Brendan Fraser's appeal can't save this one; Alfred Molina's Snidely Whiplash is a help, but not enough; and as for Sarah Jessica I'm not going to stand next to Britney Spears and look even worse than I usually do Parker's Nell Fenwick... no. But there is one truly good sequence the Fractured Fairy Tales cartoon that precedes the movie. It's much funnier than the main attraction, and gives you a taste of the real thing to boot. When will people learn that going from animation to live-action isn't automatically trading up? "}{"Title":"Just plain fun","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit that when this movie first came out I groaned, Oh, no! Not another TV show going movie But I was pleasantly surprised at the way this turned out.  The cartoons were cute enough, the movie is just plain fun, quite enjoyable.  Snidely's band of evil-doers particularly amusing, as were the Kumquat tribe.  Great tongue in cheek humor sprinkled throughout.A movie you can safely sit back with the popcorn and enjoy with your kids and grandkids. "},{"Title":"I'd rather study!!!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  One of the suckiest films I've seen!!!I should say that I couldn't take any more after about 15 mins so I turned it off. I don't think even kids will find it funny. It really underestimates the intelligence of ALL viewers! It's almost an insult from the filmmakers! "},{"Title":"Live-action cartoon","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Brendan Fraser brings another Jay Ward cartoon to life -- first George of the Jungle, and now the heroic but rather thick-headed Mountie.We get a lantern-jawed hero, Native Americans from Brooklyn, a horse named Horse who has gas and an attitude, plus an all-new Fractured Fairy Tales cartoon. What more could you ask? The movie is fast-paced in the manner of the original cartoons and provides a lot of silly but fun enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Likable actors, but not goofy enough to work as a cartoon remake","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" The movie is earnest, and fairly well done from a technical standpoint, but it falls short of the intense goofiness of the original TV cartoons. Placed as a recurring feature within the weekly cartoon series, The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show, the original Dudley Do-Right cartoons relied mostly on a few running gags Dudley's unimpeachable honesty and allegiance to 19th century Canadian Mountie ideals, as well as his innocent love and preference for his faithful horse over his erstwhile girlfriend Nell. Snidely Whiplash's angst and concern over his role as a villain, and how he continually monitors his behavior to gauge his success at being evil was absurd and amusing. The James Mason-ish Inspector Fenwick, who maintained the same oily yet dry British upper class drawl whether he was giving orders to Dudley to counter Snidely's latest attempt to take over Canada, congratulating Dudley on a job well done, or stripping Dudley of his rank because he fell victim to one of Whiplash's set-ups or hoaxes was also great. It was all done in broad strokes, as caricatures of the social roles defining law and order, criminality, authority, the media itself, and gender. It was funny, it was sly, and at about three minutes per week it was just enough.The movie, on the other hand, falls short in the cartoonishness necessary to make the Dudley Do-Right elements entertaining. Dudley was underplayed by the otherwise brilliant Brandon Fraser. He came across as likable and honest, but was too close to reality to be particularly funny. Nell seemed more flaky than romantically frustrated, as the cartoon had her. Maybe that was a bow to modern feminism, but it deprived the character of the contrast and drama that used to be funny. What was left, and now visible on the screen, was just a blond lady. Nell's father, Inspector Fenwick, was so blank as to be a non-character. That James Mason-ish hold-the-empire-together, and close-your-eyes-and-think-of-Britain droll absurdity from the original cartoon would have been easy enough to bring to the movie screen, but this movie didn't even try. Remakes and re-enactments don't need to be models of exactitude, of course. But if not a reprint of the original, a remake does need to conjure up a similar vibe.Fraser's other Jay Ward movie re-enactment, George Of the Jungle, was a much better job. It worked both as a movie itself, and as a faithful re-do of Ward's original. It evoked the TV cartoon series, thus satisfying nostalgia and all of that for the fans, yet it also did what movies need to do to grab and entertain the actual folks currently sitting in the theater. Dudley Do-Right missed this. During the showing I attended, I think I chuckled twice and laughed twice, each time hearing a handful of adult voices with mine. A couple of times I heard children's small little voices laughing-- each when someone got hit in the head and fell down. This wasn't enough. It needed to be much more of a movie to watch and enjoy independently of any remake or nostalgia vibe. George of the Jungle was a movie first, and a remake second. Dudley Do-Right was, on the whole, pretty much just a remake, and not a great one at that. I gave it a 6, even though I was really hoping it could have been much more. "},{"Title":"Pathetic Trash, And Even Racist","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Normally I wouldn't comment on a movie like this, but while flipping channels I started watching it out of curiosity. Within minutes I could see it was really lame and dumb. Eric Idle, who is normally one of my favorite comedians, is really disappointing. Obviously he did this for the money, because this is the worst thing I've ever seen him involved with. Alfred Molina as well, because he is a great actor with comedic talents which he displayed so well in Maverick. The rest of the cast are totally pathetic. What really got me going was the scene when Dudley rows across the lake with Parker to visit the Indian camp. You would think that the standard, racist, put-down of the Indian people that Hollywood got away with for so many years wouldn't be acceptable anymore. But these people seem to think it's funny to put on Indian costumes and mock the stereotype. It might be funny to some people, but this is really scraping the bottom of the barrel when you have to resort to making fun of the Indian people like this. In fact, it could be called racist. It's the same kind of low-life stuff that Hollywood used to do with black-face when mocking black people was acceptable. Unfortunately, there's no shortage of idiots in Hollywood coming up with this crap. "},{"Title":"When a movie try to be funny alike naked gun....","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" all the jokes was so worst. Barnedn Fraser don't know to choice a good movies which aren't the Mummy's movies. OK, he played good as well in George in Jungle.... that's all. i hated the twisted of bad/good/bad/good....... it just make headaches. also- i hated Nell's char. she isn't so active in the movie and don't so funny (alike ALL the chars....)in short don't watch it. don't waste 77 mins on this movie. better to waste 77 mins on another movie.the idea of the story started nice- but it's quickly goes down and down as a tree rolled in a river and tries not sallow in the water.. nothing save it else. the end of the movie just make a shame to horses and to the vievers that wasted time on the movie. "},{"Title":"Dudley is  a real dud. A laughless, useless, worthless waste of time. * out of ****","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  DUDLEY DO-RIGHT (1999) *Starring Brendan Fraser,  Sarah Jessica Parker, Alfred Molina, Robert Prosky Written and directed by Hugh Wilson   aprox  90minutes   Rated PG (for comic slapstick violence)By Blake French	In a particular scene featured in the new comedy Dudley Do-Right, one of the characters states something funny; That's not fair, they have rocks--all we have are machine guns. That dialogue is witty, sassy and irresistible. Unfortunately, it is expressed by the film's villain. Cute, likeable remarks like that should be used to develop the good guy, especially if the good guy is Dudley Do-Right. The hero himself here is given no funny one-liners or likeable traits that train the audience except him as the happy go lucky protagonist. In result of giving the antagonist all the good material, I ended up rooting for the bad guy. The filmmakers seem to notice this concept and in result, for most of the production, the bad guy is the good guy and the good guy is the bad guy. Doesn't make much sense, does it. But movies like Dudley Do-Right have such little clue about what they are or where they are going, that this flaw is only the beginning of its troubles. The movie opens with three young kids playing together in a yard. One says that he wants to be a good hearted law enforcer one day. Another explains that he wants to be the villain, and takes the third, a girl whom they both have a crush on, and rides away on his bike after smashing a chocolate ice cream cone on the deputy wannabe's head. The characters grow up and become what they have always dreamed of being. Dudley Do-Right is a proud appointee living out in the country with his horse named horse. His old sweetheart, Nell Fenwick, knocks on his door one day. They sing each other a song. Romantic flares gloom.Everything is going well in Dudley's life until his old bully acquaintance, Snidely Whiplash, starts to deal out a sinister plan involving a false good rush, vampires, and blackmail--all which make Mr. Whiplash look like the good guy, and eventually turn Dudley into a bad guy--sort of. 	 Already the plot is too deep for this kind of movie. Most of the cartoons which Dudley Do-Right is based on were simply and zany. The story is mostly explained to us by a comically annoying narrator who uses shapeless, undisciplined humor to provoke laughs in order to distract us from his bothersome presence. And to add some more proof of this film's plot failure, it is very hollow it never allows us to become involved simply because there is such little substance to it. No depth...just a bunch of nonsense characters doing screwball things to each other. 	Another thing I found to the awful creditably to Dudley Do Right is the amazing lack of high energy excitement involved with the story, like that which was found earlier this year in movies like Inspector Gadget and My Favorite Martian. I was astonished with how little energy this movie actually had. Don't let the film's trailer or advertisements confuse you; this movie has such little excitement in it that I would still find it difficult to recommend to the youngest of children, it just won't hold their attention. And the few scenes that did energy felt stained and tired.   	There are a few funny moments in Dudley Do-Right, most of which come from concepts or ideas that are recycled and repeated. Coming from the creators of the dreadful George of the Jungle, (1997) the film obviously offers the same kind of humor repeatedly--Dudley hits his head on a floor board about a half dozen times throughout the production. Regardless, the laugh inspiring material here is not enough to even waste a dime on.I liked the performance from Alfred Molina, as the villain, Snidely Whiplash. He offered the kind of character needed in Big Daddy, which was starved for a bad guy. Brendan Fraser has been in several movies this year, without even having a hit. Blast From the Past failed in the box office, The Mummy was unconvincing, and now, this flop, which is such a useless worthless waste of time it doesn't even know how to develop its main hero, and the tittle is taken from his name. At times in this film Dudley Do-Right asks his horse for advice in life threatening situations and at others he blasts his initials in a fortress with a tommy gun he is beholding. Its is too serious for kids and too childish for adults. All of this and one wonders why Disney did not bring us this family entertainment--after all, it seems like their style. I think they probably were offered this film, but had higher standards than it. Universal bought the rights, along with the pain and suffering they will most likely feel long after the reviews and box office totals are in. They will have to live with their decision--for the rest of their lives. Brought to you by Universal Pictures.   "}]