[{"Title":"Fascinating story with a few flaws","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a slow moving but interesting story about a 50 something bohemian photographer named Connie Fitzpatrick (Stephen Rea) who is a serial seducer of impressionable young women.  His seduction is not really about sex, although that is part of it.  Instead, it is more of an emotional seduction that involves his creating a symbiotic mentor/protégé relationship that puts him in control while feeding his ego.  His latest conquest is Harper Sloane (Sarah Polley), a recent college grad from a wealthy family who is all set to go to Harvard Law School.  Clearly lonely and vulnerable and not used to the attention of men, she falls prey to the charms of this free spirited older man and eschews law school to run off with him and live the artsy life.Director/writer Audrey Wells, whose best previous writing credits were for The Truth About Cats and Dogs does an excellent job bringing this story to the screen in her directing debut.  Her shooting of the scenes was sensitively done and brought forth a lot of the emotional elements of the story and the characters.  It is clear that this was a labor of love for Wells, but as is often the case, directing one's own work takes away the objectivity about the script leaving most of the plot problems intact.It is believable that an insecure girl could be lured into a relationship by a charming older man who overtly appreciates her and believes in her abilities.  May/September romances (or more aptly in this case April/August) are common and usually happen for all the reasons depicted here.  The biggest problem with the story was the introduction of Billie (Gina Gershon), one of  Connie's earlier alumni, so early in the story.  Billie warns Harper of the specific manipulative lines that Connie uses repeatedly with each of his love interests, almost by rote.  She gives great detail right down to the way he touched her and the fact that he calls them all Guinevere.At that point, Harper does exactly what one might expect, she leaves him. Shortly thereafter, the story loses all credibility as she eagerly goes running back to him, knowing full well that she is being totally and impersonally manipulated.  The entire relationship after that waits for an emotional explosion that never comes.  The whole thing just sort of withers away with the eventual breakup being no more than a fait accompli.  The breakup scene was weak and cowardly, which detracted greatly from the dramatic potential.  If Wells had put Billie's scene closer to the end of the story to create the last straw it would have been more effective.Wells also misses a great opportunity to add fireworks by not emphasizing Harper's relationship with her mother (Jean Smart).  There was a natural emotional tension between the two and she was the one character who had complete clarity about the relationship.  Finally, without giving too much away, the gathering of the five Connie alumni at the end was a bit goofy and highly implausible given the gravity of the situation.  However, Wells does eventually redeem herself with a good ending and some of the best imagery of the film.Sarah Polley was well cast in this film and exuded the pure naivety of a young woman inexperienced in the ways of love.  She was wonderfully awkward and vulnerable and it was very believable that she could fall prey to the ministrations of an older man.  Polley has a Winona Ryder quality about her and has excellent potential as an actress.  It remains to be seen if she can break out of the role of quirky teen.Stephen Rea was hopelessly miscast in this role.  He didn't have the emotional horsepower to play this character.  His acting is somewhat stoic and wooden and this character needed to be charming, passionate and obsessive.  The part required an actor more like Michael Caine.The best performance of the film goes to Jean Smart as Harper's outspoken and gregarious mother.  She completely steals the movie with her confrontational scene with Connie, explaining to him why he can't make it with women his own age.  She is terrific in every scene she is in and the fortune cookie scene is fantastic.Overall, I rated this film a 7/10.  This film will probably be most appealing to men over 50 and women under 25.  None of the flaws were fatal, but the pace was slow and the plot implausible in parts.  That detracted from an otherwise engaging story and some very good technical filmmaking. "},{"Title":"The truth about scaredy-cats and horndogs","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The young Canadian actress Sarah Polley can sizzle in character parts--she burns a hole in the screen in her tiny bit in Cronenberg's EXISTENZ, and she was luminous as the princess in the wheelchair in THE SWEET HEREAFTER. But in leading roles, she seems both brittle and amoeboid. As Harper, the insecure and overlooked daughter of a family of cutthroat lawyers, she has one amazing scene--being seduced, her reactions fry out her speakers, sending from giggly hysteria to overdrive lust. Harper is seduced by an aging bohemian wedding photographer (Stephen Rea)--a lush who talks a big game, pontificates in bars with his low-rent cronies, and makes a sport and a pastime of mentoring (and groping) avid young women. But we don't see any hunger, any passion or obsession in Harper. When the photographer, Connie, tells her she has talent it's an obvious pick-up line--not because she hasn't done any work, but because she shows no interest in anything but being noticed.The writer-director, Audrey Wells, doesn't show much interest in anything else, either. The author of the scripts for GEORGE OF THE JUNGLE and INSPECTOR GADGET, her first indie feature has more than a whiff of the dilettante. Like AMERICAN BEAUTY, GUINEVERE likes to flirt with the idea of having an edge, then shies away from it. Both of these movies are just too damned clear. The pleasure of that seduction scene is that Harper responds in ways that are messy, funny, unprogrammed; every other scene in the picture makes its point in letters so bold the thickest member of the audience couldn't miss it.You can take the girl out of the studio, but ain't no way you're taking the studio out of the girl. The lechy photographer's big sin--the thing that makes him evanesce in Harper's eyes--is that, at fifty, he's still stumping and hustling for cash. Can Audrey Wells really intend that it's okay for Connie to be a serial phony, an ego-inflating come-on artist, but his real Achilles' heel is that he never made real money? (Wells' point seems to be Connie gets Harper's tender young flesh--he could at least pay the bills.) Every scene is so blandly overdetermined it reeks of falsity--especially the much-applauded one where Harper's bitchy mom (Jean Smart) comes into Connie's loft and undoes their relationship with a single cutting observation. (Would these lovers react with such shock to such an obvious accusation?)For someone making a movie about the romance of the artist's life, Wells seems to have no clue how artists talk to each other, or even behave--she seems to think that's egghead stuff the audience won't care about. But it's that, not sex, that's supposed to be the fundament of Connie and Harper's relationship. Despite Rea's and Polley's efforts, the movie drowns in big-movie timidity. And the ending--a Felliniesque princess fantasy where all of Connie's sweet young things gather for an All That Jazz adieu--maybe intended to be tender. It comes across as a final, passive-aggressive flipping of the bird to a half-forgotten, dirty-minded teacher. "},{"Title":"Whose story was this, anyway?","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm putting this in here not so much for the purposes of explaining or reviewing, but for 1) giving other haters of Guinevere a place to check in, and 2) entertaining those who love to read negative reviews of movies they know they're going to see anyway.Poor, pathetic Harper, literally hiding in the closet at her sister's wedding, her hair mussed and her bride's-maid dress sagging off her shoulders. You've obviously mistaken me for someone with potential, she barely manages to squeak to the wedding photographer, in one of the multitudinous lines of on-the-nose dialogue in this self-conscious, overwrought clunker.Somehow this bright, beautiful 20-year-old has managed to get through her entire life, including four years of college, without once meeting a person who has affirmed her intelligence and her creativity, even though she's smart enough to have been accepted into Harvard Law. Similar ironies occur in real life--the beauty who thinks she's ugly, the overachiever who thinks she's not doing enough--but at some point you lose interest in a character who's either got some serious personality disorder or whose creator (the writer) imagines that weird gestures and speeches can take the place of psychology.The beautiful, bright girl proves utterly vulnerable to the seducements of the wedding photographer an older, less-promising, often insolent, and lecherous man who says things to her like You can do it and You must learn to detest the bourgeoisie. Oh, I don't remember if he actually said *those* things, but his utterances are so much hogwash that only an impression of nonsense remains. Harper is introduced to . . . coffee houses! She listens to . . . jazz! Someone actually asks her about her ideas for the first ever time in her whole entire life! To go back to the biographical thing, how did this girl ever get the liberal arts education required to enter Harvard Law without someone at least once eliciting her opinion on something? And probably admiring it? Without ever having a lively conversation with intellectual and creative types? Without ever laughing? Without going through that whole fascinating-older-man thing about ten times? Without getting a glimpse outside the world she came from? Unlikely, weird scenes get slapped on, one after the other, without any progress in character or conflict. She throws herself on him hungrily. She moves in. He insults her, she runs away, she insults him and then comes back, they insult each other and reunite. When he's at his lowest, she goes into a frenzy of taking his picture, presumably off a roll of film with about 200 exposures on it. Then she gets him into focus and relents with a whimper.Ultimately, the photog turns out to be every bit as bad as he promises, and perhaps a little better since he's principled enough to send her away when it's at the point where the relationship can do nothing but drag her down. Fast-forward to so many years later and she's giving him the last and only thing she can her best wishes for a good death. The scene drags on and on, and ends with his dissolution into heavenly white light. Why? Whose story was this? He was the worst man I ever met. Or the best man I ever met. This ham-fisted summary, I suppose, is supposed to be a specimen of brilliant, tortured, complex ambiguity. To me, it's a failure to make a stand, an excuse for the writer to dump a truckload of contradictions into a character then sneak away without explaining any of it. And why end with him? Again I ask, whose story was this?Audrey Wells, you're a fraud. "},{"Title":"Reminiscent of Casablanca, he sends his love off to safety.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I suspect the theme of this movie is a relatively common fantasy among mature single men. Namely, find a very young woman who needs guidance and love, attach no strings, and plan on her leaving as she grows up. Guinivere is hard to watch in places, especially as the couple arrives in L.A. and it becomes crystal clear to her what her man really is all about. However, it is a well-done study of human needs and conflicts. And ultimately, resolutions. Guinivere's mother's analysis is spot-on, mature women just don't have awe of this dysfunctional photographer, and that's why he is always with a much younger woman.I gave this movie 8 of 10. Not because it is fun to watch, but because it does such a good job of exploring family relationships and individual growth.Oct 2006 addition Seeing part of it again today, I realized something which escaped me on first viewing. The first time he asks her to pick which of two photos is best, he was just setting up the rest of his ruse. He used it as a trick of sorts to make her believe she had a photographic talent. "},{"Title":"I really wanted this to be a good film.  It just wasn't.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw of this film at the Montreal World Film Festival.  Stephen Rea and Sarah Polley were in attendance.  You could not ask for two better actors.  Rea plays a 45-50ish photographer who seduces 20 yr. old Sarah Polley to give up her law school career and become an artist and his live-in- lover.The director and writer,  Audrey Wells,  also directed and wrote The Truth About Cats and Dogs.  I intensely disliked that film because it was implausible,  not grounded in any reality,  and because even the luminous Jeneane Garafalo couldn't save it.  Audrey Wells also wrote Inspector Gadget;  clearly,  her writing leaves something to be desired.  In this film she manages to put interesting situations (May-September romance / high vs. low class) forth but whenever they approach any hard edges here comes the soft humour or easy way outs or just plain ambiguously unrealized character motives.  Polley's character would get to say one disturbing or strong thing,  then have go on acting so obviously well below her & her character's intelligence.  I consistently thought scenes were misdirected and that the writing gave up on itself and fell into cliche,  sapping it of any force it had.  And with the potential force between these two great actors never realized it was a sad loss.  This is no Lolita or Educating Rita.  Consider even the ballyhooed scene were Jean Smart,  in a good job,  takes down Rea's character in front of her daughter (the 'awe' scene.)  The camera focusses intently on Smart's malice.  Think how much better that little diatribe would be if we were watching *Polley's* reaction while hearing the *mother's* words.  That would be a real dislocation.  Then we could see the full range of which Polley is absolutely capable.Also,  the soundtrack music was very synthetic and touchy-feely and it worked completely against the (potentially) creepy aspect of the film,  until the white-light hogwash of the end.  But if you liked all that white-light business in Kissed & if you could tolerate the preposterous situation of Cats & Dogs, then maybe you will like this film. As it was,  I found it singularly unconvincing,  the moreso as it went along.ps. Sandra Oh is very funny with the two minutes of screen time she gets.  Sandra Oh is always excellent.  If you want to see a good Sarah Polley & Sandra Oh film,  rent Last Night.  It's brilliant.  For Stephen Rea,  look forward to his next Neil Jordan film. "},{"Title":"Pardon me while I spew","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I got roped into watching this drivel by my girlfriend. It was On Demand and I had had a couple of beers so I said 'why not'. Well, if you're interested, here's why not This galling display of perversion is so caustic to the sensibilities of any thinking person that I cannot believe anyone was truly happy with the film when it was completed. The characters are beyond unsympathetic and venture into the realm of embarrassing. Harper is a pathetic and hopeless individual if she made it as far in life as her storyline says she did without the skills she seems to lack. Worse, the life lessons she is supposedly learning clearly aren't sinking in if,after realizing her love interest is nothing but a lecherous, perverted, no talent, broke, lying loser who preys on naive, helpless girls when he exposes his intentions in LA at his former 'collector' friends' house, she happily goes along for the ride with only a little tantrum. Absurd. The collection of similarly abused women at the finale is just gross (Class of '85! Good gawwwwwwwd). This film is such a poorly executed self indulgence that it doesn't even live up to irony. Just plain awful. I can't even say that its worth watching for a laugh, because there's nothing funny about. Characters don't develop in any substantiated way. One second people are one thing, the next moment another, for no reason. We are led to believe that harper becomes successful. How? We never see one piece of work. She never gets any connections to dealers or marketers. Suddenly she just appears, wearing a mournful-yet-put-together looking black dress instead of her usual MC hammer style washed out jeans (in the late 90's? San Fran? really?) and tee shirt. Jesus. Where'd that come from? A hopeless attempt at a heartfelt art movie that subverts its own intentions with its meaningless artifice and sloppy, contrived, indulgent imagery. I never post anything on the internet, but this was so bad I couldn't help it. STAY AWAY!!!! "},{"Title":"horrible, disgusting, detestable","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've just watched a film so bad, I am visibly shaken, nearly to the point of vomiting. I love Sarah Polley. I find her mesmerizingly beautiful, and I thought she did the best that could be done in this film, under the circumstances.That said, the 'Connie' character is just gross. And not even gross in a passive sort of way. Gross in a way that leaves you hoping and praying you can forget these memories, scratching to get the images out of your head.Can anyone tell me what Connie died of? I mean, it doesn't even say, right? Is it cancer, perhaps related to his constant smoking? Or is it something still more disturbing? I'll tell you, what did it for me was the scene where he bites down on some piece of food, and his f*ing teeth fall out. I mean, what the f*$%?!?! I saw that and nearly threw up in my mouth. Then I went straight to the bathroom and brushed my teeth for half an hour.Poor Sarah Polley. Someone put her in a good movie. I still liked 'Go,' in which Polley completely steals the entire movie from Katie Holmes. "},{"Title":"Jean Smart Steals the Show","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  	A young woman living in San Francisco, who has just been accepted to Harvard, decides upon another path after meeting and falling under the influence of an older man, an artist, in `Guinevere,' written and directed by Audrey Wells.  Sarah Polley stars as Harper Sloane, who lives with her career oriented, rather self-absorbed family-- her parents, Alan (Francis Guinan) and Deborah (Jean Smart), and her older sister, Susan (Emily Procter).  Rather self-conscious and unsure of herself, Harper has allowed her parents to plan her future-- a career in law, though it is decidedly against her own wishes.  Then at Susan's wedding she meets the photographer, Connie Fitzpatrick (Stephen Rea), an artist, who quickly gains her confidence and lures her into his own bohemian lifestyle.  She moves in with him (unbeknownst to her parents, who think she's staying with a friend for awhile), and he becomes her mentor; she is his `Guinevere,' and the only demands he makes of her is that she `create' something every day.  The choice of her artistic endeavors is entirely up to her; photography, painting, writing, dancing.  but she must create.	Inevitably, of course, their relationship develops beyond the mentor/protege stage, and she learns some things about him that ultimately lead to complications.  And she discovers that her reign as Queen Guinevere may not be all that she had expected it to be.	Wells convincingly presents the allurement of a lifestyle free of constraints and overwhelming demands, which makes it quite understandable that the indecisive Harper would choose to go with Connie, rather than adhere to the wishes of her parents, who are rather cold and impersonal and altogether controlling (especially her mother).  The fact that Alan dotes on Susan and could seemingly care less about Harper, as well as Deborah's apparent lack of actual concern for Harper, qualifies the facility with which Harper is able to effect her plans so readily.  And even when Deborah finds out what Harper is up to (which, of course, was inevitable), she seems to take it as a personal affront more than anything, and is content with merely denigrating the relationship into which her daughter has entered, rather than even trying to change it, which ostensibly at least, would  be the appropriate reaction of a concerned parent.	Polley is well cast as Harper, as physically and emotionally she is able to fit Harper's profile perfectly, and she gives a credible performance, though given her unassuming manner and fairly nondescript appearance, it says more about Connie than it does about her.  And what you have already been able to deduce about Connie from his pursuit of Harper is further underscored during a scene in which Deborah confronts him with her views on the situation (which is arguably the most powerful scene in the film). 	Rea is perfectly cast, as well, affecting a patient, reserved manner, touched with an almost forlorn weariness evocative of a certain wisdom-of-the-world attitude that makes Harper's attraction to him believable.  And as the story unfolds, he very subtly allows you to see more of what lies beneath the surface until, in the end, you have a concise picture of who Connie really is.  It's a fine, understated performance, and a good bit of work by Rea.	In a supporting role that demands mention, Jean Smart gives a smoldering performance as Deborah, a woman of seemingly insatiable needs and an overwhelming desire to dominate.  And Smart plays it perfectly, from the look in her eye to the telling way she carries herself, making the most of her limited screen time and making Deborah the most memorable character of the film.	The supporting cast includes Gina Gershon (Billie), Paul Dooley (Walter), Carrie Preston (Patty), Tracy Letts (Zack), Sharon McNight (Leslie), Sandra Oh (Cindy), Grace Una (April) and Jasmine Guy (Linda).  Though not a film with which you can get too emotionally involved, `Guinevere' has it's moments and does manage to maintain interest.  The characters are real enough, but they evoke a sense of ambivalence; these are not people you are necessarily going to like or dislike.  In the final analysis, it's a good film, and worth seeing-- but with the possible exception of Smart's character, there is nothing especially memorable or compelling about it.  I rate this one 6/10.	   		     "},{"Title":"A disturbingly good movie","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Guinevere Harper Sloane (Sarah Pollack) is a painfully shy young woman trapped in a household of lawyers lorded over by an alpha-mother (Jean Smart) who treats her like a servant.  Destined to attend Harvard law school and join the pack, Harper finds her salvation in Connor Fitzgerald (Steven Rea), part-time photographer/philosopher, full-time con-man Svengali.  Connor actually listens to what she says and offers her escape into an exciting bohemian lifestyle.  Will he be her salvation or downfall?   There are shades of Leaving Las Vegas in this film - it is dark and at times unpleasant - one scene in particular made me so uncomfortable I turned away from the screen.  To its credit, Guinevere,  like Leaving Las Vegas, is also a very good film.   Sarah Pollack is outstanding as the withdrawn Harper (in stark contrast to her brazen, street-wise savvy Ronna in Go!). Although she's actually twenty, she looks fifteen, which helps to convey a believable vulnerability and transformation.Rea is truly manipulative as Connor, more pathetic than sinister, who preys on young women - you're never quite sure if you should loathe or pity him. Finally, Jean Smart does an excellent job as the hard-as-nails matriarch, miles away from her smarmy character on Designing Women.Well worth the price of admission.  "},{"Title":"Crizzap","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Crappy film posing as art. Older man, younger woman. Why does she want him? B/c he manipulates her constantly by promising to teach her the art of photography that throughout most of the movie she has no interest in learning. He calls her Guinevere, as he calls all his pupils. She continues to let him call her that even when learning of all his other pupils. Realistic in the way that the only way an older man could get a young girl to satisfy him and support his unemployment is through intense, cruel manipulation of a hopeless wanderer with the self-esteem of a gnat. The end was not realistic in the slightest. Loved Sarah Polley in My Life without Me but she did her career injustice by doing this film. And her grill looks so messed up. "}{"Title":"Interesting, but not sadly misses something","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't say exactly what, but something is missing in this movie.  Poor Connie.  I think he gets less out of the relationships than the Guineveres.  Maybe I like things tied up too much, but I wish we'd seen a little of Harper's work so we could judge just how well Connie taught her.  A scene of her in a gallery or studio somewhere surrounded by her work as she answers a ringing telephone (presumably with Billie on the other end) would have been satisfying--no dialog necessary, just a look of sadness on her face.  Whatever else, this movie sure spurred some dialog between my 25-year-old daughter and me.Interesting that (along with another reviewer) I saw the connection between the Stephen Rea character, Connie, in this movie and Herman Wouk's Noel Airman in the 50's novel Marjorie Morningstar and talked about that as we walked home.  And as big a bitch as Harper's mother was, she had it right as she saw through Connie. Beautifully acted by all principals!       "},{"Title":"Moving, witty and well acted.","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  All of the characters were honestly portrayed and I think that Ms. Wells has put together a very moving and appropriate piece. The dialog is witty and very natural. Plot and dialog aside, this film is worth watching for the performances alone! Stephen Rea and Jean Smart are both amazing and anyone who had doubts that Polley is bound for greatness should see this film! "},{"Title":"Stay away from this awful film!","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Guinevere, for which I had high hopes, is a disaster.  The basic story line (young woman falls in love with older man) is not the problem.  The problem is that we are supposed to accept the premise that Harper Sloan (Sarah Polley) is an insecure, naive, helpless young woman.  Suspending disbelief is one thing, but swallowing this nonsense is out of the question. We are told to believe  that Sarah Polley, at age 20, needs something or someone to appreciate her for what she can become.  Sarah's character, Harper, is a beautiful, wealthy, college-educated resident of the San Francisco Bay Area.  There is no way in the world she would still be this uninformed, inexperienced, and helpless.  She has done well enough at college to be accepted into Harvard Law School.  If we are to believe the film, she is incapable of any intelligent or creative thought or action.  From what college did she graduate?  Was she asleep for four years?  Was she asleep for 20 years? The only scene with any hint of reality or intelligence was the one in which Harper's mother, played well by Jean Smart, confronts the older man.  Sarah Polley is beautiful and talented; she is wasted in this turkey.  For a film in which the director utilizes the talents of a young actor, avoid Guinevere and see Natalie Portman in Anywhere but Here.     "},{"Title":"A great performance","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a murky, unfocused little film. It is clear that Audrey Wells is a talented writer-director, but I felt a lack of assurance in the execution of her story. However, Jean Smart delivers a brilliant performance that enriches the film, making it memorable. She nails every single SECOND of the film she's in; her monologue towards Rea is a devastating piece of acting that was shamefully overlooked by the Academy. This woman is one of the best actresses of her generation, and if you saw her hilarious, Emmy-winning spot on Frasier you know she's got strong comedic chops, too. Give Jean Smart better roles!  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't believe how awful this movie was. It was virtually free of redeeming features. Poor Sarah Polley desperately tries to save the thing singlehandedly but with lines like that nobody can.These were some of the things that really grated Complete absence of likeable characters (he a sad lech, she a dimwitted girlie, her family standard-issue clichZd stiffs, and a pathetic rent-a-bohemian crowd whose role in the movie was decorative (as in house plants) rather than integral).A plot anyone could have filled in after the first five minutes Dialogue that would have been embarrassing in a 70s movie (the old art vs commerce debate - please!; quaint words like 'capitalism' and 'bourgeoisie'; I am studying your form - aaaaargh) Generic feel-good scenes straight out of Newton cigarette ads Cheesy, unironic music Complete ignorance of the principles of photography (photographers do not work like that). Perhaps excusable if it had been made by an older guy - but a woman? Girls, we can do better "},{"Title":"I love to hate this movie.  Utter cheese.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Astonishingly horrid, hackneyed drivel.  I couldn't believe that the actors and filmmakers--who are ostensibly a part of an artistic community of sorts--would portray bohemians in such a cheesy way.And what the hell was with the cutesy dance scenes with car-commercial music in the background?  Did someone tell the director this would look cool?  I puked.  Every romantic scene was equally unbearable (except for the sex scenes which were tasteless and disturbing).We all know people who think they are sophisticated, intelligent, and avant garde, but are actually vomitous, narcissistic poseurs.  They will love this art film.  You should avoid it like the plague. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful, Funny, Sad, and Heartwarming...","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good movie. Sarah Polley is a natural actor. Her flare for comedy is almost contageous. Her dramatic skills will have you reaching for a hankey. Uma Thurman had better watch her back, Sarah Polley has what it takes to cover the emotional scale...See this movie, you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"a little disturbing but some great acting","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie is a little disturbing at times, but, the characters are interesting and, although they are unlikable at times there is some exceptional acting going on here.steven rea is fantastic as this aging, washed up photographer who has seen fame and fortune pass him by and is faced with an ego that remains famished for attention. at times in this movie you can't help but feel sorry for him, the countless humiliations he goes through, but, he is such a raging drunk, so totally cruel and irrational, sympathy at times is difficult.sarah polley is nothing less than etherially beautiful, although her girlishness is a bit overwrought at times. she giggles uncontrollably for the first third of the movie as if she's never held a conversation before (which, i guess, perhaps she hasn't) but then, she really matures before you and comes into her own. she is as yet an untapped talent despite her previous performance in go.jean smart is, i think, the biggest surprise of this movie. being so used to seeing her in silly roles as a brainless southern lady with the depth of say, vanna white, it was entirely refreshing to take her in as a real bitch-on-wheels. her sadistic cruelty directed at connie for seducing her daughter briefly gives her a quality of the righteous mother protecting her child. but, any hint of a mothers altruism is destroyed when she turns her rage onto the one she is seemingly there to defend. this particular scene is one of the most powerful of the film.all in all, some excellent performances and a good story. if you liked high art you'll probably like this too. "},{"Title":"Very good performances and inspired casting.","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Polley more than holds her own as the star of this interesting and quirky film.  Gina Gershon seems much more natural and likeable than usual here, and Stephen Rea is a bit understated in his performance.  Jean Smart has a wonderful turn during a monologue to her daughter (Polley) and Connie (Rea). Intelligently written, stylishly directed. "},{"Title":"Sarah Polley's film all the way!","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Writer/director Audrey Wells, who would go on to make 2003's Under the Tuscan Sun as well as the recent Shall We Dance, directed Sarah Polley in 1999's Guinevere. Wells' forte seems to be characters in search of romance who find it in unexpected places. It was the 'ugly' girl in Truth About Cats & Dogs, Italy in Tuscan Sun, and the older man in this film. That older man is played with wild abandon by Stephen Rea, often inappropriately stealing the show. Ignoring Jean Smart's histrionic heavy scene later in the film, and the control Rea's Connie has over Polley's Harper, this is Sarah Polley's film. What make this film work is its sensitivity and subtly, especially toward Harper's youth, naivete, and uncertainty in love and life. It's a sweet film about self-discovery at any age, and although it gets a bit moody toward the end, it works well as a date movie. "}{"Title":"weirdly affecting little movie","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing the mixed reviews of Guinevere on IMDb, just as British tv was about to show it, I thought I'd give it a go.  I liked it, although I can see why some reviewers felt it was disturbing, offensive, and pretentious.  Like so many of Stephen Rea's performances, he gives Connie a nervous edge which makes you believe in him and go some way to understanding why he had gone through life with this succession of young girls he simply refers to as 'Guivevere'.  The focus of the film is squarely on Sarah Polley, playing nervous Harper Sloane, nearly 21 and a square peg in the smooth running of her law-obsessed family.  This is a film about love and art, and understanding, and of a growth into something else (Harper at the end of the film is so unlike she was at the start that Connie must have been for the good, or at least that is the message that is being given out).  The film reminded me of Jane Campion's 'The Piano' in a lot of ways, and was so obviously the work of a woman (writer and director).  Rea and Polley are superb.  The real killer for me was the fantasy sequence at the end which was bizarre and exceptionally moving.  'Guivevere' is a hidden gem, and long may little gems be made in the movie world. "},{"Title":"a positive experience","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thoughtfully written, well acted, provocatively true to life... this is a movie for the intelligent, mature audience, not a movie to appeal to the lowest common denominator.  Those who are too lazy to think (or just unable to!) won't get it and will condemn it because it did not hand them an answer on a platter.  Those who thought about the story rather than merely reacting and who dug into the emotions found level after level of story and enjoyed the irony of the fact that even the most intelligent among us frequently do something we may later view as stupid.  Even so, those stupid things help shape who we are, and may be as important to the formation of who we are as the correct choices we also make.Worth the ticket and worth buying it on DVD when available. "},{"Title":"Well done, but misses the mark.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Technically, Ms. Wells has a superb film here. The cinematography is innovative and germane to the story. The actors all give enjoyable and appropriate performances. The storyline, however, leaves a bit to be desired. I imagine that feminist critics would have a hey-day with this one. I don't buy it. I don't believe the relationships in the film are genuine and honest - it just doesn't work. Ms. Wells explained after the show that she works from a theme and creates her movies that way, and from that perspective, the movie works. If one only looks at the movie for the theme and disregards most other concerns, s/he will love this film. I was disappointed.   "},{"Title":"The woman has potential really?","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The central point of the movie seemed to be that this woman had great potential and needed this photographer to bring it out. During the whole movie she never showed us even a pinch of talent and the audience was left to wonder if there was any point at all. The whole affair would seem even more horrible and unbelievable if at the end we were left only with a pathetic May/December romance.Every aspect of the movie was a cliché. Okay, but this created a critical need for some result to advance this film. We were shown rebellion, withdrawal (in a closet no less!), romance, sex, love and the hint of potential (yes,the development of real talent). For all those promises we got nothing and were left holding an empty bag! "},{"Title":"Slow Burning Bore","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot to GUINEVERE is as follows  Harper Sloane a young woman aged twenty embarks on a sexual relationship with photographer Con Fitzpatrick a man old enough to be her father There that's the entire plot summed up in a few words . Notice how the plot is cogently summed up in a few words ? This means the story is rather threadbare and not much happens . The unlikely duo do things together like attend parties , have sex and take photos mainly of Harper's naked adolescent body but even this isn't exciting as it sounds and is in no way intended to be an  erotic  tale if you know what I mean Looking through the comments on GUINEVERE it seems opinion is very much split as to what the audience makes of this movie . Some people enjoyed it as a character study while others think it's a ridiculous movie . To be fair Stephen Rea and Sarah Polley do make the most of their slightly bland roles and the music is haunting and a line of dialogue  You will have a twelve inch c*ck up your ass very soon  did make me giggle but that says more about me than the quality of this movie "},{"Title":"good cast can't even make this one look good","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all I have to say I saw this movie on video, since it didn't come out here in the cinema. The cast (Rea, Polley) looked good, and I liked 'The truth about cats and dogs', the only film by director Wells I had seen before. But what a terrible miss, this turned out to be. The relationship between old man Rea and his muse Polley didn't look believable at all to me, although in one of the first scenes (which turned out to be one of the only likeable ones) they seem to hit it off pretty well. But as the movie carries on, the story loses its promise and gets worse and worse. Towards the end you get more and more annoyed with the main characters and finally you realise you've been watching a terrible movie. "},{"Title":"A Very Weird Romance","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harper Sloane (Sarah Polley) is a gorgeous and insecure twenty years old woman, dominated by her wealthy family and has just passed to Harvard. In her sister's wedding, she meets the photographer Connie Fitzpatrick (Stephen Rea), an old, weird, not handsome and very poor man, who tells her that she has a great potential in arts and calls her Guinevere. Harper falls in love with him. She gives up of Harvard, leaves her family and moves to his apartment. Pretty soon, she finds that he has used the same seduction by flattery technique, including the nickname Guinevere, with other girls. But she stays with him, until she is `replaced' by another girl. After four years, Harper becomes a mature woman, totally different from the one in the beginning of the story. This movie is a very weird romance. If the viewer can buy that a beautiful and wealthy girl like Harper could really love a guy like Connie and stay with him, probably he will like this film. That is not my case. Harper is a mature woman in the end of the story, but in the beginning, she would have to move to Harvard, where she certainly would develop herself as a human being. Of course, the experience she has with Connie is great for her formation, but the guy is too much strange and does not really seems to love her. She is just another tasteful laboratory for him. The cynical dialog of Harper's mother with Connie is for me the greatest part of this film, when she says that a looser like him prefers young and naive women to be admired in his completely failure as a man.  My vote is four.Title (Brazil) `A Lente do Desejo' (`The Lens of the Desire') "},{"Title":"Polley lovely and Rea solid","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Harper Sloane (Sarah Polley) is a naive unhappy 20 year old going to Harvard. She meets wedding photographer Connie Fitzpatrick (Stephen Rea) at her sister's wedding. He seduces her calling her Guinevere. She lies to her family that she didn't get into Harvard. She pretends to stay with her friend Patty (Carrie Preston) but instead she's living with Connie. Billie (Gina Gershon) warns her that she's only the latest Guinevere in Connie's life. She leaves him temporarily but she feels stifled by her mother (Jean Smart) and she returns to him.Sarah Polley is lovely and Stephen Rea is believable. Jean Smart overplays the mother figure a little but she gets one memorable scene. I like this movie up to that scene where the mother talks about Harper being inexperienced enough to be in awe of Connie. I guess writer/director Audrey Wells is trying to be poetic by forcing Harper to stay with Connie after that. The self denial of Harper when she's talking to Patty is off-putting. She needs to make a more calibrated turn earlier but instead it's all saved up for the climax. "},{"Title":"Good Performers in Formula Movie.","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sarah Polley is Harper Sloane, also known as Guinevere, a twenty-year-old blond who has just graduated with a degree in photography. She's from a middle-class family in San Francisco. And she (inevitably) falls in with the older ex wedding photographer, Rea, who is now a Beatnik loose cannon with a camera. Her family disapproves. Polley is drawn towards Rea. His very touch turns her on. She moves in with him and puts up with his erratic behavior, by which I mean throwing her out, borrowing money, getting drunk, smoking, and probably leaving the toilet seat up.Yes, there are tears aplenty in this story of a young woman's getting in touch with her feelings. But there are good times, gay times, too, and of the sort that every woman loves. After one split-up, Rea captures her on the street and pulls her to a loft where an enormous and abandoned party for Polley's twenty-first birthday is in progress. Next, Rea takes her to the sunny, wind-blown roof of an office building, where he has built a tall structure of wooden beams with an easy chair and floor lamp atop, for her to sit it, a cockamamie throne. It's inSANE!, she cries with delight. And it's all FREE!, shouts Rea, flinging his arms wide.Of course, little do they know that tragedy always lies just around the corner. But we know, don't we? The writing isn't bad at all. There's a delicious scene around the bleak dinner table at Polley's opulent home. Nobody speaks. They all struggle quietly to pick up their Chinese food with chopsticks, until Jean Smart -- having shed her earlier mannerisms and giving a fine performance as Polley's mother -- has every sullen person read his or her fortune cookie aloud and add in bed to the end of the prophecy. Nobody laughs. The atmosphere is that of the Atacama Desert.Well, some individual scenes may be neatly written and executed, but the plot is extraordinarily dull because it's so familiar. This is the stuff that women are interested in. Men don't give a damn about birthdays and anniversaries and intimate talk. The on-and-off attraction between an older experienced artistic type (they're never accountants) and a naive young girl who needs him to help her find her own way in life, it's the stuff of Danielle Steel.I didn't catch the end. I calculate that either Polley defiantly throws off the influence of her breeding and takes off on a life of love and adventure with the droopy-faced Rea. Or she comes to her senses and the audience must sit through a bittersweet parting, perhaps with a younger, richer, more handsome man (who has loved her from afar) waiting in the background. Either way, I couldn't care.It's appalling because I like Steven Rea and I love Sarah Polley. Rea is an appealing and self-effacing actor who never overplays. He was marvelous in the HBO film, Citizen X. I haven't seen much of Polley in her blond, pale, blue-eyed, fragility, but she gave unforgettable performances in at least two movies -- The Sweet Hereafter and The Weight of Water. Yet she gets stuck in junk like Splice and Dawn of the Dead. And this. "},{"Title":"You're obviously mistaking me for someone with potential.","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Is this what a college education in America has become? 20 years old and college educated and heading to Harvard law, and no one shows her any respect? No one values her or her opinions? She is left to the lecherous machinations of someone old enough to be her father? Sarah Polley (Dawn of the Dead) is cute. of course some older man is going to hit on her and maybe fulfill his life's dream. heck, I was leaching after her the entire movie. Stephen Rea swings, hits and scores! He shows her respect for her opinion. Pulease! She is a college graduate. How did she get through? I was really disappointed in this film. I thought it had potential and evidently someone else thought it did too, or they wouldn't have given it all those awards. "}{"Title":"As cheesy as Breezy","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Guinevere opens with lovely opening credits showing various body part photos. It soon unveils its plot detail of a nearly 30-year age difference between lovers Connie (Rea) and Harper (Polley). The film conveys a quiet suspense, at least until the final act. Will this particular romance break Connie's sad, Rod Stewart-like dating pattern?Good performances by all, especially the women. No one does tortured indie girl on the inside/ethereal WASP on the outside better than Polley. Jean Smart, as others here have mentioned, is a scene stealer when she gives Connie a piece of her prickly mind. Gina Gershon and Sandra Oh are on too briefly.Despite these strengths, I had this nagging feeling I was watching something disingenuous. Someone who looks like Harper never got hit on in college, if ever? Was she that wrapped up in herself so as not to observe others? In a scene where Harper is grabbing coffees from a café counter, a young male employee and an older male customer are checking her out, and she knows it. Nothing about her looks different, except for her more frequent grin and a bright blue tank top. I'm assuming that her new confidence is radiating and that's what's catching guys' eyes, but come on.Big spoiler Near the end, alcoholism takes its toll on Connie. So, how to prepare for his death? Gather the ex-girlfriends for a pre-memorial, of course! At least he didn't racially discriminate when choosing lovers; it was just the pesky age thing for him. Soon after, he is given an eye roller of a group photo of the exes, and before he dies Harper describes the afterlife (purgatory?) to him -- complete with visuals that rival a cosmetics ad.A much better story about a photographer in an odd relationship is Proof, starring Hugo Weaving. "},{"Title":"Nice idea, weak plot.","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the concept of this film is wonderful, especially for photographers, the story line doesn't hold together.  By the end of the movie you can't create empathy for the two main characters and you just want them to kill each other and get it over with.   If you're a photographer and want a film that touches on the relationships between a photographer and a model, check out The Governess instead. "},{"Title":"A neat little art flick about a May-December romance.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Polley will be a force to be reckoned with over the next few years.  Her body of work to date in ensemble pieces such as Go and The Sweet Hereafter have been impressive, and now, as a lead in Guinevere, she demonstrates just how strong an lead actress she can be.Guinevere is the story of a young girl coming of age in an disfunctional upper-middle class family.  Polley plays Harper, the shy youngest child.  In the opening scene her sister is getting married, and Harper is hiding in the back room nervously gulping back a bottle of champagne.  When her mother (played by Jean Smart of Designing Women) finds her, Harper is chastised and told to go and find her sister, who is mysteriously absent. The sister is apparently upset, or perhaps has cold feet.  Jean Smart's Deborah Sloane quips back, Tell her to get over her Greek Tragedy and get down here now! Harper strikes up a conversation with the wedding photographer, Connie, played by Stephen Rae.  Sucking back more champagne she tells him she doesn't like having her photograph taken.  When the time comes to photograph the family Connie slyly edges her out of the photograph.  Harper is suddenly smitten with the man.Connie is somewhat slovenly, a bit of drinker, and older than both of Harper's parents.  The photographs come back and it is noticed that she is not in the family portraits.  This is concern until they find a separate, candid shot of Harper.  This one, which looks fabulous, has been blown up and signed by Connie.  From there, a forbidden romance blossoms.Harper moves in with Connie, telling her family that she is living with friends.  He insists that she learn an 'art form' such as photography.  Harper becomes his protege, learning about the camera, about life and about love (?).  This may sound corny, but the film works very well.  Harper learns some nasty truths about the real world.  Most of Connie's friends are bohemian artists.  Connie instructs her to take pictures of that which is ugly, for it is the only way she will come to appreciate her craft.  He takes her to the bedside of a friend who is suffering the DT's.  Harper tries to take a picture of the man shaking and moaning before her, but she is disgusted and disturbed when suddenly he pees on her.  There are some great performances throughout the film.  I loved watching Sarah Polley.  Not only is she a natural beauty, but there is a definitive personality up there on screen.  She isn't the typical twenty-something smart-ass, but rather a person with a conscience and real intelligence.  As beautiful and rich as this character is, I believe, because Sarah Polley is playing her, that she would shack up with this drunken, not so-hot-looking, older man.For Stephen Rae, this is the best thing I have seen him in since The Crying Game.  As per his typical style, Rae plays a subdued role, not stepping over the performances of his co-stars.  There is some genuine acting up there from him, but without the screeching 'give-me-an-Oscar!' rant that even this character might have demonstrated in the hands of another actor. Jean Samrt was a delight to watch and perhaps the biggest surprise.  She has played this cold monster in previous roles, but never with such depth.  As Deborah Sloane, she wants the family unit to work, but has become conditioned enough to believe that any attempt to make it so would be futile.  Her big scene comes when she confronts the the couple on their relationship.  I won't repeat her dialogue here because after the film I realized how important it was to the heart of the story, but suffice it to say, the words were powerful, and the delivery was first rate.  The character is despised because she sees a truth that the lead actors, and maybe even the audience, refuse to face.Guinevere is a fantastic film that I hope is remembered at Oscar time.  All three actors deserve recognition for their work and Audrey Wells should be considered for the writing as there is some unforgettable dialogue.  This is not just a film about an older guy and a younger girl.  This is a film about an artist, a student and their art.  Brilliant work!!! "},{"Title":"Well acted,bittersweet contemporary romance","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's wonderful to see a woman's name at the helm of a feature film. Audrey Wells has written and directed  `Guinevere', the story of a young woman's coming of age. Harper Sloane (Sarah Polley) has just graduated college and is preparing to enter Harvard Law School. On the day of her sister's marriage she meets the wedding photographer, Connie Fitzpatrick (Stephen Rea), and begins a Pygmalion-like relationship with him. The character of Fitzpatrick is somewhat reminiscent of that of Noel Airman in the 50's novel `Marjorie Morningstar' by Herman Wouk. Airman too is idolized by teens as he directs them in amateur theatrics in a New York summer resort.  In a pivotal scene with Harper's mother (Jean Smart), Fitzpatrick is confronted with his own shortcomings. Smart has two or three biting scenes in the film where she demonstrates that her artistry is not limited to the sitcom mediocrity of `Designing Women'. Wells has filmed this tale with a fine feminine sensibility that definitely makes the audience care about the characters. The romantic aspects of the plot are tastefully handled, as is the bittersweet ending. "},{"Title":"A Must See If Crushing On Sarah Polley","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sarah Polley fans, especially ones going all the way back to Ramona, are generally big-time Guinevere (1999) fans simply because it is the film in which she peaked physically. And Director Audrey Wells picked up on this during casting, seeing in Polley (at that time of her life) someone physically perfect to play her heroine Harper Sloane. Wells needed a young woman who simply glowed in front of the camera, whose face looked better without make-up, and who projected both innocence and restlessness. With Polley she also got a bonus, one of the most talented actresses of her generation. In this sense Wells resembles Alfred Hitchcock, a director with an uncanny ability to identify actresses at the one moment of their lives when they are physically perfect for a particular role. Sylvia Sidney in Sabotage, Nova Pilbeam in Young and Innocent, and Joan Fontaine in Rebecca come to mind.Wells, who also wrote ''The Truth About Cats and Dogs'', captures that moment in some young women's lives (yes, the film could be considered a feminist statement) when they are able to break free of expectations and programming. The Harper Sloane character seems so authentic and the portrayal so lacking in glib cynicism that it most likely has a lot of autobiographical elements. Harper is tracking along toward Harvard Law School when she meets Cornelius Fitzpatrick (Stephen Rea), a middle-aged Irish artist who has been hired to photograph her sister's wedding. His well-practiced seduction technique and irreverent world-view causes a major attitude adjustment and she abandons her career track to become his protégé and lover.The story is told from Harper's point of view and the viewer soon learns along with her that this is not the traditional Pygmalion scenario. While not exactly a rogue and a roué, Connie is a compulsive Henry Higgins who has repeatedly played this game with repressed young women. He goes into these relationships with a five-year time limit. Consistent with the POV factor, Harper's story is told with intelligence and compassion, with a lot of emphasis on the fragility of a first love and the pain of a trust betrayed. The film's feminist slant is revealed not so much by what is explicitly shown but by its failure to bring any dimensionality to Connie's character. No clues are provided to explain his aversion to a long-term commitment, Harper discovers that his promises are empty ones but she never learns the roots of his insecurities. Although Polley's best scenes are those with Carrie Preston, who plays her best friend and confidante; the most entertaining scenes are those with her mother (Jean Smart), an unstated version of Susan's mother on Seinfeld. The dysfunctional nature of Harper's family and her mother's unfulfilled life are slowly and somewhat comically revealed, but the bottom line is that her mother is sincerely trying to shield her daughter from mistakes. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Maturing Images","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Screenwriters first pick their home planet. For Audrey Wells, that is the skeleton of mild self-reference and the flesh of personal drama. That means she makes delicate stories that superficially appear to be centered on those small dramas. Uncareful viewers will actually believe it is `about' these characters and their lives.But the basic form is different, leveraging the handling of the self-reference. In `Cats and Dogs,' the selfrerefential skeleton is the folding of projection of personality personality through a (radio) medium and in `reality' within a (film) medium. On that, you assemble some episodes that both appeal and which leverage the folding.Here, a similar folding device a collection of images about making images. Building a life equated with the ability to build images. The film as life, the images carefully composed.Why I like this film the entire crew knew precisely what they were doing. Each chapter stands on its own, the plot which links them together is secondary, a simple necessity. Each chapter is an image, a visual tone poem, sculpted around a single, breathtaking shot --the small sexy role playing at the wedding condensed into a motion with a necklace (this first one literally turned into a photograph so we get the point)--seduction by long division--the artist getting urinated on--the mother's face right up against the daughter's saying I know what you do--reconciliation by the exposing of a foot--the rooftop chair--our female queen hesitantly standing in the parking lot--a wonderful expression of distance in the cool observation of the remarkably vulnerable Grace Una--and of course bookended by the photograph of the GuiniveresMany others, but those stick. Yes there is some fine acting, but it works because these actors had local images to fill, and the creator of those images to guide them.Rea doesn't have the edge he would need if this were a conventional drama. But it isn't. He is not a person in the way these woman are.The title name was not lightly chosen, I believe, but intended to reference the magical part of image the holy quest made personal.Ted's evaluation 3 of 4 -- Worth watching "},{"Title":"Underappreciated","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another example of how insightful writing and excellent acting gets you nowhere in today's slam-bang movie market.  Audrey Wells creates one of the finest films to date written and directed by a woman.  Are offers flying in to make another?  Doubt it very much.  She came up with a treasure based on character and an original storyline.  But there wasn't a gun in sight, people were not terrorizing each other, we had no impossible stunts to marvel at and it wasn't until the final scene we finally got our special effects fix.  But the sum total was much more unique than any number of Armageddons/Independence Days & co.  So who noticed?  Not the Academy Awards, where Wells did not even receive a Best Original Screenplay nomination.  Sarah Polley gives one of the great ingenue performances ever. Stephen Rea is wonderful in the male lead.  All overlooked.  Get this one for your DVD library folks.  It can be savoured again and again.  But don't delay, it will soon be out of print, no doubt. "},{"Title":"true story","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" who ever is interested. i stumbled on this movie completely by accident, and once i began i couldn't stop.you know why? it was true. i just got it. i got it because i was just leaving a relationship like that, that i think- marked me for life. this movie shows something so true, true in a sense that their is no right or wrong, and in some way it really makes me think. it makes me see things in perspective, relationships, and how we fail to observe them while engaged in them. once i saw this movie- i felt i was looking at myself, and also not hating my ex-partner (a very much disturbed older paragrapher. off course- it made me view it in a very romantic way, that i enjoyed. it was painterly to see in harper how innocent i am.or was. for sure- i am no longer at that stage in life. thanks to him.he wasn't a bad guy- and i was too blinded to see how mixed up he was. "},{"Title":"Good Idea, Poorly Conceived","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Actors with more chemistry might have pulled it off better, but the biggest setbacks were the lack of cleverness in the script and absence of a magic the tale seemed to have been meant to convey. The manipulations were trite and unoriginal, and the idea of the older man being a mentor to a young girl in spite of age and personal problems was fairly unbelievable in this instance. Not enough growth and realization, not enough of a connection was achieved before their time expired. Stephen Rea was almost too cool to be believable as such a screwed up and insecure man. And Sarah Polley never quite seemed to possess the awe and innate beauty her lover was so affected by. However, Jean Smart was perfect as the mother.Though I believe it could have been magical, and it did begin well, to my disappointment, the journey and end were ultimately rather ridiculous and pretentious. "},{"Title":"Guinevere Without a Good Lancelot","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What would make a smart, young, beautiful woman fall in love with a photographer three times her age? What would possess her to give up a spot in Harvard for the opportunity to live with a tortured artist? Could it be a human desire to create and having the room to do so? Could it be he offers sage-like wisdom that outweighs the adjunct creepiness of the situation; Perhaps. It also helps to have low self-esteem and little direction in life. In the non-committal words of Harper Sloane (Sarah Polley), He was the worst man I ever met, or maybe the best, I'm still not sure. If you're supposed to learn by your mistakes, then he was the best mistake I ever made&#x85;I was his Guinevere whatever that means. As you can imagine the basic outline of Guinevere (1999) is one of a relationship between an aging photographer (Stephen Rea) and a colleen with a self-image problem. As their relationship progresses, Harper uncovers Connie's bohemian lifestyle extends to his love life as well has his approach to art. Can she properly balance their love, her family's expectations of her, his expectations of her and a menagerie of rival Guineveres? Stephen Rea's Connie asks for five years of his muse's life. Five years rent free for Harper to coax and develop the artist inside herself. Can she truly accomplish this task? Okay enough with the rhetorical questions. The fact is those who will like this movie will like it because it is a mediocre film made relevant by its subject matter. Self-proclaimed artists and photography buffs will likely see Guinevere as a diamond in the rough; a romantic take on their struggles living with their gift. Luckily I have no artistic talent so I can speak for the majority when I say Guinevere is diminutive and not worth sitting through. There are moments that bring to mind other, better films about similar subject matters like Blow-Up (1966) and La Dolce Vita (1960). Those moments however are interspersed with conversations about which picture is better, whether Uncle Tom's Cabin was art or a product and these are not my boobs.As one gets older, the libido takes a back seat to the heart so I can sympathize with Stephen Rea's character a little. He craves seeing a young artist blossom and loves seeing Harper slowly come out of her shell and eventually become a photographer. That being said he is also craven for a woman's touch and gets it with a clockwork obsession. He doesn't necessarily cheat on Harper, though it is implied. Instead he reinforces his own ideals of love while never really loving Harper to begin with. He loves her potential not who she is.Jean Smart, who plays Harper's bourgeois mother, does a spot-on analysis of Connie and his warped relationship with Harper. Upon discovery she comes to their apartment and points out that only a young naïve girl would look at a bohemian photographer like him with a modicum of admiration. No woman of experience would ever stand in front of you with awe in her eyes. She being a woman with experience may have a seemingly unpleasant marriage but at least her children are talented and they live in a home filled with expensive stuff so of course she knows what she's talking about.Now one can get a sense of legacy from a movie of this kind. Jean Smart's character might see her legacy through her accomplishments in her career and economic success, while Connie might see his accomplishments highlighted in the pursuance of beauty. It's a fair question, whether you yourself would prefer to be remembered for being monetarily successful or being artistically talented. If only such heavy themes were put into a better movie where the whole story wasn't treated so glibly; then we'd have something to talk about.http//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Indie Romance starring Sarah Polley","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My next bunch of reviews will focus on Canadian actor/director Sarah Polley, who has starred in several independent films such as Guinevere, Go, and My Life Without Me, along with directing the critically acclaimed films Away from Her and Take This Waltz. Born in January of '79 in Toronto, Sarah found success in the TV show Road to Avonlea and several other Canadian productions. She may be short in stature (5'2) but is quite the heavy hitter in the indie film scene.The 1999 film Guinevere was written and directed by Audrey Wells and co-stars veteran Irish actor Stephen Rea as Connie Fitzpatrick a Bohemian San Francisco photographer. Polley play Harper Slone the youngest daughter in a wealthy, stuck up family of lawyers. Harper is often ignored and played off as the black sheep, when she is really the most normal and grounded of the bunch. While bored to death at her sisters wedding, she runs off with a bottle of champagne and manages to bump into the wedding photographer, Connie. Connie is not one to win over the young ladies with his looks, but is a very mysterious and intriguing character. The appealing lure of the life of an artist does it every time. He quickly strikes up a sort of friendship with Harper when he agrees not photograph her as part of the wedding party. Unknown to Harper he does take a picture of her and she falls in love with it. On the back it says To Guinevere Connie is the stereotypical self destructive, alcoholic, has been artist that have been portrayed since Shakespearian times. He has this thing were he mentors and helps troubled young female artists find their way. I won't lie it is kind of creepy and looks likes the oldest trick in the book for an older man to get with young girls. Although there must be something to him because Harper ditches Harvard law school to live with Connie rent free with the condition that she must work on being some sort of artist. She chooses photography as her medium. All of the girls past and present are referred to as his Guinevere's and serve as his muse's for his own photography projects. It not long before the ole Connie charm kicks in and Harper is sleeping with him. Harper is introduced to his close circle of friends and even meets a former Guinevere, played by Gina Gershon. For the first time in her life Harper feels accepted for who she is and not the constant disappointment her family sees. Connie gives her all of the attention she could ever want and Harper soaks it up like a sponge.Early on when Harper finds out their have been other Guinevere's, she has a major freak out. Thinking she is being taken advantage of she moves out only to be back with him shortly after. When Harper's mother finds out what she's been up to she confronts Connie. She is one frosty bitch (played by Jean Smart), which a big side a jealousy. Guinevere is not a great movie by any stretch, but it is watchable for Polley and Rea, because with out them this movie would need to left in the darkroom. It is currently showing on Netflix Instant Streaming. "},{"Title":"this isn't going to be one of those feel good situations...","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After going thru a similar relationship that Harper and Connie shared I've got to say that in that respect this movie sent many chills up my spine. The positive aspects of the film are 1. It's shot in my hometown of San Francisco and done quite beautifully. 2. Great scene between Connie, Harper and her mom. 3. Pretty clear plot. Good representation of the nature / dynamics of their relationship. 4. Harper's character is contradictory in a way. On one hand she's smart enough to get into Harvard yet not experienced in the matters of the heart. 5. Character motivations were all pretty obvious.However here is what I didn't like about the film 1. Too many things did not make sense about Connie. He's supposed to be a successful somewhat famous local artist. Where were his shows? He's Irish right? A little about how he came to this country and his relationship to San Francisco's vibrant art scene would have been nice. If he is indeed bohemian, where is his salon? What artistic movement is he a part of? He also deteriorates towards the end. Is his alcoholism just a typical facet of being a tortured artist? Why does he stop shooting weddings?2. I didn't like the Titanic choral music. Anyways I did enjoy it for its nostalgic quality. "},{"Title":"That's two hours I'll never  get  back","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I bought this movie at a sale, curious and unaware of its potential, the stars or story. This afternoon I had two hours off work, and thought I would relax in the sun and watch it. What a surprise.It starts with the photos of body parts, which are a little ambiguous, thighs, elbows, curves etc, and I thought, looks interesting. Well it stopped being interesting right there - I should have mowed the lawns! Silly innocuous girl, she kept saying she was nearly 21 but acted around 14, had her head in a bottle - presumably spent the last 4 years at college learning to hold her liquour - at her sister's wedding, in a rather odd bridesmaid's dress, met the man she was to spend the rest of the movie with. I have nothing against age gaps in relationship, although reality has taught me that sooner or later one of you is saggy and baggy and the other gets disillusioned. This guy, this Connie, with a woman's name, had a line as hackneyed and a style as old as the hills. Silly little girl has crush. Where he should have backed off from one who was so self-absorbed and totally boring, he didn't and we all suffered for it. The high spot for me was when she suggested that she look for a flat of her own a few months down the line and he had a tantrum and got well and truly hammered. The good looking older guy with the other blonde in the café looked fine - our girl should have moved in on his party. It just went from bad to worse, giving the Irish, the wedding photographic fraternity and blondes a bad name. Really it was dire. Question - in the scene where she finally walks away, why did she walk through a large puddle? Was that to show us how young and immature she really was? Too late - we knew. Question - don't really wealthy families do 21st birthday parties anymore? So that she got a take away, a Chinese fortune cookie and back into the arms of Mr irresistible. It was all too shallow, as though nobody really wanted to get too heavy. Pity really, it could not have made it any worse. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was going into this film expecting not to like it. The only reason I watched it was because I'm a big fan of Sarah Polley. I wouldn't say it's the best film and wouldn't make my top ten, but it was enjoyable. Polley seems to be doing a lot of dark films lately. I think she wants to get away from her Road to Avonlea image. Anyway, I think this is one of her better films, esp. when compared to The Life Before This and The Sweet Hereafter. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"A fine film","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Wells has crafted a tremendous film in Guinevere. She seems to show a talent not only for writing, but for visual direction and camerawork. The acting is solid all around. Stephen Rea is very strong, and Sarah Polley turns in another great performance. A very good film all around. "},{"Title":"Like a diamond found in the garbage..","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is actually very deep compared with a lot of Hollywood stories presented to us over the years and the plot is not as uncommon as it might seem on first look. Although the writer and director is a female, this is a story from a neutral perspective and both men and women can find themselves in it. You can identify with one of the characters and understand the other one.The first time I saw it wasn't from the beginning and it caught my eye in a weird way. I underestimated it when I first saw it but something pulled me to watch it again. I've seen it few times since and I think to really understand it you have to see it more than ones. Before you start calling me names, like dumb and stuff for not getting it right away, I should mention that my profession is psychologist and actually I'm in Mensa. Not that it matters when we discuss taste for movies, but when it comes to analyzing the characters I am more than educated to give my saying. Being amateur scriptwriter is helping me see the story from a different perspective. But enough in my defense, the point is to actually give you a friendly advice if you hated the movie the first time See it again.What I look for in a movie is a realistic character with flaws and virtues. Good and bad sides. Actually, in a way, the performance of the leading actors was borderline brilliant and I'm not sure that they even realize it. Harper Sloane is a naive (but this movie is not) girl with low self-esteem not the center of attention she would like to be. So she goes on the other side. The alternative side where she's denying the need for attention on the outside but accumulating it inside. A very common story in real life. She meets the disgustingly ugly character Connie (sorry Stephen ) ) who is giving her the one thing she needs the most. In fact she's identifying herself with him. And thus feels very close to him, he is the only one that gets her or the only one who seemingly cares to understand her. A potential soul mate. Sure, you can see him as a dirty old man if you like, and call him the abuser of a naive young body but think again. Cause you can call her the abuser also, she's getting what she wants from him maybe more than he does. She tells him that she plans to move out (not right away but has plans to do so) and what does he do. Gets insanely drunk and ends up in the hospital. He actually loves her. Perhaps not exactly Harper, but what she represents. And he is actually if need be, ready to put everything on the line for that. What he loves is presented to us by the mother Deborah, another complex character that looks predictable on the first look. Also this is confirmed by the other girls that Connie loved in same way. Sweet naive losers with desperate need for attention, and even more, help in the forming themselves into bearable creatures as they mature. Bearable for them not for the others. They are all unhappy and depressed. Looking for someone to save them from these feelings. They are all special in some way; Connie brings them out of their cocoons they might have never left if it wasn't for him, and makes them special. This is a story of life and death (the nature itself), metaphorically speaking, cause throughout the movie we are constantly waiting for the separation of Harper and Connie. The end points it out very explicitly. Probably for those who failed to understand it during the course of the action. About the archetypes, what can I say, perfectly painted in the modern environment. The old man, the naive girl, the mother&#133; I could go on for hours but that would probably bore the hell out of the ones who care enough to read what I have to say about this piece of work. I had a feeling when I finished watching it that it can be done much better. Sure, the movie could have been directed better, superstar cast might have done it differently, more appealing, but than it would lose the imperfection. This way, it's like that old book you found with ripped pages, very unappealing, and read about the secrets in it. Like a diamond found in the garbage. It can be private this way, just for those who spend the time to really grasp it. If it would be a blockbuster, it wouldn't be as precious as it is this way. "},{"Title":"Just not good","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Story has been done a thousand times on the Lifetime Channel alone. Script has absolutely nothing new to say on the subject.Talk, talk, talk, talk, talk and talk some more - and then finally - finally - the movie ends.The cast is fine but you can only do so much when you're assigned bland dialogue.While Sarah Polley is a fine actress and does the best she can in this role - Here's a tip for budding filmmmakers - if you're casting your character to be upper-crust/upper income, it's distracting that you ask the actress to not smile or to hold her hand in front of her face because her teeth are not perfect - as her character's should be. Oh the other hand, it's probably the most interesting thing about this film - how Sarah's going to try and hid her teeth in a particular scene. "},{"Title":"You cannot be serious, Ms Wells","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After reading various enthusiastic reviews of Guinevere, I emerged from the cinema wondering if these critics and I had seen the same film. Are we expected to take the story or any of these characters seriously? Is it possible that any appealing young woman intelligent enough to earn a BA could be deceived by this crassly predatory con man? Stephen Rea plays an even less attractive version of the walking Irish cliche he portrayed in Angie  - dark, rumpled good looks, smooth charm, gift of the gab, etc. However, in Guinevere his character has the extra ethnic disadvantage of roaring alcoholism and the tiresome habit of spouting pseudo-Marxist diatribes against the upper classes.Admittedly, there is no accounting for taste, especially in sexual matters. Yet you hope that even someone as totally gullible and inexperienced as Harper Sloane (even her name is a crass cliche) might be offput by the explicit warnings from the earlier Guinevere played by Ileana Douglas....especially when her prophecies come true and Connie sends Harper out to earn the household income in a burger bar, while he stays at home, presumably in an artistic trance or an alcoholic stupor.It is difficult to see what artistic tuition or inspiration Connie provides his Guineveres that they could not obtain more easily at the public library or evening classes. Sloan does not even take a photograph throughout her relationship with Connie, so it is difficult to see how her later career as a successful photographer owes anything to his mentorship. The one piece of career guidance he is seen to offer her is unbelievable. At a hospital, he leaves her alone in a room with one of his friends, who is even less attractive and more alcoholic than himself and is strapped down to a bed undergoing drastic detox treatment. He urges Sloane to document his incoherent pal's agony in photographs. Sloane does not get as far as taking pictures, because the drunk urinates all over her. Connie berates her for not taking photographs, declaring This is hard....this is work!! Well, no it isn't Connie; it is vile, degrading and humiliating and only a pathetic old Marxist lush like you (or a lousy screenwriter) could think otherwise.Sloane's mum asks Connie what he has against women his own age. The answer is obvious, though not spoken in the film - any woman his own age would see through him in a maximum of three seconds. Also if she was sufficiently deranged to share a home with him, she would insist he do some honest work. Curiously, her mum looks more attractive and vibrantly sexual than the wan and compliant Sloane.When Sloane first tries to leave, Connie says that both he and Sloane will know when it is the right time for her to leave. Eventually even Sloane's immature brain clicks into gear.  When Connie is lying desperately ill in a crummy motel room and sends her across the road for a bottle of liquor, she disappears to get a life - and presumably a boyfriend who is not old enough to be her father.With so many talented performers and technicians on show here, it is a great shame that they were not provided with a better screenplay. There may be good reasons for a young woman to associate with an older man, but this film provides only an unsavory and compelling argument for sticking to your own generation for sexual and intellectual companionship. "},{"Title":"An all around good film. For what it is, leaves little to be desired","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Aside from the obvious qualities that make this an enjoyable picture (Outstanding performances by all and a solid screenplay), it is perhaps Guinevere's subtle qualities that set it apart from the standard, long-winded, character development movie.  The cinematography is outstanding (and rightfully so as it is a film about photography), the casting superb, and it is quite apparent that this film was under the supervision of a skilled and consistent director.  The characters are believable and natural really bring this film to life.However, you must know what you are getting into.  Although it is not especially long, it feels like it is.  You should expect a movie which seems like it could end at several points, but then continues for another 45 minutes.  Guinevere moves more like a good book than a good piece of cinema. But if you are looking for an intelligent, enjoyable film which does not attempt to do anything beyond tell a good story and create interesting believable characters, Guinevere is right on the mark.   "},{"Title":"Only for Polley Diehards.","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A strange little piece of work if there ever was one, this moody picture misses the mark. What originally may have been a huge boost in the career of Canadian prodigy Sarah Polley turns into a tedious venture into the fringes of Lolita-esque film sleaze. In fact, there is very little to root for here - no single character escapes with any real redeemable qualities, leaving some figuring that these people all deserve what they get. And watch out for Stephen Rea's impersonation of Mickey Rourke - I've never seen anyone mumble through their lines the way Mr. Rea did since, well, just about anything Rourke showed up in. Polley however, I am sure will end up on her feet as usual - she quite nearly pulls this mediocre pic out of the doldrums by herself. If anything, see it for her. "}{"Title":"this movie is better than the tagline suggests.","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  pygmalian and galateas, eh?  stephen rea as connie, surrounded by a balanced cross-section of beautiful women (in a role many would like to have for real).we found this a light story that didn't tie everything into a neat, literary weave.  (does connie represent arthur, lancelot or just some guy who likes to address his protegees medievally?)something of a growing-up fairy tale for the newly grown-up. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet coming of age story, well told and observed","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This comment was motivated largely by the desire to offset those here which casually dismissed or trashed Guinevere and, inexplicably, writer/director Audrey Wells personally with unnecessary and unprovoked venom.Guinevere is a fine and engaging tale that plausibly sketches the arc of the relationship and romance between the daughter of a pair of society attorneys of Pacific Heights pedigree and a bohemian photographer who lives life on the edge financially and on the fringe socially. Sarah Polley as the confused but very-well brought-up, faintly rebellious 21-year-old Harper, and Stephen Rea as the 40-ish sometime wedding photographer, Connie, whose charm eventually wears thin, are both well cast and provide exemplary realizations of well-drawn characters. The entire cast, in fact, is strong and deep, with fine turns from such actors as Sandra Oh, Jean Smart, Paul Dooley, Jasmine Guy and Gina Gershon. The production and cinematography are first-rate as well.As the relationship deepens and its contours become clearer to both the audience and to Harper, the script deftly plumbs its pleasures and its perils. By subtly adopting Harper's point of view, the film takes us on the same emotional journey that she does, from the initial drunken delight of first love, to the later disappointments and, eventually, the despair. In the end one feels that Harper, like the sensitive viewer, decides that it was all worth it.If this engaging, well-crafted, unpretentious film has a weakness, I would point to the denouement, which is reminiscent of Fellini's 8 1/2 by reassembling all of Connie's former loves to bid him an upbeat farewell when he is diagnosed with a fatal illness. Though it presses to induce good will, it doesn't really earn it. This is a writer's escape, a fantasy that retreats from an inevitable reality a bit too bitter to swallow without added sugar.Despite this lapse, Guinevere rewards an attentive viewer richly with this otherwise honest, unblinkered story of first love undone in part by the unbridgeable, ancient chasms of age and social strata. "},{"Title":"it all starts with the writing and here it soars","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this film originally in the theatres because I knew the actress (Sarah Polley) from her many years of work on Road to Avonlea, a popular Canadian TV series and because she had attended the same high school I was currently at.  I also was aware of the fact her co-star was Stephen Rea, another actor of note.I went into the movie with no expectations whatsoever.  And walked out pleasantly surprised.  Something that doesn't happen to often with me and my voyages into the land of celuloid.It's a film about a young woman who has an affair with an older man who is a photographer.  He teaches her some life lessons and how to take photos. (Wow, this description makes it sound bad to even me!)  Well filmed - as a movie about photographers should be, interestingly and touchingly written, the film is a statement by its director, though sometimes a little feeble in its voice.  Co-starring Gina Gershon (among others) as some of the photographer's ex-girlfriends, the film is rich with characters, has a lively score of world music and captivates.Personally, I found the ending moving as the characters pontificate on how the meaning of their lives and how to put together their lives on move forward.  Well-said with thought-provoking dialogue, the final scenes nearly brought me to tears as the visual imagery soared.This is a film I loved so much that, when a local video sold off its goods in a closing sale, I HAD to buy.  One of only two videos I bought at the time.  A film I highly recommend, even if it's not perfect.  Definitely a good glimpse into the world of independent film for those that are new to the concept and a pleasant (if not more) experience for those that avidly view them. "},{"Title":"A plaintive love it or hate it relationship flick.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Guinevere tells of a young woman (Polley) who leaves her stuffy family to move in with a middle aged photo-artist (Rea)  living a bohemian lifestyle and ends up sadder but wiser. A technically and artistically good  film, Guinevere is a coming-of-age flick tinged with more pathos that giddiness which plumbs the depths of a relationship in which the woman becomes self actualized while the male is exposed as an unsuccessful, eccentric, and neurotic womanizer. Recommended for anyone, especially females,  into films about unorthodox relationships. "},{"Title":"Precisely realized - a movie with heart","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  David Denby, a New Yorker film critic, maybe the best film critic I know, sent me to this film. It is wonderful in illuminating the strange mixtures we must accept in life in order to learn anything that is worth learning about being human. The film never flinches and is never distracted from this single-minded objective. The director gets performances from her leads that are awesome in their precision for that purpose.If you liked 'Playing by Heart' or the older Peter Weir film 'Fearless' or Lasse Hallstrom's films or Angelika (sp?) Holland's films or John Sayle's films or 'Eve's Bayou' or even the somewhat more artificial 'American Beauty', there's a good chance you'll like this one. Like these, its art is in the service of showing the kind of learning that happens in those cases when people accept opportunities to realize their humanity.  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my favorite movies of 1999...a pretty short list. A film like this could easily be botched up, but Wells handled her story and her direction so deftly. I absolutely believe these haracters and their relationship. In fact I've known these people and I've seen these relationships. (Another film that I loved which has some thematic similarities is Scorcese's section of New York Stories with Nick Nolte & Roseanna Arquette... but this is a totally original film.) Stephen Rea and Sarah Polley were perfectly cast and turn in subtle, touching performances. When Polley has the right role (see also The Sweet Hereafter... Go is more dismissable) she's brilliant. A lot of nice directorial touches and beautiful shots. The math problem/seduction scene was right on the money. Rea urging Polley to show a limb as he photographs her from behind a chair, her finally acquiescing with her leg... wonderful! I kept turning to my wife in the theater and asking, Do you love this film as much as I do? She did. The ending had us both choked up. It's a film for grown-ups and the pace takes its time (but it's never boring). This is not a film for the short-attention-span generation or people who go see those SNL spin-off movies. A very slight criticism... I thought some of the stuff with Polley's mother (Jean Smart) felt slightly  over-dramatic. Also, I wasn't quite certain what exactly was taking place during the break-up scene. I want to watch it again on video to see what clues I missed. Favorite line from the film (if somewhat paraphrased) Oh no. You're mistaking me for someoneone who has potential. We need more female directors with chops like those which Wells displays here. I hope she continues to make films close to her heart.  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my favorite movies of 1999...a pretty short list. A film like this could easily be botched up, but Wells handled her story and her direction so deftly. I absolutely believe these characters and their relationship. In fact I've known these people and I've seen these relationships. (Another film that I loved which has some thematic similarities is Scorcese's section of New York Stories with Nick Nolte & Roseanna Arquette... but this is a totally original film.) Stephen Rea and Sarah Polley were perfectly cast and turn in subtle, touching performances. When Polley has the right role (see also The Sweet Hereafter... Go is more dismissable) she's brilliant. A lot of nice directorial touches and beautiful shots. The math problem/seduction scene was right on the money. Rea urging Polley to show a limb as he photographs her from behind a chair, her finally acquiescing with her leg... wonderful! I kept turning to my wife in the theater and asking, Do you love this film as much as I do? She did. The ending had us both choked up. It's a film for grown-ups and the pace takes its time (but it's never boring). This is not a film for the short-attention-span generation or people who go see those SNL spin-off movies. A very slight criticism... I thought some of the stuff with Polley's mother (Jean Smart) felt slightly  over-dramatic. Also, I wasn't quite certain what exactly was taking place during the break-up scene. I want to watch it again on video to see what clues I missed. Favorite line from the film (if somewhat paraphrased) Oh no. You're mistaking me for someoneone who has potential. We need more female directors with chops like those which Wells displays here. I hope she continues to make films close to her heart.  "},{"Title":"The best film of 1999.","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film features the BEST film acting I think I've ever seen. >Beautifully directed, amazing film photography, and INCREDIBLE >lighting design. Just amazing. Nothing extraneous, each scene >totally succinct and beautiful. Shockingly good film. Really. I >never make comments like that about mov "},{"Title":"The Most Beautiful Film I Have Ever Seen","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Don't know really what to say about this movie ( except obvious D ), so I'll just copy the plot line, to complete 10 lines lol This is the most beautiful love story I have ever seen, this is the most beautiful movie I have ever seen. It's truly inspiring. The script is superb ( & very intellectual, deep, SHARP! ), direction almost flawless... it's really, really, really, GREAT. It's touching.... oh my Gosh... GREAT! Cast is perfect, & just music! It's discreet Christophe Beck Music ( I just think of Buffy's second season & Buffy & Angel Love Song... ). Really SUPERB movie...& Here is the plot D  Young Harper Sloane meets part-time photographer Connor Fitzgerald. He succeed to impress her, & soon they start to hang out. He wants to motivate her for work ( books, art... ), & soon they begin an relationship/they fall in love... "},{"Title":"whatever THAT meant","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stephen Rea as the on-screen Weinstein surrogate?Sarah Polley, the Gwennie stand-in?Jean Smart swaggers into the Bohemian photographer's loft as Eileen Heckart might have done some twenty-seven years ago.What's wrong with honest work?Audrey Wells reminds us here in her directorial debut. "}{"Title":"Quite successful drama; interesting sexual politics","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This sensitive drama of a young woman's affair with a much older photographer effectively explores the problematic nature for a woman of finding her identity and maturity through a relationship which inherently seems weighted towards the egotistical gratification of the male. Polley and Rea make intriguing partners in what develops into a subtle power game, even if the conception of Rea tends a bit too much toward conventional self-possessed charismatic distance. The film's side-excursions into satire (mainly through pot-shots at Polley's constipated family of lawyers) are quite successful; in the end, the film allows Rea a measure of indulgence in his grandiose fantasy, but makes that enjoyment explicitly a gift that lies under Polley's control - one might have a satisfying sexual-politics-oriented debate about whether this is a satisfying arrival point. "}]