[{"Title":"Who will be the Lord Of The Ring?","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Generally speaking, I agree with the masses on the IMDb but in this case I must protest. This movie deserves a much higher rating than a 5. I would personally give it a 7. After viewing several mundane comedies, I found What's the Worst That Could Happen? to be refreshing. A quick summary of the plot Kevin Caffrey (Martin Lawrence) attempts to burglarize billionaire Max Fairbanks' (Danny Divito) home. Max turns out to be in the house and holds Kevin at gunpoint until the police arrive. He then tells the cops that the ring on Kevin's hand belongs to him and the cops force Kevin to cough it up. The problem is that Kevin's new girlfriend had just given it to him. The rest of the movie deals with Kevin trying to get the ring back. Danny DeVito is hilarious and this is my favorite Martin Lawrence movie yet.The plot is original and I thought the supporting actors were great. I would have given William Fichtner a bit more of a roll. He really had little to do with the plot yet I found his portrayal of gay Detective Alex Tardio to be one of the funniest parts of the movie. I read the book and will admit that the book's ending is a bit more satisfying but not a major issue. I have never seen a group of criminals and scoundrels more likable than the group in the movie. Everyone in the movie; the thief, the rich guy, the politicians, the judges and everyone in the periphery seems to be morally depraved. I guess that is what makes this movie so funny. If you enjoyed Blue Streak then you're going to love What's the Worst That Could Happen?. "},{"Title":"It's just plain funny !","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Just the name Martin Lawrence kind of makes me laugh, and this movie with Danny DeVito will give you several good belly laughs. Plain and simple, the formula for a good comedy is not all that complex, as this film clearly shows. There's no gross-out humor, or excessive vulgar language needed to make this movie a fun couple of hours. I also genuinely liked John Leguizamo's character throughout the movie. All in all this movie is a barrel of laughs from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Simple, good fun","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I read Donald E. Westlake's novel What's The Worst That Could Happen? prior to seeing the new movie. This is something I think moviegoers should do, read the book and go to see the movie to compare and contrast. The book is full of rich, comical characters as is the movie, but there are differences.The film stars Martin Lawrence as Kevin Caffery, a suave, intelligent thief who often cases art auctions for new prizes to steal. However his partner named Berger (John Leguizamo) lets him in a score at a mansion owned by Max Fairbanks, a wealthy businessman (Danny DeVito) who is going bankrupt. The two thieves break in the house and DeVito catches Lawrence and steals his prized ring his girlfriend gave him. He is then bent on revenge and out to get it back.The plot is basic and works well and the film is smart, funny and actually even silly. Most silly movies get trashed and aren't given credit for trying to make us laugh a bit. What's The Worst That Can Happen has a good amount of intelligence to it but also has a good amount of summer movie silliness and it fits and works in a comedy that is well made and very entertaining.Give it chance and it might work for you.Costars Glenne Headly, Nora Dunn, Bernie Mac, William Fichtner, Richard Schiff, Larry Miller and Ana Gasteyer.  "},{"Title":"Not great, but certainly watchable","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, what can I say? It's not the best Martin Lawrence film and its not even one of the top 20 best Danny De Vito films (isn't this little guy one of the biggest comic actors of our time!) but it's a nice comedy, good to rent on video or watch on TV.Basically the plot is not very imaginative and the movie relies mostly on the actors performances. So I'll concentrate on them in this review. Here it goesDe Vito is perfect as always. Noone could play the part of the complacent billionaire better than him! He does the best he can do with the material he's given, but his talent could have been used more appropriately if the writers had done a better job...Martin Lawrence also playes one of his usual parts, quite similar to the part he played in Blue Streak. He does everything expected from him, including getting in disguise more than once and producing some Eddie Murphy-style jokes. But seeing Black Knight and now this, one may ask isn't he repeating himself too much now? Sure he's funny, but he's also getting annoying to more and more people...We also have some good-loking actresses, especially the lady playing Lawrence's girlfriend. Their parts are unfortunately too brief to be memorable.Oh,yes, there's also William Fichtner playing one of the weirdest detectives in the history of cinema! Am I the only one who thinks he was doing a parody of Willem Defoe's character in The Boondock Saints??As far as the plot, well, it's all about a ring... "},{"Title":"Martin & Danny have great comedic chemistry","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If the box office rest of summer ends up as good as this movie was, movie fans will be in for a real treat. Martin Lawrence returns to the big screen with his hilarious brand of humor as he teams with Danny DeVito in What's The Worst That Can Happen?What's The Worst That Can Happen? revolves around a would-be burglar named Kevin Caffrey, played by Lawrence, is caught in the act by the home owner, billionaire Max Fairbanks, played by DeVito. The tables are turned when Fairbanks steals Caffrey's ring given to him by his girlfriend. The rest of the film circles around getting the ring back.  From this moment on, I knew I was going to be watching one funny film.Joining Lawrence and DeVito is John Leguizamo as Kevin's partner in crime, Burger, Carmen Ejogo as Kevin's girlfriend Amber and Bernie Mac as Kevin's uncle. The addition of these actors is evidence that What's The Worst That Can Happen? is a sure hit with all ages.Lawrence wears two hats in What's The Worst That Can Happen? as producer and star and he has success in both capacities. Furthermore, he was a true asset as an actor in What's The Worst That Can Happen? because he brought a unique brand of humor. His style is one to be proud of because he truly makes the comedy enjoyable and the humor so funny you'll be laughing so hard it will hurt. I appreciate his comedic ability and acting talent.DeVito adds credibility to one truly fun comedy. I couldn't have asked for a better actor to portray Max Fairbanks. There is not a lot to say about DeVito because his lengthy and steady body of work speaks for him. With so many great films under his belt, I knew I was going to be watching a true master at work. In addition to credibility, DeVito has presence and humor in that made me smile from ear to ear and start to finish. He is solid comedic genius that brings a great amount of comedy and presence that will leave everyone smiling.Leguizamo has a true niche for comedy as he proves in What's The Worst That Can Happen? I wasn't sure how to gage Leguizamo because I have only seen one other film with him, so I was surprised to learn he was one of funniest and talented actors in the movie. The chemistry between Lawrence and Leguizamo was perfect because they seemed to work so well together. Leguizamo was a great compliment to Lawrence and his brand of humor. I enjoyed every minute they shared the screen because I knew I was going to laugh.Ejogo was a true pleasure to watch because she brought excitement and charisma to the movie. I relished each scene she was in because I got the opportunity to see a true natural at work. Mac was a true surprise because I didn't expect him to turn in a good performance. Ejogo joins a handful of actresses that includes Monica Potter, Kate Beckinsale and James King, who are on my list of nominees for the prestigious honor of being called best newcomers of the year. The true geniuses behind What's The Worst That Can Happen? were the writers because they created something special. The writing in this movie is very enjoyable and good because it compliments Lawrence's comedy and DeVito's humor. The games set up by the writers were incredible fun to watch since each scene skillfully crafted.Also, the audience received a bonus when the writer added action and suspense. Though What's The Worst That Can Happen? succeeds mostly with comedy, it also entertains with action and suspense.I knew with scenes like Kevin's taunts to Max over his cell-phone while he was in a senate sub-committee, What's The Worst That Can Happen? will entertain every single person who buys a ticket for this movie. I could not ask for anything more from the writers of What's The Worst That Could Happen because watching this story play out is a thing of beauty.One solid guarantee I can make to potential viewers of this movie What's The Worst That Could Happen will leave you laughing until it hurts. Lawrence and DeVito are a lethal comedic team that fills the screen with laughter, suspense and action. What's The Worst That Can Happen? is one of the most entertaining films I've seen. The bottom line is this film is harmless fun that will delight and entertain you for two hours. I hope everyone gets the chance to see how great these two talents come together and create one of the funniest movies this year.  "},{"Title":"To Answer the Title...This Film.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" What's the Worst That Can Happen? (2001) Dir Sam Weisman / Cast Martin Lawrence, Danny De Vito, John Leguizamo, Glenne Headly, Carmen Ejogo To answer the question presented by the title, the film could have been so much more worse just by being longer. It is a comedy about a constant attack of bad luck. Martin Lawrence plays a thief who is caught in the midst of robbing Danny De Vito but when police arrive De Vito steals his ring that was given to him by his girlfriend. This becomes a see-saw battle of revenge until reaching a conclusion where theft is rewarded. Director Sam Weisman has comic timing but a poor choice in scripts. He has previously directed such junk as George of the Jungle and The Out-of-Towners. With a list like this it isn't likely that he will be up for any Academy Awards achievement trophy any time soon. Lawrence has seen better days, and De Vito is certainly capable of better. He actually played a role similar to this in Tin Men. Both comics are hilarious when the material is good, but this ranks as merely career suicide. Glenne Headly has an embarrassing role as a fortune teller. John Leguizamo plays Lawrence's partner in crime in a role that is every bit as useless as it sounds. It is a routine comedy nearly devoid of any laughs. So what's the worst that can happen? Lawrence and De Vito could get suckered into a sequel. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"The Worst Happens","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Sophisticated thief Martin Lawrence (as Kevin Caffery) attends an auction, looking for prospective victims. He finds something more desirable in beautiful Carmen Ejogo (as Amber Belhaven). Bringing her a landscape painting she had to auction off gets the previously reluctant Ms. Ejogo into bed fairly quickly. After copulating, she gives Mr. Lawrence a lucky ring. He wears the ring while robbing wealthy businessman Danny DeVito (as Max Fairbanks). Lawrence gets caught and Mr. DeVito claims the ring was stolen. Police make Lawrence give the ring to DeVito. DeVito begins to think the ring is lucky, also. The men fight over the ring for the rest of the movie...The teaming of Martin Lawrence and Danny DeVito may look inviting and funny, but don't expect much from this duo. Although DeVito's draw had diminished somewhat, both were dependable box office stars. Here, they are self-assured and unappealing (a toxic combination). What's the Worst That Could Happen? features good production values, with nice photography by Anastas Michos. Sam Weisman may have had a difficult time directing his leading men, but some of the other scenes work. Larry Miller (as Earl) and the old lady in the elevator wielding pepper spray (Michelle Youell) are able to evoke a chuckle, but a bad film brings down everyone's best efforts.** What's the Worst That Could Happen? (6/1/01) Sam Weisman ~ Martin Lawrence, Danny DeVito, Carmen Ejogo, John Leguizamo "},{"Title":"Unfortunately mediocre","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have to say I was really looking forward to this movie and missed it in the theater.  If any movie was a rental this is it.  It is not a horrible movie, just not great either.With Danny Devito, Martin Lawrence and John Leguizamo, I thought this movie was going to be great.  Unfortunately, the laughs that come are too far and between to be worth much.The movie trailer is much funnier than the actual movie.  However, if you have an interest in the comedians, I would say it is worth the price of a rental. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Unfortunately, a lot of people seem to give this movie lousy reviews, and I can't figure out why. Both Martin Lawrence and Danny DeVito are totally hilarious, and this entire film is packed with great jokes. Also, a great supporting part by William Fichtner as the dog-loving Detective Alex Tardio, a must-see for any fans of his. The rest of the cast is great too, as is the soundtrack. DeVito and Lawrence are a great pair, and the way they battle with witty comments makes this movie 10 times better, as if it wasn't funny enough already. What's The Worst That Could Happen? is definitely watchable again and again. One of my very favorites. Love it!!! "},{"Title":"The Worst thing about this Martin Lawrence movie?  Martin Lawrence!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A talented supporting performance by John Leguizamo and a few somewhat funny, if not completely illogical, set pieces aren't enough to save this movie from being just about the worst thing I've seen all year. Lawrence is bad - unfunny and stupid - but the real criminal is the screenwriter.  Whoever adapted this one should have his typing fingers amputated and be forced to work in public access for the rest of his career.  How anybody could take a mediocre, but well-plotted and screen-ready novel and turn it into this festering, head-shaking mess of a movie is completely beyond me.  There are moments that have phenomenal potential, but they're ham-handedly executed and it seems that the filmmakers just didn't know how to get laughs from them.    "}{"Title":"**","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" To answer the title, the worst that could happen is when you watch this miserable 2001 film.The premise itself is ridiculous when burglar Martin Lawrence breaks into the home of wealthy, but under investigation for improprieties, Danny De Vito. De Vito, married to a woman two heads taller than he is, faces bankruptcy. He obviously married the woman due to her wealthy connections and he carries an ongoing affair with his secretary, the latter stealing the film in every scene that she appears in.During the robbery, when the police are called in, De Vito attempts to turn the tables on Lawrence by stealing his good luck ring.The picture devotes itself to the two guys trying to outsmart each other and just proves that no one may really be trusted, including the senators investigating the De Vito character. This truthful farce just doesn't succeed, down to the overly gay detective in hot pursuit of the combo pair. "},{"Title":"tough movie to rate/review","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" WTWTCH is a genuinely funny film. In particular, Lawrence and Leguizamo have many hilarious moments. I started watching it even though the RT scores on dtv were low, but it never seems to take long for Martin to get my attention and give one of his movies a chance like I did this one. SOmetimes they've been surprisingly watchable(Blue Streak, Nothing to Lose), and sometimes they haven't(Black Knight, Death at a Funeral).The film isn't great, but it does seem to throw out a genuinely funny scene about every 15 minutes.The problems with the film lie in the plot, or the lack of a plot. I know we here this a lot in reviews, but this film falls right there with Expendables 2 for most 'acceptable' film(not good mind you) that has ABSOLUTELY ZERO PLOT. Even if you try to discern a plot - the characters within just don't fit in it.The films ending is dreadful, and completely undermines and belittles what little plot there might have been. You really ask yourself what in the world the film was all about when it's over.I'm stuck between 4 and 5, but I'd watch it again just for some of the funny moments, so I'm going with the latter.I still can't recommend it and look in someone's eye's while doing so, and I won't do it on-screen either.If you think Martin is hilarious, then rent or watch this knowing that you'll get those occasional, funny moments, and little else.48/100 "},{"Title":"Has It's Moments","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I had heard of this movie through friend who had seen it before and had recommended it to me. I took the risk of buying it before renting and in a way, I was correct.The movie was quite funny. The humour used was of course not very intelligent but it was at time quite funny. Such as when Martin Lawrence is robbing a house, the laser's come on, which doesn't allow them to move at all.The screenplay was stale but the film is worth watching for the little funny parts. Those who are offended quite easily should stay away and there is also quite a lot of swearing, which was unnecessary.Overall, the film was about a B-. If you want to sit down and have a few laughs then I recommend you watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Hmm, that's a good question.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** What's the Worst That Could Happen? Is a film that places two hugely recognizable actors into two perfectly opposite roles and pits them against each other, but it can't come up with a good enough reason for having done this except to have them fighting over the ownership of a ring which has nothing but sentimental or superstitious value for either one of them. Danny DeVito, plays the part of Max Fairbanks, a massively wealthy businessman having financial trouble (`TECHNICAL procedure' ), and Martin Lawrence plays the part of Kevin Caffrey, an intelligent (supposedly) criminal who knows his way around an art gallery.While DeVito is probably one of the most charismatic actors working today (despite the fact that he rarely plays anything but dirtbag characters), Lawrence, at the same time, is one of our most trying comic actors. He is a fan's actor that mainly stars in films that the audience will hate unless they were there just to see him (such as the sad, ridiculous mess that was Big Momma's House). This is not the case very often, although he does work well with certain other (generally more talented) actors, such as the brilliant Will Smith in Bad Boys, Eddie Murphy in Life, and I even enjoyed his performance with Luke Wilson in Blue Streak (the forthcoming sequels for two of these movies, by the way, I am very much looking forward to, despite not being much of a Lawrence fan myself).(spoilers) At any rate, DeVito and Lawrence have acting styles that are just about as different as the characters that they play in this film, which is probably why they clash so badly. At no point do they have any chemistry onscreen, even at the end of the film when Fairbanks covers for Caffrey (but maybe this is because of the stupididty involved in this claim - since Fairbanks was in a police station accusing Caffrey of robbing his house. Is the detective not expected to notice this because he's gay?). But even more than that, the movie is centered around Caffrey getting this ring back because his girlfriend gave it to him and Fairbanks wanting to keep it because he thinks it's some sort of good luck charm, a sign that his business luck is about to change. Fairbanks is ridiculously rich, and Caffrey has much bigger things to concern himself with, like the ease with which he can get his hands on enormously valuable paintings, so why should we care?So we get a film about two guys fighting like 8 year olds over this little trinket, and even though you want to root for Caffrey for caring so much for something that his new girlfriend gave him, you at the same time desperately want the movie to avoid that hideous cliché and do something original. I suppose it does do something original with having these two grown men fighting over something so small and trivial, but it makes it impossible to care about the outcome. We don't want Fairbanks to keep the ring because it was the one thing that Caffrey really didn't steal, and we don't want Caffrey to get it back because then this would be another cheesy comedy about some dirtbag trying to impress a pretty girl, as was the case with bad comedies like Half Baked.So while Caffrey and Fairbanks are each tripping over themselves trying to become lord of the ring, we are occasionally introduced to well-known actors who play parts in the movie for reasons which even they don't seem to sure of. The most glaring appearance is from William Fichtner, who plays a homosexual detective for no other reason than to have a homosexual detective in the movie. Maybe they wanted to distract us from the idiocy in the rest of the film. Here is a hugely talented actor who is completely wasted in this moronic role, which does nothing but fit in with the goofy slapstick antics that Martin occasionally goes off into. John Leguizamo, similarly, is an enormously talented actor who is never given a chance to really shine in the movie.There is a scene where Lawrence and Leguizamo impersonate Middle Eastern businessmen to get into a building, and the way that they fake the accents is a perfect example of their talents as actors. While Leguizamo yadda yaddas pretty much the same things over and over so it's clear he's not really speaking any kind of language, he at least spoke up and had some semblance of an idea of how to fake an accent. Lawrence, on the other hand, could do nothing but mumble and grunt and groan, inspiring the audience to do much the same, both because he was so bad at what he was trying to do and because the scene as a whole was one of the worst scenes in the movie, which is no good in the first place.At the opening of the film, we are introduced to Caffrey, Lawrence's character, admiring a painting in an art gallery. An employee at the gallery approaches and tells him that the sports exhibition is next week, which reminded me of the times that Julia Roberts was kicked out of dress shops in Pretty Woman and Runaway Bride, both of which were delightful. At this early point in the film, Caffrey shows her up by identifying the painting as a fake, making us think that we are about to enjoy a movie about a black man who defies all of the stereotypes that uppity white women like this seem to have towards them. Instead, he goes into a little dance, ensuring that, from language to being a criminal, not a single stereotype is going to be challenged here. Pretty much from this point on, the movie goes precipitously downhill.  "},{"Title":"A disappointment from start to finish","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was hoping for at least a couple of funny moments when I headed to the movie theatre. But alas! it turned out to be far worse than I had expected. Not only that it`s anything but funny, it`s also utterly boring, containing lots of dumb and lame jokes etc., etc. However, people around me laughed like drains, so I suppose that What`s The Worst That Could Happen does appeal to a known kind of audience. Nevertheless I strongly recommend seeing any other comedy but this one.  "},{"Title":"Worst things have happened than this!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, I couldn't avoid the inevitable pun, so I thought I'd get it over with right in the beginning. As for this movie, it's pretty useless as entertainment in terms of humor, fascination and escapism. It definitely doesn't belong among the worst Hollywood comedies of late, as there is only a single fart joke and a single kicked-in-the-groin joke. That's pretty civilized for an American comedy nowadays, I am sorry to admit. So the problem here is not vulgarity, just boredom.Although I greatly admire the talent of both Danny DeVito and Martin Lawrence (yes, you heard correctly - I thought he was excellent in Bad Boys), the combination of the two seems to lack something vital here. Upon a closer examination it is quite clear what this missing ingredient is a good script. Instead of genuine amusement, this it-takes-a-crook-to-catch-a-thief story line becomes weary and repetitive fairly quickly. Add to this a couple of increasingly annoying supporting characters and numerous inconsistencies - it is one to avoid.I would also like to add that the only really convincing performance comes from Richard Schiff as DeVito's long-suffering lawyer who experiences a moment of personal triumph. I really loved this scene. Unfortunately, it can't save this movie, which was doomed at birth. A 2 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"answer seeing this movie","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  l have to tell you that l used the main review on imdb to gauge whether this was worth going to see. Were we watching a different film as l could find nothing even remotely amusing about this title. Not only did we not even smile but neither did anyone else in the house this was everything a comedy should not be, what is it with Lawrence's facial movements annoying or what! imagine the worst Hope/Crosby title and times it by three then you might somewhere near how bad this film is, on a positive note l also used imdb's review of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back as a guide, now there's a funny movie but that's another story....... Sorry Popa Joe Algarve/Portugal "},{"Title":"U have better way to spend your time than watching this movie.","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wasting my cash to watch this movie was the worst that could happen.  I do not reckon myself as a picky audience, but this movie did an excellent job to bore the heck out of me.  If you are the kind of audience who just want to have a tiny little bit of fun, not looking for any insights in a movie, this movie can be a choice...  Otherwise, I 'd recommend you to spend your whole night talking to your mother on phone, rather than watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I must say that going in to this movie, I did not have high hopes. I've never been a big fan of Martin Lawrence's films, and Danny DeVito can be hit or miss as a performer. But this film, though it goes too long (as many comedies do) and has a last scene that seems tacked on and makes little sense in the context of the story, had me laughing more often than not. Lawrence and DeVito are good, but what's really nice are the members fo the supporting cast, particularly John Leguizamo as Lawrence's fellow thief, Bernie Mac as their benefactor and fencer, Carmen Ejogo and Nora Dunn as Lawrence's and DeVito's respective ladies, and especially William Fichtner, who practically steals the show as a police detective unlike any you've ever seen on screen. Take it for what it is, and What's the Worst That Can Happen definitely isn't that. "},{"Title":"This movie is a lot better than people think it's gonna be.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Danny DeVito is funny.  Martin Lawrence is hilarious.  So why did everyone think this movie was going to be stupid?  It was a very funny movie.  Yes it is kind of silly, but silly is good.  A rich guy and a low thief at war over a ring might not sound funny, but it was.  DeVito and Lawrence are a good comedy team and made me laugh a lot when they were both on screen.  Go see this movie.  It's good. "}{"Title":"Another Lawrence Flop","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This lackluster comedy lacked a few more things as well. Such as decent acting, humor, and a good script. I can't say it was all bad, there were some funny parts; just enough to keep me from turning the movie off. I guess the Lawrence/DeVito tandem was worth exploring to see what would be the result. What's the worse that could happen huh? Nothing more than a lousy movie that would have everyone complaining. But then again, Martin is used to that.Well, it's been done, now we know never to experiment with big ears and short people again. The chemistry just wasn't there, and it seems like Martin is lacking a lot of chemistry these days. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If the box office rest of summer ends up as good as this movie was, movie fans will be in for a real treat. Martin Lawrence returns to the big screen with his hilarious brand of humor as he teams with Danny DeVito in What's The Worst That Can Happen?What's The Worst That Can Happen? revolves around a would-be burglar named Kevin Caffrey, played by Lawrence, is caught in the act by the home owner, billionaire Max Fairbanks, played by DeVito. The tables are turned when Fairbanks steals Caffrey's ring given to him by his girlfriend. The rest of the film circles around getting the ring back. From this moment on, I knew I was going to be watching one funny film.Joining Lawrence and DeVito is John Leguizamo as Kevin's partner in crime, Burger, Carmen Ejogo as Kevin's girlfriend Amber and Bernie Mac as Kevin's uncle. The addition of these actors is evidence that What's The Worst That Can Happen? is a sure hit with all ages.Lawrence wears two hats in What's The Worst That Can Happen? as producer and star and he has success in both capacities. Furthermore, he was a true asset as an actor in What's The Worst That Can Happen? because he brought a unique brand of humor. His style is one to be proud of because he truly makes the comedy enjoyable and the humor so funny you'll be laughing so hard it will hurt. I appreciate his comedic ability and acting talent.DeVito adds credibility to one truly fun comedy. I couldn't have asked for a better actor to portray Max Fairbanks. There is not a lot to say about DeVito because his lengthy and steady body of work speaks for him. With so many great films under his belt, I knew I was going to be watching a true master at work. In addition to credibility, DeVito has presence and humor in that made me smile from ear to ear and start to finish. He is solid comedic genius that brings a great amount of comedy and presence that will leave everyone smiling.Leguizamo has a true niche for comedy as he proves in What's The Worst That Can Happen? I wasn't sure how to gage Leguizamo because I have only seen one other film with him, so I was surprised to learn he was one of funniest and talented actors in the movie. The chemistry between Lawrence and Leguizamo was perfect because they seemed to work so well together. Leguizamo was a great compliment to Lawrence and his brand of humor. I enjoyed every minute they shared the screen because I knew I was going to laugh.Ejogo was a true pleasure to watch because she brought excitement and charisma to the movie. I relished each scene she was in because I got the opportunity to see a true natural at work. Mac was a true surprise because I didn't expect him to turn in a good performance. Ejogo joins a handful of actresses that includes Monica Potter, Kate Beckinsale and James King, who are on my list of nominees for the prestigious honor of being called best newcomers of the year. The true geniuses behind What's The Worst That Can Happen? were the writers because they created something special. The writing in this movie is very enjoyable and good because it compliments Lawrence's comedy and DeVito's humor. The games set up by the writers were incredible fun to watch since each scene skillfully crafted.Also, the audience received a bonus when the writer added action and suspense. Though What's The Worst That Can Happen? succeeds mostly with comedy, it also entertains with action and suspense.I knew with scenes like Kevin's taunts to Max over his cell-phone while he was in a senate sub-committee, What's The Worst That Can Happen? will entertain every single person who buys a ticket for this movie. I could not ask for anything more from the writers of What's The Worst That Could Happen because watching this story play out is a thing of beauty.One solid guarantee I can make to potential viewers of this movie What's The Worst That Could Happen will leave you laughing until it hurts. Lawrence and DeVito are a lethal comedic team that fills the screen with laughter, suspense and action. What's The Worst That Can Happen? is one of the most entertaining films I've seen. The bottom line is this film is harmless fun that will delight and entertain you for two hours. I hope everyone gets the chance to see how great these two talents come together and create one of the funniest movies this year. "},{"Title":"Fun, sweet, fast-paced comedy that steals your heart.","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It took a while for Martin Lawrence's style to grow on me. The first few movies I saw him starring in left me kinda blah.However, either he's grown on me, or his talents have evolved/matured over the years. I'm not sure which.This movie, starring Glenne Headley (Sgt. Bilko, Dirty Rotten Scoundrels), Danny Divitto, Martin Lawrence and Carmen Ejogo, is highly entertaining. The plot moves along at a nice, crisp pace; the acting is finely portrayed and the characters are well developed enough to make you have a feeling of knowing them.William Fichtner, Phil Dearly of Drowning Mona, is wonderful as Detective Alex Tardio. Although his character is stereo-typical as a flamboyant, obviously gay detective who has a past history with Kevin (Martin Lawrence), he plays it very well and as an endearing character. He obviously has had past dealings with Kevin and is current in his familiarity of Kevin's reputation as a thief.Danny Divitto plays a back-stabbing, underhanded little weasel of a business-man who married for money and plays the field. He is just as unfaithful in his business practices, and at the hands of Kevin Caffrey, finally begins reaping the consequences. He consults the i-ching regularly and relies heavily on the tarot for guidance, hence the source of his great success; but something has gone terribly wrong for him. This movie epitomizes the old adage, What goes around, comes around, in that Max Fairbanks (Divitto) definitely brings his down turn of luck upon himself.Also featuring Bernie Mac. I thoroughly enjoy this movie, and watch it often.It gets an 7.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"It's all that!","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  No wonder the Unemployed Critic is unemployed! Myself, along with a host of others feel that this movie is a pretty decent comedy about two unscrupulous dogs fighting over a bone. Martin Lawrence does a fine job showing audiences how seamlessly he can tone down his comic intensity to fit his character.Danny DeVito is his usual impeccable self. this movie gets two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Martin and Danny are comedic dynamite","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If the box office rest of summer ends up as good as this movie was, movie fans will be in for a real treat. Martin Lawrence returns to the big screen with his hilarious brand of humor as he teams with Danny DeVito in What's The Worst That Can Happen?What's The Worst That Can Happen? revolves around a would-be burglar named Kevin Caffrey, played by Lawrence, is caught in the act by the home owner, billionaire Max Fairbanks, played by DeVito. The tables are turned when Fairbanks steals Caffrey's ring given to him by his girlfriend. The rest of the film circles around getting the ring back. From this moment on, I knew I was going to be watching one funny film.Joining Lawrence and DeVito is John Leguizamo as Kevin's partner in crime, Burger, Carmen Ejogo as Kevin's girlfriend Amber and Bernie Mac as Kevin's uncle. The addition of these actors is evidence that What's The Worst That Can Happen? is a sure hit with all ages.Lawrence wears two hats in What's The Worst That Can Happen? as producer and star and he has success in both capacities. Furthermore, he was a true asset as an actor in What's The Worst That Can Happen? because he brought a unique brand of humor. His style is one to be proud of because he truly makes the comedy enjoyable and the humor so funny you'll be laughing so hard it will hurt. I appreciate his comedic ability and acting talent.DeVito adds credibility to one truly fun comedy. I couldn't have asked for a better actor to portray Max Fairbanks. There is not a lot to say about DeVito because his lengthy and steady body of work speaks for him. With so many great films under his belt, I knew I was going to be watching a true master at work. In addition to credibility, DeVito has presence and humor in that made me smile from ear to ear and start to finish. He is solid comedic genius that brings a great amount of comedy and presence that will leave everyone smiling.Leguizamo has a true niche for comedy as he proves in What's The Worst That Can Happen? I wasn't sure how to gage Leguizamo because I have only seen one other film with him, so I was surprised to learn he was one of funniest and talented actors in the movie. The chemistry between Lawrence and Leguizamo was perfect because they seemed to work so well together. Leguizamo was a great compliment to Lawrence and his brand of humor. I enjoyed every minute they shared the screen because I knew I was going to laugh.Ejogo was a true pleasure to watch because she brought excitement and charisma to the movie. I relished each scene she was in because I got the opportunity to see a true natural at work. Mac was a true surprise because I didn't expect him to turn in a good performance. Ejogo joins a handful of actresses that includes Monica Potter, Kate Beckinsale and James King, who are on my list of nominees for the prestigious honor of being called best newcomers of the year. The true geniuses behind What's The Worst That Can Happen? are the writers because they created something special. The writing in this movie is very enjoyable and good because it compliments Lawrence's comedy and DeVito's humor. The games set up by the writers were incredible fun to watch since each scene skillfully crafted. Also, the audience received a bonus when the writer added action and suspense. Though What's The Worst That Can Happen? succeeds mostly with comedy, it also entertains with action and suspense.I knew with scenes like Kevin's taunts to Max over his cell-phone while he was in a senate sub-committee, What's The Worst That Can Happen? will entertain every single person who buys a ticket for this movie. I could not ask for anything more from the writers of What's The Worst That Could Happen because watching this story play out is a thing of beauty.I can make one solid guarantee to potential viewers of this movie What's The Worst That Could Happen will leave you laughing until it hurts. Lawrence and DeVito are a lethal comedic team that fills the screen with laughter, suspense and action. What's The Worst That Can Happen? is one of the most entertaining films I've seen all year. The bottom line is this film is harmless fun that will delight and entertain you for two hours. I hope everyone gets the chance to see how great these two talents come together and create one of the funniest movies this year. "},{"Title":"surprisingly enjoyable ...","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  firstly, i am partial to movies where there is romance without any lies. which is one reason i really didnt like meet the parents. now that aside, i enjoyed this hilarious caper from martin lawrence and danny devito. the plot is ridiculous really, but cute and funny, so that goes. martin lawrence is extremely funny and the assortment of a horde of cliched but amusing and entertaining characters add to the ensemble and joyride.whats the worst that could happen is a simple comedy and great way to spend an evening laughing away. not the best comedy you will see, ut rather enjoyable. danny devito again is extremely funny as one can expect. on the whole. dont expect much - go in thinking oh! well whats the worst that could happen? and u will enjoy yourself ... enjoyable and entertaining despite the numerous plot-holes and cliches. i loved the basic premise of stealing from a thief. that scene is a masterpiece and is extremely hilarious!!!definitely worth watching once and the neat soundtrack helps too....an enjoyable 7!! "},{"Title":"I tried to sit through it....","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well. this movie was very bad. The first 20 mins was horrible. So, i tried to watch it for another 40 mins, after 1 hour of this I finally had to shut it off. What were they thinking when writing a plot for this????? Boy meets girl, boy has sex with girl, girl gives boy lucky ring, theif gets robbed by rich guy.. so on.Its not that Martin Lawrence and Danny Devito were bad, it had a pointless plot. 1 out of 10  "},{"Title":"An Funny Film","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I saw the coming attractions for What's the worst that could happen I thought it was going to be another one of those comedy's that are not very funny. But I was wrong What's the worst that could happen was actually funny. This is a good film that should not be missed because this will make the whole family laugh an enjoyable film.I give What's The Worst That Could Happen 7/10 "},{"Title":"Funnier Than Expected","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I generally find Martin Lawrence too vulgar for my tastes, but this loose but mostly faithful adaptation of Westlake's novel is breezy and easy to take.  There are a lot of fun characterizations, a few silly, but most interesting. Carmen Egojo is a revelation as Lawrence's girlfriend. William Fichter is unforgettable as the detective who suspects De Vito of committing insurance fraud.  De Vito is funny as usual, and Nora Dunn is a standout as DeVito's wife.Lie back, relax, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Oh Martin, when is Blue Streak 2 coming?","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In this film, Lawrence is Kevin Caffrey, a lovable thief who hangs out at auctions to learn about valuable merchandise. That's where he falls in love with Amber (Ejogo). The feelings are returned and the couple become quite serious in a matter of hours. In fact, Amber even gives Kevin her father's sacred ring, which symbolizes their special bond and the day they fell for each other. Meanwhile, rich and powerful business tycoon Max Fairbanks (DeVito) is caught in the middle of a bankruptcy case and looking for a good luck sign. Coincidentally, Kevin's latest heist happens to be at one of Max's several homes. While the crook is bagging up some valuables, Max finds him and calls the police. Kevin is forced to turn over all the stolen property, including the sacred ring, to Max. No matter how hard he tries, Kevin cannot convince the police that the ring is really his own. Max gets the ring and quickly cherishes it as his much-needed sign of good luck. Comical warfare ensues as each man battles for ownership of the ring.This movie is about two guys fighting over a small piece of jewelry. Every supporting character, at one point or another, says that the men are behaving like children, and that this competition is stupid. I agree. So, if the cast of the film even admits that the story is pointless, why have I been forced to sit down and watch the movie? That's the question I found myself asking at numerous points during What's the Worst That Could Happen?. There is nothing of value in this picture. There is no lesson. There is not humor. There is not even an original narrative. To make matters worse, this movie was based on a novel. Not only was this horrible story released into theaters, but someone decided to publish this garbage as well. So, even though many might think that this movie is the worst that could happen, I'll bet the book is even more excruciating. What's the Worst That Could Happen? fails because the material does not work. Lawrence is a large part of the problem. He does not know how to deliver a scripted joke without making a fool of himself. Sadly, he relies on silly dancing and spastic jerks to make the audience laugh. Unfortunately, he's the only one who looks like a spastic jerk. It's that kind of comedy that makes you hang your head in shame. I was embarrassed by the stuff he was doing on screen. Danny DeVito loses credibility simply for starring in this movie. He might have been able to pull a decent joke out the movie, but after watching Lawrence pretend to back his ass up, the entire movie was just a ridiculous waste of time. The remainder of the cast consists of several larger names who add nothing to the movie. John Leguizamo (Moulin Rouge!) plays one of Lawrence's cohorts, but never gets a chance to shine. There is not a single decent line given to brilliant comedians like Bernie Mac (The Original Kings of Comedy) or Ana Gasteyer (from television's Saturday Night Live). One of the worst characters in this movie is William Fichtner (The Perfect Storm), who plays a gender ambiguous detective. It's a disgrace. There is so much talent in this movie that gets wasted. That's a shame too, because these supporting characters, if written correctly, could have kept the entire film from being so rotten. The film's title is What's the Worst That Could Happen?, but the real question is Why? Why did anyone ever decide to make this movie? Why couldn't they try to adapt an original idea for the screen? Why does Martin Lawrence think that dimwitted dancing is funny? Why did nobody pay attention to the strong supporting cast? Why am I watching this movie? Why? I suggest you save yourself the long list of questions and just avoid What's the Worst That Could Happen? at all costs.  "}{"Title":"One of the best of the year...","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I actually wasn't planning on seeing this movie, I was going to see The Animal, but it was sold out and this wasnt, so I decided to see this one. I think DeVito can play the best characters ever, he was great in Ruthless People, and good in LA Confidential, and he really shines here. I went in expecting a pretty good movie and I came out very satisfied. Lawrence and Leguizamo are hilarious as well. If you like a non-stop laughfest, you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Martin Lawrence plays Kevin, a professional thief.  Danny DeVito is Max, a wealthy business man.  Kevin is caught stealing from Max, who in turn steals a ring from Kevin.  Kevin wants revenge, and will steal other things to get back the ring.I read this book and surprisingly, the film sticks relatively close to it. John Leguizamo is wasted in this film -- he could have done a lot more.  I think that Mr. Lawrence, not only starring but being executive producer, controlled too much of the script.  There was too much of Kevin and not enough of the peripheral players.  Like Larry Miller, who played Max's head of security.  Here was another talented comedian wasted.  And I liked the flamboyant detective played by John Fichtner, but even his role was limited.I would give this 2 1/2 stars out of 4.  "},{"Title":"Should have been brilliant","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What's the worst thing that can happen? You spend the $30.00 bucks; between admission, popcorn and two cokes, on this should-have-been- brilliant-why- look-at-the-cast movie. Always be wary of any movie the studio tags as a zany comedy. Zany? Billy Zane better be one of the stars or chances are higher than Kevin Spacey's real hair line it's a clunker of titanic proportions! Case in point this, zany, dare I say whacky, comedy!Though there are some brilliantly funny scenes-mostly at the hands of Star Martin Lawrence's, costars! Sorry, Martin seemed zoned out when not doing his signature frantic comic routines. The scene-stealer of the evening was William Fichtner. A big-ole-smit here at Blunt Review. But, it wasn't his unusually mapped good looks this time that had me all apple pie ala'mode giddy-with-glee each time he appeared, but his character was like a breath of fresh shtick comedy. Fichtner plays a Peroit- meets- Liberace-meets-Guffman Boston police detective, named Alex Tardio, whose sexuality is all over the board. In less capable hands this too could have been unoriginal and trite. WTWTCH is all about penis envy. Or, perhaps just a plain old battle of juvenile male egos, lacking only, the comparisons of penile size. Though Lawrence does go there briefly...Robber Kevin (Martin Lawrence- who has skin so beautifully smooth it looks almost like those clay-mation dolls from the Nestea commercials) is caught fist-full-o-lute by a billionaire, in the billionaire's home mid, robbery. This billionaire, Max Fairbanks (Danny Devito), decides to hoodwink the hood and tells the cops the robber has one last trinket still due return... A ring, on his finger. The cops remove the robber's ring and give it over to the richer robber. The games begin.See this tacky ring was a gift from Kevin's new soul mate Amber (a simply gorgeous Carmen Ejogo). A token from her father representing good luck and love and whatever. Kevin swears he'll get the ring back. Not so easy. Max, who's a bit of a loon, believes the ring is an omen of good (more) fortune that he must keep, under any circumstances...So, two different style crooks, without a clue of morality go mental gladiator on each other over a cheap gaudy ring, for the next two hours. Yawn. Of course the whole audience was simultaneously thinking Go to a good jeweler and duplicate the damn thing already nunchakus !The good news is Devito and Lawrences' supporting cast. After hilarious Fichtner, secondary scene-stealers the lot of them.John Lugugugumananuizamo who plays Kevin's partner in fiasco, er, crime Berger is his usual, adorable, self. His quick sense of humor shines through even the 2 dimensional poopy-kucka of a role. Glenne Headly (a girl-a talented girl) plays Max's secretary and spiritual confidant Gloria. Again if it were not for the lack of story this cast would have ripped through the screen. For example Bernie Mac (best known from Original Kings of Comedy) is absolutely brilliant, nearly every line is funny and believable.So what's wrong with the film? Too much Lawrence doing that thing he does that, quite frankly , unless you love the guy already, is grating. Sure he's handsome and has the sweetest smile on film to date, but he needed to be funnier is all as the whole comic sphere was circling around- him.Then the story is just too far fetched. As if a billionaire amidst a huge all-destroying congressional hearing, bankruptcy etc. would stop to have a battle of the wits with a robber. Again, he'd have copied the ring and gave the robber the fake one, no? Normally off-the-believable - path is fine by me if you can hold the interest via clever dialog, unexpected gags and general mayhem...The best thing about the movie was the many comics that come out of the woodwork. Lenny Clarke, who used to be wicked handsome, was nice to see. I actually knew him...a long time ago...Super guy- funny too. Nora Dunne, again a wonderful show. Ana Gasteyer who's just kind of here- not given any meat- and she can handle it too. A fantastic comedian! Poor kid. But wait there's more comedy stew! You get another a real fave here at Blunt Review, too, Larry Miller. And of course, effervescent DeVito himself is naturally funny and easily delivers his Max. Lawrence shined on TV but loses something, at least here, on the biggie screen.But for all its giggles and genuinely funny bits it's still not recommendable. Wait for video.Snack recommendation Boston baked beans and Kelly's Roast beefStarring Martin Lawrence Danny DeVito John Leguizamo Glenne Headly Carmen Ejogo Bernie Mac Larry Miller Nora Dunn Richard Schiff William Fichtner Ana Gasteyer and many many more greta comics scattered about. "},{"Title":"an enjoyable comedy","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If the box office rest of summer ends up as good as this movie was, movie fans will be in for a real treat. Martin Lawrence returns to the big screen with his hilarious brand of humor as he teams with Danny DeVito in What's The Worst That Can Happen? What's The Worst That Can Happen? revolves around a would-be burglar named Kevin Caffrey, played by Lawrence, is caught in the act by the home owner, billionaire Max Fairbanks, played by DeVito. The tables are turned when Fairbanks steals Caffrey's ring given to him by his girlfriend. The rest of the film circles around getting the ring back. From this moment on, I knew I was going to be watching one funny film.Joining Lawrence and DeVito is John Leguizamo as Kevin's partner in crime, Burger, Carmen Ejogo as Kevin's girlfriend Amber and Bernie Mac as Kevin's uncle. The addition of these actors is evidence that What's The Worst That Can Happen? is a sure hit with all ages.Lawrence wears two hats in What's The Worst That Can Happen? as producer and star and he has success in both capacities. Furthermore, he was a true asset as an actor in What's The Worst That Can Happen? because he brought a unique brand of humor.His style is one to be proud of because he truly makes the comedy enjoyable and the humor so funny you'll be laughing so hard it will hurt. I appreciate his comedic ability and acting talent.DeVito adds credibility to one truly fun comedy. I couldn't have asked for a better actor to portray Max Fairbanks. There is not a lot to say about DeVito because his lengthy and steady body of work speaks for him. With so many great films under his belt, I knew I was going to be watching a true master at work.In addition to credibility, DeVito has presence and humor in that made me smile from ear to ear and start to finish. He is solid comedic genius that brings a great amount of comedy and presence that will leave everyone smiling.Leguizamo has a true niche for comedy as he proves in What's The Worst That Can Happen? I wasn't sure how to gage Leguizamo because I have only seen one other film with him, so I was surprised to learn he was one of funniest and talented actors in the movie.The chemistry between Lawrence and Leguizamo was perfect because they seemed to work so well together. Leguizamo was a great compliment to Lawrence and his brand of humor. I enjoyed every minute they shared the screen because I knew I was going to laugh.Ejogo was a true pleasure to watch because she brought excitement and charisma to the movie. I relished each scene she was in because I got the opportunity to see a true natural at work. Mac was a true surprise because I didn't expect him to turn in a good performance.The writing in this movie is excellent as it compliments Lawrence's comedy and DeVito's humor. The games set up by the writers were incredible fun to watch since each scene skillfully crafted.Also, the audience received a bonus when the writer added action and suspense. Though What's The Worst That Can Happen? succeeds mostly with comedy, it also entertains with action and suspense.I knew with scenes like Kevin's taunts to Max over his cell-phone while he was in a senate sub-committee, What's The Worst That Can Happen? will entertain every single person who buys a ticket for this movie. I could not ask for anything more from the writers of What's The Worst That Could Happen because watching this story play out is a thing of beauty.One solid guarantee I can make to potential viewers of this movie What's The Worst That Could Happen will leave you laughing until it hurts. Lawrence and DeVito are a lethal comedic team that fills the screen with laughter, suspense and action. What's The Worst That Can Happen? is one of the most entertaining films I've seen.I hope everyone gets the chance to see how great these two talents come together and create one of the funniest movies this year. "},{"Title":"touché'  being a detective of the arts is more than meets the eye","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This fabulous ring that the Afro-Americans keep chasing originally from the African heritage British accented woman. What makes this ring so fabulous. Any detective would surely suppose that an absolutely fabulous ring of this character could only be worth it's weight in gold. Somewhat like the rates in Squirrel Hill of Pittsburgh P.A., I would hope not. Of course a detective from Boston with a flair for the arts and knowledge of canines would surely assess the value fairly. Just as he would probably assess Russian speaking women of extraordinary rude and EVIL character in Squirrel Hill of Pittsburgh P.A. as equally fair. Unless this all powerful ring is connected with duty, honor, and country then it may be invaluable.Perhaps this is similar to the ring of Giges that makes the proverbial screen written words termed pros' more lethal when this ring is turned up-side down and inside out where nothing is beyond him who wears this ring to guide him. He would live in a world beyond your world, anything he wants he takes. Maybe the capturing of this ring or use is similar to the character of actor John Travolta in movie Swordfish.Only a flamboyant Boston detective of the arts could fairly say and judge these aspects of film and at the same time color coordinate his socks, shirts, and tie so eloquently. Of course if Russians and persons of African heritage blow each other into millions of pieces over such a ring who would care. Not I. "},{"Title":"Dislike it the first time? Watch it again.","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is (in my opinion) Martin Lawrence's best movie. Many say that it isn't very good, and the first time I watched it I would have said the same thing. I originally purchased it for the actors, not knowing how good it was. I was actually rather disappointed in it at first but I watched again because I didn't want my money to be a complete waste. The second time I saw it (and don't ask me why) but I found it much more enjoyable. By the time I had watched it for about my six viewing it had become one of my favorite comedies, and definitely my favorite Martin Lawrence or Danny Devito film. I have also suggested this show to my friend, and just like me they didn't like it at first. But now they are loving and quoting it so I know it is not just me.So, if you want a film to watch over and over again, get this one. But if you only want to see it once I don't think you should bother with it. "},{"Title":"Funny movie, very entertaining","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The best scene in this movie is when Devito is in Congress cussing his rear end off. I split my sides every time I've seen this movie. It's not gonna win an Academy award but its well worth watching.Martin Lawrence can be a bit over the top and some of the scenes in this movie are no exception, but he still has an entertaining way about him. Danny Devito is quite funny and his role in this is no exception. I just love the scene in congress. Laughing just thinking about it.I would love to see an actual Senator or Congressman break down like that, it would be a political death shot to any politician, but would be a godsend to all the late night TV shows like Leno and Letterman. "},{"Title":"Comedy, larceny & romance","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Very funny flick with likable thieves, wicked victims, and lots of smart silliness. A shady rich man catches a thief and the victim robs the burglar. Both men decide that the stolen ring is their own good luck charm, and a continuing vendetta brings on more robberies, cons and battles between DeVito and Lawrence. The romantic/sexy bits are light and keep the story moving along. Martin Lawrence and Carmen Ejogo are great together, and DeVito gets to carry on multiple affairs in divine comical studliness. The various cops, cohorts, lawyers, security consultants, psychic assistants, and the fence are all good fun, and the gay, dog-loving detective is just the cherry on top. The flavor of Donald Westlake's criminal farce comes shining through. "},{"Title":"Danny DeVito and Martin Lawrence are hilarious","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Danny DeVito and Martin Lawrence do excellent in this hilarious comedy.  Martin Lawrence plays a man who robs a rich guy's house (DeVito) and instead of him robbing, he gets robbed.  Now, he will stop at nothing to get the ring that DeVito stole from him.  To help him is hilarious John Leguizamo.  Also joining them is Bernie Mac and another guy.  This movie is very funny.  It shows how good DeVito and Lawrence are together.  Overall the movie is very funny and I recommend this to anybody who likes comedy.  I loved the courtroom broadcast.  That was hilarious.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was refreshingly funny, as Martin Lawrence and Danny De Vito give great comic performances. De Vito steals Lawrence's ring as the latter is caught burglarizing the former's house, and Lawrence spends the majority of the film trying to get it back.A funny film all around, and the scene where De Vito is testifying before a senate committee is not to be missed.*** out of **** "}{"Title":"Lobotomy's Anyone??","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"18 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When you think this movie can't get any worse. it does! It is riddled with poor acting on all levels, a moronic plot, terrible acting, a poorly written story line, really bad acting (did I mention that?). They even made Boston look clean..they must of used Industrial Light and Magic to get that special effect. Skip this movie and rent Plan 9 from Outer Space or even Ishtar, they are actually better.    "},{"Title":"Smart Point of View in a Movie Not That Smart !","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It takes a thief to catch a thief.. And it takes a thief to save a thief.. But the worst that could happen is to have small thieves unite with big thieves to trick the law..To the extent that the only cop to execute justice became the queer of this very world (!) according to its disturbed logic where all of its characters turned into robber, or robbed, or robber robbed in the same time..As the truthful theory of the movie (everybody steals in a way !).Although it's good moral for a comic movie and it was nice altogether but you would sense that it's all average in comparison with its talents or ideas. Moreover look at (Martin Lawrence), this role is maybe one of his best in years but he's doing whatever he wants, just remember the first intro of him; the word to describe it is  exaggeration. Not to mention that the scene of the courtroom wasn't that wonderful, how (Bernie Mac) was totally wasted, how (John Leguizamo) wasn't that funny as the sidekick, and how (Matthew Chapman) the scriptwriter of (Color of Night - 1994) and (Runaway Jury - 2003) wrote a comedy for (Lawrence) and (DeVito) ?? So I didn't like most of the dialogue nor the silly title which was bad luck before bad choice ! Still some things to love for instance  the dazzling presence of miss misfortune of Hollywood (Carmen Ejogo), some clever touches like the musical bits at (William Fichtner)'s appearances as the (Detective), and the originality of the story in the first place. But those elements couldn't manage to make a good movie about the kinds of thievery, or even that effective comedy through it. "},{"Title":"Is It Westlake?","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Right off the top, cards on the table I have yet to actually see this film, and am checking out this site to decide if I shall. But I am a huge fan of the Donald Westlake Dortmunder books, and of this title in particular. Reading the summaries, viewers' comments, and -- this is weird but telling-- the names and identities of the characters as they were changed for the film, I gotta say I'm in no hurry to see it. Okay, we all know you can't compare the book to the film, and yes, sometimes the film version is actually better (another topic for another venue). But all I can say is, read the book. This sounds as if the only thing remaining is the title and the very VERY basic plot premise. Lest it need to be said, I have no problem with making the Dortmunder character African-American, that might even work well with the carefully-developed quirks and personality of the original character, but this doesn't sound in any way like the original character.Yes, I may still watch it, and maybe since my expectations are so low I might even enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Not Martin Lawrence's best movie but entertaining.","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie, not one of my favorites but it was okay. This movie's about a thief Kevin Caffrey(Martin Lawrence) who attempts to rob a billion dollar mansion and in the progress of robbing, he gets robbed by the owner Max Fairbanks(Danny DeVito). He takes Kevin's ring by convincing the cops it's his. This movie was like I said entertaining. Not the Martin Lawrence in Nothing To Lose. I give this a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Light, fluffy and a bit of fun","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I read some of the reviews and it seems people either love it or hate it. Not really worthy of either of these extremes.  It's a nice little time-waster for a rainy day.  Quite a few laughs but nothing earth-shattering.  Glad I didn't pay $20 to see it in a theatre, but glad I watched it on TV. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had heard some patchy comments about this movie but it wasn't terrible. Yes it was stupid and slow in parts, but there were a few funny scenes and it was a clever idea. I was torn between a five and a six but gave it the benefit of the doubt. My vote 6/10 "},{"Title":"Martin Lawrence is OK....","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  just OK.  I don't really find him funny, but he's not boring either.  Nothing in this movie made me laugh out loud. But, it was amusing to think of a thief being robbed by his victim.  And this was one of the better roles Danny DeVito has done lately.FINAL VERDICT  I can't really recommend it unless you just like so-so comedies.  I'd imagine some 12 year old would probably find this movie funny, but I can't see too many adults really liking it. "},{"Title":"Whats the Worst Movie of 2001? Oh yeah, this one.","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After watching this movie, I felt as though two hours of my live was wasted in utter nonsense.  The movie's plot made no sense whatsoever.  The movie hints at a surprise ending, and the hints are rigght once its over, you'll be surprised that such a dumb movie was ever made. The movie was a waste of both DeVito and Lawrence's talents. To those who say the movie was hilarious and worth watching, I ask them if they were truly awake throughout the movie. Granted, there were a few funny jokes, but the stupidity of the plot outweighed all else.Do yourself a favor and skip this one, even if you can see it for free. The two hours you would have spent watching this movie would be better suited to do something else... anything at all. "},{"Title":"had a chance but poorly executed","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Lukewarm comedy has a talented cast but lacks good material to truly measure up to them. The story focuses on a cat and mouse game between a clever thief (Lawrence), and a crooked business tycoon (DeVito), who turn each other's lives upside down after the businessman robs the thief of his most prized possession his girlfriend's ring. A clever setup and a game cast create the potential for something really memorable, but they're no match for the film's uninspired script and sluggish direction which produce inconsistent laughs and self-conscious gags. Might have worked better had it not tried to cram so many characters and subplots into one movie. ** "},{"Title":"Truly is the worst!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This unfunny, silly, trivial movie moves at a snails pace, and is only good for one laugh. Danny Devito who is meant to be the bad guy in this movie is far more lovable than Martin Lawrence's awful character, and it is very uneven when you find yourself rooting for the 'bad' guy. This film rarely entertains, and with some of Lawrence's great film credits, it is a wonder why he appeared in this film. Devito is good as usual, but the script does neither actor justice.Watch it on a saturday night on tv, but don't rent it.  "}{"Title":"What's the Worst That Could Happen? This Movie","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What's the worst that could happen?  Knowing that a portion of my $4.06 I spent renting this movie will go back to its producers.The whole ring-based story was OK, but the actors did not work well together.  The only scene I laughed at was the senate scene when Danny DeVito was flipping out on television.  Do not see this movie if you can help it.   "},{"Title":"Don't Miss This Movie","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Funny- Is the one word I could use to describe this movie. I laughed all the way through! From the detective with the Bichon Frises to the height of Danny Devito's wife compared to him. This movie had everything I expected from a Danny Devito/Martin Lawrence Comedy. I saw it THREE times in the theatres. And I am buying it the day that it comes out on DVD. I can't wait! 10/10 Stars! BUY THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It was a great story, Then somebody said let's get stupid with it. The Tardio character was dumb! A spoiler is coming, what would attract a woman to this ilk? The hair thing, the dog thing, the clothes fit for a cheap pimp. This was a slap in the face to hard working, decent, police officers all over the nation. When will Hollywood learn that some things are just not funny. We're supposed to feel sorry for a thief? The private detective is a latent homosexual? Too much, not in good taste. I say save your money and go see the re-release of 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail' "},{"Title":"Another Great Comedy Movie","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I was going to see What's the Worst that could Happen I thought that it wasn't going to be that funny.Well I was wrong i found alot of humour in this movie.Martin Lawrence was great for the role.Danny Devito was hilarious.The story is about a petty thief named Kevin Gaffrey who one night breaks into a Rich man's house named Max Fairbanks.When Kevin is busted Max gets back at Kevin by stealing his ring that his girlfriend gave him.When you kind of think of it this movie isn't half bad.It's a fair movie though and I thought some parts in the movie wasn't funny.This movie gets *** out 5 stars "},{"Title":"This movie is not as good as I thought it was gonna be.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Danny DeVito is usually funnier. Martin Lawrence is usually more hilarious. It should've been a very funny movie.  A rich guy and a common thief at war over a ring sounded funnier than it was.  DeVito and Lawrence are a good comedy team, but I think the directing, and even the editing, messed this movie up.  It was pieced together in a way that made things just slightly hard to follow, and which detracted from the humor.  I'd say, see this movie on video.  I'm not saying it's a bad movie -- it had some good laughs -- but it's not as good as I'd hoped.  I voted a 6. "},{"Title":"Good, Not Great","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I expected to see a good, but not great, comedy starring two of my favorite funnymen, Martin Lawrence and Danny DeVito, and was not disappointed. While it could have been better, it was still enjoyable entertainment. If a 5 is average, this movie squeaks from a 6 to a 7 because I don't get to see John Leguizamo that often and was thrilled to see him onscreen. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Typical comedy that shines on occasion but does not hold your interest throughout.  Martin Lawrence is good, but is forced to do the clown a bit too much for my liking (I am not big on physical comedy).  Devito is at best one-dimensional, but blame it largely on the script.  Somewhat childish and over the top at parts, some good humor can still be found in this picture. The premise of the movie is good, albeit not fully and properly explored.To rent if bored... "},{"Title":"interesting but could have been better","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  typical martin lawrance film, interesting script. All of the actors performed quite well. Some of the jokes I did not get. The movie starts out slow and improves to the conclusion. If you are a fan of martin lawrance movies, Watch IT! othervise go and see John Leguizamo as he steals the show.Average film - 6 or 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The 'worst'","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the first Martin Lawrence movie that I hated. All of the laughs there were very few of them were included in the trailers, The plot runs kind of thin after a while, and the movie is too long. Please watch it when it comes to video. Trust me, it'll be one of the best decisions you've ever made in your life, but if you go see the movie then it will be one of the worst decisions you've ever made in your life. Before you rent it, be warned, it's the 'worst'. "},{"Title":"The movie that answers its own question.","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The premise of the movie is this Martin plays a thief who meets his match when a crooked billionaire(played by Danny Devito) steals his ring in a botched robbery attempt. Martin goes out of his way to get his ring back by making a fool of the billionaire.My opinion The movie is Saturday Night Live dull. Martin as well as Danny Devito(who should have known better than to go along with this tedious movie) are not funny. The effeminate cop was hilarious and that is about all the laughs you will get out of this dumb movie. I watched it when I was visiting a cousin who stayed in Trenton, New Jersey and regretted the day I was curious enough to see this wreck. The movie was about as dry as the Sahara desert and should be a shoe in for a razzie award. If this doesn't make your worst movie lists then I am at a loss for words. Have trouble sleeping? Watch this. It's literally visual tranquilizer. "}{"Title":"The opposite of funny......","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Martin Lawrence drags this supposed comedy right down to the mat. His mugging becomes tiresome, his character becomes annoying, and he just plain can't act. The rest of the cast, including normally reliable Bernie Mac, Danny DeVito and William Fichtner, struggle mightily with the cartoon-like script. The premise that a ring could initiate all this mayhem, is stupid to begin with. Tin Men was funny because the premise for the feud, a minor fender bender, was believable. Richard Dreyfus and Danny DeVito made that movie work. DeVito cannot carry this clunker by himself, and everything seems forced. Not funny. Not recommended. Skip this one. - MERK "},{"Title":"good for a few laughs","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this was a pretty good movie, Danny DeVito was very good as Max Fairbanks the billionaire bad guy. Martin Lawrence was actually pretty decent in this most of his movies aren't that great. What's the Worst That Could Happen was enjoyable, had a nice cast, and made me laugh, I felt it was a little better than the 5 rating it got on here. "},{"Title":"This movie is totally funny.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's actually hard to believe there are people who make fun of the people who liked this movie. Especially since the people who like this movie are the smart ones. The plot is original and the story is fresh. There are some very big laughs in this film and I was very impressed. I figured that since Martin Lawrence is in it and since BLUE STREAK was good, and since Danny DeVito is one of the funniest men alive, this has to be good...and yeah, I was right. WHAT'S THE WORST THAT COULD HAPPEN? Well, it's good that you asked, because not seeing this movie and not liking it is. You probably don't have a sense of humor if you don't like this film, so there you go. Granted, everyone has their own tastes, but if you are almost positive that you won't like this film, then are you that stupid that you're going to watch it anyway?Again, great movie. WHAT'S THE WORST THAT COULD HAPPEN? gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"This movie is the worst that could happen","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is a complete disaster. I mean, the jokes are not funny, the acting is terrible, and nothing, absolutely nothing makes sense. By the halfo of this movie, I just felt I couldn't go on. Unfortunately, I was watching it with some friends, so I had to watch it until the end. It was a torture. Can't believe there are actually some people who liked it. "},{"Title":"Funnier Than Expected","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I generally find Martin Lawrence too vulgar for my tastes, but this loose but mostly faithful adaptation of Westlake's novel is breezy and easy to take.  There are a lot of fun characterizations, a few silly, but most interesting. Carmen Egojo is a revelation as Lawrence's girlfriend. William Fichter is unforgettable as the detective who suspects De Vito of committing insurance fraud.  De Vito is funny as usual, and Nora Dunn is a standout as DeVito's wife.Lie back, relax, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Very few laughs for a comedy","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Could seeing this movie be the worst that could happen?  Unfortunately not, because there are worse ones out there.  That's not saying this flick was decent.very basic and slow moving..plus the casting of Martin and Danny didn't work.  A thief (Lawrence) gets his ring taken by a rich man (DeVito), and will go to any length to get it back.  D- "},{"Title":"The answer to the title is, Paying to see this!","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I gave this movie a ranking of 2.  I feel that a 2 is more degrading than a 1.  Any sap can give a movie a 1.  They likely only give 1s and 10s to movies anyway.  I gave it a contemplation and it earned a 2.  What made this movie so bad was that it was predictable, poorly acted, and about as funny as Bob Saget.  Danny DeVito should stick to directing films  "},{"Title":"Fair","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not a classic yet not all that bad.Martin was great and so was deVito.The cinematography and story was fair but the direction and screenplay was lacking.I had fun though becouse I liked the idea of the movie which illustrated the game of life and that we are all theives in some way or another no matter what class we belong to in society.They should have made the encounters between Martin and Danny more realistic and intense and they should not have rushed the ending too much like they did.I did not like the homosexual detective due to the character being out of place and the actor was bad.Not recomended for people who are only looking for slapstick and/or toilet humor only.This movie is both hip and smart so some brains must be used to appreciate it........        "},{"Title":"One bad movie.","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Wow. The hero is some expert thief who gets his ring stolen. He then spends the movie trying to get his ring back. That's pretty much the whole plot. I felt my I.Q. lowering as I watched the hero's zany attempts to retrieve his ring. The characters were ridiculous and apparently thieves have a little network because the hero calls for assistance from two other thieves. Not to mention that the hero meets a girl and almost immediately has her in bed despite the fact that she knows absolutely nothing about him. I think that it was supposed to be a comedy but I'm not sure seeing as I didn't laugh once. I found myself being offended time and time again and I'd be more entertained if I had watched Manos the Hands of fate. Don't waste your time and money on this film. "},{"Title":"Mediocre comedy.","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The basic idea is not bad, but it becomes monotonous. The script is busy, but unfunny. The characters are played by capable comedians, but they range from merely unlikable criminals to truly offensive stereotypes (low points each and every appearance of the gay detective, always accompanied by his own gay music theme). And this film is an almost complete dud. It became a laughing stock upon its release, because of its unfortunate title; sadly, this was the only way it managed to inspire any laughter in people.     (*1/2) "}{"Title":"What's the Worst Donald Westlake Adaptation Ever?","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not sure if this is the absolute worst, but it's certainly a slack piece of garbage.  The directing is leaden, the casting is weak (Dortmunder is supposed to be the single straight man amongst a group of freaks, not the king freak ringleader of a group of freaks), the music is ehhn, many of the events of the book are performed in truly weak fashion... it's like they bought the novel just for kicks and then threw it away and made a film based on a completely different book.But, if you like bad movies, this is definitely for you. "},{"Title":"This movie was the worst thing ever made!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Really bad movie! I never laughed once! Stupid story! Dumb plot lines and overall crapola! Avoid at all costs! Rent Blue Streak if you like Martin Lawrence. Watch Throw Momma From The Train if you like Danny Devito. This was utter trash! "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, it wasn't a complete waste of time, but almost. This was a completely forgettable movie except for things that bugged me. For instance, what was Martin Lawrence or his make-up artist thinking?? He looked like a putty-faced doll that sometimes was tinged with green. The movie was fraught with continuity problems (ie Danny De Vito takes off his wedding ring and in the very next camera cut it is back on his finger). The climax of the movie does some sort of quantum leap and the audience is left behind saying, Huh?. There were a couple of places in the movie that I actually laughed out loud, but I can't for the life of me remember what they were. I guess I'm tired right now. It's late and this isn't my best writing effort, but I am coherent enough to tell you - don't waste your time or money! "},{"Title":"The worst that can happen is that you see this flick","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What's the Worst That Could Happen is clealry one of the worst flicks of the year. The direction is tepid and the script is by the numbers. Martin Lawerence has made another terrible movie. I don't understand how a talented actor can make two bad movies in one year, but below and behold he 's done it. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"What Were They Thinking????","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It is hard to start my comment on What's The Worst That Could Happen?? As the title suggests this film is full with question marks? The film is about Kevin, a professional thief, and Max Fairbanks, a multimillionaire. Kevin breaks into Max's château, but is caught red handed. He also has to give his lucky ring to Max as he says that it belongs to him to the police. Now, Kevin's aim is to get his ring back. Because, it was given to him by his girl friend. Unbelievably, she gives the ring to him in the very first day they meet. Why is this absurd you may ask? Well, because her father gives the ring to her for good luck. She must be hating her father then! As if this is not enough, he also tells her that he is a thief and making his living by robbing people. The girl is absolutely fine with it. Well, I don't know but if there is a survey, only less than 1% of women would be that brave to fall for him, ESPECIALLY, at the first date. Well, film is full with that sort of nonsense. Such a shame that John Leguziamo and Danny DeVito get a negative mark on their CV, for Martin Lawrence, it is quite okay as his CV is not that brilliant for me. The film was supposed to be a comedy but I don't recall myself even smiling. Such a waste of money!! From now, what's the worst that could happen?? Making a sequel of it!!! * out of ***** "},{"Title":"The Hollywood Talent Filtration System strikes again!","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Westlake Dortmunder novels are generally brilliant. So why can't anyone film it right? The Hot Rock came closer but still didn't gel for me - Redford as Dortmunder? This time, the whole thing was a mess. Once the movie rights were sold, it seems that everyone involved did their level best to sabotage it until only the premise was left -and the title. Shame, too. Now some people who were subjected to the film might avoid the book. READ THE BOOK! Mr Westlake should sue to have it retitled and an apology should crawl across the screen anytime it airs. No, on second thought, it should be banned and a forcible recall issued. Anyone who has bought a copy should be required to return it to the manufacturer, non-compliance punishable by fines.Yeah, I hated it.That much. "},{"Title":"The answer is the obvious...","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's always dangerous to give a movie a title like this, because some critic out there is inevitably going to go for the cheap shot of This!  This could be the worst that could happen, no matter how good or bad the film really is.  In this case, though, if you're a critic, don't be afraid to use the line.  You will not be alone.  I have to admit I didn't see the entire movie.  Nor did the several other people who walked out after us (it only takes one person to open the flood gates).  It definitely makes you wonder if the critics who are quoted in the ads ever saw this film, or just the money they were paid to fawn all over it.  Martin Lawrence is horribly miscast, and does bits that would have been rejected by Paulie Shore as too tired and stupid in a clear attempt to give the film some comedy.  Something which the script totally lacks.  Danny Devito does his best, but though he's not miscast, he's obviously cast.  Maybe it would have been funnier had Devito and Lawrence switched roles?  No, it wouldn't, because you've still got that pesky detail of the script. One last thing.  Were I African-American (or Latino), I'd find the film beyond unfunny into offensive.  In the reality of this film, anyone of color is also obviously a thief or con-man.  Even the highly educated beautiful young Black woman doesn't skip a beat when she finds out her new paramour is a thief.  If you're a friend of Kevin's, she quips later to John Leguizamo, I know you work nights.So let me just say... This.  This is the worst that could happen.   "},{"Title":"Hackneyed sitcom material","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Martin Lawrence has talent.  Danny DeVito has talent.  John Leguizamo has talent.  Bernie Mac has talent.  And where did all this talent go? Absolutely freakin' nowhere!!!What's the worst that could happen?  Write a silly, meaningless script that's not even worthy of receiving the green light as a sitcom pilot and throw in all this great talent to the filmmakers' disposal.  The only scene where I recall laughing is the opening where Martin is speaking to a woman at the auction house, and says that the painting on the wall is as fake as her glasses.  For the rest of the movie, I chuckled, but even chuckles were few and far between.Why did Danny DeVito, who we all loved as Louie DePalma on Taxi, even consider starring in this clunker?  All he does is ape around, struggling to hide his embarrassment of being in the movie in the first place.  As for Lawrence, he's forced to succumb to the same lame schtick he did in Blue Streak--another so-called comedy with a terrible script.  Since there's no funny material, he tries to make the audience laugh with stupid, over-the-top antics.  Bernie Mac has one funny line, which was given away in the trailers, but I still found funny.  Bernie's a great comic with great potential who simply has to find the right outlet.  He hasn't been in too many movies, and if he ever decides to commit himself to a career in film, this is not the way to do it.There's so many other talents that I failed to mention  Larry Miller, Glenne Headly, Ana Gasteyer, William Fichtner.  Speaking of good ol' Bill Fichtner, who thought his character--the flamboyant detective dressed like Crockett from Miami Vice--would be funny?  Crazy, it is.  But funny--not! And who thought that scene where Martin Lawrence and John Leguizamo pretend to be Arabs--talking in a gibberish dialect--would be funny?  This movie tries and tries and tries to be quirky, but it never succeeds in the comedy department.I have to say, that chick who played Martin's love interest is really, really hot!  I hope to see her in more movies!  Also that chick who plays DeVito's mistress.I was totally bored during the majority of this flat, lamebrained comedy and I hope every actor in the cast regret making this crappy movie and cross it off their resumes.  I'd love to see DeVito and Lawrence is a movie together--I think they have great potential as a comedy team--but make sure the script is FUNNY!My score  3 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"A dud","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This lackluster comedy simply fails to deliver sufficient laughs per hour to justify spending the time to watch it.  Martin Lawrence, who is normally a funny guy, just isn't on his game in this flick.  Danny DeVito is better, but the material doesn't give him much with which to work. There is a lot of talent wasted on stereotype bits that are more insulting than comical.  William Fichtner's flamingly effeminate detective would only be funny to homophobes.  John Leguizamo's Arab imitation is less humorous now than it might have been before September 11.The only really funny bit in the film is a strictly visual gag by Stephanie Clayman as the sign language interpreter.  Without virtue of a solitary line of dialogue, she single handedly produces all the most hilarious moments in the film.This film is a dud.  I rated it 3/10.  Martin Lawrence fans are likely to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not funny","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the second movie in my life that I've walked out on!  DeVito was good, Lawrence and script rotten.  What is so funny about a thief portrayed as the hero and a businessman a bad guy?  Since I work for a businessman and have been the victim of a thief, I reject the message. It was a complete waste of money (which I earned from a businessman). "}{"Title":"I know","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The worst that could happen is when you are forced to see this bad movie again. Stay away the first time... Danny deVito is not so funny this time. Martin Lawrence will never be. "},{"Title":"The best movie of all time","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What's the Worst That Could Happen is the best movie of all time!  I recently bought the video cassette and now addicted to it!  I have never seen as much hilarity as I have w/other Martin Lawrence movies!  The plot is as interesting as it gets!  What more could I say? "}]