[{"Title":"Scary, spooky, in a way that reminds me of days gone by.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"81 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Oh man!! What a fun movie! Without giving too much away, it's a ghost movie. The plot wasn't anything to write home about, it's been done about 100 times before, but it was just done better than it has been in recent memory. Seems that movies try to over-do everything lately with special effects, gore, music and violence. Not here... I kept thinking that they had taken a step back and returned to what makes movies spooky. It's not a computer generated demon, or a high intensity soundtrack; it's a creaky door, it's a reflection in the glass, it's that feeling when you know you just pushed that chair in a minute ago and now it's away from the table again. That's what makes people uneasy, that's what makes them check their closets and sleep with the hall light on when they go home.The most notable difference in the movie was the silence. I'd guess that about 50% of the movie was completely silent except for breathing, footsteps, creaking doors... wonderful. Seems that lately the powers-that-be just have to fit every second of the soundtrack into the movie (seems they should since now-a-days there's commercials for the soundtrack separate from the movie in many cases) in order to boost the spooky level... it rarely works. The silence in the movie just added to that tension in your shoulders and made you slowly edge up on your seat.If I had to pick anything to complain about, it'd be the weak foreshadowing of two events, I don't want to give anything away, but you'll know when you see it. It's like they gave up on trying to write them into the plot. They may as well have put a subtitle on the screen (or a Pop Up Video bubble) that told you that what they were saying was important. For my wife and I, it gave a bit away about how the movie was likely to end.Michelle Pfeiffer was really good, I'd guess she was in almost every single shot in the film, so anything but a great performance would have shown. I'm not normally one to judge actors performances, but there's some credit to be given to someone who can act that scared using only her eyes. I wouldn't be surprised if she gets a nod at the academy for this one. "},{"Title":"Ebert and Roeper are sorely misguided with their dislike for this film...","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"82 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It is interesting to revisit the archived reviews available at EbertandRoeper.tv and listen  to their comments regarding this film and their perception of its ability to frighten, its  technical construction, and its characters' success in aiding the narrative.  Each of the  respective critics dislike What Lies Beneath in both its construction (camerawork and  plot development) and its effectiveness in creating suspense.  While this movie is  enjoyable regardless of whether it was viewed on opening weekend or whether it is the  third or fourth viewing on television, it is more understandable that Ebert and Roeper  had some issues with the film during its theatrical release (whether they have altered  their views upon its DVD release, I do not know).  The true beauty of this film is the  manner in which it holds up over time and how it DOES splice all of the great filmmaking  techniques together into a nice homage to classic suspense films.The plot, including the incremental revelations of paranormal activities within the newly  gone-off-to-college childless home of Pfeiffer and Ford, is not really what drives this  movie.  Ebert and Roeper complained in their critiques that there are too many red  herrings that serve no purpose but to mislead the audience; thus, when they are  exposed as mere ruses, much of their existence within the film is superfluous.  But that  is the fun of the movie.  That is the fun of many classic suspense films, even numerous  Hitchcock films.  There are situations that are added because they lend a hand in the  build-up fear, not the characters' fears, but the viewers' fears.  In Psycho, the image of  the cop's face outside Leigh's car window, masked by sunglasses, expressionless, and  looming over the camera is scary to viewers.  Yes it fits into the script because she is  frightened as a result of her thievery.  But ultimately, it is the viewers' own fear of cops'  intimidation tactics that makes the scene effective.  In What Lies Beneath, hearing cries  of distress through a fence that offers no real visibility of the cause of such pangs is  very similar.  Who cares if it is mainly a device to build uneasiness?To be fair, Ebert and Roeper really seemed more irritated that too much of the plot and  its elements of mystery were revealed in the marketing of the film .  The true cause of  the haunting that Pfeiffer's characters is terrorized by was apparently revealed rather  blatantly in the trailers and television spots used to promote the film.  Therefore, Ebert  and Roeper seemed more angry that they were not even given the chance to enjoy the  unfolding of the plot and the subsequent suspense.  However, it is only know that their  argument seems to be more fallacious in its use of logic.  I understand that each person  has a reaction to a film based on the uniqueness of their own likes, dislikes, and  inclinations to genre, but there is an established set of framing techniques, camera  movements, and lighting designs that reliably cause an emotional reaction by the  viewers.  It is very hard to find Ebert and Roeper's critiques impervious to default when  this film does not tend to lose much of its emotional effects upon repeat viewings.To elaborate, the unknown ghost, its motivation, and its history and relevance to Claire  (Pfieffer) are plot points for the basic construction of a three act narrative; and, a three  act narrative is a contrivance proved to be effective for the assimilation of information  by means of tapping into the inherent way humans use logic to invent concepts from  raw data (if a, then b, and if b, then c therefore if a, then c).  Subsequently, the artist  now has a template on which to attach the expressions of humanity that create the  emotional impact of the film (or play, etc.).  In a sense, the structure of What Lies  Beneath is very simple and only attempts to create a large enough template to succeed  in allowing the viewer to follow the basic arc of the narrative.  The strength of the film  exists in the the technical construction and how precisely orchestrated it is to get the  most emotional impact from the various moments in the film.  Watching the film for the  third or fourth time, the plot isn't new or exciting, the characters aren't complex, yet the  film is still suspenseful.  It is not the unfolding of the story creating all the suspense;  rather, it is Zemeckis's camera use, his choices for sound and light design, and his  ability to precisely coordinate a myriad of elements that enables the film to work as a  whole.  This is not a film that would survive on its script.  This is not a film that would  survive by its stars alone.  This film succeeds because of the choices in direction.Finally, to counter Ebert and Roeper's unsound critiques of this film, attention should be  paid to their mention of films that they found parallel to What Lies Beneath, whether  thematic or visually reminiscent in some way.  Roeper states that the movie has too  many cliches and that the ending is reminiscent of Carrie, Cape Fear, and even Gone  with the Wind.  On the other side of the aisle, Ebert compares the film to Ghostbusters  because of moments he found comedic that were not intended to be so (although I don't  find any scene unintentionally comedic).  The odd aspect of their critiques is the  absence of any mention of the numerous shots Zemeckis directly lifted from several of  Welles' films and a litany of shot selections that pay homage to Hitchcock.  While this  movie isn't groundbreaking, it is a great exercise in technique that results in a fun,  effective film. "},{"Title":"The creepiest film in many years.","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"77 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I sat down to watch this film with basically no pre-conceived notions concerning its plotline (or quality, for that matter.) A little over two hours later, I was still shivering and shaking. Robert Zemeckis has taken what is undoubtedly a good (though maybe somewhat predictable) screenplay, and has lifted it to the level of Hitchcockian genius. My eyes bugged out, my skin crawled, my breath got short, and I couldn't have torn myself away even if the Publisher's Clearing House Prize Patrol was at my door.Along with a great story and masterful directing, this movie features the superb performance of Michelle Pfeiffer. Ambivalent about her acting skills in the past, I am now a full-fledged Pfeiffer fan. Harrison Ford is certainly adequate, and this role is a refreshing change for him, but Michelle steals the show.Good ghost stories are few and far between. Even Stir Of Echoes and The Sixth Sense, fine films that they are, don't compare to the perfect blend of soundtrack, plot twists, camerawork and performance that make up What Lies Beneath. If goosebumps are your thing, don't miss this one.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good and creepy horror/mystery.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"49 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I went to the cinema to watch this movie,I expected it to be another big-budget Hollywood garbage.After the seance I was pleasantly surprised.I saw Scream 3 some days ago and that movie wasn't nowhere near as scary as What Lies Beneath.Great performances by Michelle Pfeiffer(she looks really gorgeous in this one)and Harrison Ford.The climax is absolutely terrifying(especially the bathtub sequence).Plenty of suspense and shocks,wonderful atmosphere of dread and fear.Finally after never-ending strain of lame slasher flicks a truly suspenseful movie.Check it out if you dare.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Solidly creepy chiller","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A good old-fashioned scary movie, avoiding irony and self-referentialism at every turn, this film relies on a nice premise and some well-executed creepy atmosphere for its impact. Pfeiffer and Ford work well together as a middle-aged couple, with Pfeiffer particularly effective as the homey (though obviously ridiculously beautiful) mother left alone when her daughter heads off to college, working herself up into a panic at various, vaguely spooky goings-on around the place. The film plays its cards close to its chest throughout, working the old game of keeping the audience guessing for a good while ? is there really something supernatural going on, is it some kind of creepy but human plot, or is it all in her head? Of course it's all revealed in the end, in a solidly scary, thrilling and well-executed finale. A classic it ain't, but it has a kind of workmanlike, reliable quality oozing out of every scene.  "},{"Title":"A Good Thriller","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"39 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Unlike most movies that are supposed to be scary, or suspenseful, this one actually pulls it off. I'm not saying you'll lose any sleep over this movie, but it definitely has parts where you'll jump or at least get startled perhaps.  Many critics felt this movie was predictable, but I disagree, and even though the story is nothing groundbreaking, it still has some originality.  Great acting from Harrison Ford and Michelle Phiffer really make this movie what it is...A good thriller.  They convey the feelings very well. Robert Zemeckis is also a great director and the angles he uses in this film help give it that extra mysteriousness. The movie is also driven by its great soundtrack, reminiscant of Psycho-esque music. The movie is not exactly scary, but it is a little freaky.  I enjoyed this movie a lot and its really worth the rental and if you can watch these kinds of movies over and over again and enjoy them, then its worth the purchase. "},{"Title":"What lies beneath? A smarter movie struggling to get out...","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Robert Zemeckis' homage to Hitchcock (funny how we always say 'homage' and not 'plagiarism') concerns a married couple, their spooky new house, a suspicious neighbor...and enough red herrings to weigh down any commercially-viable product. Still, I was hooked for about a third of the way (once the wife supernaturally took on the persona of a missing woman and seduced her husband with a little licking and biting, I began losing faith). By the finale, so many gimmicks are being thrown at the screen, it just becomes an upscale B-flick. All the inconsistencies aside, one has to applaud Michelle Pfeiffer for her gratifying performance; even though the entire subplot about Pfeiffer's neighbor leads nowhere, she is very appealing walking up to the man in public and calling him a murdering son-of-a-b*tch. Harrison Ford is fairly solid as well, until the last act which leaves both he and Michelle completely rudderless. That's when the filmmakers go overboard and sink this suspense-thriller in a sea of slick desperation. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A classic thriller","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer star in this chilling film full of twists, suspense and deceit. Directed by award-winning Robert Zemeckis, What Lies Beneath tells the terrifying story of a husband's dreadful secret that should have remained in the past.Set in a modern day country town, during autumn, sets the very eerie scene for where the apparently, happily married couple Claire Spencer (Pfeiffer) and Norman Spencer (Ford) encounter paranormal illusions and the truth about Norman's affair with a younger woman whom he murdered.Zemeckis has done very well in making the movie a classic thriller, as well as keeping the audience in suspense. He has done this with the use of the very many clichés of a thriller. He heightens the tensions throughout the movie by gradually lowering the camera, creating a very claustrophobic atmosphere which works in harmony with the terrifying, jumpy music.The acting in the movie is of the highest quality and Pfeiffer is admired for her superb performance, which creates a strong sense of vulnerability to the role and entices the audience. The casting of Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford as a married couple is very convincing and genuinely believable.What Lies Beneath is a very frightening and scary movie with all the traits of a classic thriller. With the excellent casting of Pfeiffer and Ford, along with Zemeckis's excellent techniques of terrifying the audience, it is truly a great film.  "},{"Title":"Suspense is what lies beneath","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the most suspenseful thriller I have seen in the past year. As a refreshing change to more formulaic chillers, WLB takes its time to build the suspense. It is allowed to do this by virtue of Harrison Ford, and, especially, Michelle Pfeiffer, who, I feel, deserved an Oscar nomination for her convincing portrayal of a happy, but suddenly lonely, wife. It is just about as Hitchcockian as you can get, and I rate the bath sequence as gripping (pardon the pun) as taking a shower at the Bates Motel. The plot is thin and the action is played out sedately. Yet it seems perfectly timed in setting the mood of the whole piece. I particularly liked the music,and the supporting actress Diana Scarwid, whose lighthearted attitude during the seance scene made it all the more chilling. A perfect example of good film-making with only a slight plot. I am sure this movie will mature with age until it is rightfully regarded as a modern classic. Count the number of times you jump! "},{"Title":"Totally Brilliant and Full of Suspence","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"28 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is a great movie. Its a horror movie which has less gore and more screams which works very effectively. The plot goes along at a steady un nerving pace which is great.  The references to some movies are so obvious and the music at the end was used in Psycho. This is one of the best horror movies i have seen in quite a while. If you dont see it you must see it or rent the video or better still...buy it. It really is great and faultless. Harrison Ford and Michelle Phieffer are a great on screen couple and they couldnt have got a better couple to appear. 10/10If you like this tryPsychoThe HauntingHouse on Haunted Hill "}{"Title":"Possibly One Of The Top 10 Scariest Movies I Have Ever Seen...","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *Warning Some Major Spoilers*What Lies Beneath had a brief trailer and I hadn't heard much about it, so, when I went to see it, I was a bit unsure about what I was about to see. Fortunately, I largely enjoyed myself in this mysterious horror film.The film opens with Norman and Claire Spencer (played to perfection by Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfieffer) sending Claire's daughter away to college. Claire fears being alone in the house, but soon grows to the idea because she feels she will have her life back again. One day, while sitting on her terrace, she hears a woman crying next door, and upon investigation of the events of her new neighbors, she begins to wonder if the husband has killed his wife. Meanwhile, in her own house, strange occurrences, such as breaking pictures, opening doors and whispering voices lead her to believe that a ghost, possibly her dead neighbor, is trying to contact her. Claire soon discovers that all she thinks has happened is not at all true, with her neighbour very much alive and happy again. But the apparitions still permeate throughout the house, filling bathtubs and turning off lights. As Claire begins to dig into who is trying to contact her, she discovers that her husband had an affair with a young woman. Claire confronts Norman about the woman, and he tells her that the girl committed suicide when he tried breaking off the relationship. But that is not the end of Claire's journey, for she will soon discover that even the perfect husband has flaws.The acting is near perfection, Michelle Pfeiffer deserves an Academy Award for her brilliant and masterful performance, but Harrison Ford surprisingly takes a back seat for most of the film, until the last 30 minutes, where his character really breaks out into something evil, Claire discovers why Norman has been trying to keep his secret for so long. The direction is very satisfying, Zemeckis builds up so much tension, What Lies Beneath is one of the only films I have ever screamed in. Two really scary parts are the binocular scene and the horrifying bath-tub sequence.A film not to be missed, What Lies Beneath is possibly one of the scariest movies of our time. And a cracker mystery...I rate What Lies Beneath 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"these damn phones...","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (SPOILERS)It's him, i know it's him! It has to be him! Wait... what if he dialed some other number? Claire thinks... She goes for the phone, presses Redial and..... Dammit, dammit, dammit! These modern day phones again! If this movie would've been made in the 60s this scene would've been useless, Norman thinks...  ehhh well let's start all over again.What Lies Beneath is a very well done tensed thriller. And if you watch it at night, in complete darkness and very attentively, getting involved in the action, it's impossible not to become really scared at some points. I certainly did.Claire and Norman form a happily married couple. Their daughter just left to college and now it's just them in a huge modern house. Well almost just them... The problems start when Claire starts hearing and seing things, and gets convinced that the house is haunted.Robert Zemeckis does a very good job creating a well balanced tensed thriller. The plot is well contured and grows logically, the characters are powerful, the scenes are very tensed and sometimes spooky, the actors play great. Especially Michelle Pfeiffer - am i out of line if i think that after this performance Michelle would definetely deserve an Oscar? Well she does.Well with so many good points, what's wrong with the movie? Why does it have an average of only 6,9? Why did i give it only a 7? Because of its lack of originality. During the whole film you have the feeling of seing a new Hitchcock movie. Well it's not Alfred Hitchcock, it's Robert Zemeckis, or more like... Al-bert Zemetchcock. The same tensed situations, of a rich guy living in a huge house, the same scenes with creaking doors and reflections in the mirror, the same many bathroom scenes, but this time the accent is not on the shower, but on the bath tub. This is related to Psycho. But it's not only this. The same haunted house story that we've seen many times. The same revenging ghost, the same situations with woman seing things and his husband doesn't believe her, the same (many) situations in which you are extremely scared and it turns out to be the dog, the same resurrection of the bad guy, who wakes up a few times before totally dying.In conclusion, a movie that's worth to be watched. Alone, in the dark. Just like Psycho. Otherwise you won't get scared. And without getting scared, it's no point in watching it.ORIGINALITY 4, PLOT 6, CHARACTERS 8, ACTORS 10 (Michelle is fabulous), DIRECTOR 8, OVERALL 8. TOTAL 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Well-crafted, suspenseful movie with fine acting","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was a well-crafted thriller in the Hitchcock style; I really wish I had not seen any of the trailers prior to viewing this movie, because some of the suspense that would normally have built up during the first hour was spoiled by knowledge gained from the trailer.  To be fair, the trailer doesn't spoil everything (thank goodness), but it spoils enough to make the first hour seem a little slow in the build-up.Michelle Pfeiffer is terrific in her role of the housewife and mother now facing an empty nest, as her daughter heads off to college.  Robert Zemeckis does a fine job of building suspense and keeping the audience just a little off-balance (in spite of the spoilers in the trailers); in combination with Pfeiffer's acting, one is never quite sure whether Claire Spencer is deranged, possessed, or calculating.  While Harrison Ford does his usual fine job of acting, as the obsessive, genius husband living in the shadow of his super-genius father, it is Pfeiffer who, of the two, has the most screen time and who therefore carries the film.My only other complaint (besides the spoilers in the trailers) has to do with a minor bit of casting. While I think Wendy Crewson is a fine actress, I have to question casting her as the wife of one of Dr. Spencer's colleagues, given that she so recently appeared as Harrison Ford's wife in Air Force One... seeing Ford and Crewson together on screen again was a distraction that brought me out of the film, at a point when I should have been getting more absorbed into the film.  But it is a minor point.Overall, the movie kept me in suspense virtually throughout it's entirety, and the final 30 minutes were gripping.  At several points toward the end, I thought for sure I knew what was going to happen, only to be surprised by a sudden twist or unexpected turn.  And, the film does have its humorous moments as well; Diane Scarwid helps to lighten things up as Claire's somewhat ditzy friend Jody, and Zemeckis has some fun with some of the backdrops in the quaint New England towns (a Vermont town named Adamant?  And the name of the curio shop is The Sleeping Dog, as in Let sleeping dogs lie.)Rating 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Well worked ghost story.","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath is set in Vermont where Claire (Michelle Pfieffer) & Norman Spencer (Harrison Ford) live in a lakeside house, after their daughter Caitlin (Katharine Towne) goes to college & Norman becomes obsessed with his job Claire is left home alone. Claire becomes convinced that the woman next door has been murdered & that her spirit is haunting her house tyring to communicate with her, but the woman turns up safe & well. Claire continues to hear things & strange occurrence's happen which lead her to believe the house is haunted, but by who & what do they want...Produced & directed by Robert Zemeckis this supernatural ghost story has a touch of psychological thriller about it too & is a well crafted old fashioned spooky tale of dark secrets from the past coming back to hunt the present. The script by Clark Gregg is apparently a remake of the Alfred Hitchcock Presents episode Mr. Blanchard's Secret (1956) & is a coolly effective supernatural thriller, it takes itself extremely seriously but as a whole it works & succeeds at what it sets out to do. At over two hours in length it is a long film but while watching it it didn't feel that long which is always a good sign, the story is absorbing & gripping as it starts off a lot like Rear Window (1954) but it turns out to be a huge red herring & it ends like some sort of horror themed Fatal Attraction (1987). This is the kind of film where every bit of seemingly useless exposition comes together at the end & is used, from the moment we know that the phones don't work on the bridge you just know it's going to be used somewhere & the explanation by the two scientists about the paralysing drug which stands out at the time as being extraneous is also put to good use before the film finishes. If you have the patience to stick with it, not be put off by a slightly sedate pace then What Lies Beneath is a really good supernatural thriller.Director Zemeckis made What Lies Beneath while production on another one of his films Cast Away (2000) starring Tom Hanks was shut down so Hanks could lose weight, that in itself seems a bit odd really as I would have thought you needed to give a film all your attention rather than just making one to pass the time. Anyway it didn't do the film any harm in the long run as it's very good, the film is very stylish too with a muted colour scheme that gives everything a dark, eerie overcast look & feel about it. There are plenty of jump out of your seat moments, Zemeckis uses every trick & cliché in the horror film book with people & dogs leaping into the frame unexpectedly, loud music playing when you least expect it although it also has some nice modern CGI computer effects too. The main difference here compared to lots of other horror films is that Zemeckis knows how to make the clichés work & turns in a highly effective film. The one stand out sequence is when Pfieffer is paralysed in the bath as it slowly fills with water, it's one of the most tension filled & suspenseful scenes I can remember seeing in a modern horror flick.With a supposed budget of about $90,000,000 one has to say that sounds like a hell of a lot of money for a film where not that much actually happens, it takes place almost entirely within one house with minimal effects & a small cast. Making near $30,000,000 on it's opening weekend alone I think I'm right in saying this was a big success & does prove modern audiences can sit & watch a two plus hour film which is mostly exposition based if it's done properly. The acting is very strong from the cast.What Lies Beneath is a a old school slow moving but involving supernatural horror thriller ghost story that I enjoyed a lot, I can see a lot of people being bored by it but as far as I'm concerned it's their loss. "},{"Title":"What Lies Beneath This is a Passive/Aggressive Masterpiece","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Claire and Norman Spencer have a perfect marriage. Being happily married and raising Claire's college-bound daughter Caitlin makes them seem like a perfect couple in their quaint lakeside Vermont community. When Caitlin leaves, however, Claire starts experiencing strange phenomena that continually increase in intensity. What starts out as creaky floors and toppling pictures soon evolves into ghostly apparitions in the bathroom and paranormal attacks against Claire. Is Claire really under attack by a ghost? Or is she, as Norman fears, just completely crazy? Zemeckis' foray into the thriller genre resulted in a great combination mystery/horror film. What Lies Beneath, despite what the critics may have said, is a scary film. Director Robert Zemeckis isn't afraid to let tension build for close to an hour before giving us the first genuine jump-out-of-your-seat moment and, when it's as good a jump as this one is, it's worth the wait. In fact there are several jump scares in the film and they really are frightening. What Lies Beneath nearly had me hitting the ceiling with some of the scares it provides. That means Zemeckis did something right.Robert Zemeckis always wanted to make a Hitchcockian thriller, and for the most part What Lies Beneath is just that. Zemeckis even makes sure to throw some Hitchcock references (Psycho, Rear Window) into the film as an homage to his inspiration. There are some excellent shots in this film that would make Hitchcock proud. The use of glass floors, for example, to let us get up close and personal with dropped objects or fallen characters is used effectively and just enough so that we don't get too much of a good thing. Zemeckis' choice of houses is also extremely Hitchcockian. It's a beautiful lakeside estate during the day, but at night it's like a monster looming in the distance shadowy and imposing.The only un-Hitchcockian aspect of the film is Zemeckis' use of CGI to obtain some shots. Not that I'm saying they're bad shots, they certainly are not that, but Hitchcock would find a way to do them without digital trickery were he alive today. Then again, Hitchcock was an unparalleled genius when it came to trick shots like moving a camera through a solid wall or floor. Zemeckis pulls off these kinds of shots in his own way, and they're still great.A Zemeckis trademark is his ability to get great performances out of his cast, and What Lies Beneath is no exception. Michelle Pfeiffer is allowed to go completely bonkers in what should have been an Oscar nominated performance. Pfeiffer makes herself seem truly frightened, and she portrays Claire's mental breakdown very well. Harrison Ford is kept subdued and nearly monotone throughout most of the film, providing great surprises later on when his true emotions burst to the surface. I could imagine an Oscar nod for him too. Man, where was the Academy that year? The two personalities, one unbridled and afraid, the other disbelieving and confused, play off one another perfectly to create an aspect of marital discord that adds wonderfully to the film's complexity.With plenty of twists and turns (which I dare not reveal) to keep you guessing to the end, great acting, virtuoso camera work, and some truly frightening moments, What Lies Beneath is a thriller that ranks with some of the best of them. This is another film that Robert Zemeckis can be proud of. "},{"Title":"Not intense, but a thriller, nonetheless!","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to the theatre with a girlfriend to see this movie.  We both thoroughly enjoyed all of it.  I am a Harrison Ford fan, and to see him play such a bad guy was exciting.....I love to see actors portray a range of characters during their career, it shows just how talented they really are. I thought that the plot was realistic, that's what made it so scary for us. We've all heard ghost stories from family and friends.....this movie just brought it home.  And it goes to show, Nothing is as it seems.  There were two things I didn't like about the movie......one was that we never got to see the neighbors again, whatever happened to them?  The other was the fog rolling out under the bathroom door.....that was a bit much.  But did add to the scene where she had to clear the mirror and jumped when she saw another reflection.  All in all, I loved it.  I even rented it on DVD for my husband to watch.  He told me that that was a freaky movie you rented.....and it takes a lot for him to say something like that. "},{"Title":"Claire And Present Danger","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Robert Zemeckis, by dint of such phenomenally popular films as Romancing the Stone, Who Framed Roger Rabbit?, the Back to the Future trilogy, Death Becomes Her, Forrest Gump and Contact, was already a highly successful Hollywood director when, along with producers Steve Starkey and Jack Rapke, he formed the ImageMovers production company in 1998. As the company's first project, Zemeckis chose screenwriter Clark Gregg's What Lies Beneath, a modern-day ghost story that, the director told his crew, he wished to bring to the screen as Alfred Hitchcock might have done, IF the Master of Suspense had had access to modern FX technology and computer graphics. (Never mind that none of Hitchcock's 54 films dealt with ghosts or the supernatural per se.) Filmed largely in the Lake Champlain region of Vermont, near Addison, during a hiatus from shooting Cast Away, the resultant picture, released in July 2000, was still another significant feather in Zemeckis' already crowded hat, and, like those other films named, features impressive yet subtly integrated FX to complement a highly intriguing story. As both a horror film and an exercise in suspense, What Lies Beneath must be deemed a complete success.In the picture, we meet an attractive, middle-aged couple, Norman and Claire Spencer, and indeed, as portrayed by Hollywood icons Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, the Spencers might be one of the handsomest couples in the history of the horror film! Living as they do in a beautiful home overlooking a Vermont lake, the professional couple (Norman is a renowned geneticist; Claire, a retired cellist), although their only daughter has just left for college, would seem to have an enviable marriage. But before very long, weird occurrences begin in the newly empty nest. Strange noises and whisperings, a broken picture frame, spectral reflections in the surface of the lake and (in perhaps the film's single scariest scene) bathtub water, all serve to convince Claire that the ghost of a young woman is haunting her abode...possibly the ghost of her new next-door neighbor, who Claire believes has been killed by her husband. But, as it turns out, the truth is considerably more complex, and the unraveling of this truth will go very far in unraveling the Spencers' marriage, too....So, DOES What Lies Beneath strike the viewer as a Hitchcockian exercise, abetted by 21st century computer wizardry? I would have to say yes. There are any number of scenes that are undeniably scary or suspenseful, the most agonizing of which is the wonderful scene in which Claire lies paralyzed in a bathtub that is slowly being filled with water. Some of Alan Silvestri's score is reminiscent of Bernard Herrmann's classic music for Psycho, while Claire's use of binoculars to spy on her neighbors at night cannot help but call to mind Jimmy Stewart in Rear Window. Pfeiffer and Ford work well together and do have some screen chemistry; they make a credible couple, although Norman, as it turns out, might be one of the least sympathetic characters that Ford has ever essayed. For this viewer, however, the bulk of this picture's success must lie squarely with Pfeiffer, who appears in virtually every single scene and is simply terrific in all of them. Watching her in this film, in which she easily displays far more dramatic heft than her costar, and also reveals what an effective scream queen she can be, the viewer will most likely regret how few other horror vehicles Ms. Pfeiffer has appeared in. And really, besides 1994's Wolf, I can think of no others, unless we stretch the point a bit and include 1987's The Witches of Eastwick and this past summer's horror comedy Dark Shadows. One of the finest combinations of sensational looks and undeniable acting chops to this day (and Michelle is 54 as I write these words), she is quite simply one of the best we've got, and makes Claire Spencer and What Lies Beneath a character and a film to savor. The venerable Leonard Maltin Movie Guide, apparently, does not concur in this assessment, concluding its lukewarm comments with the statement that the story doesn't make sense. But the film DID make perfect sense to me...as long, that is, as one is willing to believe in spooks. And by the end of Zemeckis' highly effective film, most viewers, I have a feeling, will be uttering that famous line of the Cowardly Lion I DO believe in spooks, I DO believe in spooks, I do, I do, I do, I do, I DO believe in spooks.... "},{"Title":"You're not yourself today are you?","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Claire and Norman Spencer's marriage starts to fall apart when she believes there is a ghost in the house. Things gather apace when Claire is convinced that the spirit is trying to tell her something. Something that could be too close to home for comfort.Robert Zemeckis does Hitchcock? Well yes, the influence is obvious, unashamedly so. But the trouble with that, is having the maestro as a benchmark renders all other modern day attempts as folly. However, casting aside that gargantuan issue, What Lies Beneath is an effective creeper come thriller that boasts star credentials.Directed by Zemeckis, formed from an idea by Steven Spielberg (from the story by Sarah Kernochan) and starring Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer as the fragmenting Spencer's. That's a pretty tidy bunch from which to launch your movie. What follows is a mixture of genuine unease and mystery, red herrings and standard boo jump moments, all of which almost gets lost on a saggy middle section as Zemeckis plays Hitchcock one too many times and loses sight of the supernatural heart of the piece, not helped by Clark Gregg's meandering script I might add. None the less, the picture gets pulled around for the finale as the spooky combines with thriller to produce some quality edge of the seat stuff. But it's only then that you totally realise that the makers here have tried to cram too much in to one film. In eagerness to manipulate the audience for the fine ending (though you probably will have it worked out at the half way point) the film just ends up as being confused as to what it mostly wanted to be.Pfeiffer is excellent and looks stunning and Ford gives it gusto when the script allows. Support comes from Diana Scarwid, Joe Morton, Miranda Otto and James Remar. The house is suitably eerie with its waterside setting and Alan Silvestri's score is perfectly in tune with the creepy elements of the piece. It's a fine enough film in its own right, regardless of the Hitchcockian homages. It's just that it should have been a far better horror picture than it turned out to be. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Destined To Become And Stay A Classic.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Norman and Claire Spencer are a happily married couple. When Claire tells Norman that she can hear voices and see strange things happening around there house, including seeing a woman's face in the water, Norman of course grows very concerned about his wife. Taking Norman's advice Claire goes to see a therapist and tells him everything that's been happening. He tells her to try and make contact with the woman she keeps on seeing. So with the help of her friend Jody, she does just that. But, the secrets Claire finds out are more terrifying than she could ever of imagined.Robert Zemeckis, the director of the movie has done a great job here as usual. He's definitely one of my favourite directors. (Steven Spielberg is my all time favourite director.) Harrison Ford as usual gives a brilliant performance and Michelle Pfeiffer is good too.I thought What Lies Beneath was a great old-fashioned thriller and we don't get that many around nowadays. I suspected the ending a little bit though, in the middle of the movie. What Lies Beneath is really exciting and of course has a lot of suspense. I did enjoy the movie very much. I have to say though, I thought it was just a little bit overlong, especially the finale. Anyway, What Lies Beneath most definitely falls under the classic movies category, so if you haven't see it than you really should. I give it a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"A Thriller in the Hitchcock Tradition!","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   In What Lies Beneath, director Robert Zemeckis gives us a thriller that reminds one of the great films made by Alfred Hitchcock. Now don't get me wrong, nobody in my opinion, will ever top the master of suspense. Zemeckis does come close. Without giving too much away, the story revolves around a suburban wife (the ever beautiful Michelle Pfeiffer) who we learn had been in a serious accident months earlier. She begins to see things and despite support from her husband (Harrison Ford) and friends, wonders what really is happening, has happened or will happen. Zemeckis gives us such plot elements such as things that go bump in the night, visions that only the Pfeiffer character can see, mysterious next door neighbors, a ouija board, the doubting husband and the loyal friend. This works pretty well in the first half of the movie, but because What Lies Beneath is essentially a two character story, events in the second half are often telegraphed before they happen. Pfieffer and Ford are very good in their roles (as always). I do think though, that more involvement from the supporting cast would have heightened the mystery. But all in all, What Lies Beneath is a very good movie.   "}{"Title":"A 5 star achievement","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Somewhat like a homage to the thriller and horror genre, and especially Hitchcock. This movie is kind of very involved, thats why you can watch it again, because there are things about it that you want to re-see and want better explained, not that it isn't a complete viewing the first time around. It truly is a refreshingly new scare.Zemekis refined the visual effects in this one, a huge mistake that was made with 99s 'The Haunting', basically because effects aren't scary especially when they make up 90% of the films scare crop. This one does have some effects and some very evident CGI effects but the way they are used is superb.The first half of the movie is a red herring which is how it manages to keep your attention and the baddies confession is done in 3 diferent stages. Zemeckis uses the same ocean-blue look in the movie as he did with 'The freighteners' some time ago only this is a much higher achievement. It is in some way unsatisying that you can't forget it all after the first time so that you can go unsuspecting into it again.I would have title this the pinacle of haunted house movies. As you will find on every review page we have the usual suspects presenting no or illogical cases for the negative, I guess I should be used to that by now but I still can't help groaning when I see what's all the fuss about, one of the most common phrases on the database. Don't bother reading comments with a summary like that they just go on to either state what is a good quality and call it bad or just stuff like dont watch it, utterly ridiculous, I personally hated it which give no case to be considered.Watch this one whatever you do and have minimal light hanging about the place, you will not be  disappointed. It deserves no less than a 9. "},{"Title":"A Fine Film","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If it's any indication of how strongly I felt the need to comment on how good this film really is, its that this is my first commentary at IMDB.Robert Zemeckis obviously has fun nodding to Hitchcock at every turn, but there's no denying that this is one of the film's key strengths.I'd rather my directors homage Hitchcock than John Carpenter when it comes to making a horror movie.Unfortunately the theatrical trailer just didn't do the film justice or I would have gone to see this one on the big-screen, but it seems that may have been the studio's attempt to hide the plotline, and defer any spoilers.I whole-heartedly agree with the positive comments listed for this film. Michelle Pfeiffer held the film throughout with admirable acting. An intelligent protagonist. Every creek and reflection scared the hell out of me, because it was scaring the hell out of her. I couldn't sleep for days. This is testament to good old film making, strong acting and a fine script. The music alone contains some of the most unnerving violin scrapes I've ever heard, dynamically balanced by the long periods of soundtrack silence.Yes, there were predictable elements to the film's plot but they added to just how plain disturbing the storyline is as it unfolds, creating that un-nerving sense of you know what's coming but there's nothing you can do to stop it (a la chainsaw). From the opening title subliminal image (if you saw the movie - you'll know what I'm talking about) to the great twist at the end, I was scared out of my wits and on-the-edge of my seat the whole time.I have to rank how I felt watching this film to how I felt watching The Shining and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre for the first time - quickly placed in a state of terror, and things only getting worse on your nerves as the film spirals down.A great film. "},{"Title":"The one thriller that Hitchcock didn't make!","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  * - POSSIBLE SPOILERS - *Robert Zemeckis (Romancing the Stone, Back to the future (all three), Who framed Roger Rabbit, Death becomes her, Forrest Gump) finds himself in a new kind of genre with what might be one of the best thrillers ever made!  Yes, it's What lies beneath.I know you think I'm exaggerating when I say that this is INDEED a thriller the way Hitchcock (if he were alive) would make it.  It's hard to believe that even today (with visual breathtaking films such as The Matrix, The Mummy, Independance Day, Hollow man,...) we can still go back to the basics. What I mean by that is pure and simply good storytelling and strong acting performances (The Matrix here is an exception, as it had a good story and pretty good acting performances).  Of course, as a true film maniac, I respect every single genre in film.  And where one film focuses on a good story and acting; another one will blow you out of your seat because of never-ever seen incredible visual, computer generated stunts and SFX.  Every genre should be respected as it has its own way of enjoying the audience.Back to our film, though.  Here are a few minor spoilers!! What lies beneath is perfect in every way a classic thriller should be!  Of course, you have a few things that already have been done, but Robert Zemeckis fits them so perfectly and in such an original way in his (I think I can say) masterpiece that only after the movie you realize this. Conclusion it doesn't bore you at all, you don't even notice that things had been done before.First of all the actors! Harrison Ford has been in a few thrillers before. Still, he's not as good as he wishes he were before.  He doesn't do bad, but his opponent does better.  Maybe because she's got a more interesting character to deal with.  Yes, in this film woman does better than man!  Ford is good, but Michelle Pfeiffer proves to be one of the best actresses in the world.  Her performance is simply outstanding and maybe the best she's ever done!Second of all Robert Zemeckis as a director. Now, I don't know whether Robert Zemeckis has seen some Hitchcock thrillers before getting into this movie.  But the way the camera moves and the great camera shots and -positions really creates the incredible atmosphere which is absolutely perfect!What lies beneath will scare the s**t out of you in two different ways. One is the Scream way and the other one is the Hitchcock-way.  The first one will scare you instantly, where the second (and I appreciate this one a little bit more) will drive you mad because you know something is about to happen, but you don't know when. And until that moment you are as frightened as hell.Third of all A very original twist about the movie is the silence they put in certain scenes.  This makes them look even more frightening.  Miner spoilers coming up  The bath scene is so original and wonderful at the same time you start to wonder if Hitchcock didn't mail it from heaven to Zemeckis.  The same goes for the scene in which Michelle Pfeiffer goes backwards off the stairs.What lies beneath and Gladiator are amongst the better films of the year 2000 they're absolutely fabulous!!  "},{"Title":"The scariest thing is how many critics dismissed it.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was pleasantly surprised by this film.  Like many movies lately, it gives away too much in it's trailer.  But the way the story lays out, the plot events are organic enough to the story that they are not shocking and therefore not entirely spoiled by the ads.  Critics have called this film derivative and I shots used as examples of irrelevant scenes on Roger Ebert and the movies play very well in context and certainly do have a purpose in setting up the wife's state of mind.  Yes, an early sequence reminds you of Rear Window and later scenes are directly related to your favorite slasher conventions, but should a shot or an event be off limits just because it has appeared in another film?  Should we see no more films about someone with a disease or a domestic dispute or a suspicion or a ghost just because it has already happened in other movies?  This film does have at least one sequence near the end which is unique to What Lies Beneath, a bit of suspence that (for me) really worked, involving a bathtub.  Harrison Ford is very well used here, though I can't explain why without risking a spoiler.  I went along wherever this movie went, and I have no complaints.  Neither did the audience with which I saw it, judging by their conversations leaving the the theater.  Too many critics are what I call articulate idiots.  Robert Zemeckis, Harrison Ford and company prove again they know what they are doing.  "},{"Title":"*** out of ****","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is one of those films that is very inspired by Alfred Hitchcock.  This has been done recently rather well in Shallow Grave.  However, it has also been done horribly in In Dreams and Eye of the Beholder (destined nominees to appear on IMDB's Bottom 100, they really are THAT bad).  But What Lies Beneath is directed by Robert Zemeckis, and the man can deliver.  So if the film is meant to fall in the Hitchcock genre, it can easily happen if it's in Zemeckis' hands.I'm not going to get into the plot at all.  I'd like to mention Michelle Phieffer's great performance which is definatly a very complex character that she handles greatly.  Harrison Ford is as good as always and is starting to make a slow comeback after a few disappointments (Random Hearts, Six Days Seven Nights, and the good but over-rated Air Force One).  The film is done with great style and has a much slower pace than what most people are used to.My one and only complaint is the marketing for this picture.  This was a good movie, but could have been great if it wasn't for the trailer.  Whoever made the theatrical trailer for this film deserves to be shot.  Robert Zemeckis must of looked at it and said It's O.K. with complete sarcasm.  For those of you that have seen the very overplayed theatrical trailer to the film, I'm sorry to say it but you know a whole lot more about the film than you should.  If you have yet to see it, make sure if it ever comes on to cover your eyes and plug your ears.  It really DOES give away that much (to prove my point - before the film started I took a guess about what would be discovered in the climax of the film and I was sad to admit I was correct).But don't be misleaded, whether you knew as much as I did walking into the picture or not, this is a good film nonetheless.  And it really does give you quite a few good jumps throughout.  Many people might consider What Lies Beneath this years Sixth Sense, but I'd like to rate it as this years Stir Of Echoes - which I liked more than The Sixth Sense.  Although long in length and has it's slow moments, the film does pack a punch and deserves an audience. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed every minute","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not having been to the real movies for some time. Many of them were catered towards the younger group, this one had Harrison Ford (58) and Michele Pfeiffer (43) still young in our books, but much older than the Heather Locklear Group. Our movie theatre is quite new, and the screen is enormous, with the sound almost blasting your eardrums, so we were in the right setting for this mystery thriller. I read the good comments of the previous members, and have to agree with them. Part of the story is given away. Don't know why they do that. I prefer not knowing too much, but they want to rope us into the seats, I guess. So without giving too much away, it was exciting to watch Pfeiffer work her way through this mystery.Harrison Ford is certainly in fantastic shape for a 58 year old, and with a nice tan, was very easy on the eye; mine anyway! While my husband enjoyed looking at Michelle Pfeiffer. We did jump in our seats quite a few times. Watching Michelle dive into the water would make you run and take diving lessons, if that was truly her! Their acting made the story believable, and when the story's believable I always enjoy it. Harrison Ford can be a bit on the wooden side at times. My husband's impersonation of him is to turn his mouth up to one side keeping his mouth straight. Pretty good! As you look at the wonderful house they live in, in this movie, it makes you wish you had one just like it, without the ghost, of course! For those who like suspense, I don't think you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Under The Surface","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Zemeckis approaches a Hitchcockian style in 'What Lies Beneath'. The film itself is a sort of horror-chiller film. The story certainly is not original but while there is a ghost in the movie, Zemeckis also creates a very tense atmosphere relying purely on silence and simplistic sounds (like the wind blowing the door open etc) and cinematography. The camera-work is stupendous as it follows Michelle Pfeiffer (who is very much in every single shot). I particularly liked the shots in the house when the camera would move slowly (as though tiptoeing) with Pfeiffer's suspicious character.Of course there are jump moments and twists which are usual in this genre but they're far from ridiculous. Some seem to be bothered with the Miranda Otto track arguing that it had little relevance to the main plot. However, this didn't bother me as much and it actually does make sense that Claire would believe her neighbour to be in trouble...(I'll refrain from giving out more spoilers).Another high point of 'What Lies Beneath' is indeed Michelle Pfeiffer. I think this was her comeback film after she took a short break to take care of her children. From being a vulnerable housewife, who had been through an accident and is now lonely in the house since her daughter (with whom she was very close) moved to college campus and her husband works long hours, to a stronger woman who follows her instincts and discovers dark secrets that bring her to make difficult decisions, Pfeiffer's understated portrayal is amazing to say the least. I can't say much about Harrison Ford's role without hinting spoilers but he does a commendable job.I enjoyed 'What Lies Beneath' much more during my second viewing than the first time (which was more than five years ago) but I think the main reason was that I was able to pay more attention to other parts of the movie other than just the story, such as the technical aspects (like camera-work and sound effects), and also see and enjoy the homage to so many classics (mostly Hitchcock's films). That is not to say that the story itself doesn't work. Quite the contrary because even though it's not exactly original, it is suspenseful and the events are well put together. 'What Lies Beneath' is an enjoyable chiller thriller with supernatural elements. "},{"Title":"For the most part, an old-fashioned spine-tingler.","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It is difficult to define what makes a really satisfying horror movie.  So few are released today and I don't know whether the film-makers rely too much on special-effects to create an impression, or it is because today's audience is more sophisticated than in the past.  My tastes run to films with 'atmosphere', rather than in-your-face gore-splatterers, and on the whole 'What Lies Beneath' was my kind of movie.This film had a relatively sophisticated storyline. Although the tribute to 'Rear Window' was immediately recognisable, in general, the movie's plot reflects many themes from 'Rebecca' (Daphne Du Maurier).  'What Lies Beneath' resembles the latter because the action is centred mainly around the house, and the major character is a vulnerable women in a relationship with a cold, unsympathetic male (art mirrors life!).  Initially, the lifestyle of Claire Spence seems idyllic, like Rebecca's, but as the film progresses this superficial veneer is stripped away and exposes an increasingly sinister 'reality'.Michelle Pfeiffer is excellent as the seemingly neurotic Claire Spencer. She is an intelligent, sensitive actress who portrays her character's increasing angst in a subtle, but effective way.  Michelle allows you to identify and empathise with this women - so much so that I found myself desperately wishing that she would have herself committed (on a temporary basis at least) rather than return to that menacing house.On a less positive note, this movie suffers from trying to offer something for everyone.  It is most successful as a suspenseful thriller, but twenty minutes from the end there appears to be a desperate attempt to cram everything in and appeal to those who prefer horror films.  In addition, there were many aspects of the plot that seemed unnecessary - presumably they were red herrings - and made a potentially slick and sophisticated movie rather flabby and slightly disappointing.  Some stringent editing would tighten things up considerably. In spite of this, I awarded  'What Lies Beneath' seven points out of ten and I shall definitely watch it again when it is released on video.Note before seeing this film for the first time, avoid reading Harrison Ford's article, listed in the 'external reviews', as it contains a major spoiler. "},{"Title":"Zemeckis' a Movie Master","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved the movie, I was really scared. First I saw it by myself and I interrupted and leave the theater. By the next time I stayed all the movie and just loved it.I think Zemeckis is a great director The playings were just great! It was great also the music, the story, the x_efects, (remember that now a days most of effects are as boring as MI-2 effects) Husband, wife and Doctor characters are amazing... Only twice I've heard those screams making me pick up off the chair or turn on the face, this one was one of Pfeiffer and the other one when I saw an Allan Poe's Tale theater playing from a Mexico City company.I love the music and the music in this pictures is lovely, about the cameras I dont think is Hitchcock style but Zemeckis one. He really makes a view and a being with the cameraworks, and I say this as a camera fan... those who said that movie is boring dont have viewing and music feeling, so they cant feel the movie. And then the final scenes where dialogues and dialogues come disappearing, and at the time more music sinks you in the terrific story.I think as a Allan Poe fan that Mr. Zemeckis might make an excellent artwork if take a Poe story to the screen, and thats not a piece of cake! Congratulations for all the staff the actors, the musicians etc etc, You made a memorable and unique film workart! "},{"Title":"Very good, and a little bad -- some (minor) SPOILERS here","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Overall rating (1-10) = 8Scare factor (1-10) = 9+Number of characters you sometimes just want to slap >1First of all, comments seen here and elsewhere note that most of this movie's many scary moments are thoroughly preannounced, by swelling music and such.  This is correct.  Only a very few of the main fright points are done in Jaws style, i.e., sprung upon us when we can't  help but be off-guard.  Still, in my view, this doesn't detract much. This a VERY scary movie and a good investment if you like shock and surprise.  I definitely *wouldn't* advise seeing it while holding a hot coffee or a fragile dessert.That's not to say there's nothing in this film that detracts.  First, what talent Michelle Pfeiffer has is largely wasted during the first hour on a script that's way too full of boomer-angst cliches.  A big piece of the film's first half -- showing her character's daughter leaving for college and mom's resulting slushy reaction -- could  have been easily condensed or evaporated, trimming several minutes  from the total 129.  If this was there to demonstrate what a good  friend of mine likes to call EMS (Excessive Mom Syndrome) and to help confirm the idea that ole mom is even more delicate than she looks,  then I suppose it worked.  But so did several other shorter & simpler scenes, which sufficed.  (At one point I heard a Valley-Girl sort of voice in the row behind me mutter, after a heavy sigh Okaaaaay, so she's wound a little too tight, we've *got* that already....  It was an accurate point.  Somebody please wake me when this stock character type -- the artsy, wispy, idle, tormented, 40-ish upper-middle-class housewife with white teeth and a whiter Volvo -- breathes its last.Some comments have also noted considerable over- and under-acting by both Ford and Pfeiffer.  I agree.  The mix of super-calm moments and shocker scenes, while effective, is jarringly uneven.  I don't mean  to imply that a horror/thriller film should always jolt us only at  neat and regularly spaced intervals; but one could almost wonder if this film was divided into several parts at the beginning, each then being assigned to a separate director who rarely spoke with his or  her collaborators.  That said, I can't fault the *intensity* of any  of the several pee-in-your-pants moments.  As predictable and hollow as many of them are, each is a definite seat-grabber, and it would be hard to spoil any of them, even with a detailed verbal description.The often-noted similarities to Rear Window are obvious, even too obvious, but *not* essential to the plot and in retrospect may seem gratuitous. Again, while the film may keep your mind engrossed and your breathing shallow, the overkill factor is high.  Some of the  camera or editing work seems overdone in the same way -- sometimes almost playfully so, and to such an extent that I can't really say for sure if the performers are guiltier there than the director.For example, at one point about halfway through, a progressively more unnerved Claire Pfeiffer is inside her home peering intently at her neighbor's house, which we see in the predictable breathless pan from window to window, supposedly through her binoculars.  When she finally sights Thorwald -- ooooooooops, I mean her neighbor Warren Feur -- we of *course* see his scowling face in a lightning-zoomed close-up with a loud blast of eerie music.  and while this isn't done quite as badly as, say, the Large Marge eyeball-popper scene in Pee-wee Herman's Big Adventure, it's in the same class when it comes to timing & soundtrack!  It's quite a scary moment, but you might easily feel cheated by it soon afterward because (1) you realize that the zoom is a major part of what made the shot so scary, and (2) this Feur guy isn't really involved in the plot except to affirm, yet again, that Claire's a borderline basket case.Miscellany  The film is set in Vermont, where I once lived, and I was pleased with some of the accuracies while also struck by some inaccuracies or improbabilities.  None are really worth mentioning, except for the repeated mentions of the town of Adamant.  Adamant is a real  place in Vermont, but it's referred to at least twice in the script as being down seven, meaning south on U.S. Highway 7 -- a main north-south thoroughfare, running the length of Vermont's western edge and traversing the Burlington/Lake Champlain area where the film's characters obviously live. But Adamant lies some 40 miles EAST of Route 7, a little over halfway across the state.  It can't realistically be described as down seven from anywhere else in in Vermont or even Quebec, and in fact does not lie astride *any* numbered highway.  (If the multiple mentions of this town's name  are a new kind of product placement technique, I'd be interested to know the rationale for so thoroughly mislocating it!)What happens *in* Adamant does have some bearing on the plot, but  the town itself is not significant, or at least not significant  enough to justify its quirky repetition.  (If I missed something about this while making a quick visit to the john, someone please  clue me in.)Special effects  Not many, but those that we do see are quite good. No extraordinary innovations, just good scream-fuel.Bottom line  It's scary and worth checking out.  It's lame in spots and the story isn't all that new, but these things won't likely make you sad you went. "}{"Title":"Terror stew.","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"       I wasn't originally that excited to see Robert Zemeckis' WHAT LIES BENEATH, only because word has it that he made this movie to get more financing on his upcoming epic, CASTAWAY, with Tom Hanks.  But how can that be so?  This film has two major stars, Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, and it's released during the summer season.  Well, Spielberg has done the same with JURASSIC PARK and SCHINDLER'S LIST.  I just feel that the same director that gave us such excellent films like BACK TO THE FUTURE, ROGER RABBIT, and FORREST GUMP, will show his unique talent with CASTAWAY.  But this is WHAT LIES BENEATH, so I'll talk about that film.      Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer play a married Vermont couple who live in a nice house by a lake.  Norman (Ford) is at the university working on a important research project, he leaves his wife, Claire (Pfeiffer) at home.  And life is lonely for Claire since her only child has just gone off to college.  While Claire is alone, she begins to hear and see strange things coming from the house.  Is the house haunted, or is it just Claire's imagination?  And does this ghost have some sort of a connection with her or her husband, Norman?      I can't talk much about the plot of the film without giving away the plot twists in this film.  What this film will lead you to believe is what this story is about, then it does a 180 degree turn and be about something else.  The film reminded me of Hitchcock's elements from some of his classics, including REAR WINDOW, VERTIGO, and even PSYCHO.  But that's not all, Zemeckis also includes scenes similar to THE EXORCIST and Stanley Kubrick's THE SHINING.  It seems that Zemeckis took classic terror scenes and elements from other films and rolled them into one.  And at times, it does work.  There are some scenes that are so suspenseful that everyone is the theater will be biting their fingernails.  But between these scenes, the pacing is rather slow, and I kept looking at my watch to see how much longer will this go on.      There are some great shots and techniques used in this film.  I was watching how Zemeckis is tricking the viewer by making them think that something will happen, then it turns out to be different.  And the other scenes, there's the typical cliches that Zemeckis plays, (hint the old it's only the cat cliche is used in this film). But he does turn a average horror film and brings it slightly above average.        The acting by both leads are good.  Ford show a lot more emotion in this film than he has in a while.  He's not playing the usual hero role that he's famous for.  And this is one of Michelle Pfeiffer's better roles and films.  She has to give a good performance since she's the James Stewart role similar to VERTIGO, while Harrison Ford is the mysterious Kim Novak character.      Overall, WHAT LIES is a entertaining film.  But I don't know what strings Zemeckis pulled to get this film a PG-13 rating.  Just because a film doesn't have any nudity, and little use of profanity, doesn't make that a PG-13 film.  The suspense is so strong in this film that any child under the age of 17 will be scared.  Like THE SIXTH SENSE, just because a movie is PG-13, doesn't mean that the film isn't scary.  And scary it is.  But if this was any other director, it would be quite a piece of film making.  However, since this is Robert Zemeckis, it is decent, but it could be better.  And I just hope that his next classic, will be CASTAWAY.  ***1/2 (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Don't Believe the (Bad) Hype!","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I spent hours last week on the net, reading reviews, and boy, were they rough on this flick. Most reviewers went out of their way to say it was boring, stupid, unoriginal, a waste of time, how Harrison Ford looked so old he should retire (more on that later), and one critic even went so far as to compare it to Battlefield Earth for Godssake! Needless to say, I had such low expectations that I went to see it by myself (not wanting to subject friends or family members after hearing how awful it was). I even considered skipping the first half because I heard Harrison Ford wasn't on screen much for the first hour. While WLB was not the scariest or most exciting movie of all time, I left the theater glad I saw it. Unfortunately for me, a careless reviewer gave away 99% of the 'twists' in the story line, and the trailers already gave 75% of it away anyway, so there was only one real surprise.The surprise turned out to be that I actually had fun. I think everyone already knows the set-up and plot by now, so I won't bother with a sypnosis. I will say that every seat was full (another surprise) and there were more screams from the audience than I've heard during a movie in years. We're talking over a dozen times where half the audience yelped/jumped in shock and a handful of moments where everyone screamed. Loudly. We are talking adults here too, not nervous little kids. In all fairness, many of the jumps are the 'fake' kind that you are all too familiar with if you've seen enough horror/suspense films, i.e. OH GOD! You almost scared me half to death sneaking up on me like that. The movie also frequently employs the device where a character is in frame, the camera pans along with them out of frame for a second, then we pan back and someone/something has suddenly appeared in the frame behind them-cheap shot, but it works. Many reviewers complained that the score was overdone, with a loud blast of music in the scare scenes to ensure everyone jumped. Honestly, I couldn't tell whether or not this was the case, because the audience's yelling covered it up! There is one *very* big unexpected jump-trust me, you'll know it when you see it-that will probably end up on a lot of 'scariest moments' lists, I am ashamed to say I SCREAMED at the top of my lungs like a little girl, and so did everyone else in the theater, including grown men. (note if you do decide to see this movie, see it with a group of friends or at least a significant other, because you will have much more fun (I found that it's pretty embarrassing sitting there all by yourself and suddenly yelling and spilling your candy).On the negative side, there are many cliched horror movie moments, and the dialogue wasn't exactly brilliant. There were also parts where they over-did the foreshadowing to the point of insulting my intelligence. Example Call on the cell phone, we're running late Oh, the cell phone doesn't work That's right, the cell phone won't work in the middle part of this bridge. Yes, I forgot about the fact that the cell ph-- OKAY! WE'VE GOT IT NOW! THANK YOU! So, the script could have used a polish, but not enough to ruin the movie. Another complaint I've heard is that the movie rips off Hitchcock's films (a collapsing character pulls a shower curtain down off the hooks with her, a character is named Norman, etc) but I do know the difference between a ripoff and a loving tribute, and Zemeckis knows what he's doing, I highly doubt he was trying to trick the audience into thinking these were his original ideas. For the record, Harrison Ford still looks great with his shirt off, better than some actors in their 30's. He has recently reached the point where he can not pass for a man in his early 40's, but compared with other actors in their late 50's, he still looks mighty fine, especially without that unflattering angry brush spiky hair style he's had in his last couple of films. Let's just say there were plenty of women there with biiig smiles on their faces during the love scenes. When he gives that sexy crooked boyish grin, about 20 years instantly drop from his face.OK, enough rhapsodizing about Harrison Ford, back to the movie. Diana Scarwind as Claire's best friend is funny and lightens up the tone. Michelle Pfieffer is wonderful, making some of the corny dialogue sound genuine. Many less talented actresses would simply go into woman in peril mode, but her acting is very impressive, and even the critics who really hated the movie gave her credit for that. Oh, and speaking of aging well, there were plenty of males in the audience looking pretty happy during the love scenes too. So guys, if your date or wife votes to see this chick flick, don't make her drag you- you'll have a much better time than you think.  Sure, this movie is no all-time horror classic, but it is a fairly intelligent, entertaining, thrill ride of a movie that deserves a much better chance than the critics are giving it.  "},{"Title":"WHAT LIES BENEATH?  A Near Masterpiece","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went into see WHAT LIES BENEATH with few expectations. I'd read the early reviews and seen the trailer.  I'd heardHarrison Ford was considered washed up and was probably slumming with this one. I figured I knew what the film was about.  Through the first hour I was fairly entertained but began to believe my fears were justified.  In several scenes director Robert Zemeckis hardly moves a camera.  I was beginning to wonder if I were watching a Mike Nichols movie?  However, the second hour of this movie really grabbed me.  I walked out of the theater highly impressed.  This was an even thrill ride than THE SIXTH SENSE.That is NOT to say the film is without its flaws.  The subplot involving the married couple next door goes on WAY too long and undercuts the focus on some key story elements.  However, if that subplot had been deleted we would have missed the most fun scene in the movie between James Remar and the gal playing his wife when they were at the party.The acting is all VERY good.  Neither Pfeiffer nor Ford have EVER been better.I don't usually do this, but it was also fun guessing the film's to which writers Sarah Kernochan and Clark Gregg play homage. I figure the list includes PSYCHO (of course), THE SHINING,NIGHT OF THE HUNTER and THE RED HOUSE.  I'm sure there's others; but, as I said, I'm not into that game.Genre films the quality of WHAT LIES BENEATH don't come along often.  THE SIXTH SENSE, SE7EN, SILENCE OF THE LAMBS (at least the first half, anyway), SEA OF LOVE, TIGHTROPE, THE OTHER, THE HAUNTING, THE UNIVITED, NIGHT OF THE HUNTER, THE RED HOUSE, PSYCHO, VERTIGO, AND THEN THERE WERE NONE. That's pretty well it.It appears the critical knives are out for this movie.  Oh well, at least half the films on the above list were not appreciated at the time of their release.  Be one of the first to see a great genre film.   See WHAT LIES BENEATH "},{"Title":"Zemeckis takes a drive into the Hitchcock pool.","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While this memorable chiller from Robert Zemeckis may recall every classic thriller from Gaslight (1944) to The Haunting (1963), including a number of references to Hitchcock's classics, What Lies Beneath is a well-done and engrossing modern tribute to the old-fashioned suspense thriller.Vermont housewife begins to believe that her home is haunted by a spirit, but just what do the people around her have to do with it?Many have criticized this film for having a bit of a convoluted plot, but What Lies Beneath is a much more intelligent film than some let on. It's story is an unpredictable tale that evokes lots of tension and suspense, ultimately building to a nail-biting finale. The climax of this film is one of the intense in recent cinematic memory. The direction of Zemeckis also shines in true Hitchcock style. We are given lots of stylishly shot sequences and fine touches of detail that add all the more to the realism of this film.The cast is quite good. Michelle Pfeiffer is genuine in her portrayal of the spooked housewife, as is Harrison Ford who does a terrific turn as her husband.Whether seen for its artistic direction or just for an evening of good spooky entertainment, What Lies Beneath is a great watch.*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Better the more you watch it.","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen this movie three times now, and it keeps getting better.The plot Pfeiffer is a former cello player that got into a horrible car accident a year before.  Her husband (Harrison Ford)is a very busy doctor working on a experiemental new anestisia. (spelling?) Suddenly, with her daughter grown and off to college, Michelle starts to feel a presence in the house.  This, mixed with paranoia from her new neighbors, begins to freak her out.  Along the way, we learn there are sinister and legitimate reasons why Michelle is seeing all these things.I'm not going to give away all the good stuff.The acting  Pitch perfect.  These two actors are way too underrated.  I mean, c'mon!  All the years these two have made movies and only 4 Oscar nominations??  Again, they were passed over for this one.  Ford surely deserved at least a GOLDEN GLOBE! The script One reason this movie gets better is because of the awesome script.  Just about every action is explained.  If the villian does something, and you're wondering why, just be patient. The whole plot about the neighbors at first seems pointless. However, when you pay closer attention the the goings-on surrounding that small plot, you understand what's happening. The SFX Usually a movie in the thriller category doesn't have a whole lot of visual effects.  However, every so often one movie comes along that is enhanced by SFX.  What Lies Beneath is such a movie.  There are certain shots that are only available to story tellers now with the invention of CGI, therefore helping a great storyteller/director like Robert Zemeckis to make a Hitchcock style movie on behalf of Hitchcock. The movie overall The music was used exceptionally well.  When you needed to be scared, the thunderous boom of the orchestra comes in.  However, when you need to be tense, there's not a note of music to be heard.  This technique makes it all the scarier.  The cinematography is beautiful, Michelle Pfeiffer has never looked so utterly gorgeous in a movie without a catsuit.Overall I give this movie a 8/10...and if I watch it a couple more times it'll probably move up to a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Does for Tubs, what showers did for Psycho!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To call What Lies Beneath Hollywood's most self-conscious tribute to Alfred Hitchcock is by no means an understatement. Elements of, amongst scores of others, Rear Window, Rope, Notorious, North by Northwest, Vertigo and, of course, Psycho, combine in terms of plot and visuals to make a thoroughly absorbing story that is as classic in its narrative as its masterful cinematic style. Everything about this film harks back to the 40's and 50's way of doing things, whilst simultaneously using advanced technology to take that style and project it into the present day. Indeed, every single shot feels like Zemeckis said to himself how would Hitchcock have filmed this? What would he have done if he had the technology we have? With more than a few allusions to the old master himself (grabbing the shower-curtain when falling out of the bath, for example), the result, understandably, is stunning.With so much going on in every scene, it is difficult to talk concisely about this film. Throughout, there is much to marvel over in the cinematography, editing, soundtrack; the chills come thick and heavy, the mystery sucks you in, the visual brilliance astounds at every turn. The claustrophobia of the house, the realism of Ford and Pfeiffer's relationship and the intrigues that surround the central characters pale into insignificance beside the pure ingenuity of the filmmaking. In a single take, Pfeiffer leaves the bathroom, the bath empty, walks around for a minute, and re-enters the same bathroom, now filled with steam, the bath full, before discovering a message written on the mirror. In the final sequence, the camera darts in and out of CGI cars, offering shots that Hitchcock could only dream about, and yet the whole set-piece screams of 50's classicism. In the creepiest bathroom sequence since Psycho, we are offered the POV of a drowning woman, in a scene that deserves to go down in film history as one of the best-constructed examples of film technique ever seen. In some scenes, the camera even drops suddenly through the floor, to look up through glass at the actors above. For fans of film aesthetics, there is no doubting that this is one of the finest experiments to grace the screens. I see shades of Fatal Attraction with the whole tub sequence. Oh, how I love tubs like that! And, I just love the scenes where she drains the tub, and the slow, eerie music as she's about to drown.Admittedly, if you are not a fan of Hitchcock or have never seen a Hitchcock, much of the enjoyment can be taken out of the film. The story plods along at first, only really picking up momentum half-way through. However, that said, the final half-hour more than makes up for any lack of pace in the early reels. If nothing else, it is great to see Ford in a role that is the opposite of what we have come to expect from him. Overall, anyone who considers themselves a serious film fan needs to own a copy of this film. And if you've never seen Hitchcock, there is no finer introduction to the man than this movie. Buy it and love it. It's as simple as that. A must!!10/102000 130 minutes Rated PG-13 CC.  "},{"Title":"A brilliant and terrifying mystery that gets better with every viewing.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WHAT LIES BENEATH (2000) Rating 9/10What Lies Beneath, a brilliant, masterfully played out homage to Hitchcock is quite frankly the scariest movie I have ever seen. I came out of the cinema pale and shaking and while I was watching the film I was so scared I even had to shield my eyes at parts. All the scary parts are brought to life by a great score with manages to grab you in the nuts at the most unexpected times. The movie is over 2 hours long but never tires. I have watched this about 5 times now and every time I get the chills and always appreciate the film more. Robert Zemeckis excellent direction reminds us of how many great movies directors can do in 1 year. Cast Away and this film were both brilliant experiences and Zemeckis directs them both brilliantly. The performances excel, with Michelle Pfeiffer excellent as Claire Spencer who, while trying to uncover a masterful mystery, is slowly losing her mind. Harrison Ford brings up many shocks and takes a surprising back seat. His performance is fabulous. What Lies Beneath builds its suspense &#150; especially in one horrifyingly Hitchcockian bathtub sequence &#150; and always uses its ideas. I couldn't find many plot holes but the film can be complex at times. If you watch the film carefully and take note of everything that's happening I'm sure you'll understand the ending and the mystery that is slowly unlocking. What Lies Beneath has many great camera shots too like Michelle's toe peaking above the bath water, her hand clutching the side, her grabbing a sharp piece of glass and it reflecting her terrified face and a freaky close-up on Harrison Ford's eye. I love this movie, and it will always be a heart-stopping and fun experience for me to sit through. "},{"Title":"Effective, Genuinely Frightening Thriller","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'What Lies Beneath' revolves around that classic cinema situation- the seemingly-perfect marriage that, on closer examination, turns out not to be so perfect after all. Claire and Norman Spencer appear to have such a marriage. They are a middle-aged, middle-class couple whose only daughter, Caitlin, has just started at university. Norman has a prestigious scientific job as a research geneticist, and they have recently moved into a large lakeside house in the Vermont countryside. Beneath this tranquil surface, however, Claire is a deeply troubled woman. She has developed an obsession with her next door neighbour, whom she suspects of having murdered his wife. She also comes to suspect her husband of infidelity. Worst of all, a series of eerie happenings have led her to suspect that her house may be haunted. Unsure whether these phenomena are real or illusory, she both consults a psychiatrist and uses a ouija board in an attempt to contact the supposed spirit. The title 'What Lies Beneath' can be read on a number of levels. At its most literal, it refers to the fact that the key to the mystery at the heart of the film lies hidden below the waters of the lake. The title can also, however, be read metaphorically as relating to underlying reality which may differ from surface appearance, to the world of the supernatural which may lie below the surface of our own, and to what may be hidden in the depths of a person's character. Many things in the film are not what they seem. At a trivial level, we learn that Norman is not, as we had been led to believe, Caitlin's father; she is Claire's daughter by a previous relationship. On a more serious level, a twist halfway through the film reveals that the truth is not what Claire, or the audience, had previously believed and that she is indeed in danger, but from a hitherto unsuspected source. (I will not reveal what that twist is). The director Robert Zemeckis says that he conceived this film as a tribute to Alfred Hitchcock. There are certainly a number of explicit references to his films. Claire's obsession with her neighbors and her habit of spying on them recalls James Stewart's character in 'Rear Window'. A scene where Claire is in danger of drowning in her bath is reminiscent of the famous shower scene in 'Psycho'. (The use of the Christian name Norman may also be a reference to that film). Another Hitchcock reference is to 'Rebecca'; in that film too, the key to the central mystery lies beneath the waters. There are also Hitchcock touches such as the occasional use of humour to lighten the mood, an example being Claire's unsuccessful attempt to hold a séance with her friend Jodie.Despite these deliberate acts of homage, the final result is a movie which bears little resemblance to a Hitchcock film. 'What Lies Beneath' not only has a strong supernatural element, it also suggests that ghosts and the supernatural are a reality rather than an illusion. Hitchcock, fascinated by psychology, particularly the psychology of human evil, paid little attention to the paranormal. A human murderer such as Norman Bates was, for him, far more frightening than any ghost. The lush photography, concentrating on the autumnal Vermont countryside in its various moods, is quite different to the Hitchcock style. At 130 minutes the film is considerably longer than most of Hitchcock's, and the narrative moves at a more leisurely pace.The first hour or so, much of which is spent on a theme which turns out to be a red herring, is perhaps too slow-moving, but even this helps to develop the characters and to create a general atmosphere of suspense. In the second half, following the unexpected twist, the film becomes much better and the pace increases. Ordinary objects- a mirror, a bath full of water- take on an aspect of menace as Claire fights for her life. The two leading roles are very well played. The film makes good use of the haunting beauty of Michelle Pfeiffer, still one of Hollywood's loveliest actresses in her forties. At times she comes across as glamorous and seductive, but more often she has a gaunt, fragile and vulnerable quality. Harrison Ford brings out the two contrasting sides of Norman's character. At first he seems solid and dependable, the personification of the scientific rationalist, an impression strengthened by his deep, resonant voice. As the film progresses, we learn what lies beneath this calm exterior and begin to suspect that his overly rationalistic outlook on life may not have prepared him to deal with the emotions of passion and jealousy. I am surprised at some of the negative reviews that this film has received. Although it may depart from the Master's stylistic rules, 'What Lies Beneath' is still a tense, effective, and at times genuinely frightening film, with several levels of meaning. One of the best thrillers of recent years. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Amazing piece of suspense","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Robert Zemeckis, Alan Silvestri, Harrison Ford. What else should a good movie have? Seriously, this was one of the most suspenseful movies I've seen for many months (including so called horror ones). The first half was pretty boring (that's why I won't give it a 8.5 rating) and the acting and content seemed rather stiff.However the second half was simply great. Top-notch acting by both Michelle and Harrison and perfect suspense. I was just sitting there with my mouth open staring at the screen waiting for more (although I thought I knew how the story was going to continue). Especially the bath tub scene ... geez, this was one of the strongest scenes I've ever seen in a thriller. The finishing scenes (car escape and underwater) were really thrilling.Zemeckis filmmaking is simply great. Camera movement was also amazing, especially in two particular scenes. Did you notice how the cam was filming Michelle lying there on the wooden floor when it suddenly moved from a top-down view into a bottom-up view below(!) the floor? Wood turning into glass. Also the finishing escape with the car. The camera was filming the front of the car while Michelle was driving it when it moved down below the car, the cam stopped there and the car + trailer (with boat) drove over it. These were two of the most interesting camera movements in this movie. I guess there was some CG too?Anyway. My summary boring first half, kickass suspense, some very strong scenes and very good acting, *very* well done and thrilling mystery bits, awesome score by Alan Silvestri.And my ratings story 6/10, acting 8/10, suspense 9.5/10, mystery 8/10, complexity 7/10.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED FOR PPL WHO LIKE MYSTERY AND GREAT FILMMAKING!Overall ****/5  imdb 8/10   "},{"Title":"Nothing lies beneath","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Indeed what lies beneath this movie? Nothing. Another terrible movie from modern Hollywood. The movie fails to create dramatic tension because of poor acting, poor screenplay and poor direction. Not even the natural beauty of Vermont comes through.  The actors actually seemed bored with their parts. Sometimes Detroit has to do a recall, why not Hollywood? "}{"Title":"Insultingly Predictable Cookie Cutter Horror Movie","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  So my girlfriend convinced me to take her to see What Lies Beneath last night.  I figured, with a cast this good, how bad can it be?  The answer? REALLY REALLY BAD.What Lays Beneath follows just about every cookie cutter scary movie rule that I can think of.  From the ever popular oh is that a ghost!? ;SCREAM; Oh! It's you Sparky, thank goodness scene to the over used Writing in the steam on the bathroom mirror trick.This movie was so predictable, I was ready to walk out a half hour before the movie was over without any fear that I would miss anything.  It was a struggle to stay for the entire thing without standing up and leaving, or at the very least cracking up with laughter at how bad this movie is.From the very beginning it tries too hard to be a scary movie.  Watching the neighbor crying through the fence in the middle of the day does NOT deserve suspenseful music.There are lots of popular horror movies out there.  They all have something going for them, something different that makes them special.  What Lies Beneath just doesn't.  It doesn't have the humor of Scream, it doesn't have the camp value of the Evil Dead series, it doesn't have the teen appeal of I Know What You Did Last Summer, it doesn't have the originality of The Blair Witch Project, it doesn't have the pure suspense of the Alien series, and it doesn't have the surprise ending of The Sixth Element.If you like predictable make-you-jump scary movies, this could be the one for you.  If you're like me and you like something with a little originality, you're better off saving your money. "},{"Title":"Boring, Passive-Aggressive Psycho Knockoff With Hints of Sixth Sense","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sorry, but Zemeckis is no Hitchcock.This movie paid great homage to other films (see others' reviews) and had several unsettling and subtly horrific shots, but was otherwise pretty bland fare.  I recommend waiting till it comes out on video so you can fast forward past the many uninteresting and unnecessary filler scenes.  By the time the tension actually increases, you may find yourself waaaay past caring.***SPOILERS***Michelle Pfeiffer gave a good and varied performance (much better than in 'Wolf'), in contrast to Harrison Ford's humdrum husband.  Which is interesting, since 'Norman' was supposed to be a 'brilliant' scientist.  He did nothing in the film to even be considered 'bright', IMO.  He seemed very tranquilized (yawn) until the hahahahaha, I'm a killer and you're next bit.  I'll take Anthony Perkins or even Vince Vaughn's 'Norman' any day of the week compared to this passive loser.The film wasn't awful, but several things made me chuckle out of sheer disbelief.  The first time Claire sees the ghost in the bathtub, before Norman runs in after her scream, it takes what, 5 seconds for the whole tub to drain! Then, later, it takes forever for the water to drain past her nose when her magic toes pull up the plug.  And what faucet do you know that will cut 80% of the water supply after only a quarter turn? It wouldn't have been as laughable if the ghost had been involved, but this was not even hinted at . . . and the cliche's continued . . .This movie took forever to advance the plot, and the silly, obvious red herring involving the next-door neighbors was pretty irritating.The slow pace of the film felt like the dredging of a lake bottom.  Too bad the film's body didn't surface a little sooner. "},{"Title":"The Big Cheesy","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is an example of a cheesy, low-budget idea gone Big-Budget, High-Concept Hollywood. The sole screenplay to date by actor Clark Gregg is an uneasy mix of supernatural thriller, suspense film and psycho-killer-horror with a clumsy exposition. The secondary characters are throw-aways, as the story suffocatingly focuses on a professor and his wife. Harrison Ford plays his role with all the passion of a cigar-store Indian, while Michelle (Don't hate me because I'm beautiful) Pfeiffer does her boilerplate pained-and-tormented turn, complete with pinched cheeks and crocodile tears. Robert Zemeckis' direction is banal at best. The over-the-top CGI work is largely superfluous and overblown, particularly during the climactic scenes. Some reviewers described this as Hitchcock-like but Hitchcock would never have touched such a sub-par script nor depended so heavily on f/x. In fact, What Lies Beneath is rather short on suspense. There are, admittedly, a couple of scares but, shamelessly over 2 hours long, this thriller is largely inflated and anemic, and more closely resembles bottom-of-the-barrel DePalma. "},{"Title":"I can't believe it got 6.7","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER!!!!!! I find it hard to believe that some people actually liked this film, let alone actually think it was scary! I watched it two years ago, and it still rates as possibly the worst film of all time in my book (well, certainly one of them).The first half hour or 45 minutes of the film is all irrelevant, wonderfully summed up by one of the only good bits in the film, the hilarious scene where the neighbour mock-strangles his wife at the party. I understand the purpose of throwing us off the scent, but we would have to have been on the scent in the first place. A waste of time.After that, it gets even worse. Any good thriller should have you saying by the end... oh of course I knew it was him/her. Not this one. You walk out thinking, how the heck was I supposed to guess that it was the girl he butchered, seeing as I never knew he butchered a girl in the first place?The slogan describes him as the perfect husband who made 'one mistake'. Well, I'm sorry to get all preachy, but anyone who has an affair on his wife and then brutally murders the person with whom he had an affair so as to keep it all hush-hush is certainly not 'perfect'. If he had been a brilliant scientist and a loving husband, who accidentally created a new supervirus when trying to cure AIDS, then maybe I could get the slogan...And what's the story with the dead person coming alive in the water? There's the supernatural, willing suspension of disbelief and all that, but at that point any respect I had for the film was lost.The theory some of us developed is that there was a first scene entirely missing from the film, one that would have made sense of the entire thing, possibly where we would have been shown the affair or something. How else could it have been this bad?One final point early on in the film, Ford goes away for the weekend on business, and yet miraculously reappears halfway through the weekend to comfort Pfeiffer for one scene, only to disappear again. Is this explained in the film (I couldn't follow what the heck was going on), or is this an amazing goof?My only regret is that there is no 0 rating I could have given it. Well, that and the fact that I paid good money to see the darn thing! "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"24 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think that this movie is simply one of the best of its kind. It was real scary at times, the acting was superb (Michelle Pfeiffer did an amazing job) and everything else about it was just right too. This movie is definatly in my top 10 best of all times, so i have no choice but to give it the full score, a straight 10 out of 10 !!! I loved it and it never gets boring even after watching it for the 6th time !!! "},{"Title":"Stale Horror.","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not much needs to be said about this over-familiar story of a woman harassed by ghosts in her new lakeside house except that the performances are quite good and the budget greater than a much better horror story like Carnival of Souls. Michelle Pfeiffer is beautiful, as always, but the role itself is written strictly by the numbers. She's the helpless victim that no one believes, from any Lifetime Movie Network film of your choice. I don't know why they hired Harrison Ford to be the stereotypical husband. It must have cost them a good deal. But, like other husbands in these flicks, he's a workaholic, skeptical, down-to-earth, and puzzled by Pfeiffer's claims. (He sends her to a shrink.) What a waste of money. Any one of dozens of professional B-level Canadian men could have done the job as well.But why go on? You've seen every second of it before, in one or another film about haunted women in haunted houses. There has to be a best friend who half-believes too, and who tries to help. They usually die. I didn't sit around long enough to see if Diana Scarwid, a fine actress, dies.The musical score borrows heavily from two sources Psycho and The Shining. There is a loud WHOOSH or a WHAM and a piping shriek from Pfeiffer whenever a gust brushes through the shrubbery or the door slowly and ominously creaks open. (The family dog comes in.) The movie never misses a shot, no matter how cheap the thrill.Pfui. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the dullest ghost story, ever made.","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I should have known better, when I saw it was Dreamworks, that it was going to be a snoozer.With a bit of obvious stealing from Hitchock's Rear Window (and even a little nod to Psycho, both in image and soundtrack) if you're looking for a originality, real terror, interesting characters, and compelling acting, you won't find any of it here.Lifestyles of the Anxiously Bored and Wealthy! Watch Michelle Pfeiffer playing a nervous, wealthy housewife, with a singular facial expression, and a ego-maniacal husband, as she putters around her big, empty house... watch the front door open by itself over and over again... watch a picture fall down and shatter over and over again... watch the bathtub being full of water over and over again... watch the story unfold exactly the way you guessed it would, one dull, predictable scene after another... So, so, so thrilling.I kept watching because I really hoped the story would get better... *sigh* No dice. I will say, however, that I did enjoy the photography towards the end of the film (seriously, what took so long?!) If you're looking for a Hitchcockian thriller, why settle for this second-rate wannabe mess? Just go watch Hitchcock, and stay far away from What Lies Beneath. "},{"Title":"Creepy, with a thrilling climax.","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a good scary movie where it will send you and your family/friends huddled together at times, a story about Claire Spencer (Michelle Pfeiffer) who believes her lakeside home in Vermont is haunted by a ghost. Together with her scientist husband Norman (Harrison Ford), they try to seek the truth behind the haunting.While not the best horror movie I've seen, this does stand out a bit from other horror movies, which are typically ghost/killer-on-the-loose flicks, with the screaming protagonists frantically trying to escape or trying to do the antagonists in. This film, on the other hand, has a captivating plot; coupled with the the acting performances of Pfeiffer and Ford make this movie worth a watch. There are also well-executed creepy atmospheres, signaling the appearances of paranormal activity, especially in the eerie bathtub scene.The film keeps the audience guessing if there is really something supernatural going on or some kind of explainable phenomenon. And, it all ties in to a thrilling climax, which is executed well. It's a good horror movie if you plan to scare your friends during a sleepover.Grade B "},{"Title":"The Best Scary Movie  I  have Ever Saw","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" let see I was about 13 years old when i first saw this fantastic film in cinema and it was one of my favorite nights i have ever lived and every time i saw this film it gives me the same feelinga lot of people will say that there are a lot of scary movies more frighten than this one and thats right, but scary isn't the only thing that you will need in a scary film they are a lot of elements you will need to make you feel as you were with them such as Drama | Mystery | Thriller and of course number one is the acting most of the actors these days can't act in this kind of films all they can do is just scream both Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford gave us a fantastic performance ( I still wonder why they didn't get an Oscar nomination! ) even the supporting cast were magnificent in their roles such as Amber Valletta,James Remar and Diana Scarwidfinally if you want to see a great Scary Film with a great cast watch this one you will not be able to turn your face for one second "},{"Title":"Pfeiffer at the peak of her ability","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is sickeningly good. It draws you in and pulls you under, leaving you gasping for air.Very slowly but surely, methodically, the movie removes your sense of agency. It switches effortlessly from comfort to menace, and purposefully limits your perception until the feeling of disorientation becomes total. You're left helpless to do anything but watch events unfold.Pfeiffer, long a favorite for her inscrutable presence, at once commanding and melancholic, inhabits the part as if possessed. Her grace, character and poise lend an intimacy to each scene that turns the spine-chilling climax into an agonizing bit of torture.The photography and post-production is beautiful, with tons of subtle lighting and special effects. Like the musical score, it never dwells, but is always there to remind you what lies beneath. "}{"Title":"Seen this movie so many times, still love it","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie again today. I have seen it at least 5 times. I think it is one really good movie.Acting The acting was great, but thats what you get when you hire 2 amazing actors to be husband and wife in a movie together. Both harrison and michelle did such a good job.Plot The plot is great. Great story and it moves along just fine. Its creepy and 10 years ago it was even more creepy. The struggle/ action shots are very well don't, they are very believable and not all fake looking. I really would recommend this movie to any one that likes creepy, thriller mystery.I i was going to pair this movie with another movie to watch in one evening. I would choose the secret window. "},{"Title":"Goes like this","Date":"4 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" - Turns on the TV, this movie is playing Michelle and Harrison in a horror flick? wow, good stuff - Some minutes pass Wow, nice seeing Harrison not doing his side smile and man, Michelle never ages - Some time later Well, this movie isn't scary at all, I mean... Come on, is this supposed to be scary- Even more time later HOLY F@CKIN S!HT!!! WHAT THE F@CK JUST HAPPENED!! OH MY F@CK!NG GOD, I NEED NEW PANTS In short, this is what to expect from What Lies Beneath. Its a very slow moving film, 99% of it is not scary... But when it hits you, it hits you. This movie has the biggest shocker I've ever seen in my life, and for me, this is the merit of it.It's slow enough to catch you with your pants down and give you the scare of a lifetime. "},{"Title":"What Lies and Scares","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Recently I've been seeing several suspense movies because it's my favorite genre, but I was having trouble in finding a decent one. Well, What Lies Beneath surely goes to the decent list. The photography direction is wonderful, I didn't think a 2000's movie could be that beautiful and well colored as this one. I have to point that this is one of the strongest suspenses I've seen, Robert Zemeckis is congratulated for being so professional and competent in this work; he really knows how to build the atmosphere and surprise the spectator whenever he wants to. The one thing I didn't like much was the story; I found it to be a little pointless and too weak at times, but surely it doesn't spoil the film's overall quality. And also, I wish I could understand why Claire wouldn't move in the bath when she was drowning, why didn't she move, tried to get up or anything? She just got paralyzed and moved her feet, instead of getting up and running away.Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford are really good in this picture and I hope they did that well in all the movies they were in-- sadly, that's not what happened. See What Lies Beneath expecting for a great suspenseful thriller and you'll get what you want. "},{"Title":"Old Fashioned-Thriller","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like the back of the video says Does for bathtubs what 'Psycho' did for showersClaire and Norman (Michelle Pfieffer and Harrison Ford) are the perfect married couple... or so they thought. Claire starts seeing paranormal visions and hears strange whispers, and as she tries to find out who the mystery ghost-woman is, she finds she got a lot more than she bargained for!Wickedly twisted, superbly mystical and wonderfully suspenseful, 'What Lies Beneath' is a brilliant scary movie that doesn't have to rely on gore or run-of-the-mill slashing scenes in order to frighten you.And just when you think the movie is nearing the finish line, the plot takes a turn... again and again and again...Michelle Pfieffer is simply fantastic... 9/10 "},{"Title":"Blows all the others away....","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I watched this movie over the weekend and I don't think I blinked once. The story weaves together articulately some very crucial plot details and thrilling suspense scenes. Harrison Ford plays a husband to Michelle Pfeiffer who is hoping to settle into their new life with their daughter gone to college. Unfortunately, he made one little mistake a long time ago and now its going to haunt them forever. I have gotten used to Zemeckis making such exciting films as Back To The Future and The Frighteners, but this movie honestly blows them all away. Superb story, intense suspense, gripping performances. I loved it. "},{"Title":"Very Good, Overall","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is one of those movies you just gotta watch at night, with all the lights off, and the stereo system cranked up really high. The story is a little sketchy, but overall, this movie pulls it off.I, being a big fan of Harrison Ford, was sure to like it, but I highly recommend it for any movie lover, of any age. (As long as you have the permission of your parents if you're under 13, that is).8/10 stars "},{"Title":"terrifying","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was the scariest movie I have ever seen. While I really liked it, there were times when it got so frightening I wished I could leave the theater. Some obvious Hitchcock techniques were employed, but they were effective. It was awesome and surprising.  "},{"Title":"A fairly good thriller with just one flaw which seriously damages the film","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What lies beneath, is a thriller of the highest quality one must almost think after seeing who is involved in the film. Michelle Pfeiffer, Harrison Ford and Robert Zemeckis as the director. Plus it is produced by a firm partially owned and also funded by Steven Spielberg. Wow, how can this be bad I asked myself before I went to see it, but I had no answer. When I had watched it and asked myself that again, I knew the answer.When you watch this film, you really can see that there was a lot of effort made here, to make an entertaining movie. The acting was good, especially from Ford whom I have never seen so good as in this movie. But maybe that was only in my imagination, because this is somewhat a Ford untypical movie. Further I must really say that the things Zemeckis or the cameraguy did with the cameras was amazing. I mean if I was in charge of Oscars by myself I would give an Oscar here for Best Cinematography. On top of that came a really good story which by itself was really inventive and always surprising, plus it was filled with a couple of scares every thriller of this kind needs. And that, the scares department is exactly where the mistake in the movie is made. The &#145;supposedly' scary scenes are just too predictable at times, mostly because they are too cliché and have been used too often. Other times I just knew what was going to happen and that is something that is very subjective and therefore I think not everyone will think the same way as I do here, because I think there must be a big fat minus be given to this film due to the predictability. This all does not mean there are no scares to me, they are actually a few, I have not seen yet and which really had me jumping out of my seat.At last, there is something I want to say about the ending here. I have heard a bunch of friends and critics on TV or so say that the ending of this movie was not good. Well, sorry but that is not true. I mean if you go there expecting a normal thriller you might be disappointed in some of the events, but if you know that this is a ghost story (most of the time) and you therefore know, supernatural or impossible things will happen it is a perfectly good ending.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of the scariest movies ever!","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WHAT LIES BENEATH***** See this now! **** Great! *** Quite Good! ** Not Horrible, Nor Good. * Big Mistake!I had heard What Lies Beneath was horrible from local reviewers, but I actually really enjoyed this film. It had a well thought-out screenplay and impressive directing effort from Robert Zemeckis. The only then I could complain about was the finale, which seemed rushed and quite silly.Norman Spencer (Harrison Ford) is growing more and more concerned about his lovely wife, Claire (Michelle Pfeiffier). Norman and Claire have just sent their daughter, Catalin (Katharine Towne) away to university, and Claire has no sooner started hearing voices and seeing a dead woman's face in the bath. When Claire starts investigating further, she discovers bizarre and simply horrifying secrets about the locked up secrets of the past, and it grows into life-threatening danger.While Ford seems horribly miscast, Pfeiffier, as usual, pulls off a brilliant performance. She was Oscar-worthy as Claire. What Lies Beneath is one of the scariest movies I have seen to date, and I was so horrified I was almost too afraid to watch anymore of it! In my book, that is quite some achievement.****  "},{"Title":"Proof that there's still spookiness after age 40","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Just when you thought that the horror and occult movies were strictly for a teenage audience along comes What Lies Beneath.Starring Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford, everyone's favourite 40-somethings (or is that 50?), What Lies Beneath proves that life can still be scary even after the kids have left the house.Ford and Pfeiffer play Dr. Norman Spencer and his lovely wife Claire, a couple who've recently seen their daughter go off to college and are now discovering what it's like to live together without the young ones about the house.But not long after their daughter has left, a strange presence enters their lovely lakeside home. The pitter patter of little feet has been replaced by the howls and groans of a ghost.With the good doctor engrossed in his work -- he's a leading geneticist working on a research project for Du Pont -- only Mrs. Spencer is left at home to witness the hauntings.The more the shivers go up Claire's spine, the more engrossed she gets. And the more engrossed she gets, the more I was jumping out of my seat.Yes, I'll admit it. I don't do horror flicks well.(Fortunately, I had eaten most of my popcorn before the suspense really got going). But as tense as I was, the curiosity that came with a well-developed plot kept me in the theatre.This movie features enough twist and turns to rival those of the largest haunted house. And underlying them all is one basic question Who is this poltergeist?Is it the ghost of the woman next door? (The Spencers' neighbours had a habit of taking their fights out onto the front lawn, and one dark and stormy night, the husband is seen putting a bag the size of a body into the trunk of a car).Is it merely a figment of Claire's imagination, as she goes through an `episode' brought on by an `empty nest.' Is it Dr. Spencer's dearly-departed father come back to let them know what he thinks of the remodeling in the house? (He always was a kidder).Or is it something else? (Queue eerie ghost music here). According to those in the know, (such as the National Post) the word on this film is that it `abuses countless suspense clichés and shamelessly rips off Rear Window, yet proves a wild ride.'Rip off or not, I can't say, but I can certainly vouch for the wild ride. In the end, What Lies Beneath is entertaining, and that's what counts. "}{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First The Sixth Sense, then Fight Club, and now What Lies Beneath.  What do these three movies have in common you say?  Well, all three had a huge twist and by the end of the movie, you think you know what's up, but think again. I implore someone to try and tell me why Harrison Ford is not a BAD ASS!  Every single film he has made has been a huge blockbuster!  Harrison Ford and Tom Hanks make up that elite club of actors that can carry a movie all by themselves. This time around, he is teamed up with the ever seductive Michelle Pfeiffer.  Michelle is no youngster herself, however she is still, and she proves in this film, a sex goddess. As great as this movie is, the ending may have not been thought out enough.               ***Warning*** ***Spoiler Ahead***What was up with that woman he killed mysteriously reviving and grabbing him?!?  The film would have been just fine with her just floating up to the surface rubbing up against him.   Also, the movie was a bit long and drug out.  Believe me, I liked this film, however the ending coupled with the extended length of this movie hurt it in the voting department. "},{"Title":"Cast, plot twists make thriller worthwhile","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer is radiant in this above-average thriller. She is convincing as a distraught wife of a professor (Harrison Ford) who hides secrets including his infidelity.  More troubling, is her belief that she is being haunted by a mysterious female ghost.Except for the final 10 minutes of the film, the supernatural plot is credible.  Zemekis  succumbs to the temptation to overcomplicate a logical conclusion to the action.Grab the Drano! This film demonstrates why it is important to keep those bathroom drains clear, and to subscribe to a good Celular phone provider.    Those who have seen the film know what I am talking about!Very enjoyable!   And a new dimension to Harrison Ford.  Wow. "},{"Title":"You may have been drawn in by deception, but this movie is still worth the ticket price.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The trailers for this film made it appear to be another `The Sixth Sense.' The secret to this film isn't about seeing dead people, unless you're referring to the silhouette of Alfred Hitchcock.  Can I tell you my secret? I see `Rear Window,' and hear the score of `Psycho'.  Make no mistake, this film is a tribute to the master of the horror thriller, complete with plot twist.Even camera shots are resurrected from the robust director's style.  The only thing `What Lies Beneath' has that classic Hitchcock didn't was a few digital effects.  Key word few.  The main value of this movie is it's ability to scare the viewer, and yet that is precisely where it lacks.  To an experienced analytical film viewer, not one attempt to make you jump in your seat will be surprising.  Counter wise, anybody who can get into the films they watch is certain to be scared by this film.`What Lies Beneath' stars Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer.  Both deliver perfect performances.  Pfeiffer did a particularly outstanding job of portraying the psychologically troubled wife.  As well as Pfeiffer could act out multiple personalities, Ford could deliver his much loved touch.  I caution you be wary what you think about the plot and characters, because you will be deceived.Overall you may have been drawn in by deception, but this movie is still worth the ticket price.  Good acting, and a solid story give `What Lies Beneath' a thumbs up.  But it's predictability brings it's overall rating to three stars, lest you're a Hitchcock fan, in which case call it four.  "},{"Title":"Creepy, and very enjoyable","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If Alfred Hitchcock had grown up reading Tales from the Crypt, this is a movie he very well might have made. Thankfully, Robert Zemeckis has done a great job turning what would have been just another trite ghost story into that rarity of summer movies an intelligent scary movie. Zemeckis is obviously influenced by the many works that have gone before in this genre. There are many obvious nods to Hitchcock, the afore mentioned Tales, and others; but Zemeckis never over does it.  This is a movie that takes its time, the suspense and tension are slowly, oh so very slowly, cranked up bit by bit until you find yourself fairly squirming in your seat and gripping the arm rests. The work here is masterful. Zemeckis toys with convention, allowing us to see certain surprises coming. The thing is, with all the moments that are obviously acknowledging other films, it's hard to call these moments trite. Instead, I think Zemeckis is using them to lull us into a complacency, into thinking, Ah ha! I know where he's going now. And then he does something just different enough to keep us involved. It results in a structure that allows him to deliver jolt after jolt, and deliver is exactly what Zemeckis does, raising the ante each time. This is not a slam-bang slash fest. This is a slowly developing thriller that ultimately delivers the goods. A great summer movie, and a great date movie if you want her to hang on to you. "},{"Title":"It's no lie, this is one scary flick, with good performances","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Claire (Michelle Pfeiffer) is seemingly-happily married to East Coast professor, Norman (Harrison Ford). Their only child, a daughter, has just gone off to college and Claire, admittedly, is suffering from empty nest syndrome. This is compounded by the fact that Norman is often away from the house, a lovely, lakeside property. All of a sudden, strange things start to happen at home, including doors opening on their own, damp floors, faucets left on while lights go out and the general feeling that someone is watching. Norman seems pretty unconcerned about the happenings and dismisses most of Claire's misgivings as coincidences. But, he doesn't really calm his lovely wife and, with the arrival of strange new neighbors, Claire is doubly spooked. As she searches for evidence of her own sanity, Claire stumbles upon secrets that involve Norman and a former student. Just what lies beneath the surface of a longtime married couple's relationship? This is a truly eerie film, with a great deal of dripping water, faces in mirrors, and bathtub frights. It has been said that this film does for tubs what Psycho did for showers and its true! Pfeiffer and Ford make one truly great acting duo, although fans of Ford may be surprised at his choice of roles. The supporting cast is fine, too. As for the watery setting, it is beautiful and edgy at the same moment, with a gorgeous home turned into house of horrors, at times. Costuming, script, and a suspenseful direction all add to film's power to entertain, creepily. Even if you don't really care for scary movies, give this one a try, all you film fans, especially if you like Pfeiffer or Ford. Although it is absolutely not a slasher/bloodbath movie, it can liven up an otherwise dull evening at home, definitely. "},{"Title":"This is such a great movie!!","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Depending on the viewer, What Lies Beneath can be classified as either a thriller, or as a drama with elements of a thriller. I am going to go with the latter, as Director Robert Zemekis refrains from using the stuff of slasher flicks and horror films, and instead opts for tearing down our innate human hope that everything will turn out OK in the end through silence and dishonesty . This is a film that keeps you pinned to the T.V. set with its crescendo building suspense and interesting and mysterious characters.Dr. Norman Spencer (Harrison Ford) and his wife Claire Spencer (Michelle Pfeiffer), a seemingly happily married couple, have some adjusting to do after their only daughter leaves for college one late summer morning. Their secluded New-England style home set in the midst of the greens and lakes of Vermont seems the perfect retreat for Claire, who, it is evident, has been suffering from a bout of empty-nest syndrome since her daughter's recent departure. This seemingly perfect sanctuary however is itself the ironic twist of the story, for as soon as Claire is given a chance to embrace its warmth by herself, its warmth is &#150; well- gone. With Norman, her accomplished geneticist husband, working all day in the lab and preparing for an upcoming conference, Claire begins to find her life in solitude eerie. Slowly but surely Claire begins to witness strange things inside of what should be the safest place around. Doors begin opening without anyone's touch, radios start blaring without a soul in sight, pictures perfectly centered on tables falling to the ground, and the bathtub is always full and yet no one is bathing. I know, I know, it sounds crazy, maybe even a bit giggle worthy, but it's not at all like that. Pair these events with the soft, eerie classical scores playing in the background, dark walls and rooms with only small candles for light, and Michelle Pfeiffer's watery eyes and genuinely concerned-looking pout, and you'll have yourself some loud and fast heartbeats. The thing is however, many will jump to classify this film as a horror picture, when in reality there are no knives, massacres, or weird creatures, just a woman alone dealing with some strange stuff. Claire tells Norman of the unnatural occurrences, first casually and almost in an amused kind of way, and eventually with a voice full of fear and worry and eyes full of tears when they continue to occur. The audience will see the empathy Ford's character feels for his wife from the start. He is always consoling her, reminding her that it's OK to be sad that her daughter left. After some time however, he begins to think that she is not mentally well and sends her to a psychiatrist when she continues to speak of ghosts and voices. The audience too will begin to wonder if Kaitlin's exit from home combined with her newfound loneliness has thrust Claire into lunacy. The audience will wonder lots of things in What Lies Beneath, trying to get to the bottom of it all. In the end, What Lies Beneath is a film about a woman, her husband, and their home, with all its unsettling secrets. This movie will leave you guessing for a long while and I won't elaborate much more as to preserve its shocking and chilling finale, but I will say that this is a masterpiece; a film definitely worth seeing.What Lies Beneath has some Hitchcock references, some red herrings, and plenty of foreshadowing. Re-watching this movie, I was able to pick up little clues as to what is really going on in the Spencer household. Director Robert Zemeckis perfectly cast Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer in their roles, as they mold their characters into ones who win our empathy from the start. Pfeiffer always looks worried and frail, full of curiosity and naivety, while Ford always depicts immense concern and love for his wife, with a touch of sarcasm to his few words. Pfeiffer is in every scene of the film, and carries the film on her not-so-strong shoulders. Ford has little to do for the first half of the film except console and support his wife, but come the shuddering second half, he will be around lots more. This is a different kind of role for Ford, but he plays his role so wonderfully, you will hope he chooses more roles like this in the future. His performance is flawless! Ford and Pfeiffer have stellar chemistry; their connection works and it adds to the appeal of the film.Zemeckis prefers long-shots so that the audience might pick up clues as to what is going on in this house through the elaborate and beautiful scenery, but includes close-ups to show the audience how the characters are feeling during intense scenes. The dialogue is kept to a minimum, letting facial expressions narrate the story for a more emotional and compelling effect. Zemeckis also plays around with different camera angles, especially towards the end of the film. He switches from low angle shots to high angle shots depending on who has the greater point or voice in a particular scene. He also sticks with low-key angles, adding to the suspense of the picture.What Lies Beneath is wonderfully crafted; a delight of a picture. It teaches, above all else, not to stray too far from home in all respects of the saying. Watch this movie because you will love it! It gets an A+!! "},{"Title":"Eerie, Engrossing Thriller From Robert Zemeckis.","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath is an engrossing, Hitchcockian horror mystery that centers on Claire Spencer (Michelle Pfeiffer), who is happily married to Doctor Norman Spencer (Harrison Ford). Her daughter, Caitlin leaves for college, leaving a somewhat saddened Claire alone in her large lake-side home alone most of the time while Norman is busy with his work. As Claire spends more time alone in her house, she begins to suspect a ghost may be inhabiting her home after a number of odd occurrences... but could the ghost be linked to the neighboring couple, whom which Claire has had some very strange experiences. Or could the spirit be more close to home? A tightly-scripted and well-paced horror mystery, What Lies Beneath is one of the more recent, slow-going and old fashioned horror movies to be released. I enjoyed this movie a lot, and I remember watching it when it was first released and being very scared of it. It still holds up as a scary movie, even though I've gotten older, and still gets a few good jolts out of me. The strange thing about this movie is that it starts off like your conventional haunted house tale, minus the fact that our protagonist has already lived in the house for a number of years and never experienced anything out of the ordinary. Aside from that, it seems like it will be your typical ghost movie, but the catch is that it doesn't really give you much to go on for the first half of the movie. It keeps the core of the plot shrouded in mystery, while progressing towards it's revelation.Very good work from the writers here, the story is well-told and provides a sufficient amount of shocks and some creepy moments amidst a spooky atmosphere. I think the story is effective because the supernatural occurrences begin happening out of the blue - what if you're home, which you've happily lived in, suddenly becomes a terrifying place? That premise is frightening. Is Claire going crazy? Or is there really a ghost? This idea reminds me quite a bit of the 1971 horror film, Let's Scare Jessica To Death, which has a similar story and setting. Exceptional acting here from Michelle Pfeiffer as our lead, she conveys an emotionally crumbling woman who is dealing with the supernatural, and Harrison Ford plays her loving but lost husband. Cinematography is very nice here, and the film looks spectacular. When the film reaches it's surprising climax, you will most definitely be on the edge of your seat.Overall, What Lies Beneath is an excellent, first-rate horror mystery that is much better than most of the recent horror junk. Strong acting from Pfeiffer and Ford, plus a very suspenseful and eerie story, and some excellent scare scenes make this a must-see for genre fans. And for those who think a PG-13 rating means bad news, don't worry - this movie is excellent, the rating here really means nothing, it's much scarier than you would assume. I'd strongly recommend this film for anyone wanting to experience a solid suspense movie. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Blatant homage to Hitchcock, but a fine film in its own right!","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath will always be remembered as Robert Zemeckis' homage to Alfred Hitchcock. From the opening credits to the stunning climax, the techniques of the master are unashamedly paid tribute to. The music, the camera-work, the building up of suspense, the characters names etc. are all straight from numerous classic Hitchcock films such as Vertigo, Rear Window and Psycho. But while it may seem quite stupid to try to copy such a brilliant director's work (the Psycho remake comes to mind), Zemeckis has surprisingly created a great film here.Clair and Norman appear to be a happily married couple. They clearly have money, a beautiful house and a daughter heading towards her own successful career. But when Claire suspects her neighbor of murdering his wife, her world suddenly begins to crumble around her. Not only is she constantly spying on the suspicious activities next door, but she also becomes aware of a presence within her own house. While those around her (Norman included) believe her to be losing her sanity, Claire searches deeper for answers which inevitably leads her to repressed memories that, with the help of beautiful girl long dead, lead her to a shocking revelation that sends her marriage and mental state into turmoil.When reading the above plot, you may feel that this is nothing new. There have been countless movies over the years with ghosts attempting to communicate with the living to reveal the cause of their demise. In fact, there are plenty of cliché moments in What Lies Beneath. But the film is so beautifully and lovingly made that it is thoroughly entertaining nonetheless. Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford are both fantastic and completely convincing throughout. Pfeiffer in particular has a tough role to get through here, having to be both extremely vulnerable and steamily sexual at various times. She is always beautiful, but at the age of 42, she is simply stunning and captivating as Clair. But it's Zemeckis' direction that stands out as exceptional. The film is quite long at 2 hours, but this running time is used to build up the intensity. What starts out as reasonably cheap scares, turn into genuinely frightening ones by the second hour. There are some great set pieces (the bath scene in particular is a classic) and CGI is seamlessly utilized throughout, particularly as a tool for camera trickery.I know this film has its detractors and I can honestly understand the qualms that they raise. But a good film is a good film in my book, regardless of its origin or blatant worshiping status. What Lies Beneath gave me exactly what I wanted with some great scares, masses of suspense and intrigue, topped off with fantastic visuals, sound, acting and direction. What more could I possibly ask for in a thriller!? "},{"Title":"An almost first class thriller, but not quite there","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath has an excellent premise, and starts off as a rather spooky ghost story that will guarantee the viewer bone chilling scares within the first hour. But the story, the scares, everything seems to fall apart midway through.A-list celebrity Michelle Pfeiffer (one of my favorite actresses, I might add) plays Claire Spencer, a house wife married to Norman Spencer (the legendary Harrison Ford). Their daughter has just gone away to college, and with Norman gone at work all day long, Claire is pretty much left all alone at her home until night. Claire is a little depressed, but keeps herself busy gardening. One day, however, she encounters a wildly sobbing neighbor. She's hysterical, and Claire, being her nosy, middle-aged self, attempts to comfort her and asks what's wrong. She ignores her, of course, crying hysterically in her own little world. Claire, worried, tells her husband Norman later that night, but he tells her to mind her own business. Claire ignores him, and she and her friends spy on their neighbors house throughout the day. When they see the husband carrying an implied life bag with her body in in, putting it the back seat of his car, she is convinces that her husband murdered his wife.But the story doesn't end there. Her lights sometimes randomly go out. The door swings open every now and then. And then a frightening message appears on the mirror. Claire is convinced that her house is haunted by the spirit of her murdered neighbor. What will she do? How will she put the spirit to rest? The first hour of the movie is extremely scary, suspenseful, and has a genuinely creep atmosphere. But then there comes a twist about midway through. A bad twist, and the whole hour of the movie goes to waste, and doesn't seem to relate at all to the movie's original plot. The first hour just seemed like a scapegoat. I'm not going to give it away, but it was a disappointing turn in the movie.The movie runs 130 minutes long, where it could have been cut down to a mere 100 minutes. The twist is where it started going downhill. There are still a few more scares throughout and a few more Oh get out of there! Wait! Don't do that! Get your butt out of there!! moments, but the first hour easily swallows the second hour and eats it for supper. After the twist, the movie seems to drag on. Suddenly, we don't seem to care about the story, what happens next, and it becomes somewhat boring.The first half of the movie is thrilling, while the second half has it's moments, but the movie as a whole fails to live up to expectations thanks to the ending.However, the movie has gotten some great reviews so maybe it's ll down to taste. The acting is top notch (what else would you expect from Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford?) and it's overall a good, ghost story to watch on a Saturday night. Definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"Sometimes a bit unbelievable, but it has some good things to offer as well.","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It seems to me that many people don't like this movie only because it reminds them too much of what Hitchcock made in his time. Personally I'm not too familiar with Hitchcock's work (although I know Psycho, Rear Window and The Birds, but who doesn't?), but if it is true that the movie is full of references to the Master of Suspense's movies, than I guess the man himself might have liked it. Personally I would see it as an honor if they made an homage to my work and I definitely wouldn't immediately call it a rip-off like some people over here do.The story in this movie is very nice. It starts with showing us a family (man, wife and daughter) that is about to change. The daughter will soon move out of the house because she is going to college. Of course you know what this will do to the mother. She suffers from the empty-nest syndrome and even starts to see things that aren't actually there. But gradually she finds out that she isn't going insane and that her husband has kept a terrible secret for her...I liked the performances by Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer a lot, but than again, what else but a fine performance can you expect if you are talking about these two actors. The other actors also did a very good job and yet the movie didn't entirely convince me. I sometimes wondered if the director really had a good plan of where he was going with this movie. Sometimes I had the feeling it was a bit messy, but most of all, a bit unbelievable (for instance when Claire stands at the water with a bit of the girl's hair in her hands and then is drawn to the bottom of the lake by it). Nevertheless, this is still a fine thriller that offers some good suspense, a good story and some nice acting. That's why I give it a 7/10. "}{"Title":"Excellent horror/thriller.","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ***REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS*** Don't read unless you have already seen this movie.The movie is very original in many ways and not like other horror and thriller movies at all.The best thing about What Lies Beneath is that it keeps surprising with many plot twist and it knows how to combine the horror and the thriller elements in a most excellent way.The first 30 minutes are a stroke of genius. It starts of like an Hitchcock like thriller but after the fist 30 minutes your realize it was only a distraction and that the real story and plot is about something completely different.And yes, the movie is scary too. It has lot's of scary moments that will scare you time after time.Michelle Pfeiffer is simply brilliant and is a great leading lady. Harrison Ford also pulls of quite well, the first 1 and a half hours or so, as a good loving husband/father and the last 30 minutes as a really scary villain. It was amazing to see Harrison Ford in a villain role, it's too bad he never portrays villains because he really has a talent for it.The movie also features some great many long scene's with excellent camera work that really builds up the tension. It shows that Robert Zemeckis has a great talent for horror and timing.The best combination of thriller and horror I have ever seen with many surprising plot twist.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Deep and brilliant horror by Zemeckis","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best horror films I have ever seen. Robert Zemeckis really seems to have a knack about death as you compare this to his previous title Death becomes her. A little warning however If you are going to watch this film you are better off not knowing too much specifics about the plot. It may dampen the feeling a little.This film begins with quite an easy feeling. You just have some ordinary people living their ordinary lives. But there are also other forces at work you can`t see with your eyes. The plot thickens as the film goes by  and it gets more and more horrible. A really remarkably well built tension mounts and in the end you feel like screaming. Especially if you are watching this alone in the dark room.I think this film has something more in it than just the horror feeling. To my opinion the plot is a really remarkable one. It is brilliant, deep and horrifying (I`m not talking about special effects here). It goes all the way to the darkest places in human mind. You begin to wonder of what we humans are really capable. The plot also has some very surprising shifts. Just when you think you have adapted to this deep horror you get swept off your feet.If you are ready to face your deepest fears just wait till nightfall, turn off the light and watch this film. "},{"Title":"A GREAT SUSPENSE FILM!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ` What lies beneath ' is a thriller worth watching again and again. It holds on the Hitchcockian tradition, providing misleading elements, interesting characters, an atmosphere of mystery and an unexpected ending. The film is about a happily married couple - maybe too happy &#150; which lives with their daughter in a beautiful manor by the sea. He, Norman Spencer is a successful scientist who holds Dupont Genetic Chair as well as the perfect husband and father. She, Claire Spencer is an attractive wife and a caring mother who is very close to her friend Jody. It all seems too perfect&#133; But underneath the still surface lies a sinister secret that waits to be discovered.It's only when daughter Caitlin moves out for college that strange things start to happen. The door keeps opening by itself, the computer is switched on by an invisible hand, the bathtub fills constantly with hot water and a photograph showing Claire and Norman falls down again and again. Claire hears strange whispers and sees a ghostly woman face in the water of the bathtub and the lake. Claire starts to suspect that the neighbor has murdered his wife and is determined to prove it. But then, many turns in the plot follow and the audience feels both surprised and shocked.As for the acting, the performances of the whole cast and especially of the leading trio, are brilliant. Diana Scarwid is very effective and innovative as Jody providing the film with an amusing and refreshing air. Harrison Ford, a veteran in acting, is absolutely convincing as Norman, following with amazing accuracy every turn of the plot. However, the most outstanding performance in the film is that of Michelle Pfeiffer. She plays a physically and emotionally demanding part with admirable genuineness and devotion.The music completes the film in every way by being chilling, mysterious, dreamy or threatening, sometimes tense and sometimes gentle. Along with the realistic and haunting sound effects creates the perfect atmosphere. As for the visual effects, although quite conventional, they still have the power to shock. Throughout the film, images become darker and darker as the camera follows the development of the story.Director Robert Zemeckis set out to create the perfect thriller about the idea of the surface under which nothing is quite as it seems to be. He brought it off with incredible precision and dedication, by revealing the true nature of people. As the reflective surfaces bring truth to light, we realize that What lies beneath is not only an excellent thriller but a brilliant social satire too.Rating5/5 "},{"Title":"A jump out of your seat horror/thriller.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A happy couple are haunted by a ghost in their own home.The woman keeps seeing the ghost and it turns out the husband knows who the ghost is and is hiding it from the wife.What lies beneath is a menacing thriller what proves to be one of the best jump from your seat thrillers ever. I saw it in the cinema a couple of years ago and I jumped from my seat several times.It doesn't lack on suspense either.The suspense will keep you right on the edge of your seat (especially the end). The bathtub sequence will make you look behind you everytime you want a bath,and it has alot of twists and turns which will keep you guessing until the very end.I would take this as a warning rather than a review,it is more creepier than most things I have seen and it could happen to anyone.Some scenes in the film will just grab you and take your breath away. By the end of the film you will be shaken,the reaction of what happens is shocking and it is something if you decide to watch again,you won't want to watch on your own.I strongly reccommend 5/5. "},{"Title":"My Bonnie Lies Under the Ocean","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well-crafted thriller about a woman that is haunted by a spirit in need.  Michelle Pfeiffer plays the gutsy little woman who has recently moved with her husband and daughter to the country on a lake.  Pfeiffer plays her part fairly nicely as she is slowly spooked and then drawn into helping the girl who won't let her forget she is somewhere out there.  Director Bob Zemeckis does a nice job with the directorial duties, however, should have shortened the film by at least an half hour.  The film is very slow in the beginning and way too drawn out.  The last 45 minutes or so, however, make up for the plodding beginning.  If for no other reason, everyone should see this film to see the performance of Harrison Ford.  Ford plays totally out of character as a well....see for yourself.  In the tradition of other good guy actors taking on roles that were complete opposites of their screen persona such as Henry Fonda in Once Upon a Time in the West, Harrison Ford excels in showing us another side of him.  It is so shocking because it is so unexpected, not in the sense of what is going on in the film but rather by attacking preconceived notions of Ford.  That makes his performance so powerful.  Aside from that, the film has some good scares and breath-taking cinematography.   "},{"Title":"*spoilers*","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I personally loved this film. Especially since it made my boyfriend yell. I've never seen him jump before it was quite funny. I enjoyed the pacing. There were problems with the plot. For example, there really was no purpose to finding the necklace. It was a lousy plot device.  If she had found the necklace after finding the key and then visited the girl's mother and saw her wearing the necklace it would have made more sense. I knew the neighbor situation was a red herring. Even though it was predictable I still got chills and was scared. Few movies creep me out. Seven and Silence of the Lambs were both movies that made me ill at ease and I felt sort of tainted. I don't enjoy those feelings and so have no plans to watch those films again. I do enjoy the 6th sense, poltergeist, the changeling, and other movies that explore hauntings. I think I prefer supernatural evil to man made evil. The existance of ghosts prove that there is an after life. The existance of Hannibal the cannibal proves that if there isn't a hell there should be.  "},{"Title":"An excellent supernatural suspense thriller","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Robert Zemeckis has made a career out of melding excellent stories with great visual effects (`Who Framed Roger Rabbit', `Back to the Future', `Forrest Gump').  He is a very versatile director who can adeptly shift from genre to genre.  In this film, he again demonstrates his talent, creating a spooky supernatural thriller delivering some of the best suspense I've seen in years.The story by Sarah Kernochan (`9 ½ Weeks', `Sommersby') where the dead victim communicates with someone living to finger the killer is not innovative and has been done numerous times in various forms.  What makes this film good is Zemeckis' presentation.  It has elements of Hitchcock suspense with the benefit of modern technology and visual effects.  Zemeckis' use of camera and sound produces extraordinary suspense and startling surprises that make viewers jump out of their seats.  There is a lot of silence in this film with no background music which makes the surprises that much more dramatic.  He peppers the film with false alarms so you never know if the buildup is for something genuinely scary or just the dog.  Though none of the techniques is new, they are all used extremely effectively.  The film creates terror with very little gore and violence, proving that the use of these techniques in horror films is overdone and unnecessary.  Often what we don't see is far more frightening than what we do.The acting in this film is outstanding.  Michelle Pfeiffer gives a brilliant performance as Claire; the overwrought wife who everyone thinks is losing her mind when she starts talking about communing with the dead.  Pfeiffer takes her character right to the edge and her hysterical fear at the events that transpire is awesome.  Harrison Ford plays an unaccustomed role, departing from his normal white hat hero.  He shows great range by handling the sinister aspects of his character nefariously.  Diana Scarwid also gives an enjoyable performance as Claire's best friend.Though this film doesn't redefine the genre, it is a fine example of frightening suspense under the guidance of a talented director.  I rated it an 8/10.  Be prepared for a heart pounding experience. "},{"Title":"Chill 'er up","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Both Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer have had tremendous careers, filled with success both artistic and financial. Both are A-list stars, among the most bankable in Hollywood. And director Robert Zemeckis is no slouch either, having helmed (among others) such Tom Hanks vehicles as Forrest Gump and Cast Away. You wouldn't think such a cast and director would deign to be in a horror film, albeit one with a sizable budget, but here they are, in this wonderful, captivating thriller.Claire (Pfeiffer) and Norman (Ford) are a well-to-do married couple living on a somewhat palacial lakeside estate in Vermont. Norman's a research scientist and spends much of his time finishing papers and giving lectures while Claire stays at home, dealing with the emotional aftereffects of a recent car crash.Norman has a stepdaughter, Caitlin, who goes off to college at the beginning of the movie. For the first time in years, Claire is alone in the house, and she notices strange things afoot. She experiences some strange phenomena, including a woman's reflection in her bathwater. The fragile Claire is convinced the disturbances have something to do with the strange couple next door, and urges her husband to look into the matter. He finds nothing, of course, and asks her to see a therapist, thinking that his lovely wife is still unstable.But the therapist recommends contacting whatever might be causing the disturbances, and that's when the fun begins. Is this a typical haunted house story? Assuredly not, dear friend. The people in the house are not killed off one by one until the Hero and Heroine face the Ghost in a Bull Run standoff. This is a fascinating thriller, with the audience with Claire all the way. There are more twists to this plot than in the typical tax form. Many screenwriters keep horror/thriller plots as simple as possible to avoid confusion and to avoid stepping on their own toes. Sarah Kernochan and Clark Gregg do not take any shortcuts here, though. Every turn is a hair-raising ride; every other scene is jaw-dropping. It would be easy to throw in everything but the kitchen sink, but when that happens you have a plot filled with nonsequiturs. Not so here, folks. You know how sometimes critics tell you not to look too closely at the plot, because then the holes show through? Go ahead, I dare you to look closely at this one.Zemeckis directed this while he was on hiatus from Cast Away (which was necessary so Tom Hanks could get in the right shape for the rest of the movie). Some people mock Zemeckis for being simply a director of films that simply appeal to the masses; he's criticized for being successful despite himself. His work here, however, shows how talented he really is. For example, many directors rely on loud soundtracks to sell their blockbuster films. But in What Lies Beneath, Zemeckis made great use of the ultimate sound - silence. And that's how you make a creepy movie, folks. The guys behind The Blair Witch Project knew it, too. What you DON'T see in a movie is always scarier than what you DO see. And with no sound, the eeriness factor grows exponentially.This certainly makes it onto the list of my favorite films of the year. You gotta see this!  "},{"Title":"Scary, suspenseful, and very entertaining.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *** out of ****What Lies Beneath is an effective entry into the horror genre (though it's basis lies more in the roots of Hitchcock and suspense/thrillers in general), which has been collapsing under the strain of terrible teen-based films.  This time, we have Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, two fine middle-aged performers who are both in top form here.  So is Robert Zemeckis, whose 3 year hiatus has grown a build-up for his fans-including me-out there expecting some quality cinema, and while this film isn't the classic his previous 2 were (Forrest Gump and Contact), it's far better than what a lot of critics have given it credit for.Norman and Claire Spencer (Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, respectively) are a happily married New England couple whose grown-up daughter just left home for college.  Claire is getting adjusted to that fact, at the same time trying to get adjusted to the new house they've just moved into.To get her mind off her troubles, Claire decides to meet their neighbors, another married couple, James and Mary Feur.  But Claire begins to suspect there's something wrong in the Feur household.  First, she notices Mary sobbing uncontrollably and trying to hide from her husband when he returns home from work.  Then, one night she sees the husband put in a giant bag into the car, large enough to fit a person.  Her observations for the next few days lead her to believe that the husband has killed his wife, and her beliefs are only heightened when she believes there's ghost inside her house trying to tell her something.  I'm trying to be a little vague about the film, simply because it's a lot better not to know the plot twists and turns.  The trailers gave too much away, and thus led me to correctly predict the film's big plot twist even before I actually went to see the movie.  But that isn't the movie's flaw, and I'm sure that the twist would be surprising for the uninitiated.This is Robert Zemeckis' first foray in this genre, and he does a superb job.  Even though the jump scenes-of which there are a huge amount of-may seem a little obvious, it's only Zemeckis paying homage to films of the past.  And when they're as well-executed as it was in this film, those scenes can be very effective (lots of people actually screaming in the theater). Zemeckis also creates one magnificent set piece involving a bathtub (you'll know when you see it).  This is the sort of sequence that reminds me of Brian De Palma, in which camerawork, the acting, and the situation itself-little to no special effects-are all that's used to create suspense.  I've noticed a lot of complaints about the finale, which some found interfered with the tone and pacing of the previous 110 minutes.  The film was derided for switching from a ghost story to something similar in Fatal Attractions.  There is some truth in that, but the finale is also thrilling and suspenseful, thus lessening any sort of true negative impact it might have had if the scenes were less competently executed.The only 2 performers who are given a substantial amount of screen time are Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, and both are terrific.  Ford as the loving husband is always convincing and Pfeiffer as the woman who thinks she could either be going out of her mind or actually witnessing a supernatural phenomena is equally good.  The film is really hers, though, since she's the one that does the investigation while the others have doubts about what she's saying.  The supporting performances are from Joe Morton as a pyschiatrist and Diana Scarlid as Claire's best friend are decent, though neither are given a lot of screen time.  James Remar as the husband who may or may not have killed his wife is chilling in the scenes he does appear in.  The amount of critical bashing What Lies Beneath received leads me to believe that some people view this movie with too much of a harsh eye and need to believe that every film of this sort absolutely has to be unpredictable.  To some respect, I can agree with the critics who say the first 2/5 of the movie is perfunctory, but only to a certain point.  This is a far too enjoyable thriller for me to criticize substantially.To be honest, Clark Gregg's script doesn't have an ounce of originality in it.  The storyline is quite reminiscent of last year's Stir of Echoes.  But originality really doesn't matter that much in comparison to how well it's executed.  And in the case of What Lies Beneath, you have a very well-crafted thriller that was easily one of the best films of summer 2000 in a season of weak entries.  "},{"Title":"One of the most intelligent horror movies in years...","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *****out of*****Robert Zemeckis has always been one of my favorite film directors just for one reason... he seems to know what he`s doing... Even as a writer, he knows how to have fun with his movies. It`s not only a job for him, he enjoys doing it and the audience can sense it... He`s been able to cover almost every genre The back to the Future Trilogy, was a science fiction teenage comedy for all ages with a western part on it. Who Framed Roger Rabbit, was a technology marvel. Death Becomes Her, was a delightful black comedy (as we, in Mexico, call those kind of movies that make you laugh at things you`re not supposed to, like Pulp Fiction and Fargo), Forrest Gump, is an excellent lesson as how things can be done easily with just an innocent point of view. The innocent part of America portrayed in Forrest and its darker side seen on the persona of Jenny. Contact was, more than a simple alien or third encounter story, it was a philosophical treatment on human kind and humanity, how would we really react before a world event of this magnitude... Didn`t you feel as if you were in front of a mirror? And now, What Lies Beneath, the latest approach by Zemeckis at cinema perfection. A horror thriller with a supernatural approach that can make your skin tickle and your body jump from your seat. And it is even a great homage to director Alfred Hitchcock. We can see clear references to Psycho and Rear Window in little details as names, story ideas and even Alan Silvestri`s music has a bit of music that clearly reminds to Bernard Herrman`s Psycho opening credits one. I have to say that the Story is great and that the cinematography is the technical element that gives the mood for the entire film.Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer are superb!  I can`t imagine why some people don`t seem to like this movie... I think maybe we just try to compare every movie we see with movies we`ve seen before and try to find some similarities between them. This movie doesn`t have the frantic editing of Teen Slasher movies like Scream or I Know What You Did Last Summer, instead, this is a movie that takes its time for the audience to take it seriously and the pace may be a little slow for some, but I do like a movie that does not rush itself to get to the climax scenes as a showdown resource... The Blair Witch Project, was this kind of movie and that`s why I think they work so well... They surround you with the ambiance, with the feeling and the mood they want and then they get you trapped and don`t let go until the end... Watch it carefully and observe all the details that you could usually miss. If you`ve already seen it, go watch it again... I`ve seen it three times and that`s one thing I love about this kind of movies... You can watch them 100 times and always found new tiny details you`ve missed the first 99. At least this REALLY IS some kind of MATURE horror movie... or supernatural thriller...call the way it suits you the most... BUT PLEASE DON`T DARE MISS IT! You`ll beg for another scare, or maybe for the next one to be the last!  I would like to dare you and find the almost impossible camera movements and (at least for me) great editing technics in this movie and in Contact...It`s almost impossible, but if you can do it, you`ll enjoy them the most!  "}{"Title":"Finally a horror movie worth seeing.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Finally a horror movie worth seeing. Zemeckies is a real fine artist. To the pure Hitchcock style, he recreated the smart horror flick.Even paying homage to the master himself, by recreating scenes obviously inspired by such classics as; Rear Window, Vertigo, Psycho and Marnie. Not only did the Forest Gump director only recreated scenes, he also took some clichés Alfred Hitchcock took in his films, for example; beautiful women, a staircase, alcool, and splendid car scenes...This intense film, has a powerful and intense soundtrack as well. We can directly link this with the superb music Bernard Hermann composed for many of Hitchcock's classics.Robert Zemeckis took a close attention to the visual details in this film. Making smart suspenseful camera movements. Taking the present special effect technology, without taking it to a level which would give it a overly done display of cinematographical stupidity, in occurrence Star Wars...!!Pfeiffer is stunning in this drama. We are reminded of maybe Tippy Hedren or the beautiful Grace Kelly. Her portryal of a woman slowly going mad is perhaps one of the most charming aspects of this film.  Ford delivers a powerhouse performance as always, I would even say, slightly more incredible in this one. We can't help but notice an interesting mixture of Norman Bates and Scotie Ferguson (Vertigo).Not just Hitchcock has Zemeckis been inspired or influenced in this film, but numerous movies and directors. I saw a scene, which I thought was inspired by the big film, Titanic. I saw a direct link to last years block buster The Sixth Sense with visuals almost as good as that scary thriller. I did also detect a hint of the classic terror film, Cape Fear, with a deadly twist and mindbending conclusion.For all of you who are sick of all that comercial dog crap, like Pokemon or X-men, and want to re-live the days when acting and film making was an art, please by all means, SEE this film........  "},{"Title":"A Hitchcockian Spine-Chiller","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't think Alfred Hitchcock ever made a movie about ghosts, but if he did, it may have been something like What Lies Beneath. The film is stuffed with references to Hitch's work with nods to Psycho, Rear Window and Vertigo. The Master would have been chuckling to himself watching this in the theatre.Michelle Pfeiffer plays a woman suffering from empty nest syndrome after her daughter leaves home for college. Not long after this upsetting event, Michelle suddenly starts seeing and hearing strange things in her house. Is she going mad or is it something paranormal? Harrison Ford plays her rich scientist husband and he spends most of the time trying to figure out what is happening to his wife and cope with the changes in her behaviour.It's rare for a major Hollywood movie to star a middle-aged actress these days and even rarer for the heroine she's playing to be a lonely, depressed middle-aged woman (that must have been a tough sell to the studio!) and it's a refreshing change to see that.Michelle Pfeiffer looks stunning and is holding up well for her age (or rather her magnificent cheekbones are holding her age up well!). She's perfectly cast in the role of the Hitchcock blonde (Hitchcock would have LOVED Michelle Pfeiffer, she would have been right up his street).For me, this is one of Harrison Ford's best performances. You'll see him in a new light after this. It's a departure from the normal roles he plays.Robert Zemeckis does a great job as director as the film shifts gears from low-key psychological drama, to mystery thriller and into the area of the supernatural too. There are some spine-tingling twists and nerve-wracking moments of suspense that will have you on the edge of your seat.I remember going to see this in the cinema on a dull, chilly Sunday afternoon in October (perfect weather for watching a scary movie) with my late mother and my sister and we thoroughly enjoyed it. It became a family favourite on DVD later. Whenever I watch it now, I remember how much my mother liked it (she knew a good movie when she saw one!) and you will too. BOO! (He, he, scared ya!) "},{"Title":"Comes out victorious as an original and engaging supernatural thriller","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Anyone who has read most (or all) of my reviews so far, probably knows that i'm quite a horror/thriller buff. If done right, this genre really knows how to pump up your adrenaline and keep you coming back for more each time around. In this specific case, what's so good about the film (What Lies Beneath) starts out with the mere cast & crew list. When you have Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfieffer as your lead stars on the one hand, and the extremely talented Robert Zemeckis on the other &#150; there are only limited ways in which you can go wrong. Luckily for us viewers, What Lies Beneath manages to escape these clichés and come out victorious as an original and engaging supernatural thriller all the way.The plot revolves around Norman and Claire Spenser (Ford/Pfieffer), a middle aged couple who's seemingly going through a mid-life crisis when Claire's daughter (from her first marriage) leaves home. However, we find out soon enough that things that may seem idyllic on the surface are far from it when viewed upon closely. When Claire begins to have visions of a missing young college student and goes through supernatural experiences, her picture perfect life turns out to be a far cry from what she thought.Most Important thing about this film, though, is its re-watchable value. Every time I catch it on cable TV, I realize something new I haven't noticed before. Just for that it deserves recognition in my book. "},{"Title":"One Of The Scariest Horror/Thrillers I Have Seen In A Long Time!, Yes It's Not Original But It's Still A Wonderful Film With 2 Incredible Performances From Ford And  Pfeiffer","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the scariest horror/thrillers i have seen in a long time!, yes it's not original, but it's still a wonderful film, with 2 incredible performances from Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer. All the characters are wonderful!, and the story is extremely chilling!, plus Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer are simply incredible in this!. The finale is absolutely shocking as i didn't expect that at all!, and you won't guess who the killer is very easy!, plus the ending is very creepy, and fit the film perfectly!. Yes it rips off plenty of movies, however that being said it also has lots of ideas of it's own, and it ha plenty of awesome jump scares as well!, plus Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer had wonderful chemistry together!. The bathtub scenes are extremely creepy!, and i thought Pfieffer was incredibly scary in certain parts!, plus i was thrilled to see one of my absolute favorite actors Harrison Ford take on a new kind of role, and he nailed it with perfection!. The opening is also kind of creepy, and it's never boring, always engrossing!, plus i was rooting for Pfeiffer all the way!.I can't tell you any of my favorite moments, because i don't want to ruin anything for you, and i thought the score was chilling!, plus i loved the constant creepy atmosphere throughout!.The house itself is simply chilling, and the binocular scene is very disturbing and creepy!, plus i was absolutely thrilled by the casting of the 2 leads!, as they are both 2 of my absolute favorites!. The setting is very creepy, and i just loved how it was usually set at night!, plus the makeup effects were fantastic!. I honestly did not find one predictable thing in this movie, as i feel it's extremely well written and made as well!, plus i feel this is one of both Ford's and Pfeiffer's best!. This is one of the scariest horror/thrillers i have seen in a long time, yes it's not original, but it's still a wonderful film, with 2 incredible performances from Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, and i say Go see it immediately you shouldn't be disappointed!.The Direction is wonderful!. Robert Zemeckis does a wonderful job here, with outstanding camera work, stunning angles, creating tons of creepy atmosphere, is great at doing boo scares, and managed to do homages to other directors as well (Hitchcock especially), and lots of other amazing shots as well, plus he kept the film at an extremely fast pace.not much blood and gore at all except, a head bashed in (nasty), bloody wounds, and some nasty corpses, but we didn't need any of it really!.The Acting is incredible!. Michelle Pfeiffer is amazing as always, and is incredible here!, she is incredibly gorgeous, extremely scary in certain scenes, gives one of her best performances, had a character you care and root for!, had wonderful chemistry with Ford, got to try new things, and was right on the ball at all times!, she was incredible! (Pfeiffer Rules!!!!!). Harrison Ford is also amazing as always, and is incredible here, he is extremely likable, got to play a completely different character, and he did with it absolute perfection, he is also incredibly awesome in the finale, and was as always his usual intense self, plus he had wonderful chemistry with Pfeiffer!, i adored his performance. (Ford Rules!!!!!!!). Diana Scarwid is boring here, and had nothing to do but console Pfeiffer, she looked bored too. Joe Morton(Dr. Drayton,James Remar(Warren Feur),Miranda Otto(Mary Feur),Amber Valletta(especially) all do what they have to do very well. Overall Go see it immediately you shouldn't be disappointed!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"High on fright, low on originality","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I try to give the whole serious, big budget, supernatural chiller genre a wide berth. It is film-making by numbers Humourless, moralistic, unoriginal drivel where the viewer is conned into thinking he is being entertained by a series of carefully placed shocks in between hours of what industry types would call suspense but could more accurately be described as tedium. I am also immediately apprehensive of any post-Indiana Jones Harrison Ford vehicle. He looks so knackered and grumpy the whole time, I feel irritable just watching him.You could be forgiven then for thinking that What Lies Beneath might not be my cup of tea, but I thought I'd give it a chance. I've always had affection for Robert Zemeckis (the man who brought us Back to the Future deserves a lifetime's respect in my book) and I also wasn't averse to the prospect of Michelle Pfeiffer wandering about in her nightie.Half of me (the nasty, sarcastic cynic) sat smugly ticking off the tired stereotypes The lonely woman; the distant husband; the big house; a ghostly presence; the strange new neighbours; a hidden secret; the dog; the lake; the billowing curtains. Yep &#150; all present and correct. Ho, Ho &#150; methinks you have been watching too many Hitchcock films, Bobby. The other half of me was absolutely bloody terrified throughout.It usually takes a lot to frighten me. When I am watching films at home, I tend to be too busy loudly slating them to fully absorb the shock impact. On this occasion however, I was watching alone &#150; my girlfriend (who is something of a wuss when it comes to scary movies) had yawned ostentatiously half way through and declared herself ready for bed &#150; and strange things can happen when you sit by yourself in the dark late at night. Suffice it to say that afterwards, when I woke her up to breathlessly recount the ending, the hairs were still tingling on the back of my neck, and that hasn't happened to me in a Robert Zemeckis film since I found out the DeLorean could fly.The truth is all psychological thrillers have to be formulaic to a degree. They are hamstrung by the fact that the real heart-stopping moments have to be limited to half-a-dozen or so too many of them and the effect is diluted. The key is to make the padding (or the `suspense') as intriguing as possible. This is where What Lies Beneath scores highly. It is very cleverly shot &#150; the camera moves around slowly so that innocuous objects loom ominously into view. Mirrors feature prominently (again, not an original technique, but one that works well) and something as straightforward as a bath full of water becomes eerily forbidding (I will be sticking to showers for the foreseeable future).The performances too are spot on. Ford has added a more sinister edge to his regular cantankerous old man routine and Pfeiffer looks genuinely petrified all the way through. The supernatural story-line is slightly tiresome but necessary and there are plenty of red herrings that keep you guessing. The final twist ushers in a trashy and unnecessarily long ending and I was slightly irked by not picking it. Perhaps that is why I have decided to give it a favourable review &#150; either that or it was Michelle Pfeiffer in her nightie.7/10  "},{"Title":"A thriller with a twist and good ending....","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Finally, a movie that actually good and actually scary.Harrison Ford and Michelle Phieffer are Norman and Claire, a married couple, who lives in a lake shore home in Vermont. As the movie progress, Claire started to see and hear weirds things that she can't explain. At first, everyone thought it was her imagination, but when Claire discovered items and stories that showed that there was more to to this story than what was believed. The evidence pointed to someone that she was close too.What Lies Beneath has a lot of scary moments and the performances by both Harrison Ford and Michelle Phieffer were super, and showed that you don't need very young actors to bring the people to see this movie. A must-see film!!! "},{"Title":"Was the ghost a new version of The Riddler?!","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm getting really tired of movies that portray a Ghost as a modern-day The Riddler from the Batman TV series! Like The Riddler, the Ghost in What Lies Beneath has all the answers that you're looking for -- but you're only going to get pieces to the puzzle one incoherent piece at a time.Let's all get on the same page here for a minute. We know, having watched the movie in full, that the ghost has these powers/abilities 1) Can TYPE ON A COMPUTER KEYBOARD (or, at the very least, get words to appear on a computer screen)!! 2) Can write easy-to-read English on a fogged-up mirror, as if you were using your finger. 3) Can appear to numerous people (as the ghost appeared, in one way or another, to both the main stars in the movie). 4) Can open closed doors. 5) I'm not entirely sure about this one, but it seemed as if the ghost took over Claire's body and/or mind at one point (and mysteriously began acting sexually towards her murderer of all people, Mr. Ford).Why would a ghost, with the abilities outlined above, give you vague clues in pieces and not simply tell you what the hell is going on?! As a Ghost, if you can get words to appear on a computer screen, WHY IN THE HELL wouldn't you just write Your husband is a murderer, you can find my body at the end of your dock, my name is.... Why would you simply type your initials hundreds of times over and over?! Again, are we dealing with The Riddler here?! If that wouldn't work, how about just writing to Claire on the mirror after every shower each day?? If you were a Ghost, and all you COULD DO is leave messy clues to somebody you hope will help solve your murder, would you, upon getting screamed at from the top of your helper's lungs What do you want?!?! -- really write back a simple You Know!???? Obviously she didn't know yet, she was still gathering clues and thought she was going insane!! Wouldn't you have used that moment to write something just a bit more profound?! Like, maybe, I need your help!. Wow.And at one point the Ghost took over Claire's body and/or mind -- don't even get me started on how she could have easily killed her murderer -- so shouldn't she have tried killing Harrison Ford's character, her murderer, instead of just getting him horny?! I could go on and on, but at this point, I'm fatigued over this plot-hole-filled tripe. I just want to emphasize -- I hate when Ghosts are portrayed as The Riddler's character in the Batman series - as simple clue-givers.) JD "},{"Title":"a post-'Scream' 'straight' chiller (possible spoiler in last paragraph)","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   **SPOILERS**   **SPOILERS** Is it possible, in the wake of 'Scream' and its inertia-veering ilk, to offer today's audience a 'straight'  horror movie, especially if that horror movie is a ghost story, that most vulnerable of its sub-genres to falling on its face.  You're inclined to think Robert Zemeckis believes so, because, despite a few humorous moments firmly rooted in character, he offers an admirably solemn chiller aimed at tensing you to maddening point, preying on those fears you'd rather repress, those things that lie beneath.For about 100 minutes.  The first thing to be wary about in this movie - and this is the sort of movie where you need to be manically vigilant or you needn't bother - is the title.  It's too easy, almost mocking.  After all, the whole point of a horror movie is to reveal what lies beneath.  You may as well call a crime film 'Cops and Robbers' or a period effort 'Frills and Flounces'.By a canny Zemickian paradox, however, the opposite may be actually true. For this is a movie that wears its Hitchcockian subtext defiantly on its surface.  It plays with at least three different 'classic' horror-thriller staples.  At first you might think you're watching 'Rear Window', as Claire believes the mysteriously uncivil man next door has done away with his wife. As in Hitchcock's film, there is the ambiguous night scene, where the husband appears to be bundling off a corpse.  There is the voyeurism, culminating in a brilliant, hilarious, shocking shot, where Claire's prying eye is met by the eye she was spying on through the fence.  You figure Hitchcock would approve.  She spies on the husband with binoculars and he catches her doing it.  Her lover, in this case her husband, doesn't believe her.  L.B. Jeffries was a cameraman, photographs play a big part in this movie.  While her husband is out making all the money, she is alone and vulnerable.  Like the two couples in 'Rear Window', Claire finds uncomfortable affinities with the victim.But just when you're patting yourself on the back and asking how gender transforms the classic Hitchcockian set-up, the whole thing is revealed as a damp squib, and you have to begin again (although you do get an excellent joke when she meets the suspect and his victim at a party).The other two options are similarly 'traditional'.  There is the psychological deterioration model.  Zemeckis pushes this for all it is worth, making Claire a mother who has just lost her only child to college, who's recovering from an horrific car crash only a year ago, whose husband neglects her for his work, and most importanly, who has given up her music career to raise her daughter and support a family.  There's enough in there to frazzle the hardiest kook.  Add an isolated house with a dodgy front door, and is it any wonder she's having visions?This model brings horror close to its roots in melodrama, where the horrors become a displacement of the frustration and repressions of a woman limited in her life choices - the home serves as a metaphor for both her entrapment and her deteriorating mind.  The first image, over the credits, is seen as an hallucination of Claire's, and we are properly on our guard throughout. This breakdown is catered for by the whole gamut of classic Freudian paraphernalia - repeated scenes (the bath), submergence in water, keys, rings, bracelets, hair, doors, glass, mirrors, Oedipal problems etc, all leading us to suspect a sexually based trauma.  This is linked to the third model, the family secret, where a past horror is locked away, and is slowly eating away at the family and its individuals.  Relief will not come until it is expelled.As I say, for about 100 minutes Zemickis plays on all three models with surface seriousness and covert playfulness (which is what really lies beneath).  This is fine by me, the repertoire of haunted house cliches is generally amusing, especially when done with such intelligence, visual (all that white with its sparse splashes of red; the ghostly message on the mirror, 'You Know', cracking over Claire's fogged reflecton), formal (loved those scenes with the psychiatrist) beauty, and rich characterisation of the female lead.  This method achieves some excellent jerks, and an atmosphere almost as chilling in its potential as 'Final Destination'.But a state of tense suspension cannot be held indefinitely (in Hollywood anyway), and plot must out.  This shift can be accurately traced at the moment when Claire's point of view, which has, without interruption, dominated and filtered the film for 100 minutes.  For the film to achieve resoluton, it has to move from female time, which is repetitive, fluid, elliptical, enigmatic, open into male time, which is straight-ahead, no-nonsense, progresive, explanatory, closed.  This is a gross stereotype, but it's true here, and as Norman takes over, the film collapses into daft 'Fatal Attraction' territory.  Or it appears to, until you wonder whether Zemeckis's joke is finally paying off, as he asks how we could possibly have taken this seriously, with the 'Psycho' quotes in the film and on the soundtrack virtually giving it away.  The way Claire gets out of the death-bath and her final supernatural rescue are so ridiculous they have to be a joke.  And so a subtle portrait of marriage and female loneliness becomes another post-modern joke.  Oh well. "},{"Title":"Creepy and effective thriller","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What lies beneath really does make the best out of the material it's given. Michelle Pfeiffer is just awesome in her starring role! I mean she just fits the role so well and really rocks it! And Harrison Ford is great here, he is determined, dramatic, and even scary at times. The suspense and tense energy that runs rampant thought what lies beneath is incredible, it's so creepy and unwatchable at times. Just the music itself will creep underneath your skin. Robert Zemeckis has done it again, he successfully made an entertaining, well acted and well written creepy thriller. Also Pfeiffer and Ford do have good on screen chemistry together, they just work and click during a scene, especially an intimate one. The visuals are great here, and the film is directed and shot very well, great to look at. The script is well written with intelligent dialogue between the main characters. The ending is very satisfying, I liked it, it is creepy, smart, and bone chilling. It's not exactly a big twist, but just a little one. You may see it coming, then again you may not, depends on the viewer. I give what lies beneath an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Zemeckis adds scares and frights to a rather placid story.","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath goes through a two hour period of no ambiance, or at least it feels that way. Michelle Pfeiffer's wife to scientist Harrison Ford believes their house is haunted by a single ghost. For the majority of this film we're led down a path of tense scares and frights, which are conjured from thin air. Robert Zemeckis knows how to add these unbearable moments without us really knowing what they're about. Pfeiffer puts in a stellar performance as the jittery, mentally unbalanced wife, whereas Ford's as wooden as a tree trunk, not giving a hoot about his wife's slowly deteriorating health. What Lies Beneath is a very thrilling thriller, with the bathtub scene (no, not sexual in any way) likely to stick to the mind for a long, long time. "}{"Title":"Nice slice of eerie domestic terror","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Robert Zemeckis's What Lies Beneath, although a bit melodramatic at times, is a nicely freaky bit of domestic terror, in the vein of Hitchcock. It's a pseudo supernatural thriller that I saw at a very young age, so I have a spooky nostalgia for it, as it scared me in that way that only kids can get, staying with you even as you get older and making whatever film it was that made you feel that way resonate unconditionally for you. Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer play an affluent married couple who are beset by strange paranormal phenomena that may or may not be linked to one of their pasts. Ford is a busy medical professional, away for days at a time working, Pfeiffer the stay at home wife, plagued by creepy voices, noises and bumps in the night when alone in their large mansion, in some nice eerie sequences. Clues lead her to the odd job couple living next door (James Remar and Miranda Otto) but soon it becomes clear the answers won't be as easy or obvious as that, and the cold, clinical nastiness of a thriller that knows what it's doing and won't compromise sets in, freezing us in our seats for a nice jarring third act of unexpected resolution that lets the actors go to some places they haven't ventured in their careers. Ford is calm, cool and barely connected, Pfeiffer is detached and perplexed, and there's fun work from Wendy Crewson, Joe Morton and a ghostly Amber Valetta as well. The dog making a nasty discovery in the backyard pond is a nice moment for me, one I had dreams about for a while after seeing this at probably an all too young age. A nice little package of a thriller; cold, classy, frightening. "},{"Title":"A good movie ruined by a horrible plot twist","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First of all the film has a very powerful performance by both Harrison Ford & Michelle Pfeiffer but that is not enough the film moves way too slow and it's not a pretty original idea. As the film goes on we understand what is going on and why she sees all this things but then that horrible plot twist happens and just ruins the whole movie. Even tho it's good and entertaining thanks to it's 2 leading stars 'What Lies Beneath' fells short in everything else is not scary or action packed or anything like that is a good movie directed by a very good director starring a really good cast that's all. Final Verdict 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"That girl must be brought up......","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Norman Spencer, a university research scientist, is concerned about his wife, Claire, who a year ago was involved in a serious accident, and has just sent off her daughter to college. Claire starts hearing voices and witnessing eerie occurrences in and around their lakeside home, including seeing the face of a young woman reflected in water. Claire thinks the phenomena may have something to do with the couple living next door, especially since the wife has disappeared without explanation. At her husband's urging, Claire starts to see a therapist, and she tells him she thinks the house is being haunted by a ghost. His advice........... try to make contact. Enlisting the help of her best friend, Jody, and a ouija board, Claire seeks to find out the truth..........So this film was made because Zemeckis had nothing to do while Tom Hanks lost weight for Castaway. If this really is the case, I wish Hanks does more of these roles, because the result is a solid 'Old-Fashioned' horror movie, with the ubiquitous Zemeckis sheen.The concept and story of the film isn't the most original thing in the history of cinema, but the unique selling point of this film is the twist. It's not as in your face as The Sixth Sense of Se7en, but to have Harrison Ford, the all American hero, Han Solo, Indiana Jones, the President for crying out loud, is a wonderful inclusion to what otherwise is a stereotypical ghost story.Zemeckis has obviously done his research on Hitchcock for his filming styles, and the references are a subtle as a sledgehammer. It's not a bad thing though, but sometimes they do cause you to roll your eyes a little. The first two acts are quite unsettling and and have a very strange feel to them. Zemeckis throws us a red herring, leading the audience to believe that Claire is being haunted by the girl next door. While it's a neat concept, it's dealt with too quickly and we are left with Claire doing a lot of detective work and basically letting the audience in on who the ghost is.But then the final third is with us, and it goes absolutely bonkers for the last twenty minutes. There is little dialogue shared between the two leads in this final part, but Zemeckis let's body language, camera angles and mise en scene take the forefront.Pfeiffer and Ford are both brilliant in their roles, so good, they actually make the rest of the cast seem a little cookie cutter in what they are doing.All in all, it's nothing more than a b-movie ghost story, glossed over with brilliant performances, and wonderful direction.And for once, the blatant use of digital effects only add to the charm of the movie. "},{"Title":"Pfeiffer Lies Beneath.","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath (2000) Dir Robert Zemeckis / Cast Michelle Pfeiffer, Harrison Ford, Diana Scarwid, Joe Morton, Miranda Otto Chilling yet misguided thriller that has fun with the conventions. Title regards a ghost in plain context while symbolizing the secrets we wish to remain buried. Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer arrive home after sending their daughter off to college. A couple move in next door and Pfeiffer suspects a body is carried out to the car. Strange things occur such as the front door not shutting or pictures falling on the floor but her biggest fear is that the spirit of a murdered woman is trying to possess her. Begins well but contains too many cheap scares and a muddled conclusion. A scene involving an Ouiji Board is awkward in a failed attempt at humour. Director Robert Zemeckis slowly reveals clues. This is quite different for a guy who made Forrest Gump and Back to the Future. Pfeiffer holds her own as a woman who questions her own sanity. Ford is overwhelming against type in a role that is truly surprising for him. The supporting roles are a big downfall. Diana Scarwid plays the neighbour but this issue is hardly dealt with. Joe Morton is flat as Pfeiffer's psychiatrist who won't admit that she is nuts. Miranda Otto and James Remar play the neighbours whom Pfeiffer suspects of nastiness. Marriage theme lies beneath a muddled but well made thriller. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"A subtle win","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" WARNING I advise anyone who has not seen the movie yet to not read the comment.I had been overly interested in seeing What Lies Beneath for some time now. Having no idea what it was about, only that it was a Horror movie that had Michelle Pfiefer and Harrison Ford, but with the title and cast like it has and remembering it being a pretty big movie, that was enough for me to be thoroughly piqued. This movie delivers. I watched this late at night in my new apartment, all the lights out and was creeped out and spooked, which is not any easy task to accomplish with myself. What Lies Beneath is incredibly eerie and does a damn well job at making the audience uncomfortable in their seat. Like most comments say, this movie relies on shear fear and not bloody gore and cheap gimmicks. It is a masterpiece Thriller, even if the ghost story has been done to death now. That is not what is important to remember when watching WLB. The acting, the sets, the realness and utter scare value; those are what make this movie great and re-watchable.One scene in particular, when Michelle Pfiefer is in the bathtub paralyzed, about to drown, I found myself gasping for breath. It made me feel like I was drowning as well. She definitely plays a wonderful and believable role and is the star while Harrison Ford sits back and waits for his climactic moment. The doors opening and closing, faces in the mist with little to no background music to cause excellent build up. This is what makes movies scary and real. A fine tribute to slashers long before it like Halloween, WLB deserves more credit than it gets. Even if it is a ghost story, it is done just fine. The movie flows well. I never hear anyone talking about it anymore, and it is great! Don't know what more I could say about it. Give it another try if you found thyself hating it at first glance. "},{"Title":"Better than the Shining!","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Spoiler Alert!!! OK I think this nice little ghost film is actually better than the shining, sadly. The reason I think this is because this film has likable characters for the most part as the shining really didn't have enough build up. This film has some truly creepy moments like the ghost in the bathtub reflection, the face in the water, and the foot prints that are in the driveway as the shining really only has the twins, and the girl in the bathtub scene. This makes me wonder what if Jack Nicholson starred in this film with Michelle Phiffer rather than in the wolf with Michelle Phiffer? We'd have a film that's ten times better than the shining wouldn't we? I like how the whole film is pretty twisted when it comes to an end. There's one thing I never understood was how did the ghost come back to drown Harrison Ford at the end if it was obvious she has been dead for a long time down there? Overall I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good Supernatural Thriller!","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Harrison Ford, Michelle Pfeiffer, Amber Valletta, Katharine Towne and Diana Scarwid star in Robert Zemeckis' 2000 thriller. Ford (Star Wars) plays Norman Spencer, a scientist who has a wife, Claire (Pfeiffer) and step-daughter, Caitlin (Towne). After Caitlin goes off to college, Claire starts having strange occurrences in the house and begins to feel a spiritual presence of a deceased girl, Madison Frank (Valletta). Claire discovers she was a college student who was also involved with Norman who may know more than he lets on. Scarwid (Psycho III) plays Jody, Claire's best friend. This is a good supernatural thriller with a Hitchcock flare, Ford & Pfeiffer are great as usual as well as Alan Silvestri's score. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Thriller? More Like Sleeper","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From the same director of Forrest Gump, Back to the Future, and Cast Away brings us or me his most boring film yet. There are certain elements that I liked. The premise of the danger came from within, or from someone unexpected. The problem I have with this is it is so terribly long, or at least it feels like it. The film wasn't even at it's halfway point and I was already checking the time. I swear it felt long. The suspense wasn't very nail-biting or chilling as I had hoped. The falling action was exciting, which that was cool. But everything before made me bored, and as a result this film falls flat for me. I don't recommend it. "},{"Title":"Solid And Creeper Chiller","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I enjoyed this movie, It suffers from a slightly over long running time that definitely could have done with some trimming down, and the plot points that you know will come back up later are obvious, but over all I liked it. Plot In A Paragaph Norman (Harrison Ford) and Claire Spencer (Michelle Pfeiffer) are a seemingly happily married couple who uncover a terrible secret. When Claire begins seeing ghostly images and hearing mysterious voices in their home, her husband Norman suspects it's just her imagination - until the images turn real.Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford are both excellent here, and whilst I think it would have been just as good with lesser known actors, they definitely add something to it. "},{"Title":"happened upon a rerun of 'what lies beneath' on 'oldies, but goodies' movie rerun channel?(channel 4?)","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this isn't' so much a review, but i lucked out & saw this very creepy movie,sitting on my living room couch chair.Normally, when i think of Michelle Pfeiffer, I think, ditzy mob wife in 'Married to the Mob' w/ Matthew Modine. after tonight, i have really changed my mind, this is an A-list dramatic actress of the highest caliber.I was literally quaking in my seat( OK, well, i was just gripped by a really creepy fear) as Harrison ford is trying to kill his wife(slowly filling bathtub w/ water, in addition to filling Michelle up w/ Halothane sedative)...very slow turn from dedicated, renowned university scientist to sudden,murderous spouse? But it wasn't me shaking! the seat was shaking?( 6.0 Richter earthquake in American Canyon in Napa Valley@320 am?) ....go figure!!!!Will definitely order this DVD on amazon, I just have to see it again for the way the plot unrolls to see why i was so creep-ed out by this film? "}{"Title":"Great Mix of Real and Paranormal Horror,","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath is a great movie with a very well developed storyline and a very impressive cast.The movie is a bit slow to begin with,and at times I was confused with where the story was going,but once the plot comes together and when the audience is aware of what is going on it becomes very horrifying and also very realistic,there is paranormal activity in this movie but there is also some real life horror that I found even more frightening,also Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Fords characters seemed like such normal people to me and not just cliché horror movie characters that it really added to what made this movie feel real.There is also great chemistry between Pfeiffer and Ford which was an important part to make these characters believable,and it's beautifully directed by my favourite director Robert Zemeckis. What Lies Beneath is a very intense movie with some great twists that I would recommend to anyone looking for a good thriller or horror. A housewife believes her new home is haunted by the spirit of a murdered neighbour,but they soon find out the truth lies closer to home.Best Performance Michelle Pfeiffer Worst Performance Diane ScarwidIf you have any recommendations on films/TV series I should watch or review,or any questions to ask me,just tweet me @DillonTheHarris "},{"Title":"One of the most frightening thrillers of the new millennium","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With this movie Mr. Zemeckis showed the world that he is not only capable of directing action adventures like Back to the Future or dramas like Cast Away, but also decent and thoroughly creepy thrillers.What makes this movie stand out for me is the fact that it gets into your head. There is a sense of foreboding throughout the entire playtime that grips you and won't let go until the credits roll. You start to question your own sanity instead of the protagonists'. It preys on your mind and plays with your senses.True, there are jump scares, misdirections and several other typical instruments of horror film making in this movie. Fortunately though it never gets cheap and keeps the suspense coming in a spooky crescendo without showing any monsters, brutal blood sheds or slasher villains. The music works well and the cinematography is a feast for the eye.In essence, this is a movie you don't want to miss if you're a fan of psychological horror films and/or the directing work of Robert Zemeckis. Enjoy it alone in a light-dimmed room with a good glass of wine and it will unfold its magic. You have my word. "},{"Title":"Less Gore More Screams....","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath is one of the movies which makes you scream your head off. Though the starting was kinda dull and the film was slow at places on the whole the director has made a great effort in scaring us.Michelle Pfeiffer has made a genuine attempt. Her body language is perfect and she looks more sexy even at her age. Her eyes speaks volumes. The rerecording is certainly commendable. This film will make you squirm in your seats with tension. The subtle twists in the story at unexpected places is an added advantage.More romantic scenes would have helped. The slow unraveling of the story does the trick. The climax was unexpected though. I'll credit this movie a 7/10. Horror lovers should surely try this. "},{"Title":"What Lies Beneath? Well, a better movie than you might think","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I haven't watched all that much by Zemeckis... mostly, what he's done just hasn't really gotten my attention, although I certainly wouldn't mind watching the Back to the Future trilogy, and I do think he did well on Death Becomes Her. I didn't know if I could expect this to be good, but I gave it a chance, and I'd say he can do horror. Granted, there are several cheap scares, the oh it was just the cat kind of thing, however, there certainly are more substantial ones herein, as well. The mood and atmosphere are very skillfully built up, and last successfully almost the entirety of this. Sadly, this does run a tad longer than it ought to... and to facilitate that, it employs an unsatisfying red herring that gets too generous an amount of time spent on it. I would also go so far as to claim the twist to be... I don't know, unnecessary? It worked, I'll give them that. The plot is fairly well-written and tends to develop well. Acting in this is quite magnificent. The cinematography and editing are excellent. There is a little language in this, sexuality is mainly hinted at or mentioned in dialog, and violence is relatively bloodless. I recommend this to fans of those who made it and/or the genres. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Pfine Pfeiffer","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I fell in love with Michelle Pfeiffer way back in Grease 2 of all things. She's still so gorgeous, although she should consider putting on a few pounds. She and Harrison Ford make the best of a script which starts well and ends badly. The film gets more and more interesting, But then it falls into a huge pile of horror movie cliches. But at least the performances are good.  "},{"Title":"My new favorite ~!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first time I saw this film I made it my favorite ~! The actors were just astonishing! I can't imagine another actress in Michelle Pfeiffer's place and definitely not a different actor in Harrison Ford's role ~! But around the fifth time of watching it, it did get a little boring. "},{"Title":"Terror Lies beneath, that's what!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  That's right, it's a scary movie.  The tension is great.  Then again, when you pair up Harry Ford and Shelly P, there is no stopping the terror. They portray two very normal people.  However, the tables turn when you LEAST expect it to.   The underwater scenes still give me chills TO THIS DAY.  I hope that I can expect more terror movies from Harry.  He delivers the goods, no doubt about it.  I love Hitchcock and I love this movie!! "},{"Title":"they should make more like this","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Intelligent, well-crafted, well-acted, and perfectly directed are a few ways to describe this thriller. I started to think Alfred Hitchcock was still alive after watching this one. A great movie with some honest scares, nifty camera work, and a tribute to the old horror classics. Highly recommended, but loses some impact when it isn't in the theater. 3/4 "},{"Title":"Nice and jumpy","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An intelligent horror (it's not a thriller) lifts this above the standard horror fare, but it just doesn't take that next step that would lift it into that 8+ mark.  Michelle Pfeiffer turns in a very believable performance and Harrison Ford's placidness is for once useful.  It does make you jump as well. "},{"Title":"Good,Solid Filmmaking","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a tribute to the old Alfred Hitchcock classics of old. It is cleverly filmed and written. Its about time that Hollywood started going back to the old days when movies were well-made without the influence of audience demands. This is an exceptional, suspenseful, and sometimes even scary thriller. "}{"Title":"Not bad Hitchcock style thriller.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Hitchcock style thriller which has twists and turns throughout, and plenty of decoys. The plot and script for this are very good, and the film delivers the excitement it promises. Perhaps slightly transparent in places, with almost too much to try and distract the audience and not enough of the actual storyline. Harrison Ford is mumbling, wooden but ultimately convincing. Michelle Pfieffer seems good in this and carries out the confused almost paranoid role well. Despite early reviews and opinions regarding age differences, the two work well as an onscreen couple. A not bad thriller that will satisfy the desire for entertainment. "},{"Title":"On the Surface....","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Thrillers.  In today's age we know the classics, Hitchcok, DePalma etc. then there are the obvious average thrillers that a viewer can figure out within the first five minutes.  What Lies Beneath is what one has to call an above average thriller.  Not bad, by any means, but not outstanding.  The basic premise of the movie covers the gamut of thriller icons--missing individuals, a secluded wife, eerie dreams, sounds, film noir glimpses, night time scenes.  The first half of the movie unwinds and had me going.  I wasn't sure to what disclosure would start the plot to unravel.  Interesting exposition, convincing performances, generally shocking moments.  However, once the viewer is abruptly let in on the secret that has generated the momentum, the film falls flat and becomes the typical cat and mouse conflict.  I have never really thought Michelle Pfeiffer was a great actress, but she does show considerable vulnerability as the heroine.  Harrison Ford plays an atypical role and does it well.  Plenty of thrills and moments but the whole picture looses steam once we know what's going on. "},{"Title":"good, creepy thriller","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this movie had a really great atmosphere. it frequently makes you jump for no reason at all. there is often no background music when the suspense is at its highest. this makes it very scary. I really felt scared and creeped out watching this film, in a way I have never felt with a movie. After all those dumb horror films always involving teenagers and gore, it was refreshing to watch a movie that relied on skillful directing and camerawork to frighten you. I've heard this film is inspired by Alfred Hitchcock. If this is true, I can't wait to watch one of his movies!  "},{"Title":"Freaky!!!","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow, this movie is one of the freakiest ones I've seen in quite awhile.  I still have complaints though.  *Spoilers Ahead*The whole neighbours storyline was disturbing at first, but then it ended up having no relevance to the rest of the story.  What was up with that?  If they were going to use the neighbours for some suspence, they should have tied it in with what turned out to be the main storyline.  Also, Harrison Ford was just too likeable to be the bad guy (for most of the movie anyway).  They should have shown glimpses of evil in him before the revelation.Well those are my main complaints.  If you are craving a truly scary movie, definitely rent this one.  It's not the typical horror movie that relies on blood and guts to disgust the audience.  This one uses very real fears in order to scare. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A bit of a slow starter but I enjoyed it. Michelle Pfeiffer did very well. Harrison Ford has, imo, a less important role. Spoilers ahead!Some strange twists (e.g. the neighbours, there is a build up of tension, but suddenly its gone so what was the whole point of that story line).Its remarkable to see Ford in a 'bad' role but the transition in the film from good to bad is too sudden. I think it would have been better if the suspicion of Ford being the bad guy was build up from the beginning and more gradual. Now he is just working and working and suddenly he turns into a murderer. A bit too sudden for me. Plus I think there are multiple loose ends ...Anyway, I liked the film and that's what counts for me. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Creepy, Chilling, and a great movie!","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really enjoyed What Lies Beneath. It was very creepy though. The movie will scare the wits out of you if you watch it alone night. Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer were very good in this movie! This is one of the creepiest movies I have ever seen! It was an enjoyable horror movie, and I enjoyed it. If I graded it, I would give it an A. "},{"Title":"DARE YOURSELF TO WATCH IT ALONE!!!!","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow!!! This is just wow! Its my first time seeing this movie today, i just bought it on video. When i watched it i was alone in the house and closed all the lights and closed the windows so its dark (I like watching horror movie in a dark place and alone so i can really feel im in it). Anyway, if you havent seen this movie yet. U should go rent/buy it! & watch it alone. I really like this movie cuz theres alot of scenes thats gonna make you jump-off your seat. There was this scene when i got really scared and FELL OFF OF MY SEAT!!!! The acting were really great (2 thumbs up 4 michelle p.!) I will give this movie 9 out of 10. Thank goodness i didnt watch it at midnight! (cuz i was planning to watch at midnight) Well, thats all i gotta say folks, got to go. BYE! "},{"Title":"Looks really nice","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer has been one of my favorite actresses.  This is not because she is able to play those really serious dramas so that she can say a thousand words with one expression or she can yell really loud like Jack Nicholson, its because her acting is so natural, she never looks like she has to force anything.I thought she was extremely effective in this movie because we were able to feel what she was feeling, she was really scared - so was I.  I'll try not to give away any spoilers, but all I can say is that Harrison Ford was also perfect as the perfect husband.....One other noticeably positive thing about this movie was it looked really good, with the bluish tones - beneath the water and all.  This is your classic ghost in the new house thriller, only better than most in this category.  I'm always a sucker for ghost movies, especially good looking ones.Also, the pace of the movie was good.  It builds up just right, you won't see anything too erratic.(4/5) "},{"Title":"A suspenseful film","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was an entertaining film that really did have some suspense for me.  I thought Michelle Pfeiffer was extremely good, and her acting, facial expressions, etc. contributed a lot to the suspense.Unlike some others who have commented here, I was not able to guess some of the plot twists.  I didn't completely see the end coming.  I thought the imagery of water, used throughout, was very effective.  The film was beautifully photographed.  There were a few things that didn't work for me, though.  These usually were due to a certain lack of attention to details.  For example, why in one scene did Michelle Pfeiffer's character try to look through the fence to find out if her neighbors were home when she had such a great view from her bedroom window (and some binoculars)?  I also didn't know why the person who was missing was originally called a girl when she was actually 24 years old.  I also wondered how many computers were in their home and where they were located.  There were other (minor) false notes, but these are the only ones that come to mind right now. "},{"Title":"Missing Something but Quite Intense","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The acting in this movie is great, and the movie itself starts out on a good note and is, at first, quite captivating.  But it turns awry at about the half-point of the movie, and becomes more and more ridiculous from there.Claire (Michelle Pfeiffer) believes she is being haunted by her former next door neighbor, who may have been murdered.  As she begins exploring the ghostly phenomenon, she discovers some of her husband's old secrets, previously forgotten after she suffered a severe car wreck. This is when the movie goes from fascinating and spooky to cheesy and shabby.  The scenes were overdone and this plot was 'already done'.Still, if you enjoy thrillers and mysteries, this would be a good one to look at.  "}{"Title":"Classic clichés with classic suspense","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (Mild spoilers) More of a chiller than a thriller.  What Lies Beneath is more an old-fashioned ghost story that creates and buids suspense well.  It has all the classic elements-family move into a new house (near a lake of course), woman feels the house is haunted but husband does not seem to believe her, woman is forced to face the hidden secrets of her own mind and does not know what is real and what is not.  Add to all that a creepy bathroom, a Ouija Board, a bleak and misty atmosphere, Harrison Ford and a dog called Cooper- and you have good story! Don't expect the fast-moving blood fest of Scream, etc, just be patient, enjoy the slow build of supsense and shocks-and chill!  "},{"Title":"Scary as hell","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is a damn scary movie. Although it could be accused of ripping off Hitchcock's Rear Window, Psycho, and Vertigo, and has a touch of Polanski's The Tenant and Rosemary's Baby, it's a very frightening film. Michelle Pfeiffer gives a solid and wholly believable performance as a housewife who believes that a ghost of her husband's past is haunting her house. It could be seen as a guilty pleasure, but you don't feel guilty for enjoying What Lies Beneath. I had to look away from the screen every time someone approached the bathtub. The climax was great, too. 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed watching this movie. I especially liked the camera shots such as through the hole in the fence, in mirrors, binoculars, etc. I did figure out the ending to this movie fairly quickly but...***************************SPOILER**************************************at the same time I was skeptical since it was Harrison Ford. I have seen other comments from people who didn't like the fact that they cast Mr. Ford as the killer but that is one of the things that I thought was interesting. It is refreshing to see actors play different roles. I may have enjoyed this movie even more if I hadn't read the synopsis of the movie before I watched it. The info I read claimed the movie was about a couple who deals with something that happened a year ago - thus I knew it could not have anything to do with the neighbor. I thought it was an entertaining movie nontheless but I am a sucker for great camera work and it also has solid acting. I have read several reviews that act like this is the worst movie they have ever seen. Where are you getting your movies from? I'd really like to know b/c this movie blows away most of the lame movies I have seen lately especially in the thriller or horror genre.  "},{"Title":"A Classy Chiller Thriller.","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  At last along comes a horror flick that is Really scary . Not since Blare Witch has a film actually hit the spot when it comes to trying to scare the viewer. What lies Beneath has to be applauded because it does not overdose on gore it leaves the horror to great script ,some good camera work and two established actors. Michelle Pfeiffer is especially good in this and deserves all the praise she can get. Her performance makes this film a treat for genuine horror fans. It makes a change from seeing stupid, teenage slasher horror films which have surely seen their day and if Hollywood had an ounce of sense they should replace that type of film with movies like  What Lies Beneath. Dont miss it! 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Acting + Atmospherics + Hitchcock References","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Some found this movie slow-moving, but I think of it as subtle instead - a small noise here, a small motion there, little startling moments, incidents where you're not sure whether Claire is imagining things or seeing reality, the gradual revelation of previous events. The scariness is in the situations and in a character's helplessness, not in over-the-edge gross-out effects.Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford both put in some good acting. (And Harrison Ford _must_ be a good actor if he can act uninterested when Michelle Pfeiffer in a nightgown climbs into bed with him, right? ;-)Hitchcock references kept appearing, such as - Peering through the window at a neighbor suspected of killing his wife - An overhead shot of a character named Norman carrying an inert woman's body on the stairs - A woman tearing down the shower curtain as she collapses out of the shower  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Thriller","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had actually wanted to see this film, since its summer release last year. I didn't get around to seeing it, till it came on video. I found this movie to be pretty good, not the best thriller however. There were some scenes, however where I did jump.I thought Pfeiffer's character was good, but I personally think Ford's part wasn't all that good. Overall the movie in my opinion fares well. Good to watch in the dark though. "},{"Title":"Slice of Hitchcock + Slice of New Age= Great Movie","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   Scary in a true way, with rare blood and gore, and little things like whispering, reflections, and a whole lot of Jumps makes this a Very thrilling movie. Even if you didn't like the story, there is no way that you didn't jump at parts.  *************************Spoilers********************* i think the candle twitching in the Quaji board scene or the bathtub scene at the end are the mellow but haunting scenes  I also like that you had to pay attention to some scenes like the phone dosen't work till the bridge center or the MEF initianals. And the very end where it fades out and the snow make a face is just like the end of PSYCHO.***********************spoiler over************************                                No best sound or Cinematography nominations surprised me. For a scare, RENT IT    "},{"Title":"very good.","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this movie was just very fun to watch.  masterfully directed it falls short only in the face of the masters.  i loved watching harrison ford morph from his regular character to something unexpected (finally).  grab something squeezable and rent this one soon.  note much of the sound in this one is quite subtle, if you have a good system crank it up to real theater levels. if you are listening to it on t.v. speakers, well, you're missing some of it, but crank it up as best you can without distorting it. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was very good, i was actually surprised at how much I liked it. It was not exactly what I expected, I expected a run of the mill possessing, which this movie certainly was not.  The trailers did a good job of not giving too much away, which most do, which probably contributed to the reason that I thought it would be different than what it was.I must have jumped a good ten times through this movie.  It was very intense and creepy.   It also threw me for a loop because it did have some shock value to it - I was surprised toward the end and it is not very easy to surprise me.  It is definitely worth a rental.        "},{"Title":"for the love of hitchcock...","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  the camerawork, use of colour, use of silence, impossible angles, lighting and shadow, and the score that was used was a masterfully laid out bow to the god of suspense.Robert Zemeckis is one of the most underrated directors. he held in cheque the continuity nightmare of back to the future 2, he pulled a roger rabit out of a hat, sent us into carl sagan's world, and  made forrest gump a houshold name.this is not only an hommage to hitchcock, it's a great 130 minute compilation of the man's body of work. EVERYTHING is covered here, from the obvious (rear window, psycho) to the sublime (the lady vanishes, frenzy).this isn't for the kids. good old fashioned suspense just doesn't do it since michael meyers hit the cinemas. don't get me wrong, i dig mikey, i grew up in the middle of slasher hey-day. but every saturday night was creature features and the black and whites were on my screen. to me those were the real screamers.just like a translucient skirt- it's what you DON'T see that makes it interesting... "}{"Title":"Painful to read, even more painful to write.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a movie the is great to watch the first time, but I do not recommend watching it more than once. The plot and the time the movie takes to unfold may become painful and difficult. Although I do love the speed of the movie, and in the movie theater I never noticed how much time went by. It is well-acted, and the dialogue is wonderful. I always love Ford, no matter what movie he is in, and Michelle Pfeiffer is not only beautiful, but is able to act. A good rent, but unless someone gives this movie as gift, do not buy. "},{"Title":"Trailers gave too much away","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Unfortunately, this movie was spoiled by the trailers.  It needed to be advertised with much less plot give-aways.  It's a shame because then all the twists and turns would not have been so predictable.  I will agree with others who say that Michelle's performance makes it worthwhile.  She does a fine job.  Harrison Ford has too many emotions that are unexplained and his performance is not one of his best (see The Fugitive or Indiana Jones, for that matter).Overall it was entertaining to watch despite it's slow presentation. Camera work and sound were good.  Plot was given away in the trailers, too bad. "},{"Title":"A true back to the basics spooky movie!","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great old-fashioned style horror movie! Real scares without all the blood and gore which has become so common now. I jumped out of my seat on several occasions! Best horror/suspense movie I've seen in many years! If you loved The Sixth Sense, or The Changeling....you will love this movie! "},{"Title":"A Rousingly Good Horror Movie","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The reviews of this film have not been kind to it, and for the life of me I can't understand why. This is easily the scariest film I've seen in the past 10 years. The atmosphere, cinematography and score are first rate and really pull you into the film. What Lies Beneath has one of those seriously creepy premises that I'm not ashamed to admit had me peeking out from the shower curtain for a few days after I saw it. Not many movies have such an impact on me, and What Lies Beneath exceeded all of my expectations on every level. The acting and script were first rate, and as I said the cinematography here deserves an oscar. One of the best films of 2000. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock Homage","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Robert Zemeckis has really honed his filmmaking skills over the years, and puts these skills to good use here.  Anyone interested in a Hitchcock-like old fashioned thriller willl like this movie.  Though toward the end he enters into some territory that Hitch would not have willingly explored, Zemeckis does provide some neat thrills.  The climactic bathroom sequence is exquisitely chilling and visually stunning. "},{"Title":"a well executed cliche","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There's something about the horror genre that draws me in and makes me see lots of its movies.  What's odd about that, though, is I almost always hate said movies or think them average at best (that are expections of course, such as The Sixth Sense, which is actually my favorite movie).  Luckily, What Lies Beneath isn't a bad film, but it's only slightly above that average mark.The most interesting thing about this film is the fact that Harrison Ford, despite getting top billing, is not the main character, and is very much secondary.  What Lies Beneath is Michelle Pfeiffer's show all the way, and she provides it a good performance.And thanks largely to Pfeiffer, the film is highly watchable.  However, although I doubt this was his intention, it feels a bit like Robert Zemeckis is imitating other directors, namely Alfred Hitchcock and M. Night Shyamalan.  I'm not the first to note comparisons to Hitchcock's Rear Window in the first half of the movie, and I'm sure I won't be the last.  The pacing is much like that of Shyamalan's work.  The problem is, when it comes to this kind of movie, Zemeckis is not as good as Hitchcock or Shyamalan.However, I did enjoy watching What Lies Beneath.  Obviously, it's nothing original or noteworthy, and it does have some horror movie cliches.  Still, it is a competent film for the most part, and fans of the director, leads, or the genre shouldn't mind risking a rental on this.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Impressed","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Seriously, this is one of the best horror movie I've seen for years.  And believe it or not I have no idea that it was a horror movie until the movie actually started!  The plot was so blur that you won't be able to see the real thing until probably the last 45 minutes or so.  Then the excitement just...I'm lost of words!  The movie kept us guessing and guessing but almost always lead you to a wrong conclusion.  Then when the real plot was revealed, you are treated to a host of nail-biting , intense and horrifying scenes.Not recommended for kids but a good movie none the less. "},{"Title":"Made me jump!","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I see that a few people have noted that the plot was predictable, the special effects not brilliant and the story has already been told a thousand times.Well let me have my two pennies worth. The plot was a little predictable, although the predictable didn't happen. I don't want to give anything away, although when you sense something is going to happen it usually does, although not exactly what you were expecting. This may sound like rubbish, although you know what i mean when you see it. (and you should see it on the big screen)The special effects were not required, this was a pure jump out of you seat type movie and not a computer game. The story has sort of been told before, although I do believe that this is one of the better versions.One thing I will say is that Michelle Pfeiffer can certainly act with her eyes! It was superb to watch and it all added up to a great evening. "},{"Title":"Spooky","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is a wonderful film, It'll keep you on the edge of your seat all the way through the film. It truely is great. It's About a couple who encounter two new neighbors next door. Claire (Michelle Phifpfer, Batman Returns) is suspicious about the husband of the new arrivals, and thinks that he killed his wife. She is convinced when she hears her crying in the garden and panicing when he arrives back at home. She then find out some disturbing truth about her husband Norman (Harrison Ford, Star wars/Indiana Jones) and the mystery unfolds. The Ending carchase is mega cool. "},{"Title":"Predictable, yet worthwhile","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Better than I expected. Robert Zemeckis thankfully remembers that less is more during the first half of the movie while trying to scare his audience - a noise here, an image there. Michelle Pfeiffer's first glance into the lake was very creepy. SPOILER ALERT Towards the end, though, the movie seems to turn into a slasher flick, with one of the characters constantly being presumed dead, then rising up like Jason Voorhees to continue chasing the girl. "}{"Title":"Much Better Than Expected","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie months ago, but I can still think of it as one of the scarier movies I've seen in a long while. The only recent other horror movie that shook me up was The Sixth Sense, but even that didn't put me on the edge of my seat like What Lies Beneath did.And as for mixing different themes into the movie I think it gave the movie something the audience could relate to, but not entirely enough so that it was boring.I think that the slow camera and actor movements were the best part to scaring the hell out of me. I give this 4.5 out of 5 stars. I think Robert Z. did a great job with the special effects and the direction of this movie. "},{"Title":"A not-so-thrilling thriller (minor spoiler)","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This horror/thriller, carefully made in Hitchcock fashion, is fun to watch ,have scary bits and ENDLESS jumpy moments...which is nice, until you get tired of it and it starts to get a little funny-unintentionally. There are actually people who laughed when Michelle Pfeiffer discovered that it was only 'the dog', me being one of them. The movie gets talky and less interesting during the middle (but at least it gives us some time to check out Pfeiffer's cheekbones) ,nevertheless the ending was absolutely amazing, and I find the 'battle in the bathtub' was really well-acted (DON'T laugh!) and shot in a creative way that puts you...there. Personally, I think the scariest moment was when Ford flips back Pfeiffer's head, only to find his wife became the dead girl and her face was all green and swollen , although it was-obviously-only his imaginations, I still find it horrific as hell. Other 'good' moments include Pfeiffer getting sexy and takes away the apple, plus the whole I-suspect-my-neighbor-killed-his-wife thing at the beginning. Of course, things doesn't turn out to be what you expected otherwise the movie would end too soon. Good casting choice means Pfeiffer...Harrison Ford? What are you doing here? "},{"Title":"Credit to 'Zemekis The Legend' for re-creating classic Hitchcock","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'What Lies Beneath' is a decent film to say the least.  You've got to give credit to a fabulous director in Robert Zemekis (Forrest Gump).  It's not scary in a 'Blair Witch' sense but it is in a 'Psycho' sense.  Using classic Hitchcock elements, such as close ups on the taps in the bath, Zemekis develops a good thriller/horror without it being 'Scream'. The first half of the film is a bit slow moving but the plot soon opens up.  Harrison Ford, who is, I might add, looking a bit old! (I'm sorry Mr. Ford) with Michelle Pfeiffer will always be a winning combination.  The twist in the plot, I personally thought, was brilliant.  However there are signs in this film which we've either seen before or would expect, such as Ford playing a v. clever doctor.  Pfeiffer is a brilliant heroine and proves wrong the theory that as actresses get older they get worse.  7/10 - worth watching, but don't rush, as watching at home on video will be sufficient. "},{"Title":"Great Suspense","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie just the other day I loved the location (Vermont) I actually jumped a couple of times during the first half of the movie it is quite scary. There were a couple of little niggles in the plot and without giving too much away the sub plot about the neighbours was never fully explored. On the whole though great suspense Michelle Pfeiffer is very believable as a woman on the edge and nice to see Diana Scarwid (Mommie dearest, Psycho 3, Silkwood)in a feature movie again. This movie is definately worth a look in. "},{"Title":"One hell of a thriller!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've seen this year.  Harrison Ford plays the perfect husband, or so it seems, and Michelle Pfeiffer is the perfect wife.  This all changes however, when she starts to experience strange goings on in their house.  Their are some great twists in the storyline which will literally keep you on the edge of your seat.  This is a good role for Ford as we see that he can also play the villain as well as the hero.  9 out of 10.  Go and see this now! "},{"Title":"Zemeckis´ Mystery Project...","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Norman and Claire Spencer are a lucky married couple. Until the day their new neighbours are moving in.  Claire sees strange things happen Doors open by  themselves, the neighbours wife disappears, her  husband behaves suspicious, a bloody shoe, a young woman´s ghost... Norman doesn´t believe it and  consults a psychiatrist for Claire -  where are Mulder and Scully when you need them?Robert Zemeckis made a thriller - a big surprise.  The director of  family-compatible entertainment like Forrest Gump or Back to the future? Indeed. First I had my doubts. But Zemeckis is clever enough. What lies beneath starts slow, developes the thrill from scene to scene, and keeps the big secret up until the final of the movie. Although the showdown is a little bit conventional, it keeps you at the edge of your seat. Not as genius as The sixth sense  - which had one of the most surprising endings in movie history - but very close to it. To be continued??? "},{"Title":"The Best Of Its Kind","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let me say, I don't believe in ghosts. I have heard alot of people say they wouldn't see it because of this fact. This movie isn't just a ghost movie. It's a symbolic movie with all the fun of a ghost movie! ) I don't wanna give anything away but if you like ghost movies you will *love* this one. It's the most intelligent, passionate, dark, and scary one there is! If you like symbolic psychological thrillers, you will *love* this movie! You will be thinking about it long after you leave. If you just wanna see a cool movie, you will enjoy this one. Michelle Pfeiffer is great and the music is chilling. Everything about it is good.(If your into any of the things I just mentioned.) However, if these sort of movies creep you out than you will definitely wanna stay away from this one.  "},{"Title":"Spooky","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I looked forward to this film as I usually enjoy supernatural thrillers, for example The Sixth Sense. To be honest, it disappointed me slightly. The first hour or so was great, it scared me to death! However in the middle portion of the film it started to become weird, and you couldn't tell if either Harrison Ford or Michelle Pfeiffer was the baddie. This is found out at he end though.    The plot involves Clare Spencer(Pfeiffer), a lady who when alone in her house, experiences strange goings-on. Doors open by themselves, baths fill themselves, the radio switches on by itself; and other such things. Her husband Norman (Ford), a doctor, thinks it's all in her head.    If you ignore some of the siliness, it's an enjoyable spookfest that will make you jump to kingdom come. "},{"Title":"Excellent film, bad finale.","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I found 'What Lies Beneath' to be a thoroughly entertaining thriller. Pfeiffer is excellent, finally choosing a role that doesn't involve romance or comedy and Ford is very nearly bearable in a difficult part. However, the final 10 minutes were so contrived that I found myself shouting at the screen in disgust. Why, Hollywood, why? A terrible spoiling of a thoroughly enjoyable film in my view. "},{"Title":"The most breathtaking movie I've ever seen!","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this film to be really great. I thought The Sixth Sense was scary, but What Lies Beneath was even more exciting than I could have imagined. Before I went to see the film I read some articles about it, they all said it wasn't original and at the end very unbelievable. Well, it may be a little unbelievable at the end, but hey, it was original and I really think the rest of the film was original as well! The whole cinema was breathless during the break because of the excitement. And when Michelle turned blue in the bathtub, I really thought I was going to have a heart attack. So an excellent film with great actors! I wonder when there'll be a movie that equals this one in tension......... "}{"Title":"OK story. but some scares can leave you flat.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After watching a trailer a thousand times on TV and all the publicity and couldn't wait to see the movie. I just have to say that Robert Zemeckis did a good job on this one but horror films are not his best.It rips-off Hitchcock ar every moment1) reference to VERTIGO the use of mirrors and putting them as keywords during the movie,the fact of Claire being a possesed and trying to commit suicide, the way she jumps to the water. 2) reference to PSYCHO the shots from the ceiling, smart use of camera movement, all shower takes and especially the part when Claire grabs the curtain and it brokes and she falls to the floor with it, the name Norman and putting him as the killer.3) reference to REAR WINDOW Claire and Norman spying the neighbors. 4) Reference to DIAL M FOR MURDER the number of times the phone appears on screen and the fact of being a keyword on the movie.Michelle pfeiffer portrays some kind of Grace Kelly-Tippi Hedren role.But some scares of the movie still have potence to make you jump.IT WORTHS A WATCH! "},{"Title":"Spooky, but sometimes ridiculous","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This comment contains what some people might consider a SPOILER!What Lies Beneath hasn't exactly received rave reviews here in Sweden, _almost_ the opposite actually. I saw it tonight and I can't see why everyone (read reviewers in Sweden) seems to think it is so bad. I thought it was a great suspense-horror film. The audience seemed to agree since I'm almost deaf from all the girls screaming at the top of their lungs. Of course, the director/scriptwriter doesn't realise when enough is enough and takes the story one step to far and it was quite embarrassing that no one just paused to think about the fact that the movie audience has seen this millions of times and knows _exactly_ what buttons the makers of films push. I accepted it for most of the film since I thought it was genuinely spooky, but the last ten minutes are almost ridiculous. Other than that I thought the film was pretty spooky and quite entertaining. (7/10)  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies 2000!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw the movie in Germany and I am totally impressed about the things Robert Zemeckis uses to make this movie scary. The first and most important thing is that there were no music in the first scenes. First you will say What, a movie without music in the first part?, but then you see what an effect this takes. If you wanna to see a film without any suspense; Never go in this movie! It will be deadly ;-) ! What Lies beneath A MUST- SEE- MOVIE ! "},{"Title":"7/10","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'WLB' is a pretty exciting and well made thriller. Many scenes were are very well constructed and some of the acting was quite good. There were, however, a number of things that bothered me1) first of all, i didn't find Harrison Ford very convincing as a killer. They should've taken an actor less famous than him and someone who has played a bad guy at least once.2) Some of the 'false scares' were really predictable and stupid.3) for long segments of the movie nothing happened.4) the ending, although entertaining and well done, was a bit too cliché.5) the subplot about the neighbours was pointless (or did i miss something?)ok, that's about it, i guess. Although this isn't the best movie ever, it's definitely worth seeing.    "},{"Title":"Having a bath won´t be the same again...","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ignore those who didn´t enjoy this film...they're too numb in the head from watching idiotic slasher movies like Scream and The House on Haunted Hill.I left the cinema very delightfully scared. There's nothing overwhelmingly original about the plot, but it has a couple of wonderful twists that help make up for this deficit. The acting by the two principles is great (one in a very surprising role) and there are neat little injections of humour at appropriate intervals.As for the shocks - there are a good many. One of them was bad enough to cause my heart to leap up into my throat (it´s a scene in the bathroom - you'll know it when you see it!) "},{"Title":"No extras needed","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for this movie I thought no way will I see this. But then I heard some good stuff about it so I went. Turns out it was a pretty good movie. There were no amazing special effects. There was nothing extremely great about it. But something just made it a really good movie. It had a very creepy sense about it. I couldn't see the ending coming. All in All it was worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A classically well made and manipulative film!","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What a great, refreshing film! Not a great deal of dialogue, no thundering sound-track and no spectacularly overt special effects. Just a great story told with enormous skill by someone who knows the craft of film-making very well.Some of the scenes in this film are really excellent - and I defy most viewers not to jump out of their seats at least a couple of times.Some criticisms that I've read about this film are that it is slow, or that it tries to be 'Hitchcockian'. Well, what of it? If these two factors were done poorly (as they are in many films) then there would be a problem. But 'What Lies Beneath' oozes quality from start to finish and I think Hitchcock would have a wry smile on his face watching this film.All the filmic tricks of the trade are used in this film, but used subtly and used intelligently.My only criticism, is perhaps the very last 7 or 8 minutes where I think things go just a little over the top but otherwise this is a tense, palm-sweating film. Go see it! "},{"Title":"Good,Scary","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In a whole I liked this movie.I went to see it without seeing the trailer so I didn't know what to expect and I found the movie surprisingly good,and yes it made me jump several times.The way Zemeckis handled the story showed that he doesn't think the audience is stupid or dumb. In some of the scenes he doesn't show everything but hints and let us work it on our own. I admit that some of the tricks, that made me jump, were what I call cheap tricks, but they were used to good effect.The reason I think it's only a good movie and not an excellent one is because of some big holes in story which were left unsolved through the whole movie.Good performances from all cast including Ford(who plays a different role than usual) and Pfieffer. In short you may enjoy it if you go but on the other hand it's not everybody type of movie.  "},{"Title":"Very Watchable & Very Jumpy!","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this film was very good. Sure it rips off some movies (The Sixth Sense and Rear Window) but these are great films so it just makes What Lies Beneath even more enjoyable to watch. There are so many moments in the film that made me jump and knock my popcorn over. This is a lot scarier than Sixth Sense. So overall a very good film, which I recommend you see. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Superb entertainment","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a terrific film. Don't listen to the critics on this one. Why because they all see it wrong. This is no Hitchcock rip-off. The master would be proud. This is a lesson in building tension. Use of camera, locations, music and plotting are brilliant.That doesn't mean it hasn't got any flaws.... Sure there are some convenient plotdevises (the serum, the key) and the story doesn't bare much scrutany.  But watch PSYCHO, REAR WINDOW or STRANGERS ON A TRAIN. Hitch did the same thing. And the most important thing Hitchcock said the audience wants to be manipulated . Zemeckis knows that and made one of the scariest thrillers in years.Many critics hated the ending (too much, too easy) but I just loved it.The film moves VERY slowly but it is done so effectively that the shocks resonated much louder.See it, but don't read any plotreferences and stay clear of the foolish trailer. That can ruin a part of the experience.I gave it 9 out of 10. Easily. "}{"Title":"A lot better than you think...","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You've got to go and see this movie!  It's not the best movie in the world but it's a lot better than people think.  It is a great horror/thriller with some great twists during the movie that will keep you on edge.  Even though it only got a 15 certificate it is a very jumpy movie with plenty of shocks to make you throw your popcorn across the cinema!!!What are you waiting for - go and see it!!!! "},{"Title":"What a Delightful Surprise","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What I can say with this film is bear with it until the final 45 minutes.  It gets better.  In fact, the only thing that held my interest besides the ever beautiful Michelle Pfeiffer is the constant twists and turns in the film's plot.  There is no nudity, no sex, and very little action. But the film has its surprisingly scary moments and shows one actor/actress in a surprisingly unusual but delightful role.  I give this a 7 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Now this is what a chilling movie is meant to be.","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I wish i could have sat the makers of the Blair Witch Project down at this film and said This is a spine chilling film. The first half hour of the film is a little slow but that aside this film soon develops into an excellent chiller. There are no hatchet wielding loonies in ski masks so if you want to see a group of college girls hacked to bits, this is not the movie for you. Its a good old fashioned ghost story with plenty of moments in the film to make the heart beat faster. It has plenty of wry humour in it as well. Fans of films like the Changeling or Ghost story will love it. Fans of slasher movies will hate it. Fans of the Blair Witch project may learn what a truly chilling movie is really meant to be like. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock-esque supernatural thriller that delivers plenty of frights for your money","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With a budget of a 100 million dollars this is standard blockbuster fare for those who like going to the movies to be entertained and enough surprises to jump out of their seats quite a few times. The movie develops as eminent geneticist (Harrison Ford) struggles to keep things on an even keel in their country mansion as his beautiful wife starts seeing things.The style is that of Hitchcock without being Hitchcock. Seriously flawed, but not so that the average filmgoer will complain too much or want their money back, What Lies Beneath reaches blockbuster status without quite managing to transcend it. Zemeckis relies on the supernatural to play to the audience, which means the plot can go anywhere and doesn't have to tie up logically. Unfortunately the trailers gave most of the plot away, which robbed the story of any dramatic unfolding. But the overall feel is solid enough, and Michelle Pfeiffer's performance, after her embarrassing foray into Shakespeare with Midsummer Night's Dream, is certainly up to scratch. "},{"Title":"A scary, but very enjoyable, movie.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is clean, scary, fun!  If you have ever watched Wait until Dark and enjoyed that, this movie is for you.  I specially liked the way the characters were introduced and then how things get painted in different colours as the story progresses. Scary, yes, but in a fun way.  No blood and guts. "},{"Title":"Even my goosebumps had goosebumps!!!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well I must confess to being a Han Solo and Cat woman fan anyway, so no matter what I would have found something good to say about this film. Luckily though, this film did achieve it's aim and entertained me fully.A lonely housewife is left at home each day by her career hungry husband. Whilst at home she observes the neighbours and their strange goings, which starts the goosebump ride from hell. The very basic plot is that she believes that her neighbours husband has murdered his wife, and starts to get more involved to find out the truth.There are no monsters or obvious scare moments but plenty of subtle shadows and well composed musical climaxes that constantly scare the pants off you. At one point in the film I was just hoping for a break in the story just to relax a bit.It has been a while since a good scare movie was released and this one is well worth the visit. So if you like eyeballs that stare back at you and doors that creek in the dark then this ghostly film is for you. "},{"Title":"Scary and scary","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie just premiere today and so i went to see it. As i thought i should be something very interesting. At the first half an hour of the show, it seems very quiet. After that, the tension rise and the climax started to climb.What i admired on this movie is the quietness on almost 80% of the entire movie. What you can hear is only the foot steps and at some points, something scare happened. This is one of the movie that can make me jump out from my seat, not once, but many times.Michelle's performance is outstanding and so does Mr Ford himself. "},{"Title":"The perfect horror film!!","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT Thrillers have always freaked me out.  I can't take the suspense, during a good one I'm scared stiff that Mr. Bad Guy will pop out and do something really unexpected. I was scared to death during WLB.  It is, in my opinion, a perfect thriller. During the last twenty minutes in fact, I don't think my pulse dropped below 30!!!The movie was entirely unpredictable, you never knew what would happen next. And Harrison Ford as the bad guy... that's a new one "},{"Title":"Almost perfect, but still terrific.","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There's so much that's great in WLB. The moody noir photography, and Alan Silvestri's appropriate musical score with those ethereal choral touches ... greatness. But there's really no room in quality film for that cheap, ages-old adolescent shock device of a disembodied hand emerging from offscreen onto the unsuspecting shoulder of our heroine who gasps and does a 180° whirl only to see ... her loving-but-worried husband. Come ON, okay?Likewise, the climax used some recycled chichés that should have been retired decades ago. Otherwise, this film is finely-finished, with well-drawn characterizations, and with strong reminiscences of the plotline and mood within the excellent Ghost Story (1981) and a tip of the hat to Rear Window (1954).The rating is nine, but I could have given it a ten had the wornout Grade-C shoulder-touching business and similar childishness been omitted. See it anyway, because it's well worth your time.  "},{"Title":"nothing we haven't seen before","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A woman is haunted by the spirit of her husband's former lover. Ghost flick with television-quality script, forgettable performances and inexpensive special effects.  Major sub plot at the beginning is strangely abandoned part way through the story. (Rating B) "}{"Title":"Chilling but could have been creepier   -  spoiler alert!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had chills running up and down my back and neck when Claire saw her and the ghost's reflection in the bathtub. I can't remember seeing a film that made me feel this way, except for maybe The Shining. I think What Lies Beneath is a very good film. I am not sure what to make of Lois's conversation with Claire during the dinner party where Norman had to ask his boss for a budget. This was the scene where Lois informed Claire about the DuPont Chair acceptance party, where Claire looked like she saw a ghost, according to Lois.Now, I think this scene was meant to be a lot creepier than it was...in the manner exploited by Stanley Kubrick. Essentially, this scene could have been a lot creepier if Lois spoke more slowly and Zemeckis lent more silent pauses to the scene.Kubrick is a genius when it comes to the creep factor. His use of silence and character silent comtemplation lends so much to the creep factor of a scene that without this silent contemplation, scenes would be a LOT less creepy than they are.For example (The Shining), the scene where Delbert Grady (butler), spilled liquid on Jack Torrance's jacket and they went to the bathroom and Mr. Grady cleaned his jacket. You can see how much silent contemplatation occurs between both characters. Some of you know exactly what I am talking about.So, yes, I thought What Lies Beneath was a chilling film but it could have been creepier.Michelle Pfieffer is an incredible knockout in both looks and character. I really enjoyed watching her performance.On another note, the film was somewhat nauseatingly Martha's Vineyard white people only land, which didn't seem to fit Claire's or Jody's characters, who on their own merits may have chosen to live in a bit more diverse land than whitewash furniture and Volvos of suburban Vermont.Claire's character is stronger than the character of who you would expect would live in white people only land. It suggests that she not only gave up her career in the Quartet to marry Norman, but that she was so submissive that she relished the thought of giving up her own independence, move to sterile land, and do nothing all day except walk around the house spying on the neighbors. This isn't Claire, is it?It just didn't jive.That aside, I enjoyed watching the events unfold. Good script and upon a 2nd watching (the next day) I could see how the slight innuendos were missed on the 1st viewing. 6.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ghost thriller improves with cliches","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While I have to say Robert Zemeckis is probably the only director to have never made a bad movie, and this is no exception, he does come perilously close.  This supernatural ghost story improves itself the closer it gets to the ending.  Why?  Because Zemeckis completely fails to generate any suspense in the opening scenes.  Instead of using the slow buildup as in The Haunting, I wish he had looked back to 1982's Poltergeist to see how a fast-paced, scary ghost story is made.  Without Harrison Ford and especially Michelle Pfeiffer this would've been unbearable.  But, unlike The Haunting, this one does eventually kick into high gear as the story becomes more of a cliched, stalker thriller.  I would rather see another movie with a woman running for her life, than one where she walks around the house staring at pictures that keep falling on the floor. "},{"Title":"The Sixth Sense + Rear Window = an OK, fairly scary movie","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Echoes of Hitchcock here  What lies beneath does a pretty good job of sustaining tension, although the pace does sag a lot towards the end.  If the subplot involving the neighbors had been cut, the film would have been more concise and satisfying. I was hoping the dog would be involved a bit more, maybe saving Michelle Pfeiffer.  *That* would have been good ) "},{"Title":"entertaining, however a little of a slow start","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Being the H. Ford nut that I am, I couldn't wait to get there opening night. I felt that it took a long time to get started, however I was startled a good bit of the time.  For the most part, it was definitely entertaining and suspenseful.  Michelle Pfeiffer was very convincing as was Ford.  Without revealing anything, I felt that it got a little out of hand, considering who was directing and who was acting. With a bunch of screaming teenagers sitting in front of me, after a while I felt as if I were watching a Halloween or Friday 13th, which seemed to take away a lot of the effect that it could have had on more viewers. In a nutshell, it could have been shortened and been just as effective. It was not Oscar material, but hey not many are.  But it was extremely entertaining if you just want a fun movie and want to be jolted from your seat a few times.  And how bad can a couple of hours of Ford be looking his best?? "},{"Title":"An enjoyable thrill ride","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is an excellent movie if you are one of those people who know you won't be scared but will entertained by the movie on the whole.With stars such as Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, viewers expect to get a decent film. I believe they did if you call this a drama instead of a horror film. The problem I had with What Lies Beneath is that it took to long to develop itself. If you can withstand the first 45 minutes I believe it is well worth your admission. There are thrills, chills, twists and turns to make What Lies Beneath a very good dramatic film.What Lies Beneath is a conventional yet simple to follow film with a cliche script that doesn't require  a lot of thinking. I give this film a solid 7 out of 10 for effort and the performance of Harrison Ford. "},{"Title":"Much better than expected","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ive not seen RANDOM HEARTS, nor do i desire to, but after ford's performance in that film, i was expecting him to drag pfeiffer down with him in this movie. but i was very surprised at how well the entire movie was put together. the story wasnt groundbreaking, but it was presented excellently. the acting was the best i have seen this year. and the post-production team did a wonderful job at making you sit at the very edge of your seat, for a very long time, too it seems. the suspense is almost too much. most of the film is noticeably silent, and the floating/panning camera work, along with very long cuts make many parts of the movie very nerve racking. it reminded me a lot of hitchcock films. it had a lot of hitch's characterstics in it--if you are a hitch fan you will love this movie. if you just like to see a really good movie, that doesnt have any flaws, then you will love this too!!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not the greatest, but entertaining.","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In my opinion, today's films just aren't scarey (maybe because I'm getting older and have lost the imagination of my younger years ), but this one had me jumping a couple of times.  Not much in the way of originality, but entertaining none the less.  Worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"What Lies Beneath? More like, what you don't see scares you.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WLB is pretty cool. It's 130 minutes long, and if you were to cut out all the boring parts, it would equal to about 100 minutes. Most of the film uses the time wisely, however, it does creep along. The beginning is an utter waste of time, and THE TRAILERS! If you saw them, the movie is spoiled for you. Everyone except Michelle Pfeiffer and her weird friend fall flat, but those two ladies act fine. The ending was awesome, not too action packed for its own good (Hollow Man) or too anitclimatic for its own good. (X-Men) Also, WLB is more of suspense than real horror or suffering. We jump because the music stops, then BLAMS at full blast. We jump for stupid reasons, because some music plays, Harrison Ford is sstanding there, the dog opens the door, HF jumps up... The part where Michelle Pfeiffer is stuck in the tub had me at the edge of my seat, but little else. My mom hid behind her popcorn, but I told her too relax. WLB is boring mostly, beginning waste of time, plot given away by trailers... But it's not a bad movie... I;ve seen worse this sumemr (Myself and Irene, Pokemon) but I've seen better. Hollow Man made me jump more... But it's not terrible. Only see it if you REALLY want to... Otherwise wait til video. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Pfeiffer Rocks!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was so impressed with this movie. A great old fashioned ghost story that leaves the perfect amount of speculation to your own imagination. Beautiful home. Their house perfectly reflected their perfect marriage. Harrison Ford was good but Michelle Pfeiffer was incredibly good. I have never liked her before and now cannot sing her praises loud enough. She was awesome. Her evil eyes, long stares and thoughtful scenes propelled us right into her psyche. Can't wait to see it again!  "},{"Title":"Psychological Discovery vs. Ghostly Visitations","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I found this film a cut above the typical supernatural thriller because it allows one to interpret what is happening by resorting only to the wonder and power of the human mind without having to believe in the supernatural.  Unlike some others, e.g., `The Exorcist' where the movie (not the book) has weakened the power of the story by forcing us to accept only the supernatural explanation.  Roman Polanski's great film, `Repulsion' is certainly an example of how powerful and frightening the human mind can be.  Although having said this, `What Lies Beneath' may have been weakened by the quality of the special effects, that is, by being so good visually, it became more difficult to separate the ghost from the mind.  Right from the opening, one can interpret the film as watching someone in the process of discovering their inner conflicts (based on what they know but are afraid to face) and that they now must resolve.  As you see this film keep in mind that all of the supernatural manifestations are never seen by more than one person at a time and in this way you can sense and be afraid of how the unconscious can create the most frightening illusions.  I especially enjoyed the scenes with the psychiatrist and how cleverly the doctor used the patient's belief in a ghost to help his patient find resolution (of course because I do not want to give anything away, one could argue that the resolution was more dangerous than the doctor probably anticipated).  I think most of you will also see that the meaning of `lies' in the title has many meanings (I count 4 at least) each of which is well presented in this film.  As many of us have discovered, what is left to imagination can be more frightening than what we see on the screen. "}{"Title":"In defense of the movie (warning revealing of plot)","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer's and Harrison Ford's effort in dabbling in horror shouldn't be totally shot down in this film.  This successful ghost story set in beautiful New England about a couple haunted by a dead girl's spirit has its thrills and I think, achieves in making you hesitate at looking in bodies of water.  That's what horror films are good for.Well, it seems that a lot of people are ripping on this film for similar reasons but I don't think that the reasons people give are too valid for the disgust that they're displaying. The steals from Hitchcock and such that commentators are accusing of Zemeckis can be seen as paying homage to a director that he respects. Filmmakers do it all the time - Doug Liman in Swingers was blatant about his Reservoir Dogs sampling and yet, he's not the only one that does it... Martin Scorsese and Woody Allen do it all the time.I'm not saying that the movie was wholly unpredictable, but you have to admit, you jumped a couple times and were excited that a movie accomplished that. I think the movie was entertaining, not intending to blow your mind away.  Comparing it to the Sixth Sense is just not fair.  I don't think that Zemeckis' intent is to totally fool the audience until the last scene, although both films do deal with ghosts of some sort.  Despite all the bashing, I liked it.  Especially the scene when Warren Fuehr acts like he's choking his wife at the Vermont Society party. That was pretty funny.  "},{"Title":"Mixing with the master","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In What Lies Beneath director Robert Zemeckis brings Hitchcock to mind with no apologies. Without giving the plot away, Zemeckis reworks some scenes  from  Rear Window and Psycho. At least  one character name seems deliberate enough, as well as a parental fixation. If this sounds vague, can't be helped.  I plan another viewing with my daughter this time to get her take. Just like a good book, one shouldn't expect all the answers after the first read. And What Lies Beneath is a good movie. I laughed  a couple of times but after I left the theater and got out into the daylight, I realized that it had been a nervous laugh.   "},{"Title":"Spooky horror film with a weak ending","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is for the most part a spooky horror film that entertained me. Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer star as a couple who live in a house that's inhabited by a ghost. Pfeiffer begins to realize that strange things are happening and they're usually happening when she's alone. Doors open by themselves, the bathtub fills up with water all by itself, pictures fall on the floor, weird noises, etc. The ghost is someone Ford knew in the past, and it's because of a fatal mistake Ford made. What Lies Beneath, directed by Robert Zemeckis, is a pretty entertaining film for most of its running time. But the same can't be said of the final 20 minutes. The last 20 minutes of this film is a big letdown. It's stupid, ridiculous, laughable, silly, and unbelievable. That's a real shame because What Lies Beneath builds up an effective ghost story until it spins out of control at the end. It's not as good as most of Zemeckis' earlier films but I'm barely giving What Lies Beneath thumbs up because it's intriguing and suspenseful up until the climax. *** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"1 creepy movie!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I found this 2 b a very creepy & awesome movie. Its odd 2 see Ford in a role like this, since he has never been in a horror movie b4 but he does a good job as usual & its his coolest film since Air Force One, those movies of his between AFO & WLB just plain sucked.  Well, Pfefier does an even better performance, she sees a ghost & searches for the truth. I dont know why people would call this a rip-off, 2 me a rip-off is a movie with the exact same scenes from a different movies & has different actors. & this is not a rip-off, oh, there was a curtain pulling scene, oh that has 2 b a Psycho rip-off, gee some people r just 2 stupid. This is a creepy horror thriller with several twists & several jump scenes, I definatly recommmend it, this movie is definatly going into my video collection. "},{"Title":"This was a pretty creepy movie, but there wasn't much to it and it was badly lacking in originality.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is actually a well put together movie. The story itself flowed easily and both Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford both delivered good performances, but the simplicity of the plot as well as an excessive ending took a lot away from the film. I have to admit that there were times when I jumped during the film, but not many. The story of the neighbors was more interesting to me than the visions that Mrs. Spencer (Pfeiffer) was seeing in the house, and the way that that element of the movie turned out was disappointing. What Lies Beneath is an entertaining enough ghost story, but I think that it would be better to watch at home late at night with a bunch of your buddies. It's not the kind of movie that you would want to spend eight bucks on to see at the theater.  "},{"Title":"A solid, traditional thriller","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A solid, traditional thriller that breaks no new ground but is mercifully free from gratuitous gore and pointless whizz-bang special effects.  The kind of movie in which creaking doors and flickering candlelight really is pretty creepy.  There's a surprise ending that really isn't much of a surprise if you have paid close attention (especially to the dialogue), but it is fairly well concealed by the casting and a some sleight-of-hand in the plot.  Nothing original, but still good fun Hollywood stuff done well. "},{"Title":"No More Baths","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by how good, and scary, this movie was! Yes, there were some predictable moments, and certainly Hitchcock-like drama, but unless you went to see this solely to criticize it, then you'd enjoy it a lot. Great date movie, pretty good special effects, Michelle Pfeiffer was flawlessly beautiful, and Harrison Ford was a treat. I held my breath most the time, and once screamed loud enough that the people next to me jumped up from their seats!  Where I come from, that makes for a great, edge-of-your-seat type of thriller. One thing I walked away thinking? No More Baths for Me! "},{"Title":"Best Hitchcock rip-off I've seen lately","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While What Lies Beneath isn't the best Hitchcock ripoff I've ever seen(Dressed To Kill would fill that bill) it's the best I've seen recently.So to people who harp on that...relax.I mean if you're going to ripoff somebody it might as well be the best.Zemeckis builds his suspense slowly,throwing in a couple of red herrings.Or are they?The movie does keep you guessing a little even if you think you've figured it out.Michelle Pfeiffer carries the movie with a believable performance considering we only get sketchy views of her character.Harrison Ford is okay in what seems to be a change of pace for him.The final twenty minutes we see him in a different kind of light than we've seen him before.Still considering his limited screen time in this it seems odd he accepted the part.It's really Pfeiffer's show.I have to agree with some critics and posters that a lot of the 'scares' in this are a bit obvious and telegraphed ,especially if you've seen enough of these kinds of films as I have.Still a couple of times they got me and that's what I pay admission price for.It's certainly a well made film.To his credit,Zemeckis films this fairly straight,without a lot of showoff effects and camerawork that other directors might have used(dePalma comes to mind).Only in the frenetic(and overly protracted)climax does the movie go over the top,stretching credibility almost to the breaking point.Still having said that I can still say I was breathless watching it.So yes you've seen it all before and it won't be on any oscar lists but I think if you sit back and go with it you'll be entertained.I'd give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent suspense / horror movie","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There aren't that many movies out there that impress me too much (especially of the horror/suspense genre) but What Lies Beneath was a gem. This is a movie that will literally keep you on the edge of your seat trying to anticipate what will happen next. It is so good that I think even the great Alfred Hitchcock would approve. It combines aspects of Rear Window, Sixth Sense, and Stir of Echos. After you leave the theater, you rerun the movie in your head trying to put all the pieces together and the great thing is, all the pieces fall into place and make sense. If you like ghost stories and being scared, this is one movie you don't want to miss. Bring a date. "},{"Title":"An entertaining thriller.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't say too much about What Lies Beneath, except that once you get settled into the story,  you won't be able to turn away.  Robert Zemeckis takes the multi layered story and slowly peels  it back for us to see.  The film is a throwback to the style of Alfred Hitchcock.  There are  subtle hints here and there for the observant viewer to pick up on, and it makes for an  entertaining package.  Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer are very good in their roles.   Zemeckis restrains from using any flashy camera tricks and lets the scenes unfold in a natural  way.  He also doesn't let the visual effects call attention to themselves.  Here the visual  effects are a supplement to the story.  The effects are subtle, and blend into the scenes quite  effectively.  Like a good showman, Zemeckis will give us a glimpse of things that whet our  appetite for more.  I won't say anymore, other than it's a good way to spend an afternoon or  evening.           "}{"Title":"Why are there so many bad reviews of this fantastic movie???","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  We were trying to decide between X-Men and What Lies Beneath, so I read some reviews of each here on IMDB.  The reviews of X-Men were much better, but we were more in the mood to be scared so we saw What Lies Beneath.  WE WERE NOT DISAPPOINTED!  It was the scariest movie we've seen in a long time!  Any fan of Hitchcock will love this film.  It has elements (almost rip-offs, but very tastefully done) of several Hitchcock films (Psycho, Rear Window, etc.) and the suspense is maddening... our leg muscles were sore afterwards from being so tightened up during much of the movie!  No parts seemed to move slowly, and the surprises in plot were believable and truly surprising. I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"A great formula thriller.","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had a blast at What Lies Beneath.  The old Hitchcock formula still works just fine.  I'm not one for slash and gore films, but I love a good thriller, and this one fits the bill for me perfectly.Diana Scarwid gives her usual flawless performance and is always a welcome sight.Ford is underutilized, but this gives us a whole new view of a familiar face. A nice change.I was particularly impressed with Pfeiffer.  She carried the film beautifully.  Watch for the final bathtub scene -- those eyes of hers should get some sort of award on their own.Zemekis nails it again.  ) "},{"Title":"Stylish & intriguing, yet a classic ghost story.","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My teenage daughter dragged me to this movie, and although I had to close my eyes during a couple of particularly suspenseful scenes, I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Very well acted and scripted, and the cinematography was both interesting (especially the use of mirrors) and delicious to the eyes (that house & garden--yum).  I enjoyed the twists and turns of the plot, and thought the portrayal of the adulterous husband and his wife's gradual discovery of same rang incredibly true (and I know whereof I speak).  If you like scary movies that are also interesting, go see this one! "},{"Title":"Scariest movie I have seen in awhile","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen so many scary movies and horror flicks that it takes a very strong movie to get any kind of emotion out of me. Not since Scream have I been this terrified to the point of hurting after the movie because I was tense through the whole thing. Yes, a lot of the story line has been done before but not in such a jump out and shock you way. I went not expecting to like it that much and now it is definitely one of my favorite movies. But if you go, take someone with you to cling to during the suspenseful scenes! "},{"Title":"A Loving Tribute","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is a loving tribute to Alfred Hitchcock's moviemaking style, right down to the riveting score. Many of the complaints I have seen regard the movie's lack of originality. Fortunately, the movie succeeds in so successfully recreating Hitchcock's style that lack of originality can be forgiven in this instance. This is one of the smartest thrillers to come out in recent memory, especially in light of the excess self-aware, teen-targeted horror movies that have been released. Additionally, after The Sixth Sense helped to revive the thriller genre, there are sure to be copycats. Example the upcoming Bless the Child, which even from the previews makes the movie appear like it's trying just too hard to replicate The Sixth Sense. What Lies Beneath doesn't do that at all. If the TV show Survivor is the winner in a trend of reality-television started by Who Wants To Be A Millionaire, the winner in wake of The Sixth Sense is clearly What Lies Beneath. Certainly Zemeckis succeeds in applying Hitchcock's style to What Lies Beneath, as opposed to the remake of Psycho, which is an insult that I refuse to see. "},{"Title":"A classic Ghost Story, Thriller, Murder Mystery?!?","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Upon viewing the trailer for What Lies Beneath, I found myself counting sheep.  First off, to cast Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer in a ghost story seemed a bit stale.  Harrison hasn't done much work as of late that really moved me (Random hearts, Air Force One, Sabrina) and although I love Michelle, I just didn't see her pulling it off.  Upon the release of the film I heard many mixed reviews and figured I might as well give it a shot. Zemeckis and done a fine job here, although it is by no means a masterpiece. Hollywood has jumped back on the ghost story bandwagon again and had put out some hit and miss films in the last 2 years.This film is much better than the highly overrated Sixth Sense, but films like House On Haunted Hill, and Stir Of Echoes (the best), will still stay under your skin longer.  Yes, yes this film is slow in various segments, but carries an incredibly unnerving and quite dismal mood throughout.Pfeiffer is great in her portrayal of a woman who must cope with being alone in a large old house, when her daughter goes to college and her husband has demanding work hours.  She is left in solace for most of the day reflecting on her regretful past and missing her daughter.  When things start getting a bit odd, she becomes consumed by the events unfolding around her.Ford, on the other hand, is nothing short of an animated corpse throughout. Although is nice to see him play an antagonist for once.Many will, of course note the obvious Hitchcock influence in a couple of scenes.  I felt they were played out very well and it certainly gave the film a classic feel.  By the numbers scare tactics abound here but it's still fun to watch and experience.  I noticed a slight Dressed To Kill/Fatal Attraction nod in the bathroom sequences but that might just be me. Another nice quality of the film is how Zemeckis weaves suspense with silence. Sure there are several ambient passages in the film to set up the suspense but the silence is almost deafening and unnerving in parts.Overall, I would say check out this film, if you like a good scare and creepy atmosphere.  Considering the summer has only produced a couple of excellent films so far (X-Men, Gladiator)  3 ½ stars out of 5  "},{"Title":"A good old-fashioned summertime suspense thriller.","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Riding on the coat tails of such recent thrillers as The Sixth Sense, What Lies Beneath is a good old-fashioned thriller with a supernatural twist.  Claire Spencer's (Michelle Pfeiffer) life begins to fall apart when her daughter goes to college.  She sees the ghost of a young woman in her house, and odd things begin to happen around her.  Doors open and shut, computers and stereos switch on and off, and mysterious neighbors come and go.  Her husband Norman (Harrison Ford) doesn't believe what she is seeing is really happening.  As we find out more about who this young woman was, and why she is appearing in Claire and Norman's house, the pranks become less amusing and the tension mounts. Director Robert Zemeckis builds the suspense masterfully, creating an increasingly tense mood, punctuated frequently by Boo! surprises.  As formulaic and predictable as these tension-release episodes are, they work.  Though the ending is predictable, it's still a good ride.  And it's a pleasure to see Harrison Ford in a role different from his usual summertime typecasting. "},{"Title":"A Great Scare","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is a refreshing and genuinely creepy thriller.It's refreshing because of the lack of blood and gore that most modern scary movies are filled with. It's an old-fashioned thrill-a-minute Hollywood ghost story that keeps you guessing until the very end. Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer are wonderful and it's worth admission price for the beautiful New England location of the movie alone. This is a great movie to see in the theater, because everyone else will scream right along with you and that makes it all the more fun. Don't miss this one!  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had heard that this movie was crap, as had my girlfriend, but we were roped into seeing it by another couple.  I went in with minimal expectations, but the movie managed to capture me and hold me in suspense through the entire thing.  The story line was very solid and different from what the previews suggested, and it was very clever and made me think about the meanings behind several things (think about some of those confusing parts people, and you may like them MUCH more).  I'm not a big Hitchock fanatic so i didn't notice anything about it paying homage to Psycho or Vertigo (as so many reviewers say).  That's not to say that it's not predictable;  it is, but it manages to do that well.  The way it makes you jump is by letting you know that something's about to happen, but not what or when... then it springs it on you. The camera work was excellent, both main actors were very good, and the plot had some good twists.  Overall, even with more than a few cliches, I like this movie a lot, and would give it a 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"technically brilliant","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  robert zemeckis's use of hitchcockian-techniques was brilliant! beautifully shot and dramatically tense! this movie sits on the fence between horror and  thriller. i guess the only weak point (or else I would have given it a 10) is the somewhat-devoid-of-logic plot and below average (for Ms. Pfeiffer and Mr. Ford's usual work) acting. Although, the direction and tension more than made up for it! "}{"Title":"Scary!","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I didn't read any reviews, but I just wanted to see a scary movie. So off I went with my unwilling husband. We had little expectation, but it turned out really well done. There were lots of good twists, and suspense was built up so well. We were always left wondering for the next surprise. And all the while, there was an edgy atmosphere that made you sit on the edge.Whatever the reviews said, I think it was a great summer, scary movie and am really happy I went to see it. "},{"Title":"The Best Thriller I've Seen","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved this movie!!!! It is definitely an edge of your seat thriller! I thought it was even better than 'The Sixth Sense'.Well, it was scarier anyway. I thought the acting was great. I would definitely recommend this movie! I liked it so much, I'm going to see it again! I'd give it 9 out of 10 stars!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, but severely flawed.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is a mixed bag.  On one hand, it has some of the most brilliant camera tricks in recent memory, and has several great twists.  On the other hand, Harrison Ford's character is not very believable, and it is way too long.  Let's start with the good.  What Lies Beneath uses state of the art cinematography in conjunction with CGI.  This results in some strikingly eerie, and sometimes beautiful, scenes.  The story is good, but takes way too long to get started.  That is the biggest problem with the movie, time.  What Lies Beneath runs at near 2 and 1/2 hours, when it could easily be cut to 2 hours.  There are great scares, but there are too many.  However this does make the entire movie suspenseful, which was probably the intention.  Still, there is a side story about a man murdering his wife which has almost nothing to do with the main story, and this goes on for a whole 1/2 hour.  There is an amazing twist with Harrison Ford's character, but for some reason I just didn't buy it.  If it had been shortened by at least 20 minutes, I am convinced that What Lies Beneath would be a suspense masterpiece.  Great effort though.  Check it out anyway. "},{"Title":"Just OK summer film","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to say that I liked this movie. But I think the only reason was an excellent performance by Michelle Pfeiffer.  Not to give anything away but I kind of knew what was going to happen half-way into the movie.  With all the foreshadowing going on, it was hard not to know about the drug and the key and mister Ford before hand.  So the ending was no shock for me.  But over all the performance of Pfeiffer, who I really like, carried the film for me.  "},{"Title":"The scariest movie ive ever seen","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now u know me..ive seen ALOT of movies, mostly horror and till now the only horror movie that kind of scared me was Pet semetary well, what lies beneath totally scared me! I loved this movie! great acting and storyline! there were no flaws...awesome, please go see it! The whole theater was jumping and screaming!  "},{"Title":"Great show","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Really great show.  Good thriller without the sex and blood.  Many jump out and get you parts.  I was really surprised by the ending.  Overall the actors did a great job.  Harrison Ford really surprised me. "},{"Title":"Scary as Hell","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     What Lies Beneath is a very scary, very well shot movie. The acting is topnotch. Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford have great chemistry. I would like to see those two together in another movie. The movie has very scary moments. Such as the bath tub scenes. The camera shots were great. And they threw a few good twists which I will not give away. I will admit, though, that it took a while to get going, but when it did it turned out to be excellent. It also mixed in a few good laughs. The character of Jody was very funny. I also enjoyed this movie on another level It wasn't your cheap slasher movie where someone jumps out of the closet with a clever, it was well-acted, smart and scary as hell. B+ "},{"Title":"What a great movie!","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went into the theater expecting a real snoozer, but spent most of the time either on the edge of my seat or grabbing onto my husband's arm!  A great thriller with a nice twist.  Definitely worth the $$$ we paid.  Lots of jumps and even a few chuckles here and there. "},{"Title":"It's at least worth your money to see it","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't scare easily, but this one unnerved me a little.  Although the movie was not boo!-augh! scary, it was fairly suspenseful and intense.  There was a certain point toward the end of the movie where you just wanted it to be over, but it just wouldn't end.  Like that little pink bunny, it kept going and going.  Luckily, though, it didn't just drop you at one level for the climax and make you sit there for another twenty minutes; it did get slightly more intense.  note - Some may consider these comments spoilers There were still a few things that needed to be explained (for instance, the neighbors just dropped out of sight after a few minutes), and the audience was still left questioning the actions of certain characters at certain times... as well as Ford's seeming immortality throughout the last half hour of the film.  The ending was a little cheap, the one computer animation bit a little contrived... but all in all, not completely a bad movie. Interesting roles for both Pfeiffer and Ford, quite different from those traditionally played.  It is an entertaining 126 minutes. "},{"Title":"Great suspense","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you like suspenseful thrillers, such as Dead Calm, you'll like What Lies Beneath.  Michelle Pfeiffer does an excellent job of her role.  The story is nothing terribly new, but the actors definately add a great deal to the story. "}{"Title":"Well Done Psychic Horror Movie","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Michele Phillips and Harrison Ford are an attractive long-married couple with a solid marriage, a beautiful (and talented) daughter about to leave home for college, and success just over the horizon for Harrison Ford.  They live in just-remodeled home, which lets in perfect morning sunshine that matches the waffles Mom makes for breakfast.  But what is it that Mom is beginning to see on the edges of her vision.  Why is she seeing things in the bathtub?  Is her perfect husband perhaps a bit insecure because his father discovered a theorem with the family name attached?  Is Mom crazy or what?  One might dismiss this as simply another horror movie, but it is a cut above.  The acting is outstanding.  The plot does not require that you keep detailed notes to follow it.  It's logical and no loose ends are left.  As an aside, I thought Diane Scarwid's acting was terric and almost didn't recognize her as the stilted actress who played Christina Crawford. "},{"Title":"*** out of ****","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was actually surprised at how scary this movie turned out to be. The first half of the movie was a bit cliche and predictable, not to mention SLOW, but some of the scares were totally unexpected. I also liked Zemekis' style with the camera works, having the cameras moving through solid matter like doors and cars and floors.The special effects in this movie, unlike The Haunting, were used to tell the story in a way, and weren't the least bit distracting, but rather effective.P.S. The neighbor was just too guilty. "},{"Title":"Good chiller","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT I do agree that the previews gave away some of the surprises and I wish It hadnt. can you imagine the twist finding out that Harrisons character had actullly had an affair instead of knowing the secret going in. It would been a neat twist. Still there are some nice twists left. I knew going in that Zemeckis would do a good film and wouldnt let me down. I think out of all his movies Ive never been let down...well maybe a little with Contact but he hAs a great track record. This films pace is one of the things I liked about it. I dont think the story lends itself to Fast Hollywood scary movie. This reminded me a lot of those 70 thriller movies I used to watch on TV where the tension was mounting and you knew something was going to happen but not when. I was imprssed with the spookiness that you usually dont get anymore from most Horror movies. I loved Pheiffer and Ford was good and I like the different angle that he gets to play instead of the Indy type character he always plays. I also liked the false plots that lead nowhere like old Hitchcok movies that keep you guessing. The only thing I didnt like was the false Michael Meyers/Jason Vorhees fake death scenes towards the end when you think the killer is dead and they keep getting up. I could have done without that but overall I really liked the movie and recommend you seeing it. "},{"Title":"Heart-stopping","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow.  I've never screamed in a movie theater before, but I couldn't help myself.  The second anything remotely scary happens, there's an accompanying loud noise, which'll have you jumping out of your theater seat (or clutching the armrest--whatever.)  This movie keeps you guessing from beginning to end.  Every little detail is important.  All put together, it's an absolutely amazing film . . . a lot like The Sixth Sense.  Robert Zemeckis, the greatest director EVER (sorry Spielberg) outdoes himself, putting together such excitement and great entertainment that it left me wanting to see more.  Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer are great.  Darnit, the whole cast is great.  This is exciting, thrilling, and superb.  Gotta love that. "},{"Title":"The scariest thing about this movie is that it required 130 minutes and $100mil","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had been putting off watching this movie for years... 2+ hours, 2 A- list actors and 1 big budget are the perfect recipe for disappointing horror and/or thrillers.I eventually got around to it, but couldn't get around to finishing it. Admittedly, I skipped through much of the second hour after one hour without scares, thrills, suspense, or even much in the way of mood. The characters and the actors playing them all seem tired. For the first 30 minutes we're treated to lots of day-to-day conversation and people just hanging out. Harrison Ford is particularly disappointing, a shell of himself, and seems as bored with the story as I was. Michelle Pfeiffer tries to breathe life into this disaster, but cookie cutter Eek! A ghost! performances can be had for many millions less. Outside of the stars there is no talent and very little dialogue beyond small talk. As for the ghost... someone wearing a white bed sheet with eye-holes would have been more frightening.Any horror script that contains a scene, 40 minutes in, beginning with a Ouija board and ending with a fake-out scare (Oh, it's just the dog!) is not worthy of 40 minutes of my time, let alone 130. And of course, such a script will also contain the You're Crazy!/Am I crazy?/I swear I'm not crazy! sequence, complete with psychiatrist, shocked onlookers, angry spouse, etc., and last but not least, the canned, mainstream ghost story movie ending... a switcheroo here, some vengeance there, a surprise bad guy, blah blah blah. "},{"Title":"Slow creepy horror","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Norman (Harrison Ford) a university research scientist, and Claire Spencer (Michelle Pfeiffer) are left with an empty nest after their only daughter went off to college. The next door neighbor Feurs are fighting, and one day Claire finds the Mrs Feur (Miranda Otto) crying hysterically. Then Mrs Feur disappears and she starts spying on Mr Feur (James Remar). She keeps having creepy things happen in their house which leads them to think that the house is haunted. She goes to see therapist Dr. Drayton (Joe Morton) who suggests contacting the ghost.I didn't realize this was a horror until I started watching. So it caught me a little off guard. It's a slow creepy horror from director Robert Zemeckis who isn't the usual suspect. It meanders along at a crawl, but every once in awhile, it strikes a familiar horror tone. When she's spying on Feur, there is definitely a 'Rear Window' vibe. When the creepy things happen, there is a ghost haunting vibe. Zemeckis is good enough to pull off good scenes. However the movie keeps moving and twisting. It never really settles down for a good scare. It becomes a matter of waiting to see what the final twist is. "},{"Title":"Murder Or Madness?","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Robert Zemeckis directed this thriller that stars Harrison Ford & Michele Pfeiffer as Norman & Claire Spencer, a happily married couple who live in an idyllic Vermont lakeside home. Norman is a University Research Professor, and Claire a retired Cellist. After a recent auto accident, and seeing her college-bound daughter off, Claire becomes depressed, and begins to hear and see what may be the ghost of a young woman, or is she just losing her sanity? Is her neighbor a murderer, or is it someone else in her life that nobody ever suspected? Well cast and directed film unfortunately goes off the rails with an unappealing and melodramatic final twist at the climax, which, while surprising, is because viewer does not want to believe it! "},{"Title":"Count the clues","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is an old Lone Ranger show called Count the clues, which is a lot more Mickey Mouse than this, I dare say, and which really had no clues.Here, the clues aren't exactly clues in this mystery. It's more of a journey with the heroine.She is seeing a ghost? Is someone trying to drive her crazy? What of her rash behavior after an accident she had some time before, in which she either saw or did something that made her want to forget.At times, she comes across like Gregory Peck in Mirage, which was very much like this in the way the story unfolds.A woman haunts her. Is she dead? Or is her husband a schemer. He certainly seems the sort, being one of those too level headed to trust sorts, which people who have been around do know better than to trust.Is the woman dead? Or is she playing games.Or is the wife simply having a Mirage like Peck did? In fact, that is where it seems to be headed most of the time. Did she go off the deep end and kill her husband's lover, then forget it? There are a few other red herrings, but it is obvious that they are red herrings. There are really three possible culprits here, so the guessing game is between those three. And it does a pretty good job of doing a guessing game. "},{"Title":"Soggy in parts, but no damp squib","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are some really good shocks in this film, but frustratingly, things are just a little bit overdrawn and often far too clear cut. In my view the best horror films trade on suspense as much as possible, which means keeping your audience guessing about what is happening until you absolutely have to reveal something. With this film that should have meant totally convincing us that Claire was going insane - and her accident should have provided a very plausible explanation right until the very end of the film. Instead the truth is revealed rather lamely, and then, once we begin to know for certain what's happening and why, it all gets a big slow - in fact I'm sure I've seen most of this part of the film done better in a Creepy Tales comic book years ago. Whatever the flaws in the story, this is by far the best performance I've seen from Michelle Pfeiffer, and she really does amplify the best of the shocks, but Harrison Ford, although playing very strongly against type is far less convincing, I'm not sure if it's his dialogue or the plausibility of a character with such contradictory morals. Either way, although far from a classic, it's a good chiller and definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've ever seen!","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have seen this movie plenty of times now, that's how much I love it. I rarely see the same movie twice since there are so many movies to see and so little time! But this movie is worth watching over and over again. When I saw it the first time I had no expectations, I don't even think I knew what the storyline was since I saw it by mere chance. And I was pleasantly surprised I must say. Thrillers/mystery/horror movies are my favourite genre but too many movies are ruined because they are too exaggerated and over the top. This one isn't. It has a great storyline and at least to me, it wasn't predictable. The villain is not who I thought it would be and the reason behind it is not something I would have guessed. I love that about movies. I rarely find movies scary but this is one of the few that gives me that eerie feeling. I love that!! Some scenes actually affected me so much that I find it somewhat unpleasant to look in the mirror in the bathroom if there's mist on it, to swim in lakes when I can't see what's beneath the surface etc.The actors are good (ofcourse). Michelle Pfeiffer is one of my favourite actresses even from before this movie, not to mention how incredibly beautiful she is. It's a pure joy to watch the movie only so that you can watch her beautiful face! )I'll give this movie a 10 as it is my favourite movie alongside Seven and The Others. "}{"Title":"Good chiller","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Really good ghost story,which has lots of twists and keeps you under lots of suspense.Its one of those thrillers you could watch loads of times and it still entertains you.The two leads Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer work very well together and i don't think i would have liked the film as much if it had been two different lead stars.Michelle Pfeiffer is a Hollywood actress you wouldn't mind seeing more of as she seems a lot more natural than most of the other Hollywood actresses out there.Its a shame she doesn't do that much anymore.This is probably one of my favourite ghost films which is also a thriller,and has lots of jumpy moments,the best for me is when Pfeiffer looks down at her reflection in the bath and then sees two faces staring back at her.Thats creepy.Also the biggest highlight of the film is when she is paralysed lying in the bath and her husband is trying to drown her,and she tries desperately to try and pull the plug out with her toe,this scene in particular has you fully engrossed.In all this is Hollywood movie making at its best,and definitely a future classic. "},{"Title":"Good Thriller","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought this movie was well done and don't read too much into it! The actors were convincing and I didn't expect what was to come, although when I watch it again, I do see clues that I hadn't seen in the theater when I originally saw it! I LOVE Michelle Pfeiffer, so I was happy that she was in a thriller and she did not disappoint! Harrison Ford usually bores me but I thought he did a good job! The film even had an even more grown up Christina Crawford (Diana Scarwid), who is always fun when she overacts! I still remember Mommy Dearest and that ABC Afterschool Special she did where she confronted kids doing drugs after Helen Hunt OD's! Great movie, period! "},{"Title":"Plausibility aside, homage to Hitchcock succeeds stylistically","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Robert Zemeckis joins the club of directors who have paid homage to Hitchcock with this stylistic and suspenseful entry in the haunted house genre. What Lies Beneath finds a geneticist (Ford) and his wife (Pfeiffer) alone together in their spacious Vermont home after their daughter leaves to attend college. While Ford goes off to attend scientific conferences, Pfeiffer stays home - where things get spookier by the day.References to Hitchcock's films abound, from a plot setup that echoes Rear Window to textual and thematic nods to Rebecca, Suspicion, and Psycho. There's even a wink to 1926's The Lodger (Hitchcock's earliest success) as Zemeckis shoots key moments from beneath a glass floor.Ford is no stranger to Hitchcock-influenced films, having starred in Roman Polanski's skillful Frantic (1988). But it's Pfeiffer who carries the movie, delivering the gamut of requisite emotions and keeping the film completely watchable even as the plot machinery begins to creak in the film's second act. Red herrings, blind alleys, and pat explanations pile up, threatening to undermine the suspense so effectively generated in the movie's first hour. But Zemeckis rescues the film with an astonishing finale, as exciting as it is implausible. My advice? Dispense with logic and indulge in the guilty pleasures of 'What Lies Beneath.' "},{"Title":"your past will come back to haunt you","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the movie 'What Lies Beneath,' Carrie Spencer (Michelle Pfeiffer) is a mother and a wife and her husband Norman Spencer (Harrison Ford) is a scientist. While Norman is at work, Carrie goes to greet the new neighbors. Once she finds they are not home, she tries to open the door to her house and is surprised to see that the door opens on its own. Later that night, she starts to hear sounds of stereos turning on and off. The sounds turn into images of a girl, and the girl turns out to be a part of the past. Now Carrie must uncover the truth and get out of the house alive.The critical intention of director Robert Zemeckis is to tell the audience that no matter how long we have known someone we will never really know their true personality. One of our friends could be the nicest person and still have an evil side to them. I also believe the director is telling the audience to be suspicious of everyone. The critical technique of the film made the movie scary. The actors in the movie did a great job. Michelle Pfeiffer did a wonderful job of playing the part of a scared house wife, to fit all of the pieces of the puzzle about her husband's past together. I love the way Harrison Ford changed roles from a loving father and loyal husband to a very deceptive and evil man. "},{"Title":"A good thriller","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What lies beneath stands out as a thriller from many that have been made since 2000.First of all it is the combination of a great director with an excellent cast to begin with.Then the choice of locations and pace of scenes add to the intrigue which builds up minute after minute.Above all what I enjoyed in what lies beneath is its plot. It is so near the end we get to have a sense of what is  really is happening and has happened.The conclusion is both dramatic, suspensful and very powerfull keeping you well seated.Surely a worthy watch. "},{"Title":"Surface thrills","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" WHAT LIES BENEATH (2000) **1/2 Harrison Ford, Michelle Pfeiffer, Diana Scarwid, Joe Morton, James Remar, Miranda Otto, Wendy Crewson, Ray Baker, Amber Valletta, Katherine Towne, Victoria Bidewell, Dennison Samaroo. Suspenseful ghost story of sorts with Ford and Pfeiffer (chemistry, baby, chemistry) as a happily married couple who face some twists and turns in their relationship when their house takes on otherworldly happenings that apparently only Pfeiffer bares witness, ultimately leading to some unnerving secrets. Old fashioned techniques and red herrings aplenty keeps the creaky plot going until it runs on vapors in its final reel where it gets to be something out of a slasher flick.Ford and Pfeiffer are very comfortable as a wholly believable onscreen couple and particularly Pfeiffer is exceptional as a woman fearing her senses coming apart. Nice still, eerie camera work by Don Burgess and timely gotchas thrown for good measure by filmmaker Robert Zemeckis. "},{"Title":"Very scary and well made","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Here is one of these rare masterpieces I and my wife have seen since long time. Yes, congratulations to all the stuff, Harrison Ford, Michelle Pfeiffer and of course to the director Robert Zemeckis. The story is well developed and makes really scary. The picture and the set were superb to create the chilling atmosphere. Another proof how suspense can live up without many action or bombs. There were some scenes à la Hitchcock that gave to the movie the last touch of an excellent horror mystery thriller. I wish that Hollywood will produce in future more pearls like this one. What Lies Beneath will find a place in my DVD collection.   On IMDB the vote is too low, our vote 8,5/10. "},{"Title":"Great suspense!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I read something about Harrison Ford not acting well in this movie, BS (in capital letters!) I must say. I was so tense during this movie, I seriously cannot remember the last suspense/thriller that made me feel this way. It's very good and the plot is witty, for I can always predict what will happen, who's the bad guy etc. And I could not in this film, so I recommend it to everyone. I watched in on a BIG BIG screen tv, and the mood was perfect for it was raining and scary to look outside ;) "},{"Title":"Great hommage to Hitchcock","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I watched the film several times and I can recommend it to everyone.I watched it several times alone at night and the atmosphere is great. I was spooked several times. And every noise in the house becomes suspicious.The camerawork is great (especially the chase at the end) and the bathtub scene will do for taking at bath what Psycho did for taking a shower. Of course there are some hints at some Hitchcock movies (chase scene, bathscene and music) but that is only great. It may not be the most original picture but it is entertaining and that is what moviemaking is all about (at least I think so).The actors perform great and the setting is beautiful (Vermont). The ghoststory is not to everyones liking and I can understand that but it is something that you have to go with.I give this movie an 8. "},{"Title":"The best example a trailer/spoiler disaster","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies beneath is a great tribute To Hitchcock. Robert Z is talented and crafty enough to pull this off. A mistake he made that I don't think Hitch would have let happen was in the marketing. I went with friends who had not seen the trailer or ads. They went in blind.The entire time I found myself thinking Crap, I wish had not seen the ads. The Dreamworks marketing department took a huge Dump on this movie. Too bad Trailers don't have the strict spoilers policy like IMDB.Great Horror film. "}{"Title":"The best thriller I've ever watched!","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first time saw 'what lies beneath' I couldn't stop thinking about this movie. There is no wrong way in the movie ... it is perfectly good and I don't understand why some people do not like it. What is the most important when you're watching this movie is think only about a story and just watch what is happening on a screen. After that you will probably be very impressed! First impression cannot be wrong but some people don't understand it at the 1st time and they should watch it again to clear what is it about. There's a perfect actress who has created a perfect movie-person - Claire Spencer who makes the movie more realistic! I've watched it 3 times and still I'm not bored. It is really pretty good!But remember! don't watch it when is not dark!! Darkness will help you to feel it!  "},{"Title":"Good Thrills, too many cliches","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this first in the theater with a friend and it was the first movie that I actually screamed at. It definitely has some quality thrills and shocks. It successfully leads you off trail of the actual killer for a while but after it gives it away it kind of ruins the end of the movie. *POSSIBLE SPOILER* The part that really scared me was the scene when Michelle is in the bathtub and you aren't sure if Harrison Ford is dead or knocked out or what on the floor. *END OF SPOILER* But honestly, how many times have we seen movies where the husband deceives the wife, come on. One of my favorite parts of this movie is that it is very scary with almost no gore at all. A little blood and a little rotting body once, but thats all. If I can handle it, anyone can. I give it an 8/10 "},{"Title":"what a great and creepy movie","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  well for one i love harrison ford movies. he is one of the greatest actors ever. well i saw this movie on tv and loved it so much i made my mom go out and rent it to watch again. i watched this movie by myself late at night as it turned out that was not such a great idea as this movie scared me so many times i have by now lost count. i reccomend this movie for anyone that is looking for a creepy movie to wwatch with a friend or maybe alone in the dark....... well i give it 2 thumbs up.....see it today "},{"Title":"A Thrilling 'Ghost' Movie","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OVERALL MOVIE RATING **** stars. (Out of **** stars)WHAT LIES BENEATH REVIEWAfter I watched this movie I couldn't help but think how much better this is than most others like it. This movie has some very intense scenes. This movie achieves being a horror/thriller, unlike most others. One of the best movies in 2000, this movie hopefully received an award.The plot of What Lies Beneath focuses on the Spencer couple after their daughter leaves home for college. Soon after her daughter leaves, Claire Spencer begins to suspect that something is haunting her after she starts seeing the face of a college student who was murdered.This movie has some really neat special effects. I really enjoyed seeing a movie that finally scared you at times, because that is a rare thing to find. This is also a good movie though because it has some really good acting and writing.Ford and Pfeiffer do a really good job acting together as a couple in this movie. I really liked how Pfeiffer's character, Claire, was brave enough to investigate the murder and the haunting. But not only was the acting good in this movie, the writing was also really good.This is as said before one of the best movies that came out in 2000. It has some really good acting, writing, and special effects in it. Parts of this movie startle you, but that makes the movie what it is supposed to be, and it makes the movie a little more enjoyable and original. "},{"Title":"An exciting movie filled with suspense.","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An overall good movie with some startling moments in it. This proved to be a lot more than expected. Ford did played his part very well, as did his co-stars. The writing and directing seemed to be very good. This movie had some nice scenery that gave the movie a little more suspense when needed. A good movie for anyone wanting a bit of scare.*** of **** stars. "},{"Title":"Homage to Hitchcock and remarkably successful","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One gets a little tired of Harrison Ford he is a somewhat one-faced actor, with that same quirkish smile on one side of his face, and not much else. However, Michelle Pfeiffer is always good to watch &#150; whether she takes her clothes off or not &#150; and in this case she is as good as in any film I have seen her. Indeed, I must add, so is Ford, despite himself playing himself and not much else, but which happily slides into place here reasonably well.Zemeckis must have wanted to emulate Alfred Hitchcock Dr. Spencer is Norman, some nicely suspenseful scenes take place in the bathroom, she spies on her neighbours through her indiscreet windows with binoculars, and one half expects Rebecca to appear on the screen at any moment. She doesn't, but some rather good hallucination effects, especially with reflections in mirrors, bath-water and lake-water, and rain-soaked darkened windows, keeps one's apprehension alive to the end. Some clever camera-work completes the Hitchcockian tradition.Zemeckis' taught and concentrated directing, together with a performance at times inspired by Michelle Pfeiffer, has managed to pull of quite a feat an updated version of what might well have been from the old maestro himself, without any sense of `remake' and far from any plagiarising. That in itself is enough to be a worthy and respectful homage from a present-day director for the erstwhile master of suspense. A generous salute to the venerable author of several little masterpieces.The film is well-paced throughout, gathering momentum as it progresses; it is as if the building tenseness is itself the cause of quickening pace, which Zemeckis keeps well under control. I am not particularly a fan of horror or terror films, but `What Lies Beneath' has quite a lot going for it. My vote is slightly above the IMDb average. "},{"Title":"Great Ghost Story","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sometimes, when seeking a movie or radio play, nothing will do except a good ghost story, especially a haunted house story.  What lies Beneath certainly fits the bill.  It is of course a classic haunted house story, with a little bit of Alfred Hitchcock thrown in there.  Michelle Pfeiffer is outstanding in the lead role of Claire.  I honestly think that her performance was overlooked at the Oscars.  I mean, if they are going to give Julia Roberts the Oscar, then they should at least give Michelle pfeiffer the nomination.   "},{"Title":"Not one of the best horror movies? Go figure...","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Norman and Claire Spencer, a happy couple in the suburban American society. This is her second marriage; she has a daughter from the first husband and a former music career. Claire has to face the challenge of her only daughter left home to attend university. This is Norman's fist marriage; he is a scientist who follows his father's career steps. They both live in a beautiful house near the lake, where they think no problems can arise, or so they think... Claire starts having weird experiences, creaky opening doors, and strange reflections on the bathtub. First she thought it might be her strange next door couple, but the strange woman reflection is actually Norman's dead mistress, who know wants to destroy him, or the wedding or Claire... This is the beginning point of which resulted on of the best, if not THE best Horror/Thriller movie ever done, even better than Sleepy Hollow and Psycho. Long time applauded director Robert Zemeckis, filmed this while he was filming Cast Away, with What Lies Beneath clearly leaping a step in ahead. Based on an idea of Steven Spielberg, the movie starts going slow, building up the tension, thrilling here and there, until the end where it bombs us with thousands of revelations, horror, action, jumps and screams. As the movie starts' going to the end Zemeckis presents us with incredible camera movements (see the scene where Claire runs away from home in her truck &#150;amazing-). Michelle Pfeiffer obviously drives the movie with an Oscar-winning performance, alongside Harrison Ford, a little different than we are usually used to see him. Undoubtedly, Robert Zemeckis proved from this movie that he is the heir of Hitchcock's throne; What Lies Beneath is the starting point.    "},{"Title":"entertaining and suspenseful","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm glad I did not read any of the mixed reviews of this movie before I rented it, nor did I see the trailer.  The result was a very entertaining and in parts scary thriller for me. A little slow getting off the ground, and a little drawn out at the end, but full of surprises for those that are not exposed to any spoilers. "},{"Title":"Effective fun","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The film is very effective in its aims, it provides the scares and the jumps, which is the only thing it really delivers.Forget the plot, it's rather derivative of suspense pictures, it doesn't explore new ground, it's cautious.Michelle's acting is quality, one of her best performances in years! Harrison Ford is good as usual, but not fantastic.The direction is very good, Zemeckis makes the picture work. The wide-screen frame is filled very well.Do not watch the trailer, it gives away too much. Don't expect a masterpiece, it isn't but excellent value for a Friday night! "}{"Title":"suspensefully unbearable","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer suspects her next door neighbor of murdering his wife and is convinced her ghost is trying to communicate with her. The film gets really intense during the last hour when Pfeiffer starts trying to figure out what's going on, and the final half-hour is one of the most suspenseful 30 minutes ever constructed for a film. The use of silence in key scenes is excellent, and Robert Zemeckis shows again why he's one of Hollywood's best, a master at directing, with some camera work in this film that rivals those of Tim Burton's. WHAT LIES BENEATH is what all ghost stories should be like, rivaling STIR OF ECHOES for the creepiest film I've ever seen and (also like STIR OF ECHOES) absolutely blowing THE SIXTH SENSE out of the water. This is a ghost story with a suspenseful, well-written script, great performances, and genuine suspense. I've never really given much thought to Pfeiffer before (I don't dislike her, but I've never rushed out to see her films), but she gave a phenomenal performance. It takes a lot to convey fear with nothing but your eyes alone, and she nailed it. Harrison Ford also gave a great performance, one of his best and playing his most interesting character in his career thus far. WHAT LIES BENEATH has now, in my opinion, set the bar for all ghost stories to come. It will be hard to top this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Chilly,extremely well orchestrated shocker","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsIt has been quite a long while since there has been a horror thriller as genuinely effective as this.With nodding admiration to Alfred Hitchcock and Stephen King in it's conveyance,What Lies Beneath is yet another film that probably works best either at the cinema or on a dolby pro logic widescreen TV if only to absorb the true joltieness of the sudden jump moments.Director Robert Zemickis slowly and calculatingly builds up the tension and eventual unraveling of the plot,with involving,interesting characters and an entertaining script.Harrison Ford and Michelle Phyiffer generate ingratiating chemistry and are a convincing on-screen couple.A highly intelligent,emersing thriller.**** "},{"Title":"This movie gots the Macgruffon going on!Warning Spoilers","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is by far the best suspense movie I have seen in a long time.What Lies Beneath is much more frightening than the Sixth Sense and far more Spine Tingling than the Blair Witch Project.I literally found this movie near perfect.Towards the end I nearly p***ed my pants, because it was so terrifying.Practically through out the whole movie I had goose bumbs all over my body.It's slow at first like people been saying but it gradually builds up more suspense that you hardly even notice.It even has it's moments in the begining for the people who are afraid that it might be boring at first.This film instally reminded of a Hitchcock film.Everything from the score,the camera angles,and the plot.I honestly think that Alfred Hitchcock would be very proud of the movie.The story evolves around Michelle Pfeiffers character Claire.Her daughter has just gone off to college and she is feeling some what lonely.Her husband Norman(HarrisonFord) is really obsessed with work and tries to live up to the success of his father that left them the beautiful New England they now live in.In the beginning Claire witnesses a fight between their next store neighbors.Than she starts sensing that there a ghost in the house.Claire is convinced that the ghost is the wife next door and believes that the husband killed her.After awhile she confronts the neighbor and realizes that she made a mistake and soon finds out that it is the spirit of a missing girl Norman had an affair with.A plot point I wish they hadn't givin away in the trailer,so that the twist would have been more surprising.After Claire finds out the movie gets more creepy and more suspenseful.Michelle Pfeiffers performance was very very good and I really think she might get a Golden Globe nomination and possibly an Oscar nod.The only problem I had with What Lies Beneath is Harrison Fords performance.It definitly isn't his best peformance.It he didn't even felt like he was trying, like he was to big to be in a supernatual thriller so it wasn't worth the effort.I honestly think thats true because Ford has bluntly expressed his non belief in supernatual forces.But the rest of the cast is very good and his dud performance is hardly noticed.Personlly, I think this is the best film this year right behind Erin Brocovich.The story is handled very well and the movie is made superbly.It also proves that Zemeckis directs the best movie.Its like Alfred Hitchcock takes on Fatal Attraction.And remember Fatal Attraction was nominated for Best Picture and Hitchcock is wildly considerd one of the best Directors of all time.9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"sense of psycho","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow !!!Robert Zemeckis's return after three years (Jodie Foster's CONTACT) is absolutely unbelievable. One on the most anticipated movie of the summer (and the year) will stay in memory for a long time.Forget THE SIXTH SENSE, now, WHAT LIES BENEATH must remember our attention. The thriller of the decade is coming, no exaggeration. In the way of Alfred Hitchcock's movies and Jan De Bont's THE HAUNTING, this supernatural movie goes the moving. A lot of screams, a lot of shivers, a lot of adrenalins, a lot of... success. Hollywood like this kind of movie, but this one will haunt you until your bath...Skilfully, Zemeckis (FORREST GUMP, BACK TO THE FUTURE 1-2-3) plays with his camera with extraordinary travelling and panoramic shot show us the emotional and scary scene. More, his high and low angles shots will give you a cold back. Two thumbs up for his great job and work (watch the bath scenes).The subject itself is important and great in the circumstances when (this) director filming scenes. With a really lively intrigue, the actors find them easily on the scenes, indeed the house. What ? because the real interest takes place inside of the house with his supernaturals movements and worrying jumps.Two flops in a row together (Random Hearts for FORD; The story of us for PFEIFFER), Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer form an energetic and poignant chemistry. But it's any more Pfeiffer the revelation of this film with a brilliant and hard performance psychologically and physically. The film hinges completely on his perfomance, his best since BATMAN RETURNS.ZEMECKIS-PFEIFFER-FORD a perfect trio results an excellent supernatural thriller; a perfect production results a dynamic suspense; and a perfect acting results an exciting movie for the summer... OH YEAH ... They have sense of psycho.One of the bests movies of the years... finally !!! "},{"Title":"A good scare flick, but too predictable","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a good, edge-of-your-seat (yet overly long) flick that is marred by scenes full of fright gags and cliches that make most of the scary parts of the film far too predictable.  But there ARE some scary moments in this film, and the Ford-Pfeiffer chemistry works well.Harrison Ford (despite his bad haircut) did an admirable job - although it's difficult to imagine why he would have an affair with a grad student when he is married to the lovely Michelle Pfeiffer.  What was he thinking? Michele also has a good-sized dog that seems to disappear when she needs the companionship the most.  Hell, I wouldn't go where she goes without a dog at my side.Expect to be scared, expect to be drawn into the story - but don't expect a classic scare film.  Better seen at a crowded theatre where you get to enjoy the audience reaction.  "},{"Title":"For it's time, one of the best horror movies","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time about two years ago. Since then I have watched it many times over again. why? The simple answer is because it's so good! I love to see actors and actresses play varied characters, and act in different types of films. Ford Harrison did a great job in this. At first when I watched it, some parts were confusing, but after I watched it again, I understood everything completely. I love the storyline in the movie, and it keeps your attention all the way through. Some people are saying it's annoying how in lots of movies, a character seems nice, but then turns out to be the evil one. Well, you can't really say that for What Lies Beneath because even though that happened with the husband who seemed so perfect, this movie had the idea way before most of the ones that followed, like, for example take Hide and Seek. The dad was so nice, and then turned bad at the end. oh well. There's not much more can say about this movie. It was really good, and if you like this kind of movie, then I highly suggest you go and rent or buy it. It's definitely worth it! 8/10. "},{"Title":"should have had a higher rating!!!!!","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i thought this movie was awesome and spine-tingling i don't know why its not that high on the rating!!!!!!!! if your into movies that give you goose bumps and have unexpected heart jumping moments then this is the movie for you!!!! in fact, i recommend this to everybody who loves suspense and thriller and horror all at the same time!!!!! the part where she goes into the bathtub and see's the ghost looking back at her sent chills up my spine and i couldn't look at a bathtub filled with water for about 2 months after that so every time i would take a shower i wouldn't look down!!!!! Michelle is a great actor and i have seen basically all of her movies and this was really the best acting i have ever see her done!!!!! if you get this movie then am telling you people who haven't seen it that you wont regret it...unless you don't know a good movie if you got hit in the head with it!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"believe it or not, they actually managed to do it right","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Too many horror movies today are little more than excuses to have a bunch of special effects, or to show gratuitous violence. What Lies Beneath gets it right. A sort of homage to Hitchcock, the whole movie makes you jump. Claire Spencer (Michelle Pfeiffer) has been seeing many strange things around her Vermont home. Her husband Norman (Harrison Ford) figures that she's just imagining everything. But as Claire investigates, she uncovers some deadly secrets, to the point where she (and we) are uncertain whom we can trust.This movie shows that, although we might assume that the director behind Forrest Gump couldn't possibly helm a horror film, we would be wrong. Dead wrong. What Lies Beneath is bound to scare you. "},{"Title":"A delight for Autumn","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  True, you could criticise the speed of the story and the performances of the actors - both are good but not perfect. The true charm of this movie is that it does actually take a Hitchcock-like storyline, sets it in beautifully shot New England and gets it all across as poetry. This is, in my mind, the perfect film for an Autumn day. Though I saw it dubbed in German originally I still found it quite good. It's the beautifully shot scenes that stay with you the most, as you'll never quite look at eerie lake surfaces the same again. See it on a big screen only though - DVD and telly do not do Michelle Pfeiffer's feet justice P  "},{"Title":"Scary but fun","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a movie for true suspense thriller fans. It didn't rely too much on gore and gruesome images, but more on the suspense and &#145;holding your breath' kind of thing. If you didn't watch the trailer, you will enjoy it even more because you didn't know what you're getting yourself into.The acting are good, especially Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford, and the music reminds you of Hitchcock, the master of suspense. The settings are pretty good, with lots of creaking doors, falling pictures, and lots of other stuff that you normally find on a horror movie.If you had a chance to watch it on a rainy night, you are guaranteed to have a wonderful scary time! "}{"Title":"scary movie!!!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie scared me so bad i had to turn it off and watch it during the day again. It was a perfect horror movie. It was great and the actors did a great job acting their parts!!! Go and rent this movie as soon as you can!!! "},{"Title":"Amazing 2-hour juggernaut!","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The filmmakers, along with the cast, delivered an exciting, atmospheric supernatural thriller.  WLB is very reminiscent of the kind of film Hitchcock would make.  As a matter of fact, it's a better homage to the master of suspense and Zemeckis and Co. should be applauded for their effort. Other directors and screenwriters have faltered or copied Hitch's style (one who comes to mind is Brian DePalma, Snake Eyes (which I like) and Raising Cain come to mind), but Zemeckis does it with precision.  Michelle Pfeiffer is great as Claire.  Ford was alright as her husband. The supporting cast were acceptional, particularly Diana Scarwid.  If you want to be frightened, rent this chiller and watch with the lights off. "},{"Title":"The best thriller I have seen in years.","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was classic thriller stuff...not the horror of today that tries to pass itself off as a thriller. A lot of the scary bits you actually expected, but they were done so well that even though you were waiting for it to happen, it still scared the pants off you! Modern day thrillers tend to use gore for shock factor...I don't find that scary at all. It may gross me out, but it doesn't make me jump. What Lies Beneath made me jump on at least half a dozen occasions, and had me on the edge of my seat for the entire movie. It was wonderful! "},{"Title":"A slow and easy fright fest. First rate terror!","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A professor's wife believes that her neighbor is a murderer; but her personal terror is trying to cope with a spirit haunting her new home. Harrison Ford is what we think is a mild mannered genius. His neurotic wife is played by the ever classy Michelle Pfeiffer. We see a very different side of Ford and Miss Pfeiffer at one point has only her eyes to relay her torment. What I really liked best about the movie is the sound effects. It reminds me of days gone by when the sounds of the wind, a rainy night, footsteps and a squeaking door speak volumes. This movie is not necessarily too long, it just moves slowly getting to the energy packed finale. Your palms will sweat and you will inch to the edge of your seat. The terror filled twisting climax is well worth the ride. "},{"Title":"Save this one for a weekend rental","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you like predictable, cliche and slow paced thrillers, this is your film.Ford and Pfeiffer are wonderful to watch but that's not enough to make this worth seeing in the theater (neither are the special effects). By the way, this is Pfeiffer's film, she has the dominant screen time and she sure looks great!!So what's wrong with What Lies Beneath? (notice the word Lies is in the title)  Well, the first half of the film is NOTHING like how it was promoted in the trailers. The affair Ford had isn't exposed until we're way into the film (at least 1/2 way). In the mean time were lead on this wild goose chase that has NOTHING to do with the story, a true theft of audience time and trust.In all the promotions I saw, you're made aware of the affair and then lead to believe that a wife, possessed by the dead mistress, gives a frightened husband a run for his money.  The trailer even showed scenes of her investigating the paranormal that were not in the film (I hate that).  I kept wondering if the film I was seeing was the same one.I'm not sure why word of mouth for this film isn't worse, but it was nowhere near as scary or as original as The 6th Sense.  If you could not predict every jump and every twist then you're no doubt the audience they wrote this for as every trick in the thriller/horror book on making an audience jump is used. In conclusion, if you've not seen it already, save it for a rental it when there's a rainy Sunday morning you can watch it in bed, I think in that venue it will play the best.Otherwise, purchase 6th sense and watch that again (and again), even after the 4th viewing it was scarier than what lay beneath.  "},{"Title":"Too predictable to be scary","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was well acted but the plot was thin and used too many cliched scary setups. I found myself predicting just about every boo scene, like when she was in the bathroom and the dog came in. Michelle Pfeiffer did good job with the material they gave her, but just about anybody could have played the husband. I think the film could have brought about more tension if the apparent supernatural happenings were either 1. not explained by the ending or 2. explained by human deviousness and evil. Not enough was left to the imagination.  "},{"Title":"A film that builds to nothing.","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see What Lies Beneath expecting to enjoy myself.  Harrison Ford, Michelle Pfeiffer, Robert Zemeckis, what's not to like?  Pretty much everything.  Go see this if you enjoy trite dialogue and plot twists, scenes that serve no purpose except to slow the film down and make it last twice as long as it should, or movies that build to absolutely nothing.  The climatic finale is not surprising, and seems more like a cheap attempt to be shocking.  And don't expect to be scared even once.  The attempts at inducing fear are predictable at best, and laughable at worst.  Do not disturb What Lies Beneath?  No, just don't go see it. "},{"Title":"What Lies Beneath?  Who Cares?","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is not a horrible movie, its just not a very good one, which is a shame considering all of the talent involved.  Robert Zemeckis is an excellent filmmaker, Michelle Pfeiffer is a very capable actress and Harrison Ford, well he is my all time favorite movie star. Sounds like a recipe for success.  Unfortunately, it doesn't turn out that way, and I think the blame can be pointed squarely at the script.  The concept is great, but the execution is lacking.This film needed another draft.  The characters are flat, and the audience knows very little about them to care.  Sure we get glimpses as to who they are, but it isn't enough to carry a 130 minute film.  The acting is very good in the film, but again, it's not enough to just have good acting.  A stronger script would have made this movie a lot better.My other complaint regards Harrison Ford.  He is great in this film (not wooden as some would suggest).  We see a side to him he has never shown before, and the results are impressive.  However, I have a tough time accepting him in this role.  Part of that may have to do with the script, which makes a sudden turn out of nowhere.  It may also have to do with the character, which is certainly against type for himIt's really a shame, too because technically this movie is very well made. Zemeckis knows how to make a movie.  He is one of the top directors in the field, and this film shows us why.  The camera glides everywhere, yet it is never distracting.  Watch as it gracefully moves into a speeding truck. Notice the floor disappear at one point.  These are all pulled off amazingly well, thanks to Mr. Zemeckis' knack for storytelling flair and visual effects.Overall, its an interesting failure.  Well made, well performed, but missing the one final ingredient that all good movies have  a decent script. "},{"Title":"HELP I'm hearing VOICES in this movie!!!!!!","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" During the scene when Claire cleans up after the Ouiji Board session with her girlfriend, she goes into the bathroom because the tub is filled up with water once again. Right as she starts to breathe a little harder as she is stepping away from the tub I swear I can hear so kind of creepy whisper or voice coming through the background. It's right before she turns to look at the message that appears in the bathroom mirror. Am I really hearing this? Does anyone else hear it to? If so what does the voice say because it almost sound like it says the name Caitlin. Also I would like to comment on on Harrison Ford's role in the movie. To me he just was not very clear in how he was projecting his voice in the movie because he was really mumbling a lot. I thought he did a pretty good job acting more alive at the end when he trying to kill Claire. Does any body else agree? Please let me know. P/S Overall I really did enjoy this movie because of it's eerie feel that it leaves you with and esp. the face that appears in the snow at the end. Thanks, Kim "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath is a very creepy horror movie, with a great cast, great photography, and amazing horror sequences. Is a very long movie, but it worth the time. Michelle Pfeiffer is amazing on this role, she is the typical homemaker, but this time, she see a ghost, and in the bad tub!!!!!!, that's very creepy, that's the more terrifying scene of all, Harrison Ford is very good on his role, of the sweet husband who hides a secret, his act start getting better after the first hour of the movie, but still Pfeiffer stole the lead role. The ghost of the young woman is very creepy, and very original, i really though it was the neighbor, but it wasn't, make sure to see this movie, because i know you won't be disappointed. Is better than 'The Sixth sense!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I give a 10/10, for the acting and the story, i really did love it, and i could see it 2 times on the day, just for the amazing horror bad tub sequences.Make sure to watch it, it's amazing. "}{"Title":"BLAH!  Scared?  No?  Neither was I.","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I hadn't thought anything would out-do Troy for ridiculousness and sheer butchering of movie-making; then I had the privilege of viewing What Lies Beneath. This pseudo-horror film throws in every possible horror cliché, and before the end you'll be so sick of pointless pop-up scares that you'll be completely immune (I was sick of it once Pfeiffer was scared by a car in a driveway). I can't say that this movie has any redeeming qualities, or that it and quality should every be in the same sentence.I actually give this movie a perfect 0/10 although that's not an option on the menu. "},{"Title":"I am not impressed","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It starts off relatively well - Claire and Norman have a seemingly ideal marriage but then one day Strange Things begin to happen... And that's where the first problem is. Strange Things indeed do happen - a LOT. Here are a few (I probably missed out a couple) fans stop working, doors open by themselves, pictures fall, computer turns itself on and sets solitaire high scores (!), a dog will not go onto the pier (complete with the famous `what's the matter, boy?' line from 1000s of horror films where dogs generally have about three times the IQ of anyone else), a neighbour probably murders his wife, bloodstains, bathtubs that fill by themselves and last but not least an enormous number of creaky doors. Oh and did I mention that Claire and Norman live in an isolated house (well, there is a couple next door but they kinda disappear in the second half of the movie) very close to a deep lake? Now don't get me wrong, I LIKE this kind of thing, especially the Strange Things & Ominous Signs but you really CAN have too much of a good thing. Take for instance the front door - it opens by itself so often that in one scene Claire seems reluctant to use the keys and just waits for some nice little poltergeist to open it for her. Oh and by the way the doors are all amazingly creaky except the one that opens spontaneously - I guess the ghost keeps that one oiled so it can open it silently while no-one is looking.Right. All of this happens ONLY when Claire is alone - preferably at night and if at all possible during a thunderstorm. She's often alone in the house because Norman is a geneticist, you see, and has to work in the lab a lot (the film takes great care to inform us that, apart from genetics, the lab also works on tranquillisers for mice - AND OTHER MAMMALS. No prizes for guessing on what other mammals it will be used in this film).But the story really does not matter much in a horror film. What matters is the atmosphere. Is this film scary? Well... yes and no. There a lot of BAH! moments (when something suddenly appears on screen followed by a loud noise) and I do mean a lot - almost in every scene (the film actually opens with one)! That unfortunately is the problem - because these are so frequent we more or less get used to them and they lose their effect. So the first hour and a half are definitely NOT scary - they contain many Ominous Signs, many sudden loud noises, many, many plot holes and one very funny visual gag. But then, when the identity of the real murderer is revealed (in the unlikely case there is anybody in the audience who hasn't got it yet) things start to get better. What follows is the second scariest bathroom scene of all time, and one of the very few film moments that scared me so much I actually jumped out of my seat.  "},{"Title":"This bugged me immensely","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The cast is solid,the atmosphere seems right,the imagery equal parts erotic and chilling and yet...There is about forty minutes out of this over two hour fest where there is a completely unnecessary red herring subplot(something that was explained away easily in the ads!)where the error-prone,gradually suspicious-but-loving wife(Michelle Pfeiffer)of a popular college professor(Harrison Ford in a role MANY will not be familiar or comfortable) is wrapped up in the death of a woman that lives next door to their palatial,rural estate. Besides the fact that it has little or no bearing on the true plot of the movie,but the amount of time devoted TO that MacGuffin is so tedious that it feels as if the director,producers and the advertising execs pushing this film weren't on the same page.I seem to have been the only one(at least if you went by the comments I've skimmed so far on this site)to noticed.Director Robert Zemekis wants(stress WANTS)to make a Hitchcock-like thrillerhe half succeeds in that he creates good mood and tension,but he fails miserably in making a slow,long,tedious and aggravating film where the plot takes WAY too much time to establish and the action to get rolling. More of a curiosity than a real chapter to any of the principles' careers. Not a total waste,but hardly the best work done by any involved. "},{"Title":"More money than sense","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath must be the most expensive and lavish cheap timefiller I've ever seen.It's so densely packed with obvious melodrama and genre cliche, that it could easily be mistaken for one of those dire conveyor-belt mini series that Steven King keeps pushing out (supposedly to make up for the shortcomings of Stanley Kubrik or David Cronenberg).Harrison Ford as a bad guy? Watch Mosquito Coast to see just how menacing the man can really be.Scary and haunting? Not compared to real spinechillers such as The Changeling.Tense, dramatic and manipulative? Try Memento instead.Ultimately, What Lies Beneath, is a catalogue of half-measures. The fact that you've seen it all before shouldn't be a problem, so long as the old cliches are given a new slant, but the movie doesn't even go that far. What's worse is the fact that the movie starts slow, and grinds to a halt within the first hour. Despite a valiant attempt to regain some momentum in the last few reels, it ultimately gets nowhere.The script alone makes this TV movie fodder, or at best a straight-to-video cheapy. How it got the budget and the names is beyond me.A big disappointment. "},{"Title":"Unmotivated and un'spirit'ed","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *Waring contains spoiler*   well, to say this for the filmmaker, it started out promising, a quirky beginning to the plot entails with an exit of a family member to college and the entrance of a spooky entity who throughout the whole movie and even after, you question why was there in the first place. This is the first horror movie where the horror wasn't the integral plot point. Strange you ask? uh-huh. I'm confused too. Lets say leave out the spooky ghost stuff (At the beginning) re work some scenes and you have a perfectly serviceable Tom Clancy (Patriot Games)style mystery complete with the REAL villain in the original film. Or say this, take out human villain, leave spooky stuff, minus half hearted mystery, dump the superfluous neighbor plot add some more spooky and special effects and there you have yourself a true thriller.Personally when I go to see a supernatural thriller I want to see supernatural stuff and have it all make sense, in this film we never know why the girl is haunting them (well we kinda do) but you go back to the old Hollywood cliche where's your motivation? it was just kinda there and wasn't only to come in until the plot dulled, it gives me the shivers now, not cause its scary, but because its so whacked and stupid. Imagine this Say you're watching the Generals Daughter, and every once in a while the girl reappears to scare the hell out of John Travolta or whomever the director feels needs to see the presence. Or even if Mel Gibsons slain wife in Braveheart came back to exact revenge on the king. You'd say that was unnecessary as it is here.Also some major plot points are thrown in so quick and obscurely that I heard people in the theater whisper what did that mean? sure you may be in a time frame but lets rewrite some scenes so they flow. Its sloppy to confuse the audience right away.Maybe next time Mr. Zemeckis, you've wowed us with House on Haunted Hill, Contact, Roger Rabbit, Back to the Future and Gump, (heck I was fully expecting to see a Frighteners style experience) don't let Cast Away fall by the way side with talking monkeys or helicopters made from bamboo and coconuts, if it doesn't fit leave it out, movies will make so much more sense without ten thousand contrasting plot elements in a movie. But hey you've done so much good, we forgive you for what lies beneath.I'm sorry if any of this did not make sense, see the movie and read this again, you'll understand that there's so much to be said for the movie that it cannot be expressed in words, just an utter sense of confusion "},{"Title":"A movie only a Blonde can like!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SpoilersWHAT LIES BENEATH is one silly movie. So silly that you have to be Blonde to actually enjoy it. I'm glad I didn't pay to see this.Folks, this is a mystery/thriller/ghost story, right? Okay, so let's go through a simple step by step process to show how dumb this movie is.Q Who stars in WHAT LIES BENEATH? A Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer.Q; Anyone else?A; Yes, there's Diana Scarwid but her role is negligible, so there's almost no point of mentioning her.Q; Anyone else?A; Well, there are other actors but the movie is basically populated by two characters played by Ford and Pfeiffer.Q But this is a mystery thriller? If there are only two people in the movie, how difficult is it to figure out the mystery and who the murderer is?A EXACTLY!!!!God, I never seen such a dumb movie. Mystery thrillers NEED a good number of characters populating the story in order to work properly. If a movie like WHAT LIES BENEATH only shows two characters for two hours, where the hell is the mystery? One of the two HAS to be the killer. And it's not Michelle Pfeiffer. So that leaves...huh, you know who.Whoever wrote this script must have an I.Q. of 40. Every fundamental aspect about thrillers is missing. The fact that the film spends almost all of its entire very long two hours on two characters might have worked IF the script had been character driven. Sorta like a cat and mouse game where one tries to outwit the other. Unfortunately, because WLB is a mystery thriller, the whole story about the dead woman and who killed her has to remain unknown for most of the film in order for it to be effective as a mystery. But the story is PATENTLY obvious to anyone with a modicum of intelligence because we're dealing with only two characters here. Had it been a character driven film, the identity of the killer would have been known to the audience from the beginning and then the cat and mouse action would have taken most of the film's time. But  WHAT LIES BENEATH is not a character driven film. It's a mystery driven film that's a mystery only to one character in the movie. WLB is like a mystery where the audience knows who the killer is except for the film itself. The film is in total denial. And for two very long hours, we watch this aborted exercise in stilted dialogue and acting from both Ford and Pfeiffer who go through the painfully cliched motion of a mystery that's been D.O.A. from the beginning and stretched out until the over-the-top ending. What's even more incredible is that the film was shot on location in Vermont. And yet the only thing you see during the entire movie are close-ups of Pfeiffer and Ford(who looks terrible). What's the point of shooting a movie on location if you're simply going to end up showing  faces of the actors? Robert Zemeckis' direction is the real mystery in WLB.What a waste! "},{"Title":"Boregasm","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a lifetime channel movie, and sometimes there's a ghost. The End. You don't have to watch this now. Halfway into the movie, I was pretty sure I had become a lame person. It was only after the credits began to roll that I became awesome once again. I used to see Michelle Pfiefer and think, Ooh, it's Catwoman and when I would see Harrison Ford I would think, Ooh, it's Han Solo, but now I'll always see them as crazy old people who can't even kill right. Harrison Ford's character is a geneticist, which is somewhat interesting to me; this is the only reason I have given this movie three out of a possible ten stars. If you find genetics somewhat interesting, you definitely should watch this movie twice. "},{"Title":"Stays afloat despite excess baggage","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two-thirds of this slick, handsomely produced film is enjoyable in a comfortably familiar way, but What Lies Beneath suffers from excessive length and exposition. The college-bound daughter like the friends Claire and Norman meet for dinner serve no purpose; the scenes with the psychiatrist and the endless references to the car accident seem obligatory rather than necessary and a number of scenes centering around the new neighbors turn out to be red herrings. Too many scenes feel perfunctory with characters introduced to make expository points only to drop out of sight. The convoluted screenplay is talky and unoriginal with a finale out of Clouzet's Diabolique. Still, WLB is grounded by Michelle Pfeiffer's performance as well as good work from Harrison Ford and Diana Scarwid and for what it is, it works, and it'ultimately it works better than Zemeckis' Flight (2012) which also suffers from excess baggage and unnecessary characters. "},{"Title":"the mystery unravels..","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath is a great thriller. Tons of suspense. Lead character Claire starts to feel as though her and her husband's house is being haunted as a number of odd things start to happen doors opening by themselves, the water running in the tub when no one had turned it on, a picture frame falling, etc. Additionally she keeps finding clues that unravel the mystery of the ghost she believes is there. As the movie goes on more is revealed about past events that further provoke her belief in the haunting being real and her desire to figure it out.The first half of the movie is rather uneventful but lays the groundwork for the great mystery. The second half picks up pace and creates tons of suspense to an ultimately action-packed and hair-raising ending. Everything Claire discovers leads her closer towards the truth and you can't wait to see how it plays out. Most of this movie, including much of the ending, goes in a calmness-begets-suspense kind of way, and it works. Claire spends most of her time hanging around her house. The most action (except towards the end) is her going to a dinner party with her husband and some friends, and some cocktail party thrown by the school at which her husband works. But like I said, it works.The acting was a little insipid at times and the first half could have been a little more interesting; otherwise this is a great and very suspenseful movie. "},{"Title":"What a Sacry movie??","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie yesterday. Impressive performance from Harrison ford and Michelle Pfeiffer.To be honest before start watching this movie I had no idea what it was. I was expecting rather standard Thriller movie, not a Sacry movie that moves you to the edge of your seat. But Oh... boy, this is one hell of a Scary movie. You don't see much Violence, blood, killings on this movie, half of the movie is silence, absolutely no talking at all and I think that's what make this movie so special.If you like Ghost movies without much blood scenes and killings (Like the movie The Others) yet a movie that can really frighten you and keep you on the edge of your seat... and then this movies is for you. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Spine Tingling Suspense Horror!","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie is great suspense with horror. I liked this movie mainly because of acting and the twist. I figured out the twist early because its in front of you. Harrison ford and Michelle Pfeiffer did really good in this film. If you never seen this film, make sure to watch it loud because its probably the only way to enjoy it. Put your volume all the way up! The horror is decent but its not like those scary horror films where there is like 5 pounds of blood and all that, the story is realistic and something any person could live. The creepy house, dead bodies, the killer, etc. This movie is full blown good and if your into suspense horror you will love this one. What lies beneath is Spine Tingling(Michael Wilmington, CHICAGO TRIBUNE), Does for Bathtubs what Psycho did for showers(Lou Lumenick, NEW YORK POST). I know this movie will keep you on the edge of your seat until the very end! Make sure at the end the graveyard scene you look at the snow! "},{"Title":"giving credit where it is due","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is Michelle Pfiffer's movie and even though she is so distractingly gorgeous that she often doesn't get credit for being a good actress. She is and she proves it here. Any number of actors could have played the husband but she does a magnificent job with the wife. In watching Door in the Floor I recall wondering how that movie would have played with Michelle Pfiffer as the wife and I think it would also have demonstrated her chops as an actress to be reckoned with. A bit of Gena Rowlands in the mix makes it impossible to ignore that unforgettable face and you have a very fine movie held together by a very fine actress who could hold my attention in a still photograph but doesn't rest on the beauty of that face but puts a lot of emotion into this portrayal. Lots of wow power here. Catch it whenever you can. "},{"Title":"Good ghost movie/thriller from the director of Forrest Gump.","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath is one of the only really great post-new millennium thrillers to come out of Hollywood, in my opinion. It must have something to do with the great acting. (How can you mess with Pfifer and Ford?) And the directing ability of Robert Z. I mean the guy knows how to get the job done. Still though, the most impressive thing about this film, to me, is the story. It twists and turns in a good way. It makes sense. It is plausible, and for ghost movie fans, it's a must see. It rivals films like The Changeling and The Ring in terms of 'freak out moments.' Lots of GOOD jump-out scares. Not the kind found in cheeseball horror movies where there is nothing there. What Lies Beneath is a well-done supernatural thriller and deserves a higher rating on here. 8 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"well constructed thriller/horror","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this is a well constructed thriller.it's taut and economical with some good scares.the story is original(at least i thought it was)and there are some good twists.The movie stars Harrison Ford,who is serviceable in his role.however,it's Michelle Pfeiffer who is the better performer in this movie.she really digs deep for this one.there is a good cast of supporting actors as well.if you like old fashioned,intelligent thrillers you should check this out.so-so acting from Ford aside,the movie succeeds because of it's supporting characters and also it's engaging intelligent storyline.it is done well enough that the story takes centre stage.for me,What Lies Beneath gets an 9/10 "},{"Title":"didn't know there were so many critics in the world...","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had the unfortunate experience of seeing this film on TV while I was in hospital, strung out in pain and d*ped to the gills on m*rphine...not a great way to view a film, but nevertheless I found that when it ended i'd pretty much been so engrossed in it that I momentarily forgot I was watching it from my sick bed! Always been a Harrison Ford fan ever since he made the Kessel-run in 12 parsecs lol, could give or take Pfieffer but she is a good actor, no doubt, and quite hot for an older chick...anyway It's very Hitchcock-inspired, so if you like that sort of creepiness check it out...otherwise you're not missing anything TOO special...has a great feel to it if you know what i mean...probably not...im weird.Quick gripe before I go... Why is it that every Tom, Dick and Harry in the world becomes an expert in the film-making process when they comment on movies on this site? Got a newsflash for ya just because you WATCH lots of movies doesn't make you an expert in the craft that is MAKING them.So before you go on and on about how predictable a film is, how the screenwriter used poor exposition, how the director doesn't know a good movie from a hole in the ground, etc etc ad nauseum, perhaps YOU should list your own screen writing/directing credits...don't have any? Then sh*t up about it. Learn how difficult it actually is to make a good film before you bash one you perceive to be poorly made. "},{"Title":"Harrison ford is great","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" when i went to go see this film, i was terrified. first i like Harrison ford a lot and i was waiting to go see another film where he is the hero. thank god that wasn't true. i thought Harrison ford played the bad guy just perfectly. in the scene in the end where Michelle Phip was in the bathtub and he says that this will bring him and her daughter closer together gave me chills. it is a good film and i hope people enjoy it. Michelle Phip is also great and i thought she played this suspicious woman very well. i also have to comment on the directing of rober zemikis the great director that brought us cast away . he makes this film just right. an eerie atmospher and simple ghost tricks does the job. its a great thriller. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite scary movies!","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Firstly, a movie with Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer is going to be great anyways! They are wonderful actors! But this movie also has a lot of mystery and genuine suspense! To give you an idea of how scary some scenes were - I went to see it at the cinema with my mom, and there was a woman next to the aisle (an empty seat between her and my mom). During one especially startling scene everyone in the audience jumped and got scared, but the aisle woman (who we didn't know) shrieked in absolute terror, reached over to my startled mom (clutching on to her for dear life), and practically landed in her lap!! (too funny!) she apologised profusely afterwards, but we understood and were sympathetic because the movie had frightened us as well! An overall excellent movie! This movie is also good if you prefer scary suspense instead of slash and gore like most horror movies these days! "},{"Title":"when a horror  movie gets too long","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When a horror movie gets too long...it loses its momentum. The first half moved along nicely, filled with traditional scary movie tricks and euphemisms, but which are all still scary none the less. Some might say that the horror movie is a very specific science. When you go outside the borders of its realm, the movie might fall apart. That is what happened in What Lies Beneath. It lost its momentum. Suddenly the story shifted, and nothing of the first part remained at all. It was as if the first forty-five minutes to an hour were a different film. While Michelle Pfeiffer was superb, her eerie blue eyes and ethereal paleness were not enough to frighten. Harrison Ford failed at his role as the disbelieving husband. All I can say truly positive is at least it didn't follow the now very-told story of the woman who didn't know she was dead. The car accident was ever just a car accident. "},{"Title":"What Lies Beneath is atmospheric, which is the successful formula for all ghost stories.","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath is full of atmospheric moments, which is the winning formula for all successful ghost stores, such as The Uninvited, Rebecca and The Innocents, based on the novel, The Turn of the Screw. The breathtaking scenic backdrop, the beautiful house, the attractive couple, the normalcy of the daughter going off to college, and the family dog, all lend themselves to lulling the audience into a false sense of warmth and comfort. The jarring red herrings are part of the formula and balance the normalcy. This type of ebb and flow keeps the audience just enough off balance to cause discomfort and build the suspense. And, creating a selection of situations that may explain the creepy happenings is all part of the puzzle - and fun. I thought What Lies Beneath accomplished all of this. I do agree that too much advertising tends to take the edge off even the best plotted film. I don't think, The Uninvited would have been as effective had I seen repeated ads prior to viewing it, and that is part of what is wrong with modern films. "},{"Title":"A good scare","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I avoided seeing this movie for the longest time because I like Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, I love good ghost stories and I was afraid the movie would be botched up, and didn't want to see it happen.Well, I'm glad I gave in and saw it. It's everything I was hoping for and nothing I was fearing. Now my only problem is reviewing the movie with out giving anything away! Ford and Pfeiffer are both terrific in their roles. The eerie special effects are masterfully done and follow closely with what an actual haunting would have. There are some great twists along way. "}{"Title":"The film that inspired the Hindi version 'Raaz'","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Though it's not as scary or as in-depth as its Hindi counterpart, What Lies Beneath still manages to pack a decent punch. Michelle Pfeiffer (in the Bipasha Basu role) plays the wife of Harrison Ford (in the Dino Morea role) and just like in Raaz, certain little things begin to occur that lead her to believe that everything is not all together right in her life and that of her husband's. Their house and the lake behind it seem haunted but instead of driving herself insane like Bips, she begins her investigation right away. One main different between the two films I am comparing with one another is that, when the truth comes out, unlike Ford, Morea's character doesn't turn on his wife. I guess this can be chucked up the differences between cultures and norms. Oh! and instead of the mad woman from Raaz, here she is a college student (played by supermodel and arguably the most talented of all the recently-turned-actress models Amber Valleta). "},{"Title":"Excellent Mystery & Great Acting","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Always enjoy the great acting of Harrison Ford,(Dr. Norman Spencer) who played an entirely different role than he usually performs. His wife, Michelle Pfeiffer,(Claire Spencer),gives an outstanding performance as an upset wife who seems to imagine all kinds of strange things happening with her neighbors next door. Claire also observed a woman in her bathtub and doors always open. Dr. Spencer is wrapped up with his work project which is very important and he has very little time to waste with his wife's crazy dreams and visions. This film will capture your attention from beginning to end and you will not want to leave your chair. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Don't ever stab your loyal audience in the back","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film was released 5 years ago and Harrison Ford has not had a hit since. That is what you get when you stab the back of your loyal audience.Good thriller overall. What Lies Beneath is actually two thrillers, Rear Window meets Aquaphobia. Pfifer steals the show and proves that there are brains behind the beauty.Miranda Otto is memorable as an abused(?)wife. It is good to see Diana Scarwin is a ditsy role, given her Holier than thou performance in Psycho III. Ford is too convincing as the besieged husband of Pfifer. I thought that it was interesting that after being named People's Sexiest Man, Ford and his lovely wife Melissa Mathison divorced. Maybe this role was too close to the actual Harrison Ford. "},{"Title":"An engrossing watch the FIRST time","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Claire (Michelle Pfeiffer) the wife of college professor Norman Spencer (Harrison Ford), begins to hear voices, sees ghastly images, and worries about her next door neighbor. Norman chalks it up to an over-active imagination bought about by stress from their daughter leaving for college coupled with them moving into a new house. But the truth is going to be much more sinister indeed. I didn't care more for Diana Scarwid as Jody in this one for some reason, but that's not enough to mar a well acted, taunt, fairly tightly plotted engrossing thriller such as this one. I even jumped once or twice in the third act. It's too bad that the trailer gave EVERYthing away.My Grade B+ DVD Extras Commentary with Director Bob Zemeckis, and Producers Steve Starkey and Jack Rapke; 15 minute What Lies Beneath Constructing the Perfect Thriller featurette; Production notes; cast & crew bios; and Theatrical Trailer "},{"Title":"Pretty cool thriller movie.","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are a few points where this movie lags. But it is actually pretty good overall. It's not ultra predictable like a lot of the newer ghost movies. And the ending is really good and freaky with the actual full visualization of the ghost underwater. The neighbor thing could have been a bigger part of the film. They started it out really well and then didn't go anywhere with it. The neighbors were written in freaky, but then just turn out to be butt heads pretty much. That was disappointing. Harrison Ford was cool in this film. Michel Pfeiffer did a good job, although her character was a little whiny at times. There was some cool back story added to her character that helped keep the movie from being predictable. The small role Wendy Crewson played was a nice addition. Always nice to see her in a film. I recommend this film for a laid back rainy evening at home. "},{"Title":"A decent thriller","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It has been a long time since I have seen this movie but I still have a good memory of what this film was like. Okay, first things first. I thought the movie was decent with some freaky moments but none the less ridiculous on most part of the movie. It's just like any other horror film. The acting was also decent but Harrison Ford, like most of his his movies, was great. What this movie has a good thing upon it, is that there are many jumping parts. I mean on every scene you usually see Michelle Pheiffer walk slowly up the stairs when the scary music is playing and you see a steamy bathroom. Those parts are kind of freaky. I recommend this movie if your a couple looking for a scare, but I would rather rent The Shining insteadHedeen's outlook 6.5/10 **+ C "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford is devilishly good","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is an excellent movie if you are one of those people who know you won't be scared but will entertained by the movie on the whole.With stars such as Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, viewers expect to see a decent film. I believe they did if you call this a drama instead of a horror film. The only problem I had with What Lies Beneath is the pace of the movie. It took to long to develop the storyline, but if you can stand the first 45 minutes, I believe it is well worth your admission. There are thrills, chills, twists and turns to make What Lies Beneath a very good dramatic film.What Lies Beneath is a conventional yet simple to follow film with a cliché script that doesn't require a lot of thinking. I give this film a solid 7 out of 10 for effort and the performance of Harrison Ford.  "},{"Title":"I don't like scary movies.  This was scary, but good at times.","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ***COULD BE SPOILERS***The first half of this movie didn't seem all that scary, and I was relieved it didn't live up to the promotion.  The best part was that Michelle Pfeiffer looked incredible!  The mystery was quite interesting and had many twists.  Then Pfeiffer's character went through a drastic personality change and, for me, the movie just got weird.  I wasn't enjoying it that much any more.  Later, the movie took a turn I certainly wasn't expecting. While I don't care for dead bodies that decay right before your eyes, or the violence that I wish hadn't been so graphic (though it could have been worse), the dramatic final scenes were wonderfully executed and very exciting for those who like that sort of thing.   "},{"Title":"thumbs up","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is an excellent movie if you are one of those people who know you won't be scared but will entertained by the movie on the whole.With stars such as Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, viewers expect to see a decent film. I believe they did if you call this a drama instead of a horror film. The only problem I had with What Lies Beneath is the pace of the movie. It took to long to develop the storyline, but if you can stand the first 45 minutes, I believe it is well worth your admission. There are thrills, chills, twists and turns to make What Lies Beneath a very good dramatic film.What Lies Beneath is a conventional yet simple to follow film with a cliche script that doesn't require a lot of thinking. I give this film a solid 7 out of 10 for effort and the performance of Harrison Ford.  "},{"Title":"Very Suspenseful","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I personally think that Robert Zemeckis is an extremely brave man, by emulating the master of suspense, the one and only Alfred Hitchcock. What Lies Beneath is full of twist and turns, the idiosyncratic characters gave the movie that Hitchcock look. For some strange reason, when I was watching WLB, I had flashbacks to Psycho and North by Northwest. This movie is worthy of an eight out of ten.  "}{"Title":"Last 20 minutes of movie were obviously the scariest and the best!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie last night with my aunt. The whole beggining of the movie was good, but wasn't scary by any means, and wasn't as good as other thrillers (the ring, 6th sense, the others etc.). That was however until the last 20 or 30 minutes of the movie. i was soo scared and the twist really suprised me. i'm not going to tell you how it ends because i want you to be as scared and surprised as i was. In the end I turned off the tv happy that i saw the movie. it wasn't the best movie i've seen, because there were somestupid parts, but the ending definatly makes up for them. In the end, What Lies Beneath was a great thriller, with many twist, that will scare the sh** out of YOU!!recommendation don't see this alone "},{"Title":"Good scary little movie","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a good movie to rent, not buy.  It's a good little scary film that has some parts that will make you jump.  Great for slumber parties and halloween nights.  Both Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeifer play not their best roles, but good never the less. "},{"Title":"Alfred Hitchcock redux","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath succeeds admirably in making us believe in old fashioned horror films again.  This is more a suspense/thriller than a flat out horror film, but trust me, all the elements pop up in one place or the other, most notably in the many overt references to the Master of Suspense himself.  I counted four different nods to Hitch throughout Rear Window, Vertigo, Rope and definetly Psycho.  The film starts out well, but takes a little bit too long to build up the tension that is required of it.  Once the tension builds to an uncontrollable fever pitch, it's as if we're riding on a galloping horse towards a burning stable, powerless to stop it.  Robert Zemeckis builds everything up so good but totally loses us in the last few minutes or so.  However, by then we're so wrapped up in the storyline that we don't even seem to care. The casting was great, especially Michelle Pfeiffer.  I thought that Harrison Ford was good, however some of his reactions towards his wife's predicament didn't ring true with me.  I thought that he played it a bit too intensely at times.This is a great film to watch late after midnight...in a darkened room...alone.  You'll jump a few times.  Trust me.  I did.My rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"The perfect Thriller?","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I write this review as i feel this movie deserves a great deal of credit and praise. It succeeds in every department a film can, making it a perfect movie.The look of the film, throughout the cinematography, mise en scene and direction, results in a beautifull, yet very creepy piece.Both the camera work and editing, allow for the viewer to see the isolation of Phiefers character and then cut in to restrict any pre-emption by the audience, resulting in very few scenes whereby you can truly relax. Coupled with the art direction, which provides some truly thrilling locations, this is bound to scare.However, the film also has a great score to accompany it. Again contributing to the feel of this film.This film is clearly an homage to Hitchcock, providing intellegant thrills. Again making it stand out from todays median of unoriginal teen flicks, which rely more on on-screen gore.Its a very intelligant movie, which is executed perfectly!I give it 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, but drags on a bit","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is definately suspenseful, but it does drag on towards the end a little too long.  However, I would still recommend it to anyone who wanted to see a good suspense film.  Michelle Pfeiffer was the perfect choice to play the part of the loving, but increasingly suspicious wife.  "},{"Title":"I Enjoyed This Movie","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  It frightened me and that's all it takes to entertain me.  I question the critic who knows insider background of a movie or the guy who reads the back of a jewel case BEFORE he watches the movie.  Maybe they know too much to be entertained.  Audience beware Do not read about the movie before watching it.  It's common sense.  The movie had good acting and a scary plot! "},{"Title":"Competently Told Ghost Story","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After a trio of great ghost story movies the previous year (The Blair Witch Project, The Sixth Sense, Stir of Echoes) I was afraid that the single big-budget Summer of 2000 entry would be one trip to the well too many for Hollywood. The more I heard about the movie, the more worried I became. It looked to be a Fatal Attraction with ghosts.And actually, it is, but I was surprised that I enjoyed it as much as I did. It certainly is a very standard telling of a ghostly revenge story. No fancy camera work or plot lines. If you don't figure it out by the halfway point of the movie you've been napping. But the director and actors do a very commendable job in putting on the show. There are few of the off-screen jumps, transparent red-herrings or over the top acting that sink many a thriller. You feel that the movie-making is in very capable hands.  If you've already seen the Class-of-1999 entrants mentioned above and are still hungry for a decent scare, this will do in a pinch.    "},{"Title":"A Hollywood thriller with smarts that actually scares","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hollywood ghost stories have been pretty good lately.  The 6th Sense was classic, The Others was a gem, and joining the likes of the Mothman Prophecies as solid-B thrillers is What Lies Beneath.  Solid-B thrillers WILL scare you.  And they will make you think.  Horray for Hollywood! B, 7/10 "},{"Title":" What do you want?","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer is illuminating as Claire in this chilling suspense farce. The supporting cast is great. The costumes are innovative. One of the good movies in the genre, What Lies Beneath will haunt the viewer for long nights. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"one of the scariest films","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this is a beautiful film, right from the start. the visuals and sound are very good, particulary on DVD. the surround sound is brilliant, and will surely send chills down your back. the picture quality is outstanding, beautiful use of colours, mist, darkness etc - one of the best ive seen.the actors are good, not just asthestically (perfect physiques+attire), although, harrison fords performance could have been a bit more realistic. michelle pfeifer is as gorgeous as ever both in her acting and in her lookswith regards to the plot, it is surely one of the finest and most original horror films ever created. a true spectacle, and one that will surely frighten. there at least 2 scenes that will make your heart jump - and thats no exaggeration. this is defintely one of the scariest films ull ever see.this is an outstanding hollywood blockbuster that is of classic status. one iof the finest horror films made. wonderfully entertaining, as scary as possible and beautfully made. far scarier than suspiria and exorcistgreat reason to get a dvd player! "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Excellent thriller, a love-song to the Hitchcock films of old, with Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford giving top-notch turns.More movies like this should be released.Suspenseful and thrilling, complete with red herrings, this is a fantastic movie.A fine show of film-making.Commendable. "},{"Title":"Very Clever","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was impressed how well this movie was made and acted.  I went into it expecting a cheap pg 13 horror wannabe.  I came out of the only not bloody movie that has ever freaked me out.  It was full of above average suspense and really is an edge of your seat thriller a must see for people out to have a good scare and it is very well ended.   Michelle Pfeifer is very believable girl in a role where she knows absolutely nothing that is going on and Harrisons role is well acted for the character that he plays. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Artistic thriller gave me chills","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Loved it. Yes it dragged in places. Yes, it's not the kind of character Harrison Ford knows what to do with. Yes, it owed a lot to Hitchcock. But if it can put me on the edge of my seat with chills & shivers, I say well done.Michelle Pfeiffer's performance carried the film, direction had its good moments as well. I have to question the inclusion of a lot of extraneous plot fragments that seemed to go nowhere. The mysterious neighbours, all scenes with the dog, wife's music career, everything about their daughter, Jody's whole life -- all simply begged the question I wonder why they're including this? Presumably, this movie is derived from a book, where the author has the freedom to explore a lot of side roads. But all these things could have easily been omitted and the 130 minutes cut down to 100, with no loss of thrill & mystery.The special effects were just right in this film. Well done and not too many or too overwhelming.7.5 / 10. Since I can only vote once with an integer 7, and I hope the next viewer gives it an 8. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock would be proud.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie for a while appeared to be just your average run of the mill film. In fact for a while watching it I was quite bored. BUT then the great action started. I think if Alfred Hitchcock would be alive and he were to watch this film he would thoroughly impressed. Rob Zemeckis, Harrison Ford, & Michelle Pfieffer deliver!!  "},{"Title":"Terrific Ghost Story","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This one looked like a lot of fun from the trailers, and I was absolutely right.   It's a lot of scary fun.   When I saw this in the theater, I sat next to a big Hispanic young man, and he and I seemed to be competing for highest scared jump.There's lots of scares in this movie, but the overall tone is true Hitchcockian.   Michelle Pfeiffer is her usual fabulous, gorgeous self as she tries to figure out who is stalking her inside her own home.Gorgeous locations, lots of red herrings, and plenty of twists and turns.   If you like Scary Movies, you'll enjoy this one.10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, but nonetheless entertaining.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While the film certainly wasn't original, I found it thoroughly entertaining. In today's films more seems to be,well, more, but this film pays homage to the days of Hitchcock and to me furthers the idea that sometimes less is in fact more. As Julia Ormond said to Harrison Ford's character in the 1995 remake of the film Sabrina-- More isn't always better. Sometimes it's just more. This is a film that proves that to be true. Perhaps this film went relatively underappreciated because we are at a point in film making in which gratuitous violence and bloodshed are the norm and there are very few horror/suspense films made with the idea in mind that more often than not you are more afraid of what you don't see than what you do. The human imagination creates images infinitely more frightening than anything that can be illustrated on the big screen. Hitchcock realized this and toyed with the human imagination to create his most memorable scenes such as the shower scene in Psycho. There is probably a large number of people out there who do not realize that in the infamous shower scene you never once actually see the knife slice Janet Leigh's skin. What Lies Beneath pays homage to this branch of the horror/suspense genre and entrusts the imagination to do some of the work, all the while proving that blood, guts, and gore may shock but it's the imagination that frightens. I viewed this movie in a packed theater and during the intense Hitchcockian moments the entire audience jumped simultaneously-- an occurrence I find to be sadly rare with today's horror films. I urge filmmakers to not pan this film for its unoriginality but rather to improve upon it-- use the idea behind it and bring back the horror/suspense movie that actually frightens rather than attempts to shock a generation of people who are now very much desensitized. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath was a great movie, with great actors, mostly Harrison Ford.Also the movie had me in suspense not knowing what was going to happen next. Over all it was a great movie and I think people who like a good suspense movie would want to watch What Lies Beneath.  "},{"Title":"what lies beneath the scariest movie of the year is...agood thriller","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When i saw the trailer for this i thought great,a nice looking and scary thriller...i was dissapointed...and pleased,pleased with the stunningly tense moments in the film (unconcious Harrison Ford),but dissapointed about the lack of scares.The computer effects are brilliant,but i would expect no less of dreamworks.The best moment is when harrison ford is knocked out and Michelle Pfeifer is trying to sneak past him,that was TENSE a brilliant piece of work.A film with talent but also with some annoying quibbles.Still a decent thriller from a good director (forest gump,anyone?).Good enough. "},{"Title":"Good thriller lacking in original ideas","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's a good thriller with some very tense moments and as a real bonus beautiful Michelle Pfeiffer adds a genuine touch of class.To appreciate this film fully you have to believe in the supernatural (which I do not) otherwise many of the happenings remain unexplained e.g. a door which opens as one approaches, a candle flame which suddenly extinguishes, a glazed picture which falls and shatters, electrical equipment which suddenly suddenly switches on. Believe it or not, it can be rather disturbing.  And it doesn't end there.  When you go to take a bath, strange faces are reflected from the bath water.Claire Spencer (Michelle Pfeiffer) is the wife of  geneticist Dr.Norman Spencer (Harrison Ford) and is in a constant state of nervous dyspepsia. Her doctor husband is always only too ready to quell her fears which makes us highly suspicious of him and so also does his wife.  She embarks on her own private investigation raking up some pretty nasty events from the past.Harrison Ford is always Harrison Ford.  I thought the Please forgive me scene on bended knee was most embarrassing to watch and ruined this little scene. The director should have modified the script at this point.  Also in the Drown her in the bath scene the close-ups indicated the bath water was constantly at different levels and not rising as it should have been.  Little errors like this were made up for by the close up of bloodied hands reaching so slowly over the edge of the bath.  Quite terrifying.On the whole nothing very new or original.  I felt I had seen most of the action in previous films.  But I still admire the presence of Michelle Pfeiffer...even when paralysed by dangerous muscle-relaxing drugs...dragging herself along the floor. And didn't she recover quickly from her state of paralysis?  What a woman! "},{"Title":"Making History (Major SPOILER)","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The suspense in the movie is great, and Zemeckis does pull out quite a few great shots. But above all, WLB will go down in movie history as the first blockbuster ever featuring Harrison Ford as the bad guy, (Not just a bully, as in American Graffiti) LOVED IT. "}{"Title":"lots to take in despite its imperfections","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ford and Pfeiffer are a happily married couple, but unfortunately he's drastically overworked by his career as a university research scientist, and she's lonely after her teenage daughter departs for college. She soon becomes disturbed by strange, supernatural occurrences in their home, but he doesn't believe her. When she learns that he once had an affair with a deceased college girl, she becomes convinced that the spirit of the girl has returned seeking vengeance. Skillful, old-fashioned thriller holds you with its intriguing setup and Hitchcockian nuances. Goes overboard and falters at the finale, but it's intense and well-acted, with crafty, innovative direction from Robert Zemeckis. *** "},{"Title":" Why Now .. ??!?! ","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all, I don't know why I am adding my comments now after watching the movie in about two years ,, !!!! Is it because I liked the movie very much & I thought that I have to comment on it , ..  or Because I recently registered to IMBD ... Any Way , .. I think that this movie is the scariest movie I ever seen , .. because its the only one which really scared me a lot & shocked me.. & most importantly , made me Hating myself & feeling very bad after watching it ,,However, The scary elements were mostly the sounds which were happening suddenly in a way that scared everyone watch it , .. Add to this the thrilling story & the very incredible cast acting ,So , I recommand everyone who hasn't seen it yet to go directly & rent it .. but for discover the real scary moments , ..  A loud clear sound system is recommended ... -) ....Eventually, I don't really expect anyone to read my comments..but maybe one day someone will ,,,                           05 March 2002                             bye4now  "},{"Title":"The idea was good, but the plot wasn't! Still worth seeing...","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I watched this movie 3 days ago. This is the kind of movie that really gets you into it. You know, like the 6th Sense, The Others, Jacob's Ladder... it's supposed to be pretty intense and mysterious.The basic idea for this movie was really interesting, although classic a ghost haunting a house. Why is it haunting it? Who's the ghost? What does he want? Michelle Pfeiffer gives a great performance (a lot better than Harrison Ford's cliché-good-father-and-husband) and that's basicly why this movie is so intense. SHE is the movie. The other characters are just there to keep the movie going, but they're not interesting at all, they're all so cliché, so boring.Anyway, this is worth seeing. But it would have been a hell lot better if it was darker and if the producers wouldn't have followed the classical let's save all the surprises for the end.Watch it! But don't expect too much, that's what I did, and that's probably the only reason why I watched it... well, ok, I'm into ghost movies as well. But there are many better than this one, that's for sure! "},{"Title":"Good film, no surprise","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A good film, but really predictable. A couple is haunted by a girl who had an affair with the husband, years before. The she-phantom seems to be trying to tell the wife something, like a warning. What do you think it is? Who do you think has murdered her?   Well, but its worth a try... "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  All I need to say was...  This movie is soooooo Scary.  You'd better use the bathroom before watching this movie, because if you don't, you'll have an accident.  I'm not much of a scary-movie-lover, but this one scared me really good.  A friend of mine had nightmares for a week after seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"Very scary and creepy.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a really good horror movie with two great actors.Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford does on of their greatest roles in a long time in this horror movie directed by Robert Zemeckis. This is a really scary movie and i'll guarantee you that you will get goosebumps. The whole story takes place in a house in the country and that help by making the story more scary. I compare this movie with the shinning and that explains how good it is.If you are looking for a frightening experience with some great acting performance,then this is the movie for you.      "},{"Title":"This film definitely serves its purpose!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  At first, I didnt really want to see this film; heard it was a little silly from a local film critic, but I saw it at the theatre and I admit, I thought it was very good. Michelle Pfeiffer was miscasted though,, way too pretty and proper for most of the roles she plays. When Harrison Ford starting acting bizarre is when the movie got even better; made me jump in my chair a few times. And it wasn't all that predictable,, considering the wierd neighbors they had in the movie. The music was hauntingly pretty and made the movie all the more creepier, especially in the movie theatre. It may lose some of its effect on a regular television screen,but I defintely want to buy the video. Everyone I know who has seen this thought it was excellent also and Robert Zemeckis deserves an A for effort; he usually gives you  your money's worth and that's something I respect in a film maker. "},{"Title":"Genuinely frightening film undone by overscoring","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, actually, I liked this film enough to recommend it (7/10), but it could have been so much better. There are some damn scary scenes in this film, some of the most frightening I've ever seen, but the filmmakers chose to cheat instead. There's a stinger (loud, sudden music) every time anything remotely scary is about to happen. And they are loud. The system that I watched it on is pretty good, and the dialogue and sound effects were at a normal volume, but anytime they wanted me to jump, they could do it with that ultra-loud, high-pitched noise. It really undermines the film. And why did they do it? I have no clue. Think of how frightening it would have been if that woman's reflection had appeared next to Pfeiffer's in the bathtub without the stinger. I may have had a heart attack. Instead, I am forced to jump just to salvage my eardrums.  "},{"Title":"The scariest movie in a long time!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie totally creeped the heck out of me! Even after the movie, I was shivering! Michelle Pheiffer did such an incredible job as Claire Spencer, and it was nice to see Harrison Ford again. Diana Scarwid was very good as Jody, the loveable and wacky friend of Claire. GO AND SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Beneath Lies What?","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you don't watch a lot of movies, you'll enjoy this one quite a bit.  It has lots of creepy moments, and some interesting casting choices, but most of all of this is lifted from other movies.  References-- either direct or indirect-- to Rear Window, Psycho, and mostly The Shining are all over the place, and even if director Zemeckis does this knowingly, it doesn't at all come across as a wink, it feels like stealing.  Even when one camera shot seems copied identically from a semi-famous diamond commercial, I can't bring myself to be impressed, or even amused, because it's not supposed to be funny.  That scene is quite serious-- so what am I supposed to feel?  I feel like Zemeckis gets bored a lot.Great title, and some solidly so/so acting from Michelle Pfeiffer.  It's a great one to watch with a date, in the dark, but I don't think it's worth watching more than once-- a screenplay from a first-timer, plus a director with nothing to do while Cast Away was on filming hiatus, equals nothing more than a vanity project, an experiment in style.  Like his mentor Spielberg before him, Zemeckis has gotten old and apparently has nothing new to show us. "}{"Title":"Thrilling","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved it! The movie had an excellent story line and made me sit on the edge of my seat from the beginning to the end. There were no dry spots, and the ending was nothing like I had predicted. It will keep you thinking, and you will learn something new every time you watch it! If you like scary movies, this is the one to see!  "},{"Title":"Breath-taking utterly thrilling","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It is so shocking and such a masterpiece that every word that I might add would  spoil some of the taylor-made plot or some of the suspense that has been brilliantly created. You'll be bewitched by both   the actors and the soundtrack that will lead you trough some marvellous intrigues. If this isn't enough and you don't find that tasty at least sneak a peek for the marvellous cast....Michelle Pheiffer and Amber Valletta are worth it! "},{"Title":"Good Hitchcock Hommage","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I liked the eye in the fence in CU. The ending really wasn't worth the movie, but all the little shock scenes were great. E.g. the girl in the mirror, or the dog in the bathroom... Suspense really became it in the bathtub scene. And of course Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford in great acting. "},{"Title":"A thrilling thriller","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've watched this movie in theatre and some scenes have stayed in my head for a few days.So the movie has made quite impression on me.It is an oldfashioned suspense-horror movie skillfully directed by Robert Zemeckis.It offers a lot of boo frightening scenes and  unpleasant atmosphere.The scares are not provided by great amount of violence and blood but by situations,characters and a ghost.That is very rare these days.The end is a story alone.It is spectacular and surprising.If  you like thrillers you should see this one. "},{"Title":"Disappointingly Tame Thriller","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Considering the cast (Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer are among my favorite actors), I expected 'What Lies Beneath' to be an engaging, intelligent thriller.  I was dreadfully disappointed. Despite excessive hype by the studio, this flick just isn't very scary!  It often moves so slowly that whatever momentum had been built was repeatedly lost.  The late Alfred Hitchcock could have taken this same cast and storyline, and produced yet another classic thriller.  But, alas, Hitchcock was unavailable.  What we end up with is just an alright movie that leaves the viewer with little, if any, residual effect.  Too bad. "},{"Title":"One of the scariest movie ever","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved this film.  It was unbelievably scary and the plot was great.  Also, camera work and ending were good too.  The ending was so unpredictable it actually made me say wow.  It was something I never saw in the movies from a person I thought would never do such a thing.  The last 20 minutes were so scary, I couldn't even move.  Highly recommended to any horror movie fans.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the most I've seen in a long time.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's nice to see a scary movie released that doesn't involve a bunch of stupid teenagers running around and going into dark rooms trying to find help when chased by a killer.  It's also nice to see Harrison Ford do some more good acting.All in all, it's simply a cool movie.  It keeps your attention, though slightly predictable, and throws in some neat little 'things to watch for' much like The Sixth Sense.  The story isn't anything new, but it's told so well, and it was so thoroughly planned that you can't help but be intrigued by it.With cool camera work and a nice, twisted presentation, this movie makes viewing fun.  And scary. "},{"Title":"A sturdy thriller","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A well-done mystery with paranormal elements - or are they paranormal?  Several well-done red-herrings will make you change your mind about who did what to whom at several points throughout the movie.  Is the main character really seeing ghosts, or are they just hallucinations caused by the herbal tea given by a well-meaning New Age friend?  Is she on to someone else's crime, or is she finally remembering her own actions before a horrific car accident wiped out some of her memories?  This is an entertaining sturdy thriller worth the 2 hours of your time. "},{"Title":"Not given enough credit","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is such a great and scary movie, yet I see many bad reviews on it.  This movie is like the old Hitchcock classics, and it is scary.  All the horror' movies of today's time is people with masks killing naked teenagers with knives.  If you want a new movie with the horror of an old one, see Zemeckis's What Lies Beneath. "},{"Title":"Scared the Hell Out Of Me","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie gave me all the chills of a horror film. It surprised me and scared me like no other movie has before. I watched this movie on a Friday night with a lot of my friends- still it scared the wiggins out of me. Two words- MUST SEEEvery human needs to be scared once in their lives and this movie will certainly do it. "}{"Title":"good scary movie","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie it had some good intense moments in it.  There were small plot holes but nothing major.  The characters were good I have always liked both main characters anyway.  This was worth the rental price with out a doubt not something I would watch over and over again though. "},{"Title":"Very impressed by fine editor's work.","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Once again Zemeckis proved all his awards. Beautiful movie. The video sequences, the music, the actor's play - all is on the top. This is a fine approach to the perfect horror movie, as I think it should be.The story grows from the single stones falling to the complete avalanche, and close to the end the people are driving by the events and can't avoid them - you feel it just fine while watching.The sequences like that when woman is driving a car by the bridge, trying to reach the zone where the cellular is working - they are filmed masterfully and matches the common atmosphere of the film.So, just watch it alone, in the empty house (or flat), and you will be impressed, believe me. Oh. What was that?.. Oh, no! It's..  "},{"Title":"What a great movie","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all let me say that (for me) this was the best performance that Michelle ever made. Her face expressions are swell and so are Harrison's, although as far as i can remember this was the first time that he was the bad guy. When i was at the cinema i was so scared that i couldn't move because we really get into the story of this movie, and there's a point of the movie that we don't who's who and what's what. This move for me was without of doubt one of the best that I've seen, but it has it's fault's for instance the scene that she's at the bath tub and he faints and when finally she can get out of the tub and when she looks at the floor and he's not there, i mean hello what idiot wouldn't remember to check out if she wasn't dead. That's the only big problem in the movie. That scene could've become a classic, the effects are fantastic and the editing it's so... so... just incredible, i mean we're talking about Robert Zemecks, he has made fantastic movies during his career, from Death Becomes Her to everybody's favorite Contact. To sum up Congratulations to all the cast and crew! "},{"Title":"Hitchcock, Clouzot and Henry James in 2000","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Norman and Claire Spencer are a normal rich couple who live in a beautiful house near a beautiful lake in Vermont. One day, after the leaving of their daughter Caitlin for the university, Claire begins to suspect that something strange is happening in the house of their neighbors. She suspects that Mr. Feur had killed his wife and her fears become worst when something like a ghost begins to terrify her in the house. There are a lot of surprises in this movie (but the most astonishing in a important for the story of cinema way mustn't be told) first of all the passage of Robert Zemeckis from the comedy of Back To Future and Forrest Gump to the dark atmosphere of this thriller. What Lies Beneath mixes a lot of elements of famous thrillers and horrors of the past years from Alfred Hitchcock takes the voyeurism of Rear Window, from Les Diaboliques by Henri Georges Clouzot takes the basin like place of death and from The Turn Of The Screw by Henry James the ghosts and the subtle idea that the female protagonist had some mind problems. Michelle Pfeiffer gives an astonishing performance, one of her best, and Harrison Ford is always good but in a little role. Funny also the paranormal friend of Michelle, played by Diana Scarwid. A very beautiful thriller, which deserves the success it had.   "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly perfect!","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To cut through the details, this is the best horror film I've ever seen. At least the best one I've first seen in a movie theater. I've seen Rosemary's Baby and The Omen on TV but I guess their reputation had already caught up with me so I was more or less expecting what to see. This one has you on the tip of your seat from moment one and never lets you go. The music, the cinematography, the editing, the acting, little things tossed here and there in the film to make you... wonder, are all combined in the most excellent way! Michelle Pfeiffer gives the best freaking performance of her career (and I didn't even think too much of her before this film!). As hard as it may be for me to give a horror film such a high rating... 10/10! "},{"Title":"excellent flick","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time in the dollar theatres, and I was amazed.  First off, I totally didn't expect this movie to be all that great, but my friends insisted that I watch it.  I came out of the theatres so scared.  Not only was the plot good, but it also didn't have any of all that unnecessary gore like all the recent horror flicks.  the plot was so that it kept you interested, but didn't have to shock you to keep your attention, rather, it just used suspense.  I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone who loves suspense/thriller movies. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock Eroma","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Of course when i saw reviews for this film they mention it was bit like hitchcock they were a little suttle in saying that, The film is hitchcock.......everything from the soundtrack to the way the camera angles and characters expressions are panned out. I expected the writer to be like Alfred Hitchcock Jr. or something.Anyway this film starts off with a beautiful location, and it would seem a loving family......with not giving too much away (just like the film) you never know whats around the corner....everything you think is gonna happen doesnt its completely unorthodox......Michelle Pfifer was unbelievable......10/10 for her performance and my opinion is she should get a nomination for an oscar....I hate to see ol Harrison play a bad side, after all who can forget his President Mitchell character. But they both deliver and its makes the film even more explosive having 2 A list actors.Robert Zemeckis well done, you have not only made a good film but a decently scary movie......first in like a decade. Your methods are brilliant too....All up a brilliant film and leaves many loose ends your own imagination must tie up.   "},{"Title":"A GREAT movie!!!!!!!!","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is one of the best movies of 2000. I really loved the film. It´s scary and highly entertaining. Harrison Ford does good job as always but the real star here is Michelle Pfeiffer. She´s fantastic as Claire! Hopefully she´ll be nominated for some awards in near future. I recommend this movie to all scary movie fans out there! And if you like those old Hitchcock movies you should like this one too.I give this 9 out of 10; a real masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Feels like old times","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well it's a long time since we saw a real thriller on the bigscreen.Previous attemts with movies like scream and I  know what you did last summer were movies based on thelow level of the viewer. This one had all the basic recipients that a real thrillerneeds,and with the minimum use of blood , effects and  bodies lying with a knife up their head(scream). The script is very smart and if ou actually do not knowanything about the movie,you will get surpriced by what youwill see in the end,cause the bad guy was never before abad guy in any other movie(think so).Well this was a hint! Maybe Zemeckis could change the end a little bit and  exclude the last scenes.Instead we could find a more  realistic end. DO not miss this one!!!! "},{"Title":"If Michelle Pfeiffer really is going to stop acting, this is a great way to leave the movie business","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is one of the best movies I've seen this year. A lot of people say it's very Hitchcock-ian, but I've never seen a Hitchcock movie, so I can't judge.It's terrifying, jumpy, intriguing and well-acted. Oh, I forgot the keeps-you-on-the-edge-of-your-seat-'til-you-feel-as-though-you're-in-her-shoes element which is...quite important.Although it gets a little silly towards the end, ignore the critics, watch this movie in the dark, buy it, and watch it over and over. That's what I'm going to do, anyway. "}{"Title":"Highly recommended!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recommend this movie to anyone who likes good, jump-out-of-your-seat movies.I've seen so many horror films in my life that I'm not very easily impressed anymore.  But, this movie had me jumping more than a dozen times and actually scared me!Yes, it can be a cliche at times (very few of today's movies aren't) but many of the scenes are unexpected especially as it approaches to the end.So ignore bad comments and go and see it.  You won't regret it! "},{"Title":"The best film since Sixth Sense","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wow, wow, WOW!!! What a great flick. I was fortunate enough not to see the trailer that (allegedly) spoiled the whole story, so everything came to me as a complete surprise. What Lies Beneath is a fantastic ghost story with a monumental performance from Michelle Pfeiffer. Almost all the credit goes to her on that account, kinda like Tom Cruise in Eyes Wide Shut, for she is in almost every scene. So Pfeiffer carries the movie, and it is unbelievable how much depth she manages to create in her character. Weak and vulnerable, she is the perfect victim. Oh, and let's not forget Robert Zemeckis who is THE man for the job. Many directors have tried (and failed) to make a decent thriller recently, and M. Night Shyamalan was the last who succeeded. But Zemeckis (and Pfeiffer of course) have managed to make the audience chill and jump several times, and this is a great achievement. Over the past years we've learned that it's not expensive CGI that makes a film scary (Mummy, Haunting and Hollow Man), it's the smaller things. An odd reflection in the mirror, doors opening by themselves etc. What Lies Beneath is a very unnerving film with perfect acting and some chilling moments that will stay with me forever. Kudos to Mr,Zemeckis and Mrs Pfeiffer (Oscar anyone?). Ignore the critics and check out this film if you haven't ***** (out of five)    "},{"Title":"Quiet, Nonchalant, Lazy...... then they pounce!","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is fantastic! While the first forty minutes can be viewed as 'slow', stick with it because it turns out to be one hell of a movie!Michelle Pfeiffer is purely superb in the lead and Harrison Ford also provides a good showing! The last half an hour of this film is second to none! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  See it in a dark room by yourself and with lots of volume. You're bound to jump of your seat at least a couple of times! This is what scary movies is all about. I never understood why they call Friday the 13th and such horror movies. Does anyone really get scared when seeing that? "},{"Title":"Classically scary","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film was stylishly made, exceptionally well cut, and held together by Michelle Pfeiffer's most edgy performance in years. A wonderful experience in the cinema, this film kept surprising me - given the Hitchcock qualities were made obvious (and well respected) from the start - and triggered yelps of shock from the audience.The story is nothing special - the plot being almost totally given away in the trailers - but the stars and clever direction make it engrossing.And of the stars Harrison Ford pulls off intense by way of bemused throughout, whilst Pfeiffer made me more uptight with each sideways glance. It was a relief, incidentally, to see her in a story without soap opera tendencies.Nope, this film was bloody excellent and, whilst I don't doubt it will fade to a memory of technique and little heart, achieved greater resonance than anything I've seen this year. "},{"Title":"A very good chiller of a movie!","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw the movie What Lies Beneath yesterday, and to be honest I didn't expect much.  By the time the movie had finished, I had just seen a great film and some scenes had sent me completely cold/given me goosebumps.  The last movie to do this?  Final Destination , although What Lies Beneath doesn't rely on gore and has arguably better heart stopping moments.The movie is well crafted and has great subtle touches, the acting is ok and the special effects although minimal are effective.  The movie really picks up the pace towards the end, a real nail - biter for sure.After you have seen What Lies Beneath, count the number of occasions you jumped or were sent cold right through your body.  I bet you it won't be less than 3 times.....Enjoy the best horror (on a more subtle level) since Final Destination. "},{"Title":"Watchable, entertaining, scary and, ultimately, funny!","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I admit that I went along to see this expecting to be bored, yet hoping that Pfeiffer and Ford would be worth watching, so the intriguing plot took me by surprise.  The actors did not disappoint... Michelle P was particularly good... and the plot unfolded swiftly and was sound.  At the same time, the slow pace of the action drew the viewer in, and allowed time to absorb the detail.The film was watchable, entertaining, scary... and even terrifying in one part... although I found myself praying 'no, please don't grab the shower curtain!'The next scene was just exasperating... wasn't there a mobile on the hall table? ...and ...why can't you find the right keys just when you really, really need them?  ...and reminded me of a worn out blonde joke.Thanks to this mis-placed bit of comedy, I left my fear at the cinema and went home happy.  A film well worth seeing!  "},{"Title":"Go & see it!","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really do not understand the reviews of this movie. I just saw it with my girl-friend and we both LOVED it. Actually one of the best movies I've seen for a couple of  months. We even liked it a bit more than 6th Sense, since it makes more sense and was scarier.I must admit, this is one of the scariest films I've ever seen and it's done with so much intelligence. Maybe that's why there are some people out there saying Scream III was much more fun!. If I had to chose one drawback it's the ending, that goes on for too long with too many shocks and effects. Almost the entire movie lacks annoying effects, and that's why it's so good.And I don't understand at all, why some guys complain about the story twist and the useless neighbour subplot. This is intelligent and realistic story-telling. And if you really think the subplot had nothing to do with the main story, you didn't get the little innuendos.In my view this is one of Zemeckis best movies ever (and I've seen most of them). It's was way better than Forrest Gump and maybe as entertaining (though completely differently) than Back to the Future. "},{"Title":"What lies beneath an unjustly criticized horror film","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WHAT LIES BENEATH (2000)-- Grade B+WARNING YOU MAY FIND SOME SPOILERS AHEADHorror is for sure a very controversial genre or you love it or you hate it. I love it for many reasons. The main one is, I think, the most common I like to feel scared. It's a strange feeling, delightful, almost sadomasochist. But it is great! Of course there is a huge number of contrivances that makes the audience feel scared (chilling score, dark rooms, people coming from behind), but it's worth of it. Films like THE SHINING, THE EXORCIST, SCREAM, HALLOWEEN make me feel proud of watching them. So I was anxiously expecting the new horror movie to come WHAT LIES BENEATH. After two box-office hits last year (a great one that is THE SIXTH SENSE and an awful one THE BLAIR WITH PROJECT) and the end of SCREAM trilogy, there had to be something good on the genre. And WHAT LIES BENEATH covered all my expectations.The reaction of the critics was not very good, so I was a little worried about it, but I didn't care much about that and wanted to see the movie with my own eyes. What I saw was a film which only big flaw was the lack of originality. The story and some scenes use stale elements from THE SIXTH SENSE, REAR WINDOW, FATAL ATTRACTION and STIR OF ECHOES. It's difficult to make a totally original film in Hollywood nowadays, but Zemeckis should have been more audacious. Taking that, WHAT LIES BENEATH is a joy to watch. Some of the elements it borrows from other films are like homages, especially to the master Alfred Hitchcock. And when it wants to be scary, it is. There are a lot of jumpy scenes, a thing I love, even if they are kind of predictable. There is a chilling atmosphere and a very well crafted story. Some people complain about the screenplay, but I think it's one of the best things. It's well written and at the end you will see that the things fit each other.The first half is terrific, similar to Hitchcock films driving you slowly into the characters and the situations. The second half is more like a modern horror scary, twisted, more violent and fast-paced. The last 20 minutes, which have been very criticized, are sometimes unbelievable, but it's edge-of-your-seat suspense, like a roller coast, especially the bathtub scene, with delightful references to PSYCHO and the French classic LES DIABOLIQUES. Behind all that there is the hand of Robert Zemeckis, who won an Oscar and knows what he is doing. If he doesn't have a very original story in hands, he makes that into a film that is scarier and more intriguing than others. What also helps is the acting. I don't even need to talk about the central couple. Harrison Ford redeemed himself of RANDOM HEARTS and Michelle Pfeiffer... She is terrific! Her expressions of horror are amazing (inspired by Drew Barrymore in SCREAM!), and her performance is worth of recognition. Not to say that she is totally gorgeous at 43 and... Well, she is a joy to watch!One of the biggest complaints of the critics was about the trailer. They said it trashed all the twists and surprises of the film, so I decided to shut my eyes and my ears when they showed the trailer before other film I saw. I think the trailer shows scenes of the second half, when Claire already knows about the affair between Norman and the girl. If they really show this, it's shameful.Despite its minor flaws, WHAT LIES BENEATH didn't deserve to be so criticized. It's a well crafted, well acted, well directed, spooky, suspenseful and scary piece of modern horror. It's a delight for horror/suspense fans. "},{"Title":"totally hitchcockian","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  first,forgive me for my unperfect english! i enormously appreciated this picture for the story, the exceptional ford's acting as well as pfeiffer's. it is totally hitchcockian not only for the obvious references but for the lights, the mood, the will we have to say escape, quick or pay attention, behind!. it is almost a black and white picture, just like hitchcock's best pictures. the way of taking the faces especially reminded me notorious. the ending was not ridiculous at all ... but i won't say more otherwise it would be a spoiler! ... and the beginning just had to be that slow, bringing us at claire and norman's house, make feel good in this company and then, we cannot go away anymore and we are also trapped. "}{"Title":"chilling stuff!!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Whew,what a movie!!Ford and Pfeiffer brilliantly portray themselves as husband and wife in this spooky drama which had me mesmerized throughout.Great direction,great acting and a thoroughly enjoyable watch.Don't miss this one!!! "},{"Title":"WOW!!!","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was an amazing movie.  It was one of the scarist movies I have seen.  It was even scarier that Hollow Man.  This movie was great fun.  Harrison Ford was very good.  Great plot.  It you like scary movies then you should see this one.  It is great. "},{"Title":"I loved the movie!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was such a thrill to watch. The music added to the effect. The music keyed something was going to happen so it made it all the scarier. Michelle Pfieffer acted so well in this movie. She played the role magnificently. I felt as if I were there the whole time. My favorite scenes are the bathtub scene and the lake scene. Harrison Ford plays his part pretty well even though I am used to seeing him as a good guy. The movie could be predictable at times... but it was SO good. I have seen it four times in theater and plan to see it at least one more time in theater. I can't wait until it comes out in December. Anyways --- I give it a 10/10! "},{"Title":"A woman discovers that her house is haunted by the ghost of a young blond woman, and begins on quest to uncover her identity.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, I guess I should warn that there are some semi-spoilers in here, to avoid being blacklisted.This movie was wonderful--consistently entertaining and suspenseful throughout, not to mention a few good scares!  I can't help feeling, though, that this was more of an average Joe horror film, which made a point of having almost no blood or gore within the plot, even though a bunch of people get attacked and hurt and stuff and two people die.  Not that this is a problem exactly, my point is just that it probably won't end up having such a wide appeal as, for instance, The Sixth Sense, which managed to be a really good film and still flaunt a few gross effects.Also, What Lies Beneath was not a very thought-provoking film.  I mean, it caught me off guard and scared me a few times while I was in the theater, but it didn't stick with me after I left.  There was a twist ending, but it's the sort of twist ending that you could see coming from a mile away, and it didn't really make anything more interesting, or more scary.  Even the places where I did get scared were just cheap thrills--you know, everything's silent and then there's a sudden loud noise or something and everyone jumps.  Not the sort of thing that shocks you at first and then *actually* turns out to be something scary or dangerous, usually it was just the stereo or something turning on by itself (a lot of things turned themselves on in this movie, that was pretty much all that happened in the first half of the movie was that a bunch of stuff kept turning itself on/opening itself/closing itself, etc.)I guess what I'm trying to say is that What Lies Beneath is worth your money to go see it.  It really is.  It's just probably not going to be one of your all-time favorite films or anything, unless all you need in a horror movie is a few random jump-out-at-you scares and a couple of big-name actors. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie deserves 10 STARS for it's non-stop, edge of the seat intensity. This movie will give you chills down your spine with the high rate of your heart beating faster and faster to you have to let out a jump or scream. The cast was great, the non-stop creeking special effects never give up. THE THRILLER/HORROR MOVIE OF THE YEAR! Good Luck and fasten your seatbelt your in for a ride "},{"Title":"Scary and frustrating","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT For the most part, I was genuinely frightened.  But in the very  beginning, I was frustrated that she (Michelle Pfeiffer) didn't  call the police if she suspected her next door neighbor of killing his wife.  Then when she told her husband (H.Ford) of  her suspicions he didn't suggest calling the police either. Now there's cause to be suspicious of H. Ford.  So had I been in Michelle's shoes, I would have called the police on both counts  and both husbands.  But then you don't have a movie. Who said movies had to be plausible.  They only have to be entertaining  and how did H.Ford get into the back of her car anyway?  Oh well, it worked cinematically.  I miss Mr. Hitchcock. He would have figured this all out  "},{"Title":"The best movie I've seen this summer!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just saw this movie today with my husband and I loved it.  I have always been a Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer fan, so that alone brought me into the theater.  I was amazed at how into this movie I got.  It was better than any scary movie that I have seen in the past ten years.  My husband and I were complaining about how sore our hands were when we left (I kept squeezing his from fear and suspense).  Both actors did a superb job in this film.  I had heard from the critics that it was a typical ghost story ending, but I was totally surprised at the end results.  I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to be pushed to the edge of their seat from fear.  I sincerely hope that Pfeiffer gets acknowledged for her wonderful acting skills in this film. "},{"Title":"A Thriller With Class","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ii is so great to see a high quality horror film that does not rely on computer generated special effects to scare you. This is Michelle Pfeiffer's film and she is practically in every frame. Michelle is so believable as a frightened, lonely woman, who after her daughter goes off to college, has too much time on her hands and begins to see things that may or not be there.  First she suspects the neighbor of killing his wife, then she sees ghosts in the house. As she tries to figure out what is happening, the viewer is riveted and this all leads up to an ending that had my heart pounding a mile a minute.  If you like intelligent thrillers, go see this film.   And what makes me score this film even higher is that it has an added bonus of seeing Diana Scarwid again after all these years(Christina Crawford from Mommie Dearest!)  Her scenes with Michelle were terrific.   "},{"Title":"What Lies Beneath pays homage to late British director Alfred Hitchcock","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Using plot turns, visual compositions and camera angles reminiscent of movies like Rear Window, and Psycho, What Lies Beneath homages late British director Alfred Hitchcock. In a way, this constitutes a weakness because you could foretell sometimes what might happen if you're knowledgeable of Hitchcock films. Luckily, Robert Zemeckis, does not fall into gross cliches and his ingenious management of the camera (it actually travels through the ground to let you see a character from above then below in one shot) make this film entertaining and amazing to watch. "},{"Title":"Very Spooky!","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm the kind of person who, usually, prefers the old classics; I've never been a big fan of 90's movies.  The Sixth Sense was the best movie I'd seen in a theater in a while, until yesterday; My friend and I went to see What Lies Beneath and had a great time!  We laughed, made jokes and jumped right out of our seats.  If you're looking for a fun time, take one of your friends and go see what lies beneath.P.S. I never realized that Michelle Pfeiffer was such an attractive woman. "}{"Title":"spooky fun","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I shivered as I watched What Lies Beneath.  It is eerie and spooky fun and as suspenseful as a good Hitchcock movie.  Although the movie is a ghost story, the characters are believable, and the movie wonderfully explores the psychological depth and anxiety of Michelle Pfeiffer's character.  The movie is a great summer escape for anyone who wants to be scared. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock spirit makes it worthwhile","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A moviegoer with average intelligence should be able to figure out how this one is going to end just from watching the trailer. However, director Robert Zemeckis must have used his Ouija board to contact the ghost of Alfred Hitchcock to complete What Lies Beneath because a Hitchcock-ian spirit is definitely present. Clever camera angles, a shower/bathroom scene, a subplot alluding to Rear Window and Harrison Ford as Norman all recall Hitchcock's famous films. Even the musical score sounds like Hitchcock composer Bernard Hermann may have been conjured up from the dead as well. A predictable plot with some geniune scares and a tip of the hat to Alfred makes What Lies Beneath worth seeing. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen in years.","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is truly jump-out-of-your-seat scary.  The story was wonderful and the music added so much drama to what was happening on-screen.  It had me guessing until the truth was revealed.  Well worth the price of the ticket.  I've encouraged all of my friends to see it.  "},{"Title":"Great grown-up thriller","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was a great grown-up thriller.  I am getting tired of teeny-bopper scary movies and this was definately not one of those.  It has suspense, twists and turns and a very unexpected ending.  If you like to be scared, this is the movie for you.  Guys--bring a girl and it's guaranteed she'll stay attached to you in fright throughout the whole movie. "},{"Title":"A damn good flick!","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see this movie with aprehension. I had heard mixed reviews on it. And honestly I wasn't in the mood to see Pfiefer and Ford together in a movie of this sort. Boy was I surprised! I found this movie to be tremendously enjoyable! The acting was good, the effects were good, the tension was good, and most importantly - the ending was good!I had heard mixed reviews about the ending as some were saying it was a letdown. Not in my opinion! I thought the ending was fabulous!This was a damn good movie! I will rate it a 10. That's as high as it goes folks!  "},{"Title":"One the critics missed the mark on","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Totally entertaining, edge of your seat thriller. Like reading a good book. I can't imagine why many critics dead panned it as a Hitchcock rip off.  I would like to see many more Hitchcock-like movies produced these days. Expect to scream, jump, and even laugh (at yourself sometimes for over anticipation). "},{"Title":"Haunted by the spirit of Hitchcock","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The most shocking thing about this movie was the very misguided reviews i've read on here.  I don't know why people think this movie was bad.  This movie would have been Hitchcock's best if he was alive and had directed it the exact same way.  But he didn't, and because of that people think it's stupid.  Why, I ask you?  Do you think that Hitchcock is the only one who can direct a movie that way?  Robert Zemeckis is simply creating a movie in the same style as Hitchcock did.  People ought to be thrilled that they get to see a new movie in that style!  I enjoyed this film to the very best. The scene at the end has the word classic written all over it!  This movie adds things that hitchcock lacked.  I recommend this movie to any hitchcock fan!  And I spit on the people that gave this movie a bad review, you have no taste!  The only thing I didn't like was the way Harrison Ford acted at the end.  He didn't do a good job of that.  I don't want to spoil it for anyone so I won't say anything else.  This is the kind of movie where you can't say much about the plot or you'll spoil it.  So I have simply told you why I liked it so much.  So go and enjoy it, it's a movie made to thrill, excite, and entertain.  It does all three of those, and does them well. Who cares if it's cliche, that's what makes it great!!  It's like watching a classic.  I gave it 10 out of 10!! And believe it to be the scariest movie I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"A movie that will keep you on the edge of your seats","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is put together very well. It scared me to were I couldn't get to sleep at night for 2 days. But it was worth that to see it. This movie isn't for kids under 13 because it will scare them. If you are scared by the previews then you will be in for a big surprise to find they aren't even the scary parts. And what you might think isn't what happens. This movie is a must see because it makes you think and even if the ghost looks scary that doesn't mean it is mean. Well, I don't want to say anything about the movie because I want everyone reading this to go and see it for themselves. Just remember your light will be on all night after you see it. "},{"Title":"Great scary movie","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie and it was great.  My friends and I were totally scared through out the movie.  We all agreed that is was the best scary movie that we have ever seen.  I didn't really expect much seeing that it's PG-13 but it was wonderfully done and very scary.  I have to admit, it's the first movie that made me actually scream.  Not good for people planning on taking a trip to a lake or planning on being by themselves for a short period of time.  I'm sure I'll have nightmares about this movie.  I recommend this to anyone.  Great film.   "},{"Title":"Better than the SIXTH SENSE!!!","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have never seen a better ghost movie.  When I first got into the theatre, I thought it was gonna be some love affair movie with barely any ghostly potential.  Boy was I wrong.  There's barely any love affiar stuff, it's mainly about the ghost. I jumped at least 30 times and for basically the first time, a movie scared me.  This was scarier than the Exorcist.  I loved this movie more than any other horror movie I have ever seen. 11/10!!!!  "}{"Title":"Possibly the scariest movie I've ever seen","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In terms of simple shock value, What Lies Beneath ranks right up there with the best of them. Seeing the previews for the movie, I wondered why such great and famous Hollywood stars as Harrison Ford, Michelle Pfeiffer, and director Robert Zemekis would get involved with a horror movie. After the movie was over, I knew why. It isn't so much a movie as an experience in fright. Zemekis throws everything but the kitchen sink at us, including every horror cliche in the book the dead body that may not be actually dead, the reflection of seeing someone else behind you, the noise that turns out to be a family pet, etc (believe me, these aren't any real spoilers- this all takes place within the first 45 minutes or so, and the movie's over 2 hours long). The plot basically consists of Pfeiffer walking around the house alone, then something jumps out at her (and us), and the same gag is repeated again and again. It's at first scary, then frustrating (because we know it's coming but can't do anything about it), and finally in the last act achieves a kind of over the top grandeur that few scary movies have approached (The Shining, Psycho, Halloween, and Wait Until Dark come to mind). I'm definitely going to see it again (now that I know where the scares are, I can watch everybody else in the theater squirm in their seats). I suggest you see it too- just make sure you have something to grab on to. "},{"Title":"A suspense-filled masterpiece!","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath has a uniqueness about it that helps it to stand out among the other films being released at the present time. The special attention to detail and character development is especially well done. The camera work and direction are the best part about this film, every inch of the theatrical screen is used very cleverly. Focus is put on the sides of the screen at times rather than the traditional center area. Again the camera work is brilliant, use of mirrors and different angles make it a very exciting, exhilarating film to view. And I love the fact that there are a lot of close, tight shots that don't reveal everything, making you wonder what lies an inch to the left or right (usually a surprise of some kind is waiting). With all that said the last 20 minutes or so take the twisting suspense that was built up throughout the film and unravels it like a roller-coaster. I can't spill the unraveling conclusion but I can say that the film itself is an idea of what Hitchcock's films might have become like if he were still alive. I recommend this to everyone 100%!!!!  "},{"Title":"The Direction is stellar","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Robert Zimeckis has taken us again on a directorial whirlwind.  We are emersed in the lives of these individuals and their secrets through the angles of the lens.  The use of mirrors throughout the film are both mesmerizing and suspenseful.  We learn to love the characters and fear them as well.  The film was a superb masterpiece in the style of Hitchcock with a millennial twist.  I highly recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Scary Ending!","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I highly recommend this movie. It's creepy and hauntingly eerie. The preview tells the story, but there is more that scared me about this movie.  I don't want to give anything away.I'll just say that Harrison Ford and Michele Pfiffer are so happy at the beginning, then everything goes wrong and the truth is revealed. WOW! What an ending!  "},{"Title":"Great work by two pros","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a great show.  Spooky in all the right places, great visual effects and a sterling job of acting done by two of the best.  Ford and Pfeiffer mesh well together and make the movie really believable.  I'm gonna go see this one again in the theater rather than wait for the video. "},{"Title":"A good hardcore horror movie","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Finally a real horror movie.  I found this movie full of suspension and good horror.  The acting was brilliant and the way the details of the story slowly unravelled was neat.  This movie was filmed in a powerful way and should get full credit for it.  A 9 from me. "},{"Title":"WHAT A COOL SCAREFEST OF A FILM!","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I LOVED THIS MOVIE!!! It was fantastic and should not be missed at the Multi-Plex simply do to the fact that there are so many chills and violent jumps that I cant even count.    Everyone in the audience was screaming in terror and afterward laughing at themselves for feeling so ridiculous! Michelle Pfiefer was astonishing in what may be he best Dramatic work! Go you'll be glad ya did!               "},{"Title":"Slick supernatural thriller","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Good supernatural thriller offers excellent effects, evocative music and a great performance by Michelle Pfieffer.  Harrison Ford is good too, cast against type, though she is the show.  Those who knock this because it rips off Hitchcock should note that it is an ode to him.  See how many references to his films you can spot.  Sometimes predictable, but overall a worthwhile thriller.  "},{"Title":"If you want to jump out of your seat, go see this film.","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yes, it's filled with horror movie cliches. Yes, the marketing campaign effectively gives away the first half of the movie. Yes, it throws everything at you, even the kitchen sink.Is it still entertaining? Yes. Are there still surprises? Yes. Would I recommend the film? By all means.Harrison Ford gives one of his best performances since Witness. Pfeiffer is also particularly good. The only fault I can find with the film is that it tries too hard to make the audience jump, and too often. Otherwise, my biggest complaint is the marketing campaign, which makes the first half of the film a pointless exercise, but that's not the film's fault.If you want to jump out of your seat, go see this film. It is derivative, yes, but that by no means makes it a bad film. The Matrix is derivative. Star Wars is derivative. But they're also entertaining and effective films, as is What Lies Beneath. "},{"Title":"MAYBE TRITE,,BUT WONDERFUL SUSPENSE,,DON'T MISS IT!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As always before going to see a film I check the reviews just so i won't waste my money on a stinker.  I am extremely glad i ignored the reviews on this one and went anyway.It maybe trite and have very few surprises but this movie is worth seeing and will still have you on the edge of your seat if not in the next lap. Michele Pheiffer and Harrison Ford do wonderful jobs portraying a couple facing major changes in their life with some surprising revelations.  my only complaint would be that the director or editors left out a more detailed explaination about the accident that is referred to in the film.The twists and turns are there and surprisingly not as obvious as some would have you think.  This film would please any suspense nut,,i can't understand the hoopla,,no it is not art,,but its definitely entertainment!  go see it! "}{"Title":"One fun Hitchcock homage is what lies beneath","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you go into What Lies Beneath expecting the next great horror movie of all-time, you'll be slightly disappointed, but if you go into the film willing to accept it for what it is a big budget, big star Hitchcock homage by Robert Zemeckis, then you'll have a great time. Zemeckis pushes all the right scare buttons as the audience gets to see Michelle Pfeiffer going through a potentially haunted house. The story is a mishmash of great Hitchcock materialA little Psycho, A little Rebecca, A little Vertigo, A little bit of The Man Who Knew Too Much, and a whole lot of Rear Window. Most of the fun comes from picking out what elements are from what movie. Clark Gregg's screenplay has been criticized as being too old fashioned, but the question must be asked, How can you pay homage to Hitchcock without writing an old fashioned story? The only faults in the screenplay is that there are a few too many moments where the dialogue is a bit forced, but that's easily overlooked during the summer season. As for the performances, this is Pfeiffer's movie. She's the focus of act one and she runs with it. She makes a terrific target for haunting. Harrison Ford doesn't have much to do until he becomes directly involved with the hauntings late going, but as usual he gives an effortless performance. This will be a must buy on DVD for Ford fans. The perfect way to go into this movie is thoroughly blind. If you haven't seen the trailer for it yet, DON'T. It will ruin a lot of the fun for you. If you see a commercial on TV, go to the other room. If you go in blind, you'll be in for a terrific ride.  "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this last night and had a great time.  I like ghost stories ('though not the Evil Dead / Friday 13th-type gore-fest), and this one delivered the goods.An excellent performance by Michelle Pfeiffer, and Harrison Ford delivers, as always, a solid performance.  I thought this was genuinely creepy and I found myself gripping the arm-rest more tightly than was truly comfortable just to make sure I did not jump out of my seat.   A lot of the reviews above take a highly intellectual approach to movies and moan about them being derivative and predictable  I would agree absolutely that this has nothing to say about the human condition, but as a piece of entertainment on a Saturday night when all I wanted to do was take out my over-used brain and dunk it in a bath of iced G&T, this worked just fine. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A really great thriller.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not a Hitchcock ripoff at all.  A fine movies of it's own.  Great performance by Michelle Pfeiffer.  Harrison Ford's part somewhat small, and a total change from usual.  I don't believe in ghosts but given the past circumstances, this was almost believeable.  Starts slow but build until you're jumping and on the edge of your seat at the end.  Definately will see again and buy when comes out on DVD. "},{"Title":"SOOOOO SCARY!!!!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the scariest movie!!!  The sound and special effects are awesome. Spine tingling supernatural thriller.  I would say that you'd miss 75% of your life if you don't watch this movie.  TWO THUMBS UP!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies i've seen this year","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Going in I had no idea what it was about. My roommate had mentioned something with Harrison Ford being the bad guy, but I didn't think anything of it. Watching the film though, was simply amazing. The first half of the movie moved a little slowly, but it kept me interested, I didn't get bored by it. I admit that the development of most of the characters was a bit awkward, but the story was about Pfeiffer's character, and i think Zemeckis kept that in proper perspective. Ok, besides the good story, good acting, etc. what i found most interesting was the style the director used. I didn't even realize it was Zemeckis directing until the end credits, but looking back i can see his hand in every scene shot. The look of the Vermont town they were in, the feel of the house, framing of the shots, camera movement, everything. He seems to have used the same style evident in the Frightners. Moving towards the end of the movie, The overall style didn't change, but it did start to feel more like something Hitchcock would have done had he the technology. As for the ending, I think they ended it a lot better than they could have. It could have turned out extremely stupid, like the ending of The Abyss. To sum up Great movie, one of the best thrillers i've ever seen, left me THINKING about the movie, instead of being mindless entertainment. "},{"Title":"Masterful, stunning and terrifying ghost story that shocks you in all the right places.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Zemeckis has raised the bar for horror films.  So few directors know how to create a film that is viscerally terrifying without gore, and brilliant without being pretentious.  What Lies Beneath is one of the finest suspense thrillers of many, many years.   "},{"Title":"Hitchcock in review!!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Take Rear Window Psycho Frenzy and many other Hichcock films, take out all your favorite scenes and paste them together in an order that might make sense, and you will have a movie very close to this one.Not a bad way to kill some time if your a Hichcock fan or not.  There is nothing knew in it.  Pfifer plays a sexy vapped air head that might of had more head troma then the film lets on.  Ford is O. K. in a little different role for him.  The Ghost is more sympathetic then scary and would be a big help if you had your hands full of groceries while trying to get to your house.  Most of the scares come from loud noises and flashes of lighting.The mystery might hold most people in their seats, if they haven't all ready figured it out from watching the previews.It's not a bad movies. It's just many others I've seen before.  "},{"Title":"Great Director, Great Cast - Pretty Good Story","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ** Contains a maybe-spoiler **It's eerie and the spook shots are pretty typical, but it really keeps your interest (my hubby didn't go to the john once!)  Beautiful photography, when it wasn't raining.  Poor Michelle took more water than Clooney did in that other flick, I think.  Pretty easy to figure out if you pay attention. But you'll leave the theater wondering if John Wayne ever played a bad guy. "},{"Title":"Get ready for some goosebumps!!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First off, if I hadn't been given free passes for the sneak preview I don't know that I would have rushed to the theater to see this movie. Even though I adore Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford, the trailer gave away so much of the plot, I didn't think there was any point to going. I knew it was about a ghost and I knew that the husband (Ford) had an affair with her and I knew that the wife (Pfeiffer) was being haunted by this ghost. If that's your thinking to, I hope you read this. The movie is so much more than that! While the trailer does give away a large chunk of the plot, it does not prepare you for the chills and scares in this movie. It was great! The entire theater was jumping and gasping so many times. You don't expect half of the turns the movie takes you on. By the end I was a little worn out, too much of the creepy music & sudden scares. But all in all it's a great suspense movie. Michelle Pfeiffer still looks incredible and she alone is worth going for! But if you like chills and goosebumps, you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Spooky fun!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer is superb in this admittedly hokey but quite entertaining supernatural thriller that steals pages from a number of books and binds them together in a classy package. Pfeiffer plays a lonely mom whose husband (Harrison Ford) spends long nights at the lab and whose daughter (Katharine Towne) just left home to attend college. When creepy things begin to happen around her, Pfeiffer thinks she may just be a victim of the empty nest blues, but it turns out she has cause for alarm. Several solid shocks and some bristling chemistry between Ford and Pfeiffer make for some good spooky fun. "}{"Title":"Not as complex as Sixth Sense, But more entertaining","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Robert Zemekis is famous for breaking ground with his films, Back to the Future, Forest Gump, and Contact to name a few.  What Lies Beneath also breaks ground in an unconventional way.  The film reminds me of a Hitchcock film, Rear Window.  The characters spend most of their time in the home waiting for the action to come to them. Its hard to say a whole lot about What Lies Beneath without giving away much of the story.  Hopefully this film will renew interest in Harrison Ford and in Michelle Pfeifer.  The film is fun, scary, and I would recommend it to anyone!  "},{"Title":"Roller coaster ride of a thriller","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is an excellent example of a movie designed to be a thrill ride for viewers.  Despite a predictable ending that lacks the punch of the rest of the movie, What Lies Beneath is a respectable rendition of the Hitchcock thrillers of the past.  Best experienced in a theater with a lot of jittery women. "},{"Title":"Overall good","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I will say that this movie was better than I was expecting.  I was expecting a movie of purely supernatural terror but there was a lot of intrigue and suspense. It did, however, border on too long and drawn out. While it wasn't the best movie I've ever seen I'd definitely recommend seeing it, I'm not usually a jumper at scary movies and there were definitely a couple points when I nearly jumped out of my seat!   "},{"Title":"terror and adrenaline","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a *lot* scarier than the publicity makes it out to be. People were screaming and whimpering in terror all through the screening I went to. Most of the scares come in the form of cheap BOO!! shocks (an average of one a minute, pretty much) or cringe-inducing stuff like watching Michelle Pfieffer descend a long flight of stairs barefoot and BACKWARDS.  Lots of scenes borrow heavily from Rear Window, Ghost and Psycho, but for the most part these references end up taking the form of homage, so it's all good. Many parts of the story are obvious and some foreshadowing is just plain ham-handed, but virtuoso camera work and a nerve-wracking third act make up for any plot weaknesses.  It works best as a thriller, but the ghost stuff will appeal to fans of Peter Straub's novels.   "},{"Title":"Enjoyably scary","Date":"12 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What lies beneath is as enjoyable now as it was ten years ago. With a mounting tension that makes the movie as it allows both Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford to flesh out their characters making them believable...until the final few scenes. The acting is good, Michelle Pfeiffer conveying genuine fear and rising panic and even Mr Wooden, Harrison Ford, relishes his role, one of his few as a villain. James Remar and the luminous Miranda Otto provide a Hitchcockian subplot worthy of the master himself. Robert Zemeckir was on top form with this one. Masterful direction, tight editing and a stellar cast provide for a wonderfully entertaining hour and a half. "},{"Title":"strictly above average","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i started watching this movie at midnight.I didn't expected that it would hold my attention till the end of it but yes it succeeded in doing so.From the very beginning to the climax, this flick got the required tension and spooks of the good horror. Michelle pfiffer has done a brilliant job, the whole movie rides on her soldier. Harrison ford is good and last but not the least the director Robert zemeckis. Its because of him the movie didn't end up being a another cheap horror. This movie depends a lot on director's vision apart from its good writing. The cinematography and background score are the another stars of the movie. Give this a try and i hope you wont regret doing so. "},{"Title":"well-crafted, chilling, satisfying","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Like a lot of people, I saw this film when it came out and enjoyed it, but somehow dismissed it. Re-visiting it, I am surprised by how effective it is in the supernatural thriller genre. Like The Others, the film unnerves you by hinting at malevolent forces off-screen, rather than through sudden screams and bumps. The Hitchcockian influence shines through, most obviously when Pfeiffer is spying on her neighbour through binoculars, only to lose sight of him, and find him again - staring straight at her. Spine-tingling stuff.Ford gets to show his range in the third act. His staring and fidgeting at the side of the bathtub as he tries to drown his wife is both pathetic and disturbing, just what you would expect from a sociopath. Haunting, possession, resurrection - all the elements of horror are judiciously sprinkled through the film as rising dread gives way to horror.In short, an underrated piece that stands up to repeat viewing. "},{"Title":"One you really shouldn't miss.","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the perfect horror movie you want for a good night in with friends, or maybe alone, although it probably will be much more scarier that way. It's difficult not to enjoy the pure suspense through out What Lies Beneath. Without giving too much away, the main plot is a wife starts feeling as if she's being haunted, while her husband thinks she's losing the plot, or does he?, she begins to doubt herself, until she starts finding more and more reason to prove herself. While she keeps searching for more evidence, she starts finding things she may regret forever. Michelle Pfeiffer plays the part brilliantly, slowly uncovering secrets she never would have dreamt to find out. Harrison Ford was made for this role, with a perfect twist you'd never see coming. Definitely recommend this for any time, obviously not suitable for children, there are many jumpy scenes that may frighten even adults ) "},{"Title":"average thriller, not so great","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath directed by Robert Zemeckis, starring Harrison Ford, Michelle Pfeiffer, Diana Scarwid, Joe Morton, James RemarZemeckis' thriller about a wife of a professor who gets terrifying visions while living in her huge suburban home is neither as thought provoking or thrilling as it could have been. The performances are pretty good as both leads are memorable however it lacks a strong supporting cast and is a bit slow in its early stages. The film however does pick up and has some intense moments. Its not written very well though as some of the dialogues lack the intensity needed for the genre. THis is an average thriller and nothing more. Its a bit predictable and the characters are a bit static. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie for a group of friends","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What lies beneath is an excellent film. Pfieffer does a really good portration of her character and is amazing in this film. This is a film a recommend watching with friends on a friday night, just to scare each other. It isn't really a horror film or a scary movie. It's more of a dramatic thriller, which is really good. "}{"Title":"a good movie","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath I did enjoy this movie as i did understand what the movie was about. Michaelle Phiffier and Harrison Ford i think are fantastic actors. They are both one of my favourite actors. They have done fanastic movies EG Michaelle has done great movies like Deep End Of The Ocean, Batman Returns etc and Harrison Ford has done movies like Indiana Jones and Star Wars etc I give what lies beneath 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Flag Football Horror Movie","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *****************Some MINOR SPOILERS**********************************Basically a 'Chick Flick' horror movie that looks like it was taken out of some Mary Higgins Clark novel.  Mixes everything from ghosts, to haunted houses, possession, mysterious neighbors, and dead bodies.  All with so-so results.The wrap up isn't too bad, but the set up is quite poor.  Spends an entire hour leading you to believe it is a story about some strange neighbors only to switch gears and take a completely different direction. Although a bit reminiscent of REAR WINDOW this original story tread was intriguing.  By changing gears the writers exposed this as being nothing more than a gimmicky, 'concept' horror movie were this is their privilege and HA! HA! on you if it wastes a hour of your time.Making Harrison Ford a heavy, his first since THE CONVERSATION, wasn't a good idea either.  We have cheered and laughed with him too many times to suddenly make him menacing in any convincing way.  It's not quite like making Jimmy Stewart a cross-eyed psycho, but it's close.The finale is OK for what it wanted to accomplish, but it comes off more like 'poetic justice' than the knock down, drag out, hell unleashed climaxes we are so used to with this genre.  In fact the film has very few scares or anything even remotely jolting.  It's a sort of like a diet thriller or flag football horror movie for those who like a little excitement ,but not to get roughed up.The most interesting aspect of this film is the amazing restraint shown by director Robert 'overkill' Zemekis.  His early films (USED CARS, BACK TO THE FUTURE, WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT) were nothing more than a bombardment on the senses.  Dazzling special effects, camera angles, and jokes were flung at the audience every two seconds.  The viewer would leave the theater feeling exhausted, even assaulted.Here he is more secure as a director and trusts his material enough to let the viewer actually BREATHE.  He still has his flair, but uses it when it can help accentuate the scene.  For instance the impressive camera work used in the bath tub drowning scene.  There's also a lot of astute Hitchcock story boarding especially in the final ten minutes.Overall this is well enough done to make you feel you got your moneys worth, but it certainly won't reinvent the horror/thriller genre nor will it have any place in it's hall of fame. "},{"Title":"Pretty darn scary!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie has been panned by a lot of critics for being un-original in its technique, but I honestly have to say...it scared me!  When I see a horror movie, I expect it to be crafted intelligently and skillfully enough to deliver a good shiver, and this one fits the bill, copycat or not.  So many horror films today fail to deliver the chill factor, so I was happy to find that What Lies Beneath returns to the horror and suspense basics of a good ghost story. - To sum it up...it's a good, scary movie! "},{"Title":"An intelligent Horror Film but...","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film kept me guessing, I don't think you could watch if you were alone in a big spooky house. I though Michelle was brilliant, I've never seen an actress display so effectively prettyiness, anguish, horror, lunacy, and determination in alternate scenes. The film avoids greatness however with a few flaws. Was the dead girl meant to look like Pfeifer? was she played by MP? Why did the director keep switching off the tension? Why wasn't the bathroom scene absolutely classic.I don't know the answers, email me if you liked the film and have think you know what went wrong "},{"Title":"A rip-snorting film of chills, jolts, and plot twists","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A ghost story with many twists and goings-on, WHAT LIES BENEATH is asure-fire thriller. Michelle Pfieffer stars as Claire, a wife going through one crazy incident after another when she starts to suspect that creepy things are shrouding her house. Harrison Ford stars as her concerned husband.(SPOILERS) Pfeiffer does a great job acting scared (you can't help but understand her fear) and good ol' Harrison Ford enters new territory, portraying a morally conflicted and possibly evil character.  "},{"Title":"Worst ghost story I have ever seen","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was told that this movie is comparable to Sixth Sense so I rented it.  I figured out the ending before the movie was half over and I knew nothing about it in advance.  It was a visual catastrophy filmed almost without lights and poorly edited. I really got tired of Michelle Phieffer staring at the water.  The final scene was poorly filmed.  At the conclusion my wife and I just stared at each other in shock wondering why we had wasted two hours. "},{"Title":"When good directors make bad films","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I came in to this film expecting nothing more than a good, entertaining, supernatural tinged thriller. What I (and my thriller-loving wife) got was derivative and predictable.Western Union couldn't have telegraphed the plot points any better. One cliche seemed to pop up after another. No real scares, not even truly creepy.Whose fault? Bad writing, mostly. The cast gave it their best shot, the sound work was great, and Stan Winston studios provided some excellent work. But, I think I can honestly say I found this to be the worst film Bob Zemekis ever directed.Looking for a better thriller? Try Jagged Edge or Wolfgang Peterson's highly underrated (IMO) Shattered.  "},{"Title":"We've seen this hundred times before","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For the first time Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer can be seen in one movie together. And the screenplay is unfortunately a composition of many films in this genre that we' seen hundreds of times with lesser known actors. It doesn't take long that you suspect Norman Spencer (Harrison Ford) lying behind everything that happens there, because he doesn't believe his wife. The perfect fassade with a congenious scientist married to a retired extremely talented musician (Pfeiffer) has something beneath. Spencer betrayed his wife a year ago and has killed the girl who wanted to ruin his career... Now he is willing to kill his beloved wife too, she is able to escape several times, but as an experienced spectator of thrillers like this you know that he will come back - as badly injured as he is. And of course she will win, escaping death and rescuing herself in the last second. Although the performances of Pfeiffer and Ford are really good, although Zemeckis is a well-known director with entertaining films like Romancing the Stone, Back to the Future and Forrest Gump - What Lies Beneath is nothing but a great disappointment.  "},{"Title":"A movie that leaves you going HUH at the end.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Was a thriller alright, to the point where you were wondering where it was taking you.   Harrison Ford played a very strange kind of character, instead of being the HERO we are used to seeing in previous films, we see him as quite the opposite.  But I will leave that to the view of this film.  I will give the picture a 6 out of 10 Kernels. "},{"Title":"What lies beneath?  Not much.","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An average movie in every sense of the word.  The acting and script are okay, despite the fact that Harrison Ford seemed to have his mind on his golf game or something.  The story cannot decide if it is going to be a supernatural thriller or a real suspense thriller.  It tries to be both and, as a result, leaves the audience with a very mediocre taste of what he/she has just seen.  Five out of ten stars ***** "}{"Title":"You will be so disappointed","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Probably one of the most predictable and boring movies of this year. The plot is so stupid that it is insulting to the viewer. It takes about 25 minutes of the movie to figure out how it is going to end. The ghost part of it contributes even more to the feeling that you really wasted your money this time.  To find this movie scary you would have to be very young or have very little movie experience. The movie contains about 50 scenes where you know that in 2 seconds time, there will be a BOOOO effect and when it comes you do not get scared rather angry that you actually paid money to watch this rubbish.How Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford ever agreed to take part in this misery is a riddle to me, but I guess they were both paid good. Michelle Pfeiffer is to me one of the most beautiful women of the world - she almost gets better looking as she is getting older and her acting is very fine in this film, but it just is not enough. Avoid. "},{"Title":"HITCHCOCK IT AIN'T","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A good opening 60 minutes that loses it's way, and underlines that you should always keep your ghost off-screen. Pfeiffer is good, and helps to sustain the early tension and suspense. Ford is hardly in it, and then when he becomes the bad guy (sorry) is so one dimensional. The Hitchcock references are blatant and sometimes laughable. However, compared to the usual Hollywood popcorn fare it's okay. It certainly helped me to escape from the Christmas shoppers. "},{"Title":"So-So Psycho","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS (BUT SO DOES THE TRAILER...)What Lies Beneath is a commendable attempt to bring back the suspense thriller without the cinema's current fascination with computer effects. Some CGI is evident, though minimal, and helps enhance the film, rather than become it. That said, What Lies Beneath, while a nice try, never quite becomes first rate.The major sticking point is the trailer; already being touted as one of the worst trailers ever made. This was especially expounded upon by the idiotic cinema I went to where they actually showed the trailer for the film that was about to be screened - cue lots of people going Eh? Have we come into the wrong film? For a movie that relies on the twists and turns of its plot to maintain interest, this one botches it by having major plot points, even up to a 100 minutes into the film, revealed to prospective audiences. So when Michelle Pfeiffer discovers her husband has had an affair and the girl died in her house, you're just left thinking Yeah, I already know - catch up, you dozy bint!Apparently Pfeiffer suffered a severe back injury after this film was completed - she'd spent two hours carrying Harrison Ford. Bored Ford sometimes makes the most of his lugubrious nature (as in the superb Blade Runner), but here he's half-asleep. The only time he strikes up interest is when he does a Ghostbusters gag, and when he takes Michelle to a village called Adamant. Though that's only cos I wanted someone to look at the sign and go Didn't he have a top five hit with 'Stand and Deliver'?Scares, such as they are, are thoroughly predictable. Pfeiffer looks through a hole in the fence, only to see nothing. Will someone's face abruptly leap into view from the other side? Other times genuine fear is substituted by musical crescendos that clearly signpost that a frightening bit is about to happen. That's not making people jump - it's deafening them.The end is where it all comes really unstuck, as Robert Zemeckis decides he wants to homage other horror movies. Fine if you haven't seen 'em. But when you've watched Carrie its blatantly obvious Harrison's hand will spring to life or the irksome shower/rocking chair love letters to Psycho, which merely annoy. The unrelenting predictability of its climax, trailer or no, really drags the film down, and it's underdeveloped coda bores. That said, the people I went with did receive their quota of shocks, so maybe I've watched too many movies.Unlikely to become anything other than average then, but What Lies Beneath will hopefully presage a new, maturer, relationship between character and sfx in the cinema. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"This One Lies Beneath In My List!","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had heard that Director Robert Zemeckis had done a supernatural thriller with stars Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer. I would wonder what would lie beneath this much anticipated film? Well, I found out! And its not too different from what lies beneath your toilet- because I think the movie was a piece of &#133;.. It is about a successful middle-aged couple who live in a large house by a river. Then one day, the woman starts hearing strange noises, and thinks there are ghosts inside this house. Are you falling asleep? Or have you lied beneath your covers already? Because I agree with you, the plot is boring and has being used lets say&#133;&#133; just a little beneath 10000 times before. The movie does have a very suspenseful bathtub scene. However, that is not enough for me to shower this one with a positive recommendation. ** Needs Improvement  "},{"Title":"Boring, predictable and not the least bit scary.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Walking into the theater I wasn't really sure what to expect from this movie, the previews made it out to be a horror/suspence/thriller/mystery which I definatly like. I wasn't all that impressed with the previews but I figured anything with Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer couldn't possibly be that bad. Boy was I wrong!From the very beginning I started realizing how poorly made this film was starting with the bland dialog. I've seen great talent get wasted on poor scripts or direction many times before but this was just rediculous. Harrison Ford is one of my favorite actors of all time, he can really get into a charactor and make you truely love, or hate him and that's what makes him brilliant, but in this film he falls short of even a good performance. But who can blame him, he had nothing to work with.Next comes the horror scenes. Talk about predictable. There was absolutely nothing in this movie that hasn't already been done a dozen times before. All the parts that are supposed to be startling are just the same old, look one direction then look back and theres something standing there, camera angle trick repeated over and over. Both me and my friend who have seen a lot of horror movies could sit there and count down to when the startling part was going to happen.The plot is also incredibly predictable. Partially due to all the spoilers included with the trailer. Both of us had the whole thing figured out half an hour into the film. I never walk out of movies because sometimes they'll get better towards the end but this one goes from bad to worse with plot twists you saw coming a mile away.Undoubtably the worst film I've ever seen Harrison Ford in and it's just one step above Battlefield Earth as the second worst film I've seen this year. I give What Lies Beneath 2 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"The film was not very unique.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie had a good mystery, but the directing was fairly poor, too predictable.  I knew every little scare that was coming up.  The acting was great though, and the plot was good too.  So it is one to wait for video. "},{"Title":"been there done that","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not to beat a dead horse but I felt watching this movie that it I had been there and done this before.  It was formulaic (if that is a word), and nothing really new happened.  I was also looking for those supposedly never been done before shots, but again nothing new happened.  Overall i would recommend it, but for the more experienced film goer, movie fanatic it will be nostalgic. "},{"Title":"A Few Good Scenes, But Overall Tired and Forgettable","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (Note a slight spoiler in the end.) For the first hour or so of the movie, despite being just a long, detailed version of the trailers, What Lies Beneath can really grab your interest. Though the trailer is a little misleading and confusing, which is reason enough to see it, you soon learn that it gave you, more or less, all you needed to know about the first hour.Despite all this, it (pretty much) keeps your interest. Now keep in mind many of the events leading up to this had been far far far beyond reality, but they didn't tarnish the overall value tremendously. Then, with some of the bizarre and downright ugly twists the plot takes, the storyline becomes just another movie, or at least a movie with far too many scenes with Michelle Pfeiffer in the tub. It gets very old.Another thing gone wrong is the entire development and action of the characters. The male neighbor is all of a sudden so nice and almost playful at the party. This is just another loose end they decided to tie up the easy way.While some of the ideas appear fresh, it just turns into a tired, predictable mess of let's just have Harrison Ford be the bad one and tie it up in ten minutes proportions.A few good scare scenes, but they end up giving you far too many attempts at them, eventually ruining what had the chance to be an above average movie.5/10 Stars.  "},{"Title":"Forgettable Hitchcock homage","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Those who know their Hitchcock, particularly Rear Window and Psycho can spend their time pointing out the homages (ripoffs?) during the slow stretches of this thriller.  Harrison Ford, in great shape but looking his 58 years, costars with Michelle Pfeiffer as a Vermont couple who, well, start to have problems in their beautiful lakeside home.  You see, Michelle, perhaps suffering from empty-nest syndrome (she's just packed off their only child to college), is starting to hear things...and becoming suspicious of the new neighbors...and Harrison's a hard-working research scientist who never seems to be around when the creepy things happen. Is she losing her mind...?There's a lot (I do mean a lot) of cheap scares in this movie, along with some genuinely tense moments.  You do have to sit through some long stretches until the last couple of reels when things rev up considerably. The ending, however, isn't too surprising.  Plus the music and sound effects are way too loud - does every sound (even a drawer closing) have to boom? Soundtrack composer Alan Silvestri, one of the lesser talents of the major film composers, tries to do Bernard Herrmann Jr. and it's obvious.  He's listened to that Psycho music one too many times.All in all, a throwaway summer movie, competently directed by Robert Zemeckis, OK if you like the genre but far from its best example.  For that, watch the Hitchcock movies on AMC on Sunday nights. "},{"Title":"An old style ghost story dressed up with computer technology and A list actors.","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've read the screenplay and if you are a horror movie aficionado as I am, you'll guess all the twists long before they come.  Dream Works is trying to tell you that this has a SIXTH SENSE twist.  It doesn't.  Quite simply, the only surprise in the film is the casting.  Not a plot revelation. If you've seen the trailer by now you already know one of the twists, (Harrison Ford as a philandering hubby, Indiana Jones as a sleep around! Big shock.) and the trailer reveals too much of the plot so all you have to do now is see the film for its very tired finale. "}{"Title":"10 star movie until the very end.","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was a very good movie that had some brilliant acting and a very creative story. Michelle Pfieffer, Harrison Ford, Diana Scarwid, and some of the others were fantastic. I especially liked Diana Scarwid's character of Jody. She was very enlightening. Obviously for a mega budget film, it was great, usually films that have tons and tons of money behind it, lack heart and soul, but not this one. I would have given this a ten, but the very end was just too much, the part after Ford and Pfieffer are in the lake submerged in the truck as they are sinking. I don't wanna mention too much and give anything away. I just wish it would have ended a little different, but, oh well, this is still a great movie. One of the things that I truly appreciated was that it was very easy to follow and everything was coming together as to what was going and who this mysterious entity was and why she was there haunting Pfieffer's character. I find it a little surprising that the user rating for this movie is about 6.5, and movies like Die Hard 4 are at an 8 or so. Die Hard 4 is a perfect example of a movie with no heart and soul that just has explosions and Million Dollar Special FX and that that alone is supposed to make it a good movie. I DO NOT think so. Back to What Lies Beneath, Zemeckis did a great job with this and I really had a good time watching this. "},{"Title":"...Still falls short of being a good movie.","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *****Major Spoilers******While it has alot going for it (Tribute to Psycho, Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfiefer, directed by Robert Zemeckis) it still falls very short of being a good movie.It's directed wonderfully.  And some of the camera shots are awe-inspiring. Making you go How'd they do that, that was awesome.  Acting by Pfiefer is superb as well. Her eyes do so much in this movie.Harrison Ford doesn't have alot to do in this movie, and I'm sure was cast so as to gain a likeability to his character immediately.  An unknown or someone who has played a bad guy before could not have been used, as they would not have been trusted for so long.While I admit I was creeped out at points, I found it so completely devoid of actual, real, suspense.  It used silence very well, but I think because it knew it needed it's loud jolts of sound to frighten, because nothing else could.Also way to long, the ending being extremely drawn out, and just plain hoaky.  A poor attempt at a ghost movie, an even poorer attempt at film making. "},{"Title":"A First Class Thriller Everyone Should See","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath is in my opinion, a first class thriller, that every fan of suspense and thriller movies should see.I saw this on HBO years ago for the first time, and I absolutely loved it from the very first minute, to the last minute.I purchased the video so I could watch it when I want to see an excellent movie.The sets were so good to look at.The house by the lake was a place that I would like to live in without the scary part.The setting is what caught my eye from the very first part of the movie.The actors were very very good too.Michelle was great as the wife and mother in the story.She was first class as usual.Harrison Ford as the husband was fun to watch. A very different character for him to play.I got a bang out of the character of the wife's cosmic friend,she was a lot of fun.The writing was very good.It is so nice to see a movie that depends on the storyline and characters to pull you through the movie,and not a lot of overdone special effects.I loved the very last scene in the story, it was so beautiful to see the winter scene.Please see this thriller if you have not seen it. "},{"Title":"A great spooky movie with a great cast!","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is arguably Robert Zemeckis` best film next to the Back to the Future Trilogy and Who Framed Roger Rabbit which are some of My favorite films.  Harrison Ford plays such a different role compared to his Han Solo and Indiana Jones characters but he played it well.  He still looks good no doubt and Michelle Pfeiffer`s role is good and she played it good and she looks excellent! James Remar was good and looked different but I feel there could have been more done with his role as he wasn't give a good much time but he acted good nonetheless. Same thing goes for Joe Morton. Alan Silvestri`s score is chilling, spooky, and he composed a great, great theme. Fans of Ford, Pfeiffer, Remar, Zemeckis, or Psycho should love What Lies Beneath! "},{"Title":"Couldn't pick an ending, eh??","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first hour-and-a-half or so of this film is fascinating, riveting, and compelling.  But, somehow, Bob Zemekis has managed to destroy a very good film with a very long ending.  It appears he was so focused on getting those few extra 'thrills' and shocks in, that the ending just drags on and on and on and.....well, you get the point.Nothing wrong with this film that heavy editing couldn't fix. "},{"Title":"Tedious but Pfeiffer keeps you watching","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath feels too contrived to be effective drama, is too predictable for a thriller and is not scary enough to be a horror film.Strange occurrences, creepy neighbours and eerie whispers bother Claire Spencer in her new house.  The wife of genetics researcher Norman Spencer, Claire deals with the daughter's departure to college amid these odd happenings.  Pictures break and doors open by themselves, Norman worries, Claire discovers the truth and the bathroom sees an effective climax before a cop-out ending.The scenario rehashes numerous thrillers, drawing from The Sixth Sense, The &#145;burbs, Cape Fear, several Hitchcock films, all of which are far superior to Zemeckis' film.  There is nothing here that we have not seen before, from murders in the bathroom to a séance on a wet afternoon.  The climactic scenes in the last half-hour prove unbearably tense even though the outcome is inevitable.Zemeckis' direction is, for the most part, as lazy and uninspired as the script.  His pacing is careful &#150; a couple of shocks work &#150; but his interest is elsewhere.  He worked on What Lies Beneath while Tom Hanks lost weight for Cast Away.  He seemingly wanted to imitate Hitchcock and works with elements of Rear Window, Vertigo, Psycho and Notorious but his conventional direction amounts to a tedious film, in which only the performances keep one watching.Michelle Pfeiffer rises above the clichéd script to make Claire believable and sympathetic.  Harrison Ford's performance is quiet and restrained, though he lacks the menace or intensity of, say, Claude Rains in Notorious. The rest of the cast adequately acquit themselves to their stock characters in this overall dull and unrewarding movie.  Potential viewers would be better off renting the old Hitchcock movies. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but...","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath is, in many respects, a traditional horror/psychological suspense thriller with a high profile cast and strong production values. It has a fair number of thrills and chills, decent performances from the principals, and keeps you guessing throughout much of its length.It is also far too long, and flawed by the inclusion of a first section which is intended to mislead you into wondering whether Michelle Pfeiffer's Claire is going mad - is she imagining manifestations, did the next door neighbour really kill his wife, do the significant close-ups we have been subjected to since the opening titles really mean anything or not. Eventually we learn that, no, none of this had any relevance whatsoever, and most of the first hour has been devoted to a red herring which goes no further. Fortunately, what follows isn't bad, but by this time a degree of fatigue has set in.The finale is small scale but effective. "},{"Title":"A Subpar Delivery From Zemeckis","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How can something that was going so right end up going so wrong? That was the question I kept asking myself after exiting Robert Zemeckis' latest film, What Lies Beneath. The supernatural thriller stars Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer as Norman and Claire Spencer, a successful and seemingly happy middle-aged couple whose only daughter (Katharine Towne) has just gone off to college. However, their perfect little life together doesn't last long as a result of Claire's changing mental state. The question of Claire's sanity first comes into play early on in the film as a result of Claire's obsession of spying on her new next-door neighbors, Warren & Mary Feur (Rear Window anyone?). Based on what she has seen, or rather what she thinks she has seen and the seeming disappearance of Mary, Claire begins to suspect that Warren has murdered his wife. Claire's suspicions are then taken to a new level as strange occurrences begin to happen throughout the house, ranging from doors that open on their own to the mysterious nature of the family's bathroom, which marks the location of Claire's first vision of a mysterious woman, in one of the film's more memorable scenes. Claire is nearly convinced that Mary has come back from the dead, but at the same time still aware of the possibility that it may all just be in her head. As the visions continue Claire drifts further and further away from her former self, while the relationship between her and her husband does the same. Eventually, Claire can no longer take it and must find out the truth for herself. And then the film takes its first major twist, which I won't give away but was already all but revealed in the film's trailer. The first twist is a good one and really gets the film into gear, ultimately leading to another of the film's more memorable scenes in which we see Claire seducing Norman in a manner that is very un-Claire like given her personality. The scene also includes my favorite shot in the film, which again for spoiler reasons I won't give away (pay attention to Claire's eyes in the scene and you can't miss it) and marks the beginning of the film's next major twist. And it was with this next major twist that the film first begins to fall flat. The film could have gone a number of ways given its psychological and supernatural elements, but instead plays it safe and follows the same old thriller path that we have all grown accustomed too, which just doesn't fit with the flow of the first 2/3 of the film and is extremely disappointing given some of the possibilities that the film's first major twist hint to and could have led to. Despite the lackluster third act Zemeckis, Pfeiffer and Ford are able to pull it off reasonably well given what they have to work with as the final bathroom scenes is another of the film's best. But instead of ending it there Zemeckis can't resist himself, as an additional 15 minutes or so of film full of plenty of jump scenes follows. This period of the film is absolutely mind boggling to me, not only because it continued to remind me of how lackluster the film's third act really was, but also because the film's end result is basically the same as the result of the bathtub scene, only much, much less effective. It's a shame too, as I really did enjoy the first 2/3 of What Lies Beneath. The film is full of very interesting shots throughout, and through the use of its score in association with some of those shots (especially anything focusing on either a mirror or water) was able to produce some genuine terror and suspense especially once the foreshadowing of these scenes has become apparent. Michelle Pfeiffer is very good in her role as Claire, as she pulls off being either scared and or unstable whenever her part called for it without ever appearing over the top. Unfortunately I can't really say the same for Ford, as the script just doesn't give him enough to work with, something that I feel weakens the film's ending even further given the path it does take. The unnecessary extension of the film, which also happened to be the only problem I had with Zemeckis' Oscar Winning film, Forrest Gump, in addition to the obvious Hitchcock visual and plot references to Psycho, Vertigo and the previously mentioned Rear Window that are laced throughout the film, and the excess and foreshadowing of jump scenes are a pretty good indication that Zemeckis was really playing around with both the thriller genre and the audience at the same time. While I enjoyed that to a certain extent, it eventually becomes tiresome, as there was just too much of it by the end of the film and because of it the film itself ultimately suffers here as well. If you're a fan of the genre itself I still recommend this film, as despite its downfalls, I still found it in parts to be more terrifying than most other so called thrillers released as of late. What Lies Beneath isn't a bad film; it isn't a very good film either, but at the same time based on its first two acts alone had the makings of being a great film. If only it had ended 15 minutes sooner and if only had it taken a chance. "},{"Title":"Spooky but Silly","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After a couple moves into a lakeside mansion, spooky things start happening to the wife. The early parts of the film are the best, as Zemeckis creates an eerie atmosphere and builds up the suspense. However, then the ghost makes an appearance and it goes downhill from there, culminating in a ludicrous finale. Pfeiffer is quite good as the wife who has recently gone through trauma and begins to wonder if something is really going on or she's having a breakdown. Ford looks old and tired as her exasperated husband. Given the stars and director, this could have been a good movie with a better script. The score is reminiscent of Bernard Herrmann's work for Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"great performance by Pfeiffer","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath is one of those movies that came out when Hollywood was doing remakes and reduxes of J(apan) movies. So in other words it was ghost era. This flick has a bit of the same storyline. A couple living happy together get in trouble when their daughter leaves the house to go studying. Mommy has seen ghosts, she thinks. And that's were it's all about for me, mommy going from a normal woman to a woman who doesn't know what's going on anymore. The movie is all about Pfeiffer giving a great performance, maybe the best she's ever done. She's so believable. In the same period The Others came out with Kidman, but Kidman always acts the same, whispering that is. How comes the movie just got a 6 out of 10, Harrison did it. He is well type casted but gives a performance seen before from him. Let's be honest, when he's knocked out in the bathroom and he but his bleeding hand on the bath-tub, well sorry but the way he moves his hand made me think of Indiana Jones. But it is a great movie with another big mistake...the plot is written on the cover, stupid isn't it? "}{"Title":"What Lies Ahead for Zemeckis?","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Picture a see-saw with What Lies Beneath director Robert Zemeckis on one end and Alfred Hitchcock on the other. We all know who would be on the ground, but then Hitchcock's films have a lot in common with his backside on our imaginary see-saw; they were always very much down to earth.Instead of concentrating on putting his own stamp of originality on this production, Robert Zemeckis went to astonishing lengths to ensure Hitchcock comparisons were inevitable. As if the bathroom scenes towards the end of the film weren't obvious enough, the musical score is unmistakibly Psycho-esque. This begs the question do Zemeckis' skills really lie in directing or should he perhaps focus on a career in marketing?Marketing strategy would certainly explain the pairing of Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford. They may both have undeniable talent and mass audience appeal, but sadly, the chemistry between them could only be described as pH Neutral.It was hardly a pairing of Hitchcock proportions.If Cary Grant and Eva Marie Saint were this interesting, North by Northwest would've been an instant flop. Why? Because Hitchcock often relied on chemistry alone. A simple gaze from the eyes of Eva Marie Saint was used to maintain suspense during a train buffet scene in that film.So why did such simple direction techniques go well and truly over the head of Zemeckis? Why does his film rely more on sensation than subtlety if it's supposed to be a thriller of such Hitchcock proportions?If Zemeckis was trying to complement or emulate Hitchcock, he failed miserably. Unlike with Psycho, you wont be entertained by the psychotic eccentricities of an oddball; unlike Vertigo, the supernatural occurrences don't turn out to have a realistic explanation. Pfeiffer however, does manage to engineer a truly convincing performance; an act which carries this film and ultimately makes it watchable. Considering such textbook horror techniques are used to enthrall, Pfeiffers ability goes a long way to supressing the cheese factor that could so easily have ensued.I feel compelled to keep the analogous see-saw balanced by giving What Lies Beneath three out of five stars because it should be such an unmovable, mediocre horror film. However , I've given it four stars because Pfeiffers performance does off-balance things a little by giving the film some grounding; she certainly makes it more believable and entertaining than most Hollywood flicks of this genre. "},{"Title":"Good spooky chiller","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was a been there, done that film but I still wound up enjoying it immensely. Lots of creepy sound and sight effects, good performances, and a long, luxurious buildup to finding the solution to the wife's weird problems. My only gripe is the big finale a little trite but done well enough as to not ruin the picture.  "},{"Title":"SCARY, BUT DUMB","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *Possible spoilers*The movie really has nothing much to save itself from the barrage of denunciations coming its way, except for the fact that it is very well made. It is very well directed, rather. Throughout the runtime, Michelle Pfeiffer keeps seeing these sudden images of a 'dead' girl, in all sorts of places, especially those, which store water!! You know, the pond, the bath - tub, etc. What's more interesting, is the reason behind the appearances of the 'defaced' face only in certain 'hydrated' places. Well, towards the end of the movie, one comes to know that Pfeiffer's hubby - dear had murdered a young woman, sometime in the 'forgotten' past, and got rid of the cadaver by driving it off into some lake of some sort. In the aftermath, the unappeased soul made those strange appearances in those 'hydrated' places, to seek revenge. What a smart piece of direction! I think not; no way. Now, one question pops up in mind that, if the 'dissatisfied' soul is unhappy overits death - process, why bother Pfeiffer? Wouldn't it make life less complicated, if she scared Harrison Ford, if it is he, who she wants to settle a score with? I am confused. The story is baseless. In fact, there is no storyline at all. There are a lot of unexplained things, forced on the viewer, which are dumb, in effect, treating the viewer as someone, who can take any sort of crap, and be contented with the façade created by the horrifyingly thrilling special effects, to cover for the feeble story - line. On a different note, Michelle Pfeiffer puts up a brilliant performance. She is really good. Harrison Ford doesn't have much of a scope for acting; so he can be rendered as redundant. The thrill - creating scenes are very well done, and the movie is quite scary in a lot of places. At the end of the day, it is some 'cool' 'hair - raising' direction, that saves this otherwise sorry effort. Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"uh...","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie, and I would like to stress that I am not a professional on how the camera was aimed, or theamatic elements, or who was a good or bad actor...please bear with my unrifined amature critque, and spelling...It was alright, there were some boring parts (like when nothing scary or weird was happening...)But I thought the scary effects were pretty cool. i.e. to say, dead lady's reflection, and actual dead lady in the bathtube... I enjoyed the fact that Harrison ford played the Bad guys role in that movie, I've never seen that happen before...Phiffere (how ever you spell it...) played her part moderately well...yeah I thought this movie was okay...especially watching it with a friend and screaming throughout the movie during intense intervals...(I was screaming to give her a heart attack, unfortunately for her daughter, it didn'tb work...)  "},{"Title":"uh...","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie, and I would like to stress that I am not a professional on how the camera was aimed, or theamatic elements, or who was a good or bad actor...please bear with my unrefined amature critque.  It was alright, there were some boring parts (like when nothing scary or weird was happening...)But I thought the scary effects were pretty cool. i.e. to say, dead lady's reflection, and actual dead lady in the bathtube... I enjoyed the fact that Harrison Ford played the Bad guys role in that movie, I've never seen that happen before...Pfeiffer  played her part moderately well...yeah I thought this movie was okay...especially watching it with a friend and screaming throughout the movie during intense intervals...(I was screaming to give her a heart attack, unfortunately for her daughter, it didn't work...)  "},{"Title":"Preposterous Farrago","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This wildly overblown supernatural thriller has no kind of structure or logic to it. Starting out as a hilarious spoof of Rear Window, it veers off into a fairly spooky Sixth Sense type ghost story before winding itself up to an action and special effects climax worthy of Indiana Jones at his finest.A few exciting moments are lost in a melodramatic mish-mash without sense or meaning. No wonder Harrison Ford looks baffled and Michelle Pfeiffer simply looks blank. What lies beneath? Garbage, that's what. "},{"Title":"It was okay","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The ending was not that hard to figure out, it hits you like a brick in the middle of the film.  If you want a better movie in the same genre rent The Others, it was much better.  I love Harrison Ford but even his performance wasn't enough to carry this film. "},{"Title":"Inaction thriller","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This psychological thriller was something of a way to pass the time for director Robert Zemeckis. While making Cast Away, one of the world's most lucrative film-makers decided to have a year off so Tom Hanks could spend the time getting into character for the rest of the movie.Instead of taking it easy, the director hired Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford for a Hitchcockian tale of murder, suspense and intrigue. Pfeiffer stars as a doctor's wife troubled by terrifying visions of a ghostly girl who seems to be asking for help from beyond the grave - little suspecting the sinister manifestations are about to reveal shocking truths about her own marriage.Diana Scarwid, Joe Morton and James Remar also star in this disappointing offering which does boast an audacious finale. Pfeiffer, paralysed for a short time, attempts to stay alive before drowning in her own bath. Little happens during this scene. In fact the movie could have kicked off a new genre of 'inaction' thrillers.   "},{"Title":"What Lies Beneath?  Nothing we haven't seen before","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath feels too contrived to be effective drama, is too predictable for a thriller and is not scary enough to be a horror film.Strange occurrences, creepy neighbours and eerie whispers bother Claire Spencer in her new house.  The wife of genetics researcher Norman Spencer, Claire deals with the daughter's departure to college amid these odd happenings.  Pictures break and doors open by themselves, Norman worries, Claire discovers the truth and the bathroom sees an effective climax before a cop-out ending.The scenario rehashes numerous thrillers, drawing from The Sixth Sense, The &#145;burbs, Cape Fear, several Hitchcock films, all of which are far superior to Zemeckis' film.  There is nothing here that we have not seen before, from murders in the bathroom to a séance on a wet afternoon.  The climactic scenes in the last half-hour prove unbearably tense even though the outcome is inevitable.Zemeckis' direction is, for the most part, as lazy and uninspired as the script.  His pacing is careful &#150; a couple of shocks work &#150; but his interest is elsewhere.  He worked on What Lies Beneath while Tom Hanks lost weight for Cast Away.  He seemingly wanted to imitate Hitchcock and works with elements of Rear Window, Vertigo, Psycho and Notorious but his conventional direction amounts to a tedious film, in which only the performances keep one watching.Michelle Pfeiffer rises above the clichéd script to make Claire believable and sympathetic.  Harrison Ford's performance is quiet and restrained, though he lacks the menace or intensity of, say, Claude Rains in Notorious. The rest of the cast adequately acquit themselves to their stock characters in this overall dull and unrewarding movie.  Potential viewers would be better off renting the old Hitchcock movies. "},{"Title":"What DOES lie beneath?","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What really does lie beneath? Well, by the very end of the movie, we find out. *POSSIBLE SPOILERS* Michelle Pfeifer and Harrison Ford play a happily married couple, until ghostly images begin to plague Claire (Pfeifer) in her home. Looking for help from her husband, Dr. Norman Spencer (Ford) every moment in this movie turns out to be involved with the climax somehow. Which I thought was good, because there were some slow moving parts of the movie that I thought Oh god, I'm going to die! and what does this have to do with anything?. Everything. As I said, everything that happens turns out to be involved with the climax somehow. This is the only movie that I can honestly remember screaming out so very loud. When I did, I dropped by Lemonheads. When previews for this movie came out, me and my friends all thought that this movie would just be another one of THE SIXTH SENSE rip-offs like STIR OF ECHOES (which was a good one also). But, no--in my opinion, WHAT LIES BENEATH is better than THE SIXTH SENSE. Everything about this movie is better. The story. The acting (although Bruce Willis is very good also). *SPOILER* By the end of the film, we discover that Harrison Ford's character is the 'bad guy'. When he tries to kill his wife, this leads to a chase scene (traditionally there is one of these in every suspense thriller movie that I see), where after a long hard brawl, the 'bad guy' finally gets it. Only, for a slight twist, it isn't Michelle Pfeifer's character that kills him. If you want to know who kills him, you have to watch for yourself. Besides, I can't tell you even if I wanted to. Its against IMDb regulations. So, if you're in the mood to scream, sit back and start watching this title. 5/5. "}{"Title":"reasonably effective time waster","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The biggest challenge facing a genre picture like `What Lies Beneath' is to be able to cover well-worn territory without making us feel as if we've seen it all before.  This film doesn't exactly succeed in doing so, but it does offer a few impressive set pieces as compensation.`What Lies Beneath' borrows heavily from movies like `Rebecca' and `Psycho,' adding generous helpings of `Rear Window' and `Wait Until Dark' to the mix for good measure.  Michelle Pfeiffer stars as Claire Spenser, a happily married woman who is suffering from a severe case of `empty nest syndrome' now that her only child is happily ensconced at college.  Her husband, Norman (Harrison Ford), seems to be spending an inordinately long time away from home on business.  While alone in her new rambling New England home, Claire begins to experience strange visions and disturbing phenomena that lead her to believe the house is haunted.Why it is that suspense films usually do a better job at presenting their mysteries than at unraveling them is in itself a mystery for which I have never found a satisfactory answer.  `What Lies Beneath' is no exception.  It does an effective job at the beginning when it is setting up the scenario, injecting just enough ambiguity into the proceedings to make us question whether Claire is truly seeing what she thinks she is seeing or whether she is suffering from delusions brought on by mental instability.  Unfortunately, once that issue is decided for us, the film loses some of its intriguing quality and becomes a more standard issue horror film.  Moreover, the major plot `twist' is one we can pretty much predict five minutes into the film.  Given its weaknesses, `What Lies Beneath' delivers the goods for those who want nothing more than a relaxing, goosepimply good time at the movies.  Director Robert Zemeckis, though he appears to be slumming here a bit, knows how to shoot an effective jump-out-of-your-seat suspense sequence &#150; although he does tend to rely overmuch on the `false scare' technique that seems to be so popular in films of this type.  As to the acting, Ford pretty much walks through his part, surely dreaming of better things to come in the role department, but Pfeiffer manages to bring a dignity and depth to a character that could easily have degenerated into the hysterical wife stereotype. `What Lies Beneath' is an effective time killer provided you realize beforehand that the answer to the film's title is  `Not much.'  "},{"Title":"Horrible attempt to try and capture the magic of Hitch...","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Zemeckis once said that his reason for making What Lies Beneath was because I wanted to make a movie like Hitchcock.  Did he succeed in doing so?  He wasn't even close.  Although the movie did have its suspenseful moments, the movie as a whole was boring.  Zemeckis relied on the few instances of suspense to carry the whole movie, which all go out the door when viewed the second time.  Did anyone notice the climatic score sounding very similar to that of Vertigo?  The difference between this and anything made by Hitchcock is that even after multiple viewings, Hitch's movies still leave you in suspense and entertained.  What Lies Beneath works okay the first time, and fails anytime after. "},{"Title":"Ghosts and murderers?","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Its so-so,its creepy movie,but i dont like the idea of mixing ghosts,knifes,and a killer.The actors act well,but the whole movie is like an salute for HITCHCOCK,who would have hated this film if he was alive,because he himself said he never liked ghosts,but i do,so for me this is not that bad,but I think they should not mix things up next time. "},{"Title":"A rollercoasterride which  makes your own house seem unsafe.","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a masterpiece. When you start watching it, it's not possible to take your eyes of the screen. Nothing is what it seems. Unlike other thrillers, this one is very realistic. After watching the movie, we all had goosbumps and avoided the bathroom for at least a day! I recommend all of you to watch this movie with no lights on and turn your volume up. It will make it all even more shocking. You think a movie can't scare you? Well  Try this one! "},{"Title":"A great disappointment","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this kind of movie, The Sixth Sense is one of my all-time favourite films, and for the first hour I thought that I was in for a treat.  Then, just as it should have started to take off, it fell apart.  It became corny, predictable, and worse still, boring.  A great deal of the first hour's viewing became irrelevant, and every cliche in this genre was trotted out to the accompaniment of loud music and bad acting.  Harrison Ford really struggled in this role, it didn't suit him - or perhaps he didn't suit it - and Michelle Pfeiffer seemed as confused by her character as the scriptwriters were.  Long before it ended, I was longing for it to be over and amused myself by counting how many times I predicted a 'shock' correctly.  Far too often I'm afraid.  "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE movie..not only boring, but insanely predictable","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    This is a horrible movie.  I rented it last night, and during the whole movie I kept hitting the display button on the DVD remote to see how much time was left.  I was nearly praying for the god awful movie to end.  First off, the movie is completely lacking even one ounce of originality...the characters are annoying and predictable...the story itself isn't even interesting, and it is pulled off horribly to add to that.  It's easy to figure out exactly what is going on, and when what you already knew to be true happens on screen, it's not even anything huge.  On top of all this bad stuff is the fact that the movie drags on and on and on and on and on.....you sit there watching wondering, why is this scene so LONG?!  Why do we need 5 minutes with no dialogue?  Why was this movie even made to begin with?  The scares in the movie are very few...and they are horrible scares at that- almost every scare is just something happening really quick to startle you...it's pathetic.  I nearly had to turn this movie off it was so bad, so stay away from it.  It isn't worth anyone's time!! .5/10 "},{"Title":"Too predictable (contains spoilers)","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *** CONTAINS SPOILERS *** You will be warned of the spoiler before reading the paragraph...What Lies Beneath wasn't necessarily a bad film - unfortunately it was too predictable and formulaic to be a good film.Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer both did a fairly good acting job in this film, but this film felt flat in spite of their efforts.  The story isn't a bad one, but it is just way too tired a storyline to excite the viewer.  The film's special effects are actually very good, but again, they can't save this film from mediocrity.The predictability doesn't just refer to the story or film as a whole, it is evident in individual scenes where the viewer has no doubt of what will happen.  If you're still planning to see the film stop reading now... spoilers ahead...****Spoilers from here to end*****As I was saying the predictability is rampant.  Here are a few specific examplesVery early in the movie they make way too big a deal about the cell phone not working until they get halfway across the bridge.  It's so obvious that Michelle Pfeiffer will need to use that phone and will have to race across the bridge to do so that it isn't even funny.It was obvious that Harrison Ford killed the girl and covered it up right from the beginning, and it makes the viewer mad that Michelle Pfeiffer takes soooo long to catch on.The predictability actually goes down to the way individual shots are lined up - for example, the scene where Ford comes home and calls for his wife (who is possessed at the time) and then opens the refrigerator door.  Was there anyone who was startled that Pfeiffer is standing behind the door when it closes?  Even Harrison Ford doesn't do a good job of acting  surprised in that scene...Well, like I said - not a bad film, just too predictable.  I'll leave on a positive note  My favorite shot/special effect - the outline of the face in the snow in the graveyard when the camera pulls back in the final shot.  Very cool. "},{"Title":"Almost a thriller...","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie almost pulled it off. Excellent 1st hour set-up that is truly intriguing and creepy. However, the revealing is terribly lackluster and generally just not interesting. I was hoping, nay begging, for something more mysterious, more novel...anything more intriguing than the actual mundane revelation that occurred.Yes, yes its sad but true....there is no great payoff in this movie. Pfeiffer's character figures out too easily what the audience has figured out about 20 minutes before her. The bad guy's shift from perfect to crazed lunatic is too abrupt and not believable. Its really a shame the nice beginning set-up is spoiled by the ho-hum revelation and the standard Hollywood ending.Final Rating 6/10- At least the first hour was fun...Noob Aalox "},{"Title":"Is that it? Whats all the Fuss about?","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really cannot believe all the fuss made about this film. Have I even been watching the same movie as everyone else, because it sure isnt the scariest movie youll see all year!This was a very schizophrenic effort from zemeckis. Is it a ghost story? is it a thriller? It certainly cant make up its mind, that, added to the poor timing of the suspense scenes (dragging them on, silently, until a mouse breaking wind would make you jump!) and Michelle Pfeiffer descent into annoyingly overwrought (those veins!), make this very dull to watch.Overall, due to an undoubtedly slick production team, there is an unmistakable sheen of quality to this film, which appears to have fooled everybody. Good ideas spoiled by a lack of conviction.An opportunity wasted especially as ***SUPER MEGA NINJA SPOILER AHEAD BEWARE!BEWARE!*** this is one of the few (if only) chances Ford has had to flex his 'baddie' muscles. Shaaaaaame! "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If this was not the worst film that Harrison Ford has ever been in, could someone please let me know what rivals it? The customary over-the-top ending was too long and implausible. At no point could I say it held me in suspense. If it had not been so poor I would say it was instantly forgetable. Sadly, I don't think I'll forget it in a long while. "}{"Title":"I was disappointed","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Without giving anything away, I have to say that I found this movie very disappointing. The foreshadowing was so obvious, that it actually ruined the ending for me.  With such a strong cast I really expected more. I never felt invited into the picture to share the feelings and emotions of the characters at all. Too bad too because I was so looking forward to finally seeing it.  "},{"Title":"The actors might as well have worn T-shirts flagging up the plot","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I despair of modern mass-market film-making. The prods that the writer/director felt the audience needed to understand what was a very simple narrative were beyond belief. I defy anybody not to have guessed the outcome within 30 mins. There are two particular dialogue exchanges which are so forced and so obviously IMPORTANT that the director should just have stopped the film and wandered on screen to tell you to pay attention. Unless you are very easily taken in and amused, give this a miss. "},{"Title":"Excellent idea, horrible execution","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's movies like this that just frustrate me.  Good initial plot, great actors, wonderful setting but somehow someone goes for the cheap thrill and winds up botching up the whole thing!  Are you listening Zemeckis?  The first hour of this flick had so much potential that it hurts!  After that, everything goes horribly wrong.  It's truly sad.  They could have taken the story in so many other directions that would have resulted in something worthy of yours or my private collection.****Beware, possible spoilers****But noooooooo.... (In the immortal words of John Belushi) they had to take a potentially classy tale of haunting and turn it into another dumb, boring flick about a brilliant man who has an affair and is somehow trapped in his crime of infidelity.Spend your movie rental money on something more interesting, perhaps Haunted or Ghost Story for a real ghost tale.  "},{"Title":"Your average thriller","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I didn't enjoy What Lies Beneath that much. I found it way too predictable and sometime just plain boring. Both lead actors, Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, are good, but it's the story that's not very interesting. Some twists make it unbelievable. This one could have been a lot better.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The previews were good....","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is an okay movie, but like many other viewers, the ending was a complete disappointment. As for the movie being categorized as a horror, I disagree with this. It's not scary, nothing great, but just an okay film.*Spoiler if you don't know who the villain is.*Michelle Pfeiffer, playing the part as Claire Spencer was alright. There isn't a whole lot to say about this character. The writing given to her was lousy and the change of scenery and plot was boring. We know what the whole movie is about but seeing that same old bathtub fill up with water was starting to get on my nerves. Casting Harrison Ford as a cheating college professor who ends up trying to kill his wife along with killing another woman is pitiful. Surely they could have come up with someone else to play this part. Why Harrison, why? He doesn't strike me as the type of character to be a little off as I'll call it. Alright, he's the last person I would have picked to star in this already-gone-bad flick. Right after this film premiered, I read some critic's review saying that there were too many characters introduced but then they sort of just drifted away. Correct! You have the two main characters, Ford and Pfeiffer. Fine. Madison is somewhat of a main character, but since we never actually see her (alive), I don't know what you would call her. The small parts of Caitlin, Jody, Warren, and Mary were needed but didn't have too much to do with the real plot. A few lines here and there and then they did start to disappear. I didn't like the little time given to the Feur situation which caused the story to get off course. Overall, a very poor casting job.This movie was too slow for me. The lack of writing made me dislike this movie even more. The beginning was slow, the middle crawled, and the ending, when the movie is supposed to be at its suspensefulest (I made that up), turned out to be another joke. The cemetery scene was a poor excuse for an ending. Overall, a bad plot.Scary? Of course not. If worse comes to worse, watch this. But only if you're put in that position. Considering that you have two of the most known actors in the business in 'What Lies Beneath', you would think that it would be somewhat decent. I'm sorry to say that I was lured into watching this by viewing the previews. Like the previews? That's all you will like. These were the only semi entertaining scenes. (If you can can them that.) Don't watch this! "},{"Title":"can't believe i sat through the whole thing","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Contains spoilers I watched this with one question mind what on earth was it about this choppy, inconsistent, & empty script that made such talented people as Pfieffer, Ford, and Zemeckis sign on? Then I saw what must have been the big board room pitch the bathtub scene. Neat idea. Really. But it could not elevate the rest of the movie.This movie used every single cliche imaginable (i.e. He's standing in front of the fridge with door open late at night, scary music...Gee -- do you think she'll be standing there when he closes the door?) The movie took very long minutes using painfully long camera pans to depict the most simple and inconsequential of moments. Was this done to create suspense or to fill holes in the script?And what was with the random moment when Pfieffer is suddenly possessed with the ghost's spirit? Granted, her transformation was probably the best moment of the movie (even when working with crap, she is quite an actress)but I sat there thinking -- okay, here's what the movie is about and here's where it gets good. Then nothing. No further references. She doesn't seem to remember. He doesn't seem to notice. The ghost doesn't bother doing it again. What was the point? Like the bathtub scene, it was a good idea made random and cheap by an inconsistent script.  "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An exceptional movie with suspense, drama, and the ability to make your wife almost rip your arm off when she jumps off the couch. It is hard to find a movie like this anymore. One of the best suspense movies since Hitchcock passed away. "},{"Title":"A Review","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This seemed like Sixth Sense mixed with Hitchcock. I loved The Sixth Sense. And Hitchcock is my favorite director. But this film doesn't come close to either. I expected everything that came along in this movie. Of course that's mainly due to the trailer of the film, which gave away all the suspense. The acting is good. Pfeiffer is the best, mainly because she's the only one that's really in the film. Harrison Ford has no character to work with. The direction is good, but the script is so boring none of this really matters. I never jumped, I never had a creepy feeling. Which could be a problem taking this is suppose to be a thriller. You never really get close to Pfeiffer & Ford as a married couple, so you don't feel sorry for their marriage struggles. Because they don't really seem to love each other. When they show affection it seems forced. And the final climatic scene is somewhere between really weird & really stupid. Pfeiffer's acting & Robert Zemeckis' direction are the only things saving this from the trash can. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Beginning, Great End, plodding and painful middle","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to give credit to the screenwriters for managing all the twists and turns, but after the twist of the first half is revealed, the movie plods along for another hour before we get to something equally tense and scary as the beginning.  Plus it depends too much on Hitchcock.  A good rental.  "},{"Title":"Too much and not enough","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The marquee value of the star's names is all that keeps What Lies Beneath from being a well made (but certainly not exceptional) TV movie on the Lifetime network. The performances from Ford and Pfeiffer are solid, even above their norm in spots... but the thin, predictable plot, unnecessary red herrings and overly long running time make their efforts seem as labored as the characters they play, trying to escape from the submerged truck cab in the final scenes. Still, I wanted to like the film... it tries to be spooky and succeeds in that area best with good use of atmosphere, silences and small disturbances in the house. Adding a bit of horror, we get some nice touches with reflections of images, misty fog and ghostly messages (electronic and handwritten), But ultimately this is not a horror movie. When it moves into the suspense mode, the film is less effective. There are elements of suspense and some suspenseful moments, but they rarely add up to more than Boo! or Gotcha!, as in typical fashion a character moves warily about the house, looking around the corners with an appropriately frightened expression and finally  gets the jolt we audience members are prepared for. The ability to properly build and maintain suspense is perhaps the hardest task for a director, and therefore only a handful in cinema history have held any claim to being a master in this endeavor. There is no threat to their achievements in this film. The weakest area (not trying to give anything away) is the add-on feature of the Action sequences. Not that Harrison Ford is any stranger to Action movies, but when he is transformed into a Jason type of unstoppable maniac, it is almost laughable. All this aside, I think thirty to forty-five minutes could have been cut out of the movie, improving it in the process. It is not a good sign when you are just waiting for the credits to roll so you can stop watching. I'd say if Blockbuster has already rented out the last of the classic Horror/Suspense films and you just HAVE to have something to entertain you... this is a choice. "}{"Title":"Not bad, but too long!","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Harrison Ford & Michelle Pfeiffer were very attractive and believable as a married couple. The first hour or so is interesting, but everything takes SO long. And I would have liked it more, I think, if the supernatural stuff was more hinted at, leaving you to wonder if it was just all coincidence or a true haunting. James Remar does a nice but too-short turn as a menacing-looking professor to whom Michelle gives the REAR WINDOW treatment. "},{"Title":"If you can get through the first hour and a half...","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm surprised so many talented people are involved in such a predictable script. You can see everything coming a mile away. And how many of these  types of films do we have to see where things like a phone ringing or the husband popping up provides the scares.What ticks me off most about this film is the same ghost rules in so many other films like this.  If the ghost can knock pictures off tables and type her initials on the computer, why doesn't she simply write a note stating exactly what she wants?This movie is so predictable, it will make you angry. You'll figure it out in the first 20 minutes and think it can't be this obvious. But alas, it is.But with that said, if you can get through the unoriginal first hour and a half, the last half hour is very good. It's very Hitchcockian. I would love to see Harrison Ford play more characters like this. My only thing about the movie is the title. What Lies Beneath isn't really an apropos title. It should have been called Don't Go Near the Tub. "},{"Title":"One word boooorrrring.","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Aside from a few cheap thrills, and , of course, the luminous Pfeiffer, this movie has little going for it.  The movie does have its moments, but they are few and very far between (and not that great when they get there). Needless scenes last forever, and I found myself losing interest, which wasn't helped by the fact that there was barely any musical score to back it up and by the drawn-out, labored pace of the film.  If it wasn't for Michelle, I would've turned it off (she has never been or looked better onscreen).  Plus the fact, as far as the story goes, I found it confusing and muddled what sort of movie was it trying to be??  Horror? Supernatural thriller?  Drama?  After a while, my attitude was more and more like, who cares? "},{"Title":"Not Enough Suspects","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Is Hollywood undergoing a character shortage along with power outages nowadays? It seems that in every would-be thriller, including this one, the potential suspects are in abysmally short supply, and once the red herrings get sorted out, it becomes merely process of elimination where all the arrows and neon signs are going to point. And that's too bad, because for a while What Lies Beneath is involving and seems to have fun with all the Hitchcockian suburban suspense conventions everybody knows well. Then, alas, it's revealed that what we think is important in the movie isn't, and what we think isn't important is. Though predictable, it might've still be entertaining if all the fun hadn't leaked out of it as well. While it's a relief to see Ford do something different than his holier-than-thous for a change, he really needs to move away from the My Wife and/or Family is in Danger genre. (Given his embarrassing publicized marital woes of late, one wonders if whether he's been taking these roles out of subconscious wish fulfillment.) A mediocre movie.     "},{"Title":"Not Much Underneath","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Many will claim that Zemeckis blatant use of Hitchcockian themes and staples in What Lies Beneath make it a throwback to thrillers of yesteryear, but if that's the case, why not watch a Hitchcock movie, since What Lies Beneath derives from all of the master's films?Michelle Pfeiffer stars as Claire Spencer, wife to brilliant doctor Harrison Ford (Norman Spencer).  Residing in beautiful, rural Vermont, the two seem to have a perfect life until Claire starts having visions of a drowned girl throughout the home.Moving slower than an old woman driving through LA traffic, the first hour and a half of the film is exhaustingly tired, and all the necessary cliches to annoy are in place loud ringing phones, Pfeiffer over-reactions to everyday noises, wind blowing through windows, etc.  The opening is especially out of place, with Pfeiffer and Harrison bidding farewell to daughter, a character who never again resurfaces except to use as a crutch to explain things or invoke sympathy at the film's climax. Not only does the screenplay borrow heavily from Rear Window and Psycho, but it's also lax in character development.  All performances feel wooden, with Ford going through the motions, save for Pfeiffer, who fares best and makes the entire thing durable.The ending, though effectively tense but undone by the Psycho theme butchered and ripped in the loud score, is too terse and leaves many unanswered questions.  Hitchcock fans should stick to Hitchcock, and though there are a couple of decent scares and thrills through it's plodding three-quarters, the film really begins picking up steam towards its not-so-grand finale.  Still, it's worth Pfeiffer's turn as the strong Claire to watch.5 out of 10    "},{"Title":"How many deaths can a person die ?","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although the movie has the same theme as the Sixth Sense, its ending is rather chaotic and unbelievable.  The movie should have ended in the bathroom ... but the subsequent scenes were just added to increase the tension with opposite effect.  In these horrible scenes the sound volume was increased to unbearable heights (annoying), and the movie glitched from moderate level down to disaster level.You can skip this one ! "},{"Title":"Entertaining but predictable hokum.","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WHAT LIES BENEATH (USPG-13 UK15) Starring Harrison Ford, Michelle Pffiefer Directed by Robert Zemeckis DREAMWORKS SKG.With its high production values, skilled director and big name actors, I must admit I was expecting a bit more from the Hitchcock-equse shocker, What Lies Beneath. When Harrison Ford and Michelle Pffiefer, both looking for a decent movie recently, both choose the same script you expect something special. And with Back to the Future director Robert Zemeckis at the helm, What Lies Beneath has a lot of potential.A simple ghost story, with some neat scares, What Lies Beneaths plot and twists were, notoriously, given away in the terrible advertising campaign by DreamWorks. To sum up, Pffiefer plays a housewife who believes a spirit is in her house, while husband Ford refuses to believe her.While promising much, the film never really reaches greatness, in fact it barely passes average on scruntination. Still, with it's eerie atmosphere and largely effective jump scenes, What Lies Beneath is an enjoyable ride the first time, especially in the cinema. There are many jump scenes, but somehow they still manage to make the audience jump even towards the end of the film. Zemeckis creates a good atmosphere, and the cinematography is superb. Ford is somewhat weak, but Pffiefer plays a fine victim, and pulls off some scenes especially well, such as a creepy possesion scene. Zemeckis even has time to throw in some good special effects.The musical score by longtime Zemeckis collaborator Alan Silvestri, although only used sparingly, creates an effective mood. But the writing is below par, with none of the other characters except Pffiefer being interesting. A lot of the plot elements are given away early on, and an interesting subplot is discarded with little explanation halfway through the film. And at over two hours, What Lies Beneath is far too lengthy for this type of film, and includes some rather boring moments.I couldn't help but think this could have been better. Some parts are scary, but overall, What Lies Beneath is an average thriller with an above average production team that never uses its potential.  "},{"Title":"What Lies Beneath?  A slightly tepid script.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After seeing this film I got a little ticked off with the marketing mob in charge of TV trailers.  I'm not sure what TV trailer the US audiences saw, but if it was the same as the Australian one then the movie was spoiled to a certain degree (by way of explaination, one of the 'mysteries' of the movies was revealed in the trailer).I'm not sure if this was Robert Zemeckis' first crack at a thriller or not, but he doesn't do a bad job.  There are some truly nail-biting, hold-on-to-your-seat moments and a few twists (which given a little bit of nouse, aren't really twists at all but blatently obvious happenings).  I felt that the film was a fraction overlong and at times dragged unnecessarily.  The script was a little damp in the middle.Those familiar with Harrison Ford's work will be surprised at his turn in this film.All in all not a bad thriller - but could have been better with a little less film. "},{"Title":"It made me scream....","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Because this movie is a waste of talent and time.  If you have seen the movie trailer, you've seen most of the movie. Granted,I usually like Harrison Ford, and this was a good role for him.  However, Robert Zemeckis seems to be obsessed with rich and affluent white people than about the horror story that this movie is suppossed to be about.  I think everything in the movie came out of L.L. Bean.  Anyways, I'm digressing...the movie is just plain bad...sure there is suspense in this movie, but it's minute. How many times are we suppossed to believe that Michelle Pfiefer is going to go into that bathroom?  And another thing, I'm all about adapting or taking some part of a previous movie and use it as an homage to great directors or movies, but I am tired of Zemeckis ripping off other movies and directors. Watch Diabolique or any good Hitchcock film and save yourself 2 hours of this immeasurable bore of a movie. "},{"Title":"What lies beneath is that this is another entertaining film.","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Harrison Ford, Michelle Pfeiffer, a music very (very) similar to The Sixth Sense's, suspenseful scenes, mistery... all the ingredients are there, and the entertainment is assured. I laughed three or four times at very funny scenes, and I also got scared and jumped out from my seat in another four or five ones. This is a nice film from the director of that masterpiece called Back To The Future and two wonderful films called Contact and Forrest Gump, among others. His talent is present in many of the scenes, in the camera moves, in the way the scary elements appear. But there are also several things I disliked, i.e. the so predictable and cliché ending and the lack of plot throughout the whole film. This film is in the last term an insipid film, but anyway it's well done and it's entertaining. 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Dull and very predictable!","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see this one hoping that it would be somewhat original.Boy,was i disappointed!.Over two hours of boredom spiced in the end with some good old fashioned slasher scenes.True,some scenes were a little creepy but i never felt scared like i did during The Sixth Sense.I kept thinking that Hitchcock made these movies a hell of a lot better.The decision to cut back on gore and violence was a good move but all the more i kept asking myself why they had to throw in such a bad ending. Pfeiffer and Ford are capable actors but at least Pfeiffer gives a pretty convincing performance.Ford as the villain does not work for me. The final part of the movie was like a cross between Cape Fear(1991) and a grade Z Hitchcock-movie(even the score sounded like a Bernard H-sample). Avoid this movie.I give this one a 4/10.  "},{"Title":"Ho hum, Alfred robbed again","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Unlike the fortunate cojan1, it cost me AU$10.50 to see this film (close enough to US$5.25) and I can't honestly say it was worth it. This movie managed to cobble together some classic Hitchcock scenes and ideas, added with some old well-worn concepts, and call itself an original movie. That said, however, it did manage to produce a few scares and some interest. It is fairly predictable but well acted. A film of contrasts I think the voting is running about right. My vote 6/10 "},{"Title":"Scary, but predictable","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all, if you have seen the trailer, you shouldn´t see the film, because you already know the whole plot. This movie amuses, sometimes is scary but it talks about a story we have heard hundreds of times. There are some frightening moments, but in general everything is predictable, specially the end. It has some nice special effects, but the most important thing in the movie, the plot, is quite simple without any twists or so. "},{"Title":"","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yeah, it's been done a million times before.  But it probably didn't suck as much.  I guess the problem i have with junk like this is that movie directors, and actors, and writers, continually put the same movie out but with a different wrapper. Ok, maybe the movie wasn't exactly the same, but all of the standard 'scary' movie devices were there.  The guy who's not quite dead, the crazy wife, the goofy friend, etc, etc.  Hasn't Wes Craven been making fun of these conventions for the last five years?And what purpose did those damn neighbours serve.  I mean besides the loud sex match they had with them, they were useless, absolutely useless.Harrison Ford put nothing into this film, it almost seemed like he was obliged to do this movie out of a favour.I just get sick and damn tired of the same old schtick, it's really a bloody shame too because people will see this and say, 'nyah, it was alright' and yet those same people would say something like the Blair Witch Project was stupid, and not appreciate it for being different and willing to try something new and fresh.   "},{"Title":"couldn't watch","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I came reluctantly, and stayed in a state of terror. It would be easy to attack this film for the various cliches and corny lines. But it works spectacularly as a horror movie. For at least two-thirds of the film, I had my eyes closed or was staring at the wall of the cinema. Is this praise? Usually I hate being scared in the cinema, but this time I felt weirdly energised afterwards. even though you realise how much Zemeckis is manipulating the tension and slowly building up a symphony of terror, you submit! "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I came out of this feeling that it was a waste of time.  It was competently made but cliched in the extreme.  There was nothing new or interesting about it.  Large elements of the plot setup came to nothing or were hardly used. The first part was very slow, the last part just descended into silliness.  Essentially boring.SpoilersHow many films have we seen with the following 1. A menaced woman who goes on exposing herself to menace instead of going home to Mum until it all blows over. 2. Someone investigating a murder goes to the home of the victim's parents.  They are working class, uneducated and still devastated and have made a shrine of their daughter's room.  Despite the fact that their visitor has no credentials, they allow him or her in, pour out their feelings and let the visitor roam around the house. 3. An apparently dead villain comes back to life and unexpected grabs at the victim (in this case twice).  I would have thought Scream would have laughed this one out of court.The plot made little of the Ford character's lack of success as a scientist and the whole neighbour bit should have come to something.  I thought the motive for the crime was very thin.  According to her gravestone the victim was 24 when she died, hardly cradle-snatching.  If she made it public, would that have really been so terrible?  It would have been much more plausible if his scientific reputation had been obtained by fraud in order to keep up with his father.  If his lover knew about that and threatened to tell, it would have been a much better motive and would have tied up with his psychological problems much better.  You could even work in the neighbours.  If the scientist owned their house as well, he might have let them live there because the man had helped with the fraud, and even the murder.  Just a suggestion to a scriptwriter with few ideas. "},{"Title":"Formulaic and overwrought but extremely scary","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (spoiler warning)Expertly made and with actors that perform very well, this film still lacks a fundamental ingredient that would make it live up to Zemecki's statement that he has made a horror movie in the spirit of Hitchcock brains. What Lies beneath is much too simple and overlong to be in the spirit of Hitchcock. Yes, the woman spies on her neighbors, which is a very clear reference to Hitchcock - but that is not anywhere near enough. Towards the end, the plot works its way through elements that any low-budget horror flick would contain, that we have seen hundreds of times before. This film is simply not original enough to stand out, despite its promising start and clever touches.There were, however, things that were very novel and innovative the extensive use of mirrors, particularly near the end, is very clever. It increases the sense of entrapment and fear and it is almost unbearable by the time Claire reaches the cars (one of which is of course a Volvo, since Volvo seems very intent on making their cars appear in every single American film).Another thing that raises the grade is simply this this film is EXTREMELY scary. I can't remember when I was spooked so thoroughly and so many times by a movie - but it does get tedious near the end. It's like eating too much candy - eventually you get tired of it.Scary and spooky but ridden with flaws. "},{"Title":"A 'text-book' thriller...","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this film due to the 'ecstatic' reactions I had heard from some friends, especially about a 'killer' twist in the tale. To be honest, I now realised that I need new reliable friends.The 'twist' of the tale is what originally got me intrigued but the movie, unfortunately, had turned out to be a very 'well-executed' exercise of a fairly 'run-of-the-mill' ghost story. All the camera shots, set pieces and tricks within this film are done well but had all been seen and done before in countless other films.People has compared the film style to of Alfred Hitchcock (which one scene, uncannily, plays like 'REAR WINDOW') but frankly it had became TOO 'cliched'.The performances are fine, adequete for the job but yet not exceptional, and the cinematography is very good. Not the best film but yet not the worst film either. Very.... above average. Recommended for people who fancy watching a 'slightly- intelligent no-brainer'. "},{"Title":"I wish I had my $7.50 back...","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I saw this movie in the theaters, many people were screaming. I, however, laughed.The plot (if you can even call it one) was much too long and tangled. There are so many extraneous scenes that could be cut out and the ending would not be affected. For example, the whole thing with the next-door neighbors pointless. The entire ending was also extremely predictable; if you couldn't tell exactly what was going to happen, you must have left your seat for a few minutes to go buy another tub of popcorn (which was needed to stay awake during this film).While I must admit that Michelle Pfieffer was convincing, Harrison Ford embarrassed himself. I understand that actors appreciate a change as to what characters they usually portray, but after all of his hero-boy scout-save the world roles, he wasn't even close to being believable.Overall, I was thoroughly disappointed, not to mention bored to tears. Had there been a Pokémon movie playing in the theater next door, I probably would have been forced to switch.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly disappointing","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I hoped that 'What Lies Beneath' would be, if not a masterpiece, at least good entertaining fun. However, the film has serious basic problems. Firstly, it isn't scary at all. I say that as someone who finds it hard to watch films like 'The Shining' or 'The Sixth Sense'. The trouble with 'What Lies Beneath' is that it never really comes clean on what does lie beneath- is there a  ghost or not?     Secondly, there's a really annoying red herring. It's really annoying because it's completely unexplained, doesn't add anything to the film, and gives up way too early.Thirdly, Zemeckis wants to be Hitchcock so badly it hurts. Yet he doesn't even come close. Coincidentally, I watched 'Mission Impossible' after I saw this film, and Brian DePalma does a far, far better job of getting the sheer 'oh my god' tension in there.Lastly, the bathtub scene- which I assume you've heard of- is over much too quickly. Zemeckis does not yet understand that you have to complicate a situation in order to make it really tense. It's got some good things about it- Harrison Ford is really quite good, when you realise the truth about why he seems to be taking a back seat in the plot- but I thought Michelle Pfeiffer was really dreadful. And Zemeckis has not really improved as a director since 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit'. See it if you want, but it's not that great.  "}{"Title":"I was so bored....","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, I went to see this film with reasonably high expectations. I'd not read any reviews but the talents of Harrison Ford, Michelle Pfeiffer and Robert Zemeckis convinced me to give it a try. I was, however, extremely disappointed.The acting was fine and there were more than enough twists and turns, but a lot of these could be seen coming a mile off and the script was simply bad. The worse thing though was that is was easily 30 minutes too long.  It was so tedious, I had difficulty in not yawning continually.  Most of many fellow cinema goers seemed to agree with me if the number of sighs of boredom and fidgeting were anything to go by.All in all I was thoroughly unimpressed and will think long and hard before bothering with a Robert Zemeckis film in the future. "},{"Title":"It scared me. *SPOILERS WARNING*","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this today and it scared me. The music is creepy too.  *SPOILERS WARNING*The scene that Harrison Ford lifts Michelle Pfifer up from the bathtub and tries to grab her necklace and then her body became a DEAD body and then Harrison Ford was extremely shocked (so as me) and his head hit the sink. This scene shocked me a lot.If you like horror film (I prefer this as a horror movie), youshould see this film.  "},{"Title":"Just Average; We've Seen It All Before","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  **   out of  ****I rarely bother attending new horror movies anymore, but when I found out that the eternally gorgeous Michelle Pfeiffer was starring in a ghost story...well,...I had to go to the theatre.Michelle is still a knock-out, but Harrison Ford is still a plastic actor that I have always had a hard time warming up to (with the possible exception of RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK).The movie is average, but for diehard  horror fans it's a familiar ghost story that we've seen many times before. I can't stress enough how sick and tired I am of seeing endings that go on and on and on and on and on and on.....as if to justify the admission price these days by beefing up the running time and giving viewers too many climaxes. Indeed, WHAT LIES BENEATH follows many of the recent pitfalls which continually highlight the fact that the horror genre is dead. This one is better than most new scary features, but it's still new, so..... "},{"Title":"Good, but too staged","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It was refreshing to see a really scary movie without there being some kind of monster as the central character.  The build up and the music to the scary scenes were really quite effective.  My only disappointment was that the makers lacked subtlety with the scary scenes.  It seemed to be orchestrated, while in my opinion the story was good enough to supply ample scary moments.  It is still a good movie with a solid plot and some great acting. "},{"Title":"It was just great!!!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great actors,  great story,  great score, great fun,  just a great movie!!!  "},{"Title":"Has elements of a good horror thriller, but lacks crafty structure. **1/2 (out of four)","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WHAT LIES BENEATH / (2000) **1/2 (out of four)What Lies Beneath has all the elements of a good horror thriller the moody atmosphere, proper character and setting introduction, and a mysterious premise that keeps the audience on edge. Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer are perfectly cast as a couple who experience surreal psychological terror that is both involving and suspenseful. Both leading performers deliver superb performances; Ford is flawless in another calm, cold, collected character, and Pfeiffer is astonishing with a vivid, taut performance. With all these positive variables going for the film, it should have been something very special&#133;but it isn't. 	What Lies Beneath stars Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer as Norman and Claire Spencer, happy couple who just sent their only daughter, Caitlin (Katharine Towne), to college. The two live on a beautiful New England lake inherited by Norman's late father, in which gardening and making love are regular occurrences. Norman in a busy person as a scientist conducting research on an antidote that makes a living specimen paralyzed for a short period of time. Claire's homemaker lifestyle is pretty relaxed, although the past leaves her deeply emotional.	The Spencer's new neighbors, Warren (James Remar) and Mary Feur (Miranda Otto), are seemingly having marital problems. Although Claire and Norman haven't properly introduced themselves to the Feurs, they witness several events that disturb the harmony in their neighborhood. After several incidences that give Claire the impression that Warren may have murdered his spouse, she digs deeper into the situation and uncovers what may include a closet full of skeletons that induce supernatural occurrences within her home. 	The script, by Sarah Kernochan and Clack Gregg, varies a great deal in quality. On one account the film's story is revealing and tension-filled because we bond with the Claire character as she unravels the circumstances and learns information as we do. We are involved and intrigued because neither the audience nor Claire knows what will transpire. There are a few elements left unexamined, but the production has an engrossing atmosphere to keep us on the edge of our seats. 	On another note, structurally the film fails. We receive an opening detailing Claire's investigation of her neighbor's murder mystery. The movie spends a minimum of forty-five minutes dealing with this issue, but half-way in, the movie completely drops the subject and reveals (spoiler) the subplot had no significant purpose whatsoever in the overall story. Instead of going somewhere with the earlier plot (which is capable of carrying the movie on its own), the plot opens a brand new series of events almost entirely unconnected to the previous. This structure is a false first act (always a pleasure to analyze). Although well styled, the structure clearly exemplifies the sloppiness of the script, as does the conclusion, which is lunacy in itself even if you willingly suspend your disbelief.	Director Robert Zemickis has made some very good movies, several that have earned slots on my top ten lists. I am, of course, speaking of such superior pictures like Contact, and best picture winner of 1994, Forrest Gump. In addition to those films, he has also lent his expertise to unworthy productions like The Frighteners, starring Michael J. Fox, several of the Tales from the Crypt installments, and now What Lies Beneath. Here, what really could have been a successful thriller turns from precarious to pathetic simply because it tries to cover way too much material for a single movie. "},{"Title":"Nothing Lies Beneath","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Do you like scary movies?  Are you intrigued by plot twists, unconventional storytelling and imaginative filmmaking?  Then you'll probably want to avoid `What Lies Beneath,' a slow, monotonous jog through the land of predictability and disappointment.Norman (Harrison Ford), a genetic scientist, and his worrisome wife Claire (Michelle Pfeiffer) are getting used to having their large house all to themselves after their daughter leaves for college.  At first it seems like the extra room and solitude will spice up their love life, but Claire starts experiencing paranormal incidents--weird voices, self-operating doors, images of apparitions, broken picture frames--and believes the ghost is the soul of her murdered neighbor.  Meanwhile, several clues are presented to us about Claire's past a mysterious car accident, a newspaper article about a missing local girl, and Norman's clandestine genetic experiments.  Notice I said `clues', as in, `hints scattered about that supposedly have relevance to the plot'.  Not so, apparently.  `Clues' now mean `pointless, wasteful story beats that are intended to mislead but instead steer toward massive disappointment'.For one, Norman's a geneticist.  I had all these wonderfully twisted theories spinning around in my head, like `Oh, Claire and the missing girl are somehow genetically connected,' or `Oh, Norman's experimenting on his wife, messing with her genetic makeup,' or `Maybe she has a clone,' or `Oh, this has something having to do with all the clues I've been given.'  But, why make a complicated movie, right?  Why try to trick the audience in ways they've never been tricked before?  People want to see the same kind of movie over and over and over and over and over&#133; right?  WRONG!  (Well, maybe the dim-witted masters of the obvious who were sitting behind us.)  BUT NOT ME!  I kept hearing `surprise ending, surprise ending!' from everyone who had seen it.  Yeah, RIGHT.  Maybe a surprise to a single-celled organism that chews plankton and slithers along the bottom of a petrie dish.If this sounds harsh, good.  This movie was backed by so much talent--Ford, Pfeiffer, and director Robert Zemekis--that its shortcomings were, in my mind, inexcusable.  The suspense set-ups were painfully kitchy, their only savior the respectable efforts by Ford and Pfeiffer.  I wouldn't be surprised if they kept wondering all day what their characters were doing and why.  This film gives new meaning to the clichéd phrase, `What's my motivation?' "},{"Title":"I see dull people.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Boring!  This *should* have been a Lifetime Woman in Peril  TV movie of the week starring Marilu Henner and Andrew Stevens. I can't believe Zemekis, Ford or Pfeiffer actually read the script before signing on for this bomb.SPOILERS AHEAD, so stop now if you have not seen the movie and are still intent on wasting your time and money...Here are just a few of the clunkers and problems  * The heavy handed red herring in the form of the quarrelling neighbors.* The coincidence with the initials.* A door that keeps opening by itself; okay, fairly creepy, but the ghost playing computer solitaire?  That's just plain stupid. * The scene where Pfeiffer tentatively walks by Ford's prone, unconscious body had the whole audience in the cinema letting out a collective groan.* How handy that Ford is working on a drug that incapacitates people and not, oh, a cure for cancer. * Pfeiffer's Honey, remember the cell phone doesn't work on the bridge reminder---exposition, anyone? And then what does she do later? She stops on the bridge to use the cell phone, which of course DOESN'T WORK!* Pfeiffer wildly driving the truck while fighting for her life She  doesn't hit a tree or another car but drives *right* down the center of a boat ramp...where the body of whatsherface just happens to be lying in wait.* And how *did* Ford get into the back of the truck?A total disappointment.   "},{"Title":"At first scary then totally predictable","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie had me jumping until near the end when things got so predictable in both dialog and plot.  I was actually able to say the words before they did.  Once the ball got rolling it was so easy to predict what would happen. All you had to do was notice that any scene outside of the house was going to come back into play, for example*****SPOILER*************** The lab people talking about a potion that paralyzes you. The fact that you can't use the cell phone until you are halfway over the bridge.*****SPOILER************** At the end when the ghost is floating in the water it looked just like the scene from Titanic.  I thought the only goofy comic book thing they could do was to have the piece of jewelry drop through the water like at the end of Titanic.  Sure enough they threw that in there. Also why did I know that the husband had to have dialed 411 instead of 911? "},{"Title":"Good scares, but too long with a predictable ending","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for this movie I thought that it was going to be this year's The Sixth Sense. However, this movie fell short. It certainly provided its share of scares seen in the previews, but the Fatal Attraction meets Sixth Sense plot really never works. Also, the movie by far goes on too long with Stanley Kubrick type scenes that seem to drag on forever. As a result, if you are looking for a movie with good scares, you'll find it here, but don't expect much more from this film "}{"Title":"Just a film that imitates Hitchcock","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Remember the story told by Norman (Harrison Ford), that imitates the plot of Psycho, of which Norman killed Marion and let the car fall into the lake. Coincident?  I don't think so.  I would rather like to get that erased because it is a psychological thriller.  Obvious plot makes it less attractive.Robert also imitates Rear Window, that explores man's curiosity but that time, the spy was Claire.  She always kept an eye on her new neighbor, Warren and Mary.  (In Rear Window, Jeffrey doesn't hear some strange voice... I mean the call from unfamiliar spirit. He just saw someone acting awfully behind the curtains.) She began to believe that it was a murder next door to them.  That caused illusions to her.It is more than Diabolic (title, in English), the one with almost the same plot.   It contains not only a revenge, but also a seem-to-be unbelievable story by a nervous wife.  She cooked up with a ghost story but you would believe because it comes to you so real, without doubts.  You will show compassion to her because you believe it was not worthwhile to let her live in terror.  You don't know there was the truth till the end of the movie.I am not going to spoil it even though it starred two most favorite Hollywood stars.   It got cliche in the development.  Like if you like to say someone beyond suspicion, you must have real grounds.  That's just what a woman thought.  It is dangerous.However, that unnecessarily mentioned here.  We should keep it  quiet.  It is because it is the sub-plot of the story.  We should put it in second place.In short, I think What Lies Beneath is just above average for that the screenplay writer should shorten the story in order to make it look more tense and breathless.Grade  C+  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's a classic plot, done recently as the much better _Stir of Echoes_.  A ghost tries to tell a mortal of its death in order to exact revenge on its murderers (Hamlet?).  It has a hard time getting the message across and we are scared as it shows up and then goes away until finally it tells its story and is avenged by the mortal.  Only one problem with this version The move was not scary, merely startling.Every time the ghost or bad guy shows up, the music cuts in abruptly and a shriek of violins punctuates the moment. People end up staring right a the camera from close up who we would have heard enter the room. There isn't one second on film that actually scares the audience. Instead, they are shocked over and over again. It's the difference between The Tell-Tale Heart and your typical camp fire startler.The plot itself is weak. The audience is psychologically manipulated down blind alley after blind alley until we don't believe what we see anymore. Some details are so obviously planted earlier for use later that it's almost laughably clumsy. Other times, the laws of physics are blatantly suspended for the benefit of some sort of weak cliff hanger.All of this is a shame given the cast and high production value.  The person who consulted for this film clearly had a grasp of the academic scientific world, and the setting is classic New England. It's just a pity that you have to suspend disbelief to such an extreme extent to find this movie enjoyable. "},{"Title":"This film went on way too long","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After a few climactic highs, I was ready for the end, but they kept trotting out scene after scene that was supposed to keep me on the edge of my seat.  I started to get bored and stopped caring about the characters.  This film would have been awful except for the veteran actors, and I didn't like the acting of Mary (the neighbor) or Jody (the friend) at all. "},{"Title":"A bunch of horror movie cliches lie beneath...","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The performances were weak, the directing was minor, and the screenplay was absolutely awful.I don't want to give away spoilers, but you'd have to be pretty dense not to see everything in this movie coming 5-10 minutes before it happens.  You can't spoil this movie because there is not a single surprise in it.  You always know what's coming next, not because of any heavy-handed foreshadowing, but because it is so cliche and formulaic.  Even the red herrings in the film are moldy.Ford, Pfeiffer, and most of all Zemeckis, should be ashamed of this film.  It was really awful.  "},{"Title":"What a stupid movie - SPOILER","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I could have made this a much better movie.  First of all, I would have made it BELIEVABLE!  What should have happened - The night of the car accident and the night of the murder are the same night -- He's a geneticist and she almost dies.  He's desperate to save her and uses parts and dna from the girl to save his wife.  This may sound illogical, but you don't have to suspend your belief too much.  With science and technology the way it is today, who knows what we're capable of doing.  At least, that would have been somewhat possible.  But a ghost!! and Harrison Ford as the man who never dies! Puleeze! "},{"Title":"almost scary movie.  SPOILER  ALERT","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie going experience wasn't the worst film i have ever seen (i reserve that title for Hollow Man) but it wasn't really the scary movie that the trailer promised.  A few moments made the lady i was with squirm, but it wasn't really one to make you jump.  Also the twist at the end was not very surprising.IF  YOU  DON'T  WANT  TO  KNOW  STOP  READING  NOW  !!!Indiana goes nuts, oh well i suppose any one would if their wife was the pain in the a@#%$ that miss phieffer was in this movie.  i would have been if my wife was that neurotic.Although, there was one bit of genuine comedy in the movie, the time after Michelle has accused the neighbour of murder and he pretends to kill his wife at the party, very funny.WAIT  FOR  THE  VIDEO  IF  YOU  HAVE  TO  SEE  IT. "},{"Title":"Rent a real Hitchcock instead","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is a moderately creepy and fairly clumsy homage to Alfred Hitchcock and his films. As others have pointed out, the movie is filled with references to -- and stolen scenes from -- Rear Window, Vertigo, Psycho, Notorious and more. The soundtrack sounds like a mish-mash of Bernard Herrman's themes as well. Unfortunately, Zemeckis' attempts at recreating these famous cinematic moments are weak. Do yourself a favor and rent the originals instead. "},{"Title":"More homages to Hitchcock","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Every once and a while someone feels the need to do an homage to Hitchcock. All they end up doing is proving he was the master and imitations can't come close.But in all fairness this isn't a straight forward Hitch rip off. This is trying to be Sixth Sense as well. Not that they deserve any credit for this because in making it try to be these two things they ruined the movie. Or rather ruined its potential. Instead of a great mystery thriller with some authentic chills. We are left with a slow and obvious thriller with minor chills. The only scares come from those stupid no one there-then suddenly standing right behind kind of scares. Which is the absolutely cheapest kind of scare.Some of the ideas in the end were good. But it was too little too late. And they make the rest of the movie seem unnecessary. Of course Zemeckis has to bring out the CGI in the end. Completely not needed CGI. Waste of millions of dollars in effects. The music quite literally is the b****rd child of North by Northwest and Psycho.They just should of decided what the film was going to be...Hitchcock homage...or Sixth Sense rip-off. It didn't do either very well.Bottom line.  A little boring. Not very original. Very forgettable. The star power keeps it going. "},{"Title":"A DREARY, TEDIOUS WASTE OF TIME!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The majority of my fellow movie goers agreed as we  bolted for the exit as the credits began to roll. After the first hour I almost left to watch X-Men (again) playing right next door.  A criminal waste of two fabulous actors.Zemeckis spent the first hour boring us to death until we just didn't care how it was going to end...we just wanted it over with!! I found myself wishing two things (1) that I was stranded on an Idaho mountain being rescued by Harrison Ford (cue the Indiana Jones soundtrack) and (2) that I was watching X-MEN again or GLADIATOR, HOLLOW MAN,SPACE COWBOYS, CHICKEN RUN, SHANGHAI NOON....just about ANY other movie released this summer is BETTER!!  "},{"Title":"What Lies Beneath?  Not the plot.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I alway love a good ghost story. I find them to be the scariest subjects for films. For example, THE SHINING has frightened most of the people I know and is considered a horror classic. THE CHANGELING is the scariest film I've ever seen. Even THE EXORCIST, nearly 30 year old, is still #1 on most scariest movie lists. Heck, two of the best films of last year were THE SIXTH SENSE and STIR OF ECHOES (lets forget the remakes of THE HAUNTING and HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL shall we). Yet, WHAT LIES BENEATH is by far not THE SIXTH SENSE, nor a classic. It is more like a watered down STIR OF ECHOES.Don't get me wrong. I actually liked this film. Though not perfect, I did find it entertaining. There were several moments in the film that I found myself jumping with fright. The action on the screen, coupled with a great suspense score, gave me the chills many times.The plot, however, seemed to lack much imagination. I found it to be predictable and by the numbers at times. And I knew right from the beginning who the bad guy(s) was/were going to be. I also seemed to find things in it that didn't make sense and confused me more than it helped me. I even figured out an important plot point that is a mistake if I ever saw one (see spoiler #3).POSSIBLE SPOILERS HERE There were three things that didn't make sense to me. ONE Why did the victim have to look like Michelle Pfeiffer? There was no real reasoning for it. TWO Why put the locket in the box? Couldn't it have been left on the missing girl? And THREE If Michelle's character says she saw the missing girl at the same fundraiser where Harrison Ford's character received an award and gets his picture in the paper (the picture that keeps falling and shattering), how can an article about the missing girl be on the back of that same newspaper picture clipping... she isn't missing yet! Obviously someone missed out on that plot point.SPOILERS STOPPED HERE Despite it's plot holes and mistakes WHAT LIES BENEATH wasn't a complete waste. Though predictable right to the very end it did have quite a few scares to merit it watchable. But, if you want to see a really good ghost story go watch THE SIXTH SENSE. "}{"Title":"A TOP LOOSER MOVIE","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was waiting the whole year to see this movie and only to realise it's not even worth the thought.Robert Zemickis tries a Hitchcok approach to this film and fails miserably.Half the time you see the lead actors doing nothing,just looking.The most annoying thing yet about this film is the trailer which does give away half the story.It looks as if though the writers penned the script after watching an episode on Discovery's Medical Detectives. The few scary moments added to the movie work but that's all you get two scenes of terror.I wonder if Ford's agent is conspiring against the sure crowd pleaser.I was soo dissapointed in this movie.I'd rather watch the The Omen or The Sixth Sense than this film.I know Ford can do much better than this! "},{"Title":"WARNING SPOILER - SOME PLOT, ENDING MENTIONED","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There's a simple trick that allows screenwriters to evaluate the structure of their freshly completed work switch the order of any two scenes and if it makes no difference to the story, your script is in trouble.  I not only could have performed this switch with no effect about 20 times in WHAT LIES BENEATH, I could have cut out forty minutes and no one would have known the difference.  If it is the purpose of such structural integrity to move a story forward with a crisp, compelling pace, this movie gets stuck in the mud, spinning its wheels with irrelevant scenes that race nowhere while we patiently sit and wait for the show to get back on the road.  Indeed, the only attributes of this movie are its two riveting stars, wonderful cinematography and a cozy old house in the scenic fall of Vermont.  You are forgiven if, like me, you were not scared as promised by a friend, but disappointed that a director who displayed such cleverness in `Back to the Future,' reduced his creativity to nothing more than shouting `boo' in the dark.  I sat there appalled that this film is pushed as Hitchcockian, yawning while I waited for one more door to pop open or computer to mysteriously turn on, and whispered every such discloser to my wife before it happened, but what I couldn't answer even after the credits rolled was why Harrison Ford would do this film.  It is clearly Michelle Pfeiffer's movie, and both give the best performance they can under the circumstances. But does Ford or director Zemekis expect us to believe that a loving, caring, wonderful father and husband could have murdered a young girl a year ago and remain totally unaffected?   With absolutely no cinematic boundary, this character inexplicitly turns into an unremorseful, psychotic killer who actually appears to enjoy the fact that he must kill his own wife, the woman he loved so much and could never live without as emphatically established--all while he calmly tells her that her death will bring him and their daughter closer!  Maybe Zemekis was just absent that day.  Maybe Ford was too.  But I had enough long before I saw the ridiculous, overkill ending, cut and pasted without shame from Fatal Attraction. WHAT LIES BENEATH this movie is the packaging of talent by agents, managers and studio execs for a nice fat fee, and what remains true is that Hollywood doesn't make movies, it makes deals, and, as a byproduct, once in a while, we get to a see a film worth seeing.  But not this time. "},{"Title":"Boring, Long and predictable.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was one of the worst horror movies I've ever seen. It was about an hour and a half to long at the beginning, were it went into way too much detail about the wife going crazy yada yada yada when we all knew it was really the ghost because we saw the previews. not that it would have been any better any way because it was still slow moving, and predictable, every turn i knew exactly what was going on, as did the people who is saw it with, it was all around a waste of $7.75 and 2.5 hours.  "},{"Title":"Cheesy and corny but still gives an uneasy feeling.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  New neighbors make Claire uneasy. Once the wife of the neighbors disappears and Claire goes through supernatural paranoia, she makes a task to find out what exactly is going wrong in her life. Low and behold, Claire's husband, Norman, may be a key to all of this and does not know it. Seems the first third of the film played out like a comedy, while the last third had an interesting climax that can give a good uneasy feeling. The second third was purely boring and the ending was pretty stupid. All the 'third' stuff aside, WHAT LIES BENEATH had a good 'twist' and an interesting story to make it tolerable.  "},{"Title":"There were a lot of things I liked about this movie... BUT (possible spoilers but nothing major)","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite some plot holes, which are a part of this genre, Robert Zemeckis brings us an entertaining film.  He is obviously a BIG Hitchcock fan and it was kind of fun watching a new movie which walks in the same heavily traveled foot steps of the MASTER of SUSPENSE. Harrison Ford is great as well.  He looks like he had much more fun making this one than the last couple I have seen him in.  I can't wait for INDY 4.  My problems with the movie, however, were undeniable.(WARNING This section could spoil some things for you.  So move on if you haven't seen the picture yet.)Characters were developed and left the story forever.  Why even bring them in, if we aren't going to use them?  The Daughter was a throw away, the long lost friend of Clare (Michelle Pfeiffer in an excellent performance) shows up half way through and then only for about 3 seconds later in the movie, and the neighbors which played a large part in the first half seem to disappear.  We don't even hear them through the windows anymore?  Can they not hear what's going on next door?  Aren't they in the least bit curious about the Psycho lady living next to them?  There are many others in the main plot as well.  I don't understand the need for the supernatural elements we are shown.  I think it would have played better if the supernatural elements were all in the imagination of the characters. ( OPEN YOUR EYES I AM FINISHED WITH SPECIFICS ) They could have done better things with the ending as well.  I was disappointed, but only a little. Some of the foreshawdowing is over-the-top, but that is part of the fun in a movie like this one.I really loved watching the audience get scared and jump on quite a few occasions.  They used a lot of the old style to make this happen.  That part was a lot of fun.Overall, I think it is a little better than average, but not perfect.  It was entertaining. 6 out of 10.   BY THE WAY The Trailer for the TOM HANKS AND ROBERT ZEMECKIS reunion movie CAST AWAY looks wonderful.  I can't wait for that one. Pay attention to the previews. "},{"Title":"It's Deja Vu All Over Again","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Seeing What Lies Beneath is like taking another trip through a familiar carnival funhouse There are a couple of thrills and a few good scares, but nothing unpredictable occurs.Zemekis' film, like the funhouse, takes the viewer on a sometimes jolting, twisting ride.  But also like the funhouse, the tracks in 'WLB' are clearly visible, and when the movie ends, the viewer is exactly where he expected to be.  "},{"Title":"Great acting can't save film?","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This review contains spoilers.Despite the excellent acting this film failed to live up to expectations. First the film was slow going, that I wished for more supernatural scenes, and action sequences.  Plus this story was like watching an Outer Limits episode.  Harrison Ford gave a great performance as Dr. Norman Spencer, but shallow writing hindered this performance, and this character is quite different from the swashbuckling and romantic characters audiences are used to seeing.  Once he turned out to be the killer I was shocked.  Don't get me wrong Ford portrayed this role to perfection.  Pfeiffer had done excellent job playing Fords wife.  She is determined and distraught over the strange happenings going on in her house.  This film can't be saved from a shallow story.  This is one of Zemeckis' lesser work. Over all I give this film a C. "},{"Title":"Amber Valletta - good looking, even as a corpse!!!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Even though we've seen thousands of similar films, director Robert Zemeckis feels the need to give the world What Lies Beneath.Well, actually this film isn't as bad as I make it sound. It starts out like all the regular (or classical, if you prefer) suspense/horror films, with all the traditional, yet odd events that take place, which makes you wonder how it all will unfold. But halfway through the film the pacing slows down, at the same rate as my interest in the story decreased. Especially the ending sequence is so prolonged (milked) for dramatic effect, that it's almost boring instead of suspense full.Harrison Ford, who I don't think is a very good actor, gives an okay performance of an extremely boring character, and Michelle Pfeiffer steals the show as expected, with a good and solid performance of a complex character.This film is worth watching, but nothing more. Don't expect anything special, or you'll only get disappointed.By the way Amber Valletta is damn good looking - even as a corpse!! If you'll check the film out, you'll know what I mean. As far as I know, I've never heard of her before. So I hope we'll see more of her in the future, in real roles. It would be nice to see that she's talented, and not only the beautiful woman we've seen so far. "},{"Title":"Not interesting enough to be as long as it was.","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pacing on the early part of this movie was very good. However about halfway through it started dragging.  It was almost as if the writers and/or director didn't know where they wanted to go.  Towards the end you just wanted it to be over. This movie could have benefited by having a few more scenes dropped and a few less cliches.  "},{"Title":"Harrison, what is wrong with you?!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to say that I was very impressed with the first hour of What Lies Beneath.  It was shaping out to be a well-made thriller, with parts spookier than The Sixth Sense.  But in the second hour, something happened and the movie fell apart.  I can't put my finger on it.  I think it was the fact that the climax of the movie was about halfway through it, which meant the rest of the movie was devoted to an over-done, long, slow, and stupid chase sequence.  BUT...what made this movie so horrible to me wasn't the fact that the action sequences were too drawn-out and the movie was slow at some parts.  It was the end.  I mean the VERY end.  The last 20 minutes were totally, TOTALLY unbelievable.  The movie was pretty believable up to the end, but when a certain thing happens (if you have seen it, you know what I mean), I threw up my hands and cried out, Give me a ****in' break!  It was totally outrageous and...and....just plain stupid.  That did it for me.    I have heard that from other people too.  But I went to see it anyway because, hey, it's Harrison Ford and Robert Zemeckis.  What were they both thinking?  Robert's worst movie, by far.  And Ford got to be the villian, which he was pretty good at.  But, Harry, come on.  Choose your movies carefully!    Final Thought  Good movie, but the last 1/2 hour ruins it. "}{"Title":"In the words of Chino from the Deftones, suck suck suck suck.","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie sucked. I don't usually go off on such a freshman like tirade but it did. Suspense? Thriller? Where was it? Virtually nothing, I mean nothing, happens for the first 2 hrs. As Kevin Kline says in a Fish Called Wanda- Disappointed! The only really cool thing that happens is how the entity manifests itself. How it presents itself to the living is very stylized and subtle. For that alone I gave it a 3. But if I were to match this against say the Sixth Sense, Stir of Echoes or dare I say is Tesis, this doesn't even come close. WLB follows Hitchcock by the numbers on many points. Shower curtains, eyeballs, even one of the principles is named Norman, and there is nothing wrong with that it's just that the film has got to have some balls, something that puts fear in your hearts. Maybe I am tainted in some way. I saw little old women jumping half out of their seats on some of the earlier suspense points of the film. But, I just did not get it. If anyone out there can give me a film that will give me that suspense or thrill that we all want please suggest something, please. But don't suggest one of those blockbuster, big budget, big studio types. They never do the job. Or maybe I should say the do not do the job like Hitchcock did. "},{"Title":"undecided is as undecided does","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  `What Lies Beneath' ** `What Lies Beneath' can't decide what it wants to be; thriller, murder mystery, ghost story, crazy wife who thinks the neighbor killed his wife and then she thinks her husband killed some runaway girl.  Well undecided is as undecided does.  The director takes all these genre and mixes them into one over-long not so thrilling story. Norman (Harrison Ford) and Claire (Michelle Pfeiffer) are the perfect empty nester couple. Their daughter is off to college.  The only challenge in their life, other than his all-important presentation of his newest and greatest genetics discovery, is trying to out due the neighbor's coital caterwauling. Then out of nowhere, Claire begins to see murderers, ghosts and spousal infidelity.  The middle half of the movie would have been suspenseful if I hadn't seen the trailers.   I knew what the movie was supposed to be about.  There are some good things.  The set design is beautiful (I'd love to have the house.) There is an element of humor when Claire goes to a physiatrist and when she and a friend use a Ouija Board to call up the ghost that is haunting her house.  But when you finally get to bottom of this movie, it's like a smorgasbord served in a bucket. "},{"Title":"Thanks Hitch!","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yes, Robert Zemekis seems to worship, not merely pay homage to, Alfred Hitchcok with this movie.  Yes, the preview gives away what could have been a nice plot twist.  Yes, sometimes the point of the movie seems to be making the audience jump in their seat.  Yes, I found this to be an enjoyable movie experience!  It is not great movie making.  Go see a real Hitchcok movie if that is what you are looking for.  This is just good old fashioned, shameless entertainment.  A suspense thriller for adults.  Most teenagers will think this is boring.  Harrison Ford is a nice selection.  Never really bought into his passion for work, and desire to eclipse dear old brilliant dad, but a more shady character would have killed the movie.  Actually two lesser leads would have turned this into just another Made for TV Friday night thriller.  Interesting note Ford and Pfeiffer's daughter, Caitlyn, is played by real life daughter of the great Robert Towne.  Regrettably, her role is under-written here.  Excellent character actors James Remar and Diana Scarwid are under utilized also.  Go see this movie just for fun or wait and rent it.  It's not Psycho, but it is a thriller that us old folks can enjoy. "},{"Title":"Something is not right about this movie !","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is maybe good or very bad ! It's strange but I don't know why I can't choose between these two choices. Something's wrong about this movie but I don't know what. Harrison Ford was very good and also Michelle Pfeiffer. Maybe it's because this movie never gave me a grip to stick to it but I have a strange feeling that it wasn't good.I give it ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A likeable mediocrity","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's a shame that the trailers that DreamWorks prepared to advertise WHAT LIES BENEATH gave away so much of the story.  But even if you haven't seen the trailer, you will probably find much of WHAT LIES BENEATH very predictable &#150; especially if you're a fan of Alfred Hitchcock.Michelle Pfeiffer is *very* good as a former concert celloist who gave up her career to marry brilliant geneticist Harrison Ford.  Not long after their daughter goes to college, strange things start to occur in the couple's lakeside home.  At that point, the story borrows elements from, on one hand, your standard ghost/paranormal movies, and on the other hand, several different Hitchcock films &#150; REAR WINDOW, SHADOW OF A DOUBT, VERTIGO, NOTORIOUS, PSYCHO, in particular.Unfortunately, the story *feels* cobbled together.  While the Hitchockian elements are fun to identify, they only appear sporadically, and it leaves you feeling like you're watching two different films  one film is standard horror fare, and the other is a cinematic throwback to Hitchcock's suspense films.  In any case, the story's elements are *very* familiar and, as a result, the proceedings are fairly predictable.  While homages to Hitchcock are welcome, it must be said that Hitch never made a paranormal movie; the closest he ever came to the paranormal was VERTIGO, which wasn't really a paranormal film.  As a result, the paranormal aspects of this movie just seem kitschy and ridiculous &#150; especially the ridiculous climax, which is more reverent of Roger Corman than Hitchcock.The film is weakened, as well, by the performance of Harrison Ford &#150; this is possibly the most bland, deadpan, lifeless work of his career.  The role begs for a touch of charm (Cary Grant, perhaps?), but Ford delivers an unlikeable coldness.  As a result several scenes in which aspects of his character are developed pack no punch.The film has a very slow, deliberate pace, especially the opening scenes which take forever to get rolling.But overall, WHAT LIES BENEATH isn't bad.  It's got excellent production values and the delivers some some good chills.   Pfeiffer's performance alone is well worth the price of admission.   "},{"Title":"This ain't Hitchcock...","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Maybe Alfred Hitchcock could have saved this movie, but I doubt he would have wanted anything to do with it.  I feel more suspense watching Psycho for the hundredth time than I did watching this hackneyed, cliched, predictable piece of junk.  I did not even realise that it was supposed to be an homage to the master of suspense until the Hermann rip-off end credit music came on.  You would have thought you were watching a spoof of the genre - people in the theatre were laughing out loud at some of the developments.  Do not see this movie, it is crap. "},{"Title":"With so much potential for a real thrill, you'll get more of a laugh.","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This could have very well have been a very well-crafted movie, if it wasn't for the fact that it was both predictable and cliche-ed. It made more fun of the horror genre than Scary Movie, and I can only speak for my own experience, but the audience in my theater was in stitches for the last 1/2 hour due to it's absolute fromage-factor. It could be that the first half of the movie is worth the cost of your ticket (only if you pay half price on cheap night) but you might as well spend the money watching a comedy that knows it's a comedy.For two such wonderful actors, I was disappointed that they actually agreed to take part in this. And as much as people say it is classic in it's genre, I'm sure what they're really getting at is if you've seen any B-movies of the horror genre then you pretty much know what you're in for. I won't give it away but pay special attention to the white light at the end of the struggle. Pluh-ease! "},{"Title":"Almost feel asleep","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although I did jump at certain scenes, the movie was slow and dragged from the get go.  I found myself hoping that it would end soon from the half way point on.  I do like Harrison Ford and the charisma he brings to the screen; it was refreshing to see him as a 'bad guy'. I will not remember seeing this movie in 3 weeks; it was that boring and uneventful.  This is easily 1 of the 3 worst movies I have seen this year. "},{"Title":"Boooo!","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath is like a person who likes to repeatedly sneak up behind you and pounce on your shoulders while shouting BOO! at the same time. That might scare you the first few times (maybe every time), but sooner or later, it's bound to get annoying -- like this movie. Beneath is a synthetic, mechanical supernatural thriller that's programmed to jolt the audience once every several minutes, usually by having something pop into the frame accompanied by a blast of music on the soundtrack. That is, once it actually gets going, which takes a while. (After about 20 opening minutes of homey domestic scenes, I glanced at my watch and wondered, When is this movie going to get started? Since the name of Alfred Hitchcock will inevitably be invoked, may I suggest that the Master of Suspense had a knack for making the ordinary seem ominous;  in this film, the ordinary seems so -- ordinary.)Not to give anything away, but, IMHO, Beneath has already been sabotaged by its advertising campaign, which effectively negates a good part of the unfolding plot. As for the film's resolution, it's terribly familiar stuff we've all seen before in other movies and in TV shows, jolts included. It's also, I think, pretty silly. Director Robert Zemeckis has been chided in the past for such things as clunky exposition and stretched-out climaxes -- he's true to form here.Movie buffs will note hommages to Hitchcock. (There also seems to be an image inspired by James Cameron's Titanic, if you can believe it.) "},{"Title":"Boo!  Boo!","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have never walked out on or felt like walking out on a film before this evening when we went to see What Lies Beneath, but it happened. I felt, well, as tortured as the characters in the film.The storyline revolves around a man, a woman and a ghost. Michelle Pfeiffer, who plays both woman and ghost, lives with Harrison Ford, who plays the both man and husband, in a house that tried to play on my nerves, but failed. Michelle Pfeiffer's character is haunted simultaneously by Harrison Ford's character's dead ex-wife and by some innate form of acting inability. I just cannot seem to care about her in whatever film she is in. Perhaps it is miscasting, but if so she lacks what is referred to as range. Harrison Ford, as usual, plays Harrison Ford. Like many great actors of the past, he is a lead character performer and not a chameleon as is, say Anthony Hopkins or Gary Oldman. His roles must conform to him,  and not the other way around for any measure of success. Here all fails.  All depth lies in a bathtub where the ghost first appears.Now, understand, perhaps I am not being fair. I could only force myself to sit through less than an hour's worth of this, but what I did find was that the film was comprised of a string of supposedly scary gags. The characters were unintentional caricatures and the audience laughed at the contrived comic relief. Nothing was subtle. Doors creaked. Things fell. Scenes banged from one to another without any development whatsoever. There was one scene, near to where I fled, between Michelle Pfeiffer and her psychiatrist, which bordered on Monte Python. It was as though, rather than a solid storyline, the film was composed of a series of vignettes.I did not care if Michelle Pfeiffer's character would have been eventually killed or possessed. I did not care if Harrison Ford's character lived or died. I did take note once more-my first observation came in Air Force One, where Gary Oldman was pushing Harrison Ford's head against the wall of the plane-that Harrison Ford has without a doubt the most squishable face in the industry. And as for Michelle, she tore into my heart about as much as she did as Catwoman in Batman Returns. Perhaps I did not sit through it long enough. But after just over fifty minutes, I felt my ectoplasm drained.The film was written by Sarah Kernochan, who gave us 9 1/2 Weeks and directed by Robert Zemeckis, who gave us the accidental hit, Back to the Future, the plot hole-ridden, Contact and the near-perfect, Forrest Gump. And to that last, all I can say is, I may not be a smart woman, but I know what a good film is-or is not-and this is not. "}{"Title":"Good Horror Movie For People Who Don't Like To Get TOO Scared","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't normally like scary movies.  I don't like being terrified for the sheer thrill of being scared.  That said, I've seen Nightmare on Elm Street, Scream, Friday the 13th, and others.  This film was pretty predictable, but that's what I liked about it.  The scares were prefaced with classic camera moves and music. I still jumped twice.  I gasped at least once.  I found myself saying, Don't go in there!!  Overall, it was exciting entertainment and I know I won't lose sleep tonight. I like Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer, and I thought they both did well in this movie.  The characters were a bit shallow, but hey, it's a horror movie, not Shakespeare.  If you like being scared, see it on the big screen.  Otherwise, you can wait for the video.   "},{"Title":"The movie that hopes you're stupid","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although the first hour and a half is filled with cliche after cliche, it still has a good spooky moment or two. But the half hour counts on you being a stupid person in order to enjoy the movie.(WARNING SPOILERS!) For instance, a smart person would not walk next to her husband's hand, or reach over him to tug weakly at the phone in his pocket. Also, someone as hurt as Harrison Ford's character could not have been able to climb onto the boat while Michelle Pfeiffer's character drives away in the truck carrying it. Or when she's spying on the neighbor with binoculars, she never points them in a direction that makes sense. Instead they're pointed where the next-door neighbor couldn't be just to instill phony suspense. The only way you would buy these premises is if you're stupid or if you've never seen a suspense/horror movie before.Then there's the many times, Robert Zemeckis directs a tense scene slowwwwwwly until you get either (a.) a face of a ghost to startle you, (b.) a friend or family member to bump into someone to startle you, or (c.) the family dog to startle you. The first couple of times, it may work. But it got really old after the 6th or 7th time.I read somewhere that Harrison Ford commented on his dislike for Hitchcock's films (which are the obvious inspiration for WHAT LIES BENEATH) because the people in them are unrealistic and stiff. He has some nerve after making this film. "},{"Title":"very creepy","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i don't know if i have ever been so tense during a film.  it got to the point where i just wanted all the scenes that made a person jump over with and behind me - so that i knew what happened but i didn't have to deal with the mounting (and approaching unbearable) tension.i don't think it is a fantastic film - there are a few gaps in the plot and things that could have been more fully realized (and also there is the requisite hollywood cheese factor)..  but there are some interesting plot points (not exactly twists, but events) to keep you going..pfeiffer and ford are good - although as seems to be a hollywood problem - their characters don't really seem to know each other very well, despite supposedly having been married for almost 20 years.overall it is well worth seeing in the theatre - if you like scary movies and you don't mind a bit of hollywood cheese.  (but hey this is han solo so it would be worth seeing anyway..) "},{"Title":"Blah","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  >It was too long and drawn out. The story seemed good to start off but it was >left hanging. But other than that it was photographed well and the acting >was superb. This was one of those films if you saw the trailer you saw the >whole film. "},{"Title":"Over-rated film","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Two great stars giving outstanding performances for a preposterous film. The pieces don't fit together at all well. Some exciting parts but so lacking in continuity you often wonder how did the story get to the point it's at. Not at all recommended. "},{"Title":"Thanks to info available from IMDb I'd waited a year and a half for this film- It wasn't worth the wait.","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is what I truly believe happened. They signed Ford and Pfeiffer to the film with not much more then a skeleton of a script. A year later they get together to actually make the movie, and YIKES!!! there is no chemistry. What do they do? Solution, make Ford a heartless murderer who'd just as well gut his wife with a petrified loofa as look at her. Then it would just make sense there would be no chemistry. Well, I think there had to be a better way to solve the problem then this slow moving, ridiculous embarrassment for all involved. "},{"Title":"Not a lot...","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath  Things have not been smooth for Claire she has recently been through a traumatic experience, her workaholic husband is rarely home, her daughter has just gone off to college, she spends most of her time in a big old house in the woods in the middle of nowhere and she thinks her next door neighbor might be a killer.  Too bad things don't stay so simple - Claire begins to question her very sanity when she starts hearing voices and experiencing disturbing visions.  Worst of all, it's not her imagination.Making a good scary movie is difficult many directors try to skimp on the story and opt to overwhelm the viewer with ghastly creatures and special effects ( The Haunting is a classic example), losing the audience in the process.  The Blair Witch Project showed that with a clever script you could scare people silly with no special effects. Hence, the trailers for What Lies Beneath which boasted big stars, a well-known director, and what appeared to be a clever script looked promising. Well, two out of three ain't bad.   Beneath suffers from multiple-plot-syndrome rather than stay with a plot that is working, the writers try to spice things up with myriad sub-plots.  This in itself isn't a problem - I loved when they did this in True Lies - but the necessary linkage between the elements is missing here.  Just when the supernatural aspect of the movie has been established (including several good scares) and is gathering momentum, the movie jumps the tracks and focuses on Ford's character's infidelities.  They waste far too much time on this portion of the movie given that this  big secret was already revealed in detail in the trailers.  Any hopes of salvaging the film are scuttled when murder is added to the mix.  The writers also borrow heavily from Hitchcock rely on a series of tired cliches and everything becomes far too predictable. But the writers can't take all the blame.Pfeiffer and Ford both boast a respectable and varied body of work.  Given their success, you expect that they will occasionally be involved with a dud, (The Story of Us and Random Hearts respectively) but twice in one year?  Both give soulless performances - even when they are delivering what is supposed to be emotional dialogue they display no passion.   The only moments of character development that I enjoyed were when Pfeiffer's character was possessed, at least then she showed some spirit (sorry for the pun).Beneath joins the ever growing trash pile of promising films that fail to deliver.   "},{"Title":"A better remake of Psycho than Psycho!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie hearkens back to the days of the great suspense-master Alfred Hitchcock.  Elements such as a twisting, turning plot, many-sided characters and several red herrings make this film enjoyable for the thinking man (or woman) as well as the thrill-seeker.  The film is full of Hitchcock favorites (look closely at the last fade-out for a good one!), and the score adds so much to the movie as well.  I whole-heartedly recommend this movie to those who enjoy a good, suspenseful scare. "},{"Title":"Just Goes To Show Your Past Really Can Comeback To Haunt You.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This poltergeist suspense filled thriller does a great job of keeping a viewer on the edge of his or her seat. While watching What Lies Beneath in the theater I had myself guessing was that neighbor in the house across from Harrison and Michelle really a manic killer who killed his wife? As the film reaches midway point we learn the hauntings are related to a past affair that Mr. professor (Harrison Ford's) character had with a college student of his, though we don't learn of her death to the end her spirit is clearly alive at any moment. I must once again give praise to Michelle Pfeiffer's performance she plays complex characters so well especially this one. Michelle's beauty is always aggressively stunning. Michelle's pairing as Harrison's wife gave this film such great on screen chemistry. The camera work in this film is done in such a spectacular and spooky way that you feel Alfred Hitchcock is dead right at work. The overhead shots of Michelle in the bathtub bring back memories of Psycho. Though this film happens to be a little to long and drawn out plus it has a complex plot, it teaches us a lesson that our past secrets especially bad ones will come back to haunt us even destroying or taking our life for good. This film showed once again that Michelle and Harrison both still have big time box office appeal and great drawing power. A must see if you enjoy supernatural suspense type thrillers and enjoy seeing two of Hollywood's biggest stars at work. "},{"Title":"A poor man's Sixth Sense","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As a fan of Pfeiffer and Ford, any movie with both of them is worth seeing. However, they do not have chemistry.  The movie disappoints near the end when it quickly degrades in the final 15 minutes.  The attempt to recreate some of the sense of The Sixth Sense is obvious, but in this mission it succeeds in the weakest way -- The Sixth Sense it ain't.  Once the ghost is identified, the mystery of whodunit is not bad.  Overall it is a B-. "}{"Title":"The title says it all...","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The title says it all. WHAT LIES BENEATH is entirely based on the exploitation of the nagging suspicion, common among contemporary women, that all men, no matter how reassuring the appearances, are potentially threatening - and very dangerous.Is that to say that guys will hate it? Not really, because this is enough of a good movie to sustain the interest from the beginning till (almost) the end. The best scenes are those that make up the first hour or so. They reminded me of the opening sequences of THE EXORCIST where, through an adroit blend of perfectly natural occurrences and (possibly) supernatural manifestations, the audience is progressively manipulated into a state of heightening apprehension. Nothing happens, truly, but your nerves are set on edge and, soon, you start feeling the shivers.  The means to achieve that end are efficient, if often trite and rarely original.The Çturning pointÈ is usually fatal to stories which start as mysteries, but do not have enough of the truly mysterious in them not to turn into something else (usually a conventional thriller) after an hour or so. This production is no exception, but, nonetheless, it still has enough pseudo-supernatural elements in it to remain afloat (more or less) for yet another half an hour. However, in the end, the doomed ship cannot escape its destiny and, after a while, it sinks in deep implausibility. The ending itself is high camp, although chances are that, by then, part of the audience will be so much Çinto itÈ that they will not even notice how cheap the conclusion is. Depending on their Çbelief systemÈ, they may even buy it!After screening WHAT LIES BENEATH, I heard someone saying that ÇHarrison Ford	 has taken a big risk in making this flickÈ. I beg to disagree. As  numerous Hollywood precedents show, a well-established actor, even a natural one like Ford, can easily afford to make exactly that move, hardly more than a trial balloon, with little or no consequence for the rest of his career. But there, precisely, is the rub  Ford, pushing on 60, currently needs a new lease on life for his career, an important film - as important as the RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK, or WITNESS or even PATRIOT GAMES in his earlier days - that would enable him to bring his cinematic persona up to his current biological age bracket. Unfortunately, as WHAT LIES BENEATH clearly indicates, he is both too much of a natural and not enough of a character actor to successfully redefine  himself through a dramatic break with the past. Somehow, the avuncular Harrison Ford of the years to come will have to evolve out of Indiana Jones. Michelle Pfeiffer, on the other hand, gives one of her best performances in this film, playing her role with so little affectation that one comes to forget that she is... a big  name. For a much more satisfactory treatment of the same concept (but with a different ending), see Alfred HitchcockÕs SUSPICION,  with Cary Grant and Joan Fontaine. For a more positive view of the relations between men and women in a context of violence threatening to a woman, but dealt with in a comedy mode, see FOUL PLAY, with Chevy Chase and Goldie Hawn. "},{"Title":"Strong performances barely keeps this dog afloat.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford turn in strong performances which almost make up for recurring laughable scenes.  What drove them to accept this script?  The director, Zemeckis, provides occasionally interesting bits, but overall the contrivances, cliches, and red herrings left me with a bad taste. "},{"Title":"What lies beneath? Landfill.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  God knows I've seen worse, but I'll be damned if I've ever had a more visceral reaction to a movie in my lifetime. I left that theater feeling dirty for having been part of the experience.I've been reviewing films professionally for several years, yet I still can't find the proper manner to express just how deeply I disliked this film. I can point out a few things, however.-- The most blatant foreshadowing of plot devices since Br'er Rabbit.-- The most predictable movie I've ever seen (and, friends, keep in mind that I actually saw 3 Ninjas High Noon on Mega Mountain).-- Blatant rip-offs down to the camera angle of shots from The Shining and Psycho.-- Over 2 1/2 hours long! Thank you so damn much James Cameron!-- No suspense. All of the big jolts come from objects suddenly appearing or soaring into the screen (one of the other reviews here touched on this nicely).I don't have enough space to write I hated it enough to make my point. I'm a level-headed professional writer and I *STILL* can't help but go off on the deep end on this one. It was just AWFUL. "},{"Title":"A Thrill Ride","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a fun movie.  We are huge Hitchcock fans and, while the plot did not seem quite as tight as a Hitchcock plot, it still delivered the same psychological twists and thrills.  When we left the theater we felt we had been on a thrill ride.  We highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Predictable but worth seeing.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The story is predictable.  The scares are thrown out at you.  The screams are a decimal or two to high.  The F/X are pretty good.  Michelle and Harrison make a pretty good couple and I thought that Ford was really good. You might get kind of confused toward the beginning but hang in their, It will all explain itself.  The score makes it come out a little creepier than it really is and I liked the way the silence was used, but in a crowded auditorium, the quiet might bring out to much of other activities in the theater.  So take a date to scare her and don't expect too much from this film. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but a bit too long.","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Over all I enjoyed this movie and the acting was very good by Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer.  The one objection I found was the scare em out of their seat sequences were overdone, and the person next to me was constantly jumping out of her seat (ie like Jaws).  I also found that like most films made nowadays it was overly long.  I would figure that after all the water sequences the Michelle must have looked like a prune after completion of this movie. "},{"Title":"Not so Good movie....","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I excepted a lot from this movie because of the brilliant actors like Harrison ford, michelle pfeiffer as the lead..... When the movie started i thought it would be a creepy one, but once it passed it become a type of Deja-vu horror movies we often see..... Plus Michelle's acting Creepy music CinematographyMinus predictable story,Not so creepy after 30 minutes,Same old screenplay we used to see on & on & on...The director should have done much in the screenplay try to so different reason for that girl's death, bt he failed to impress.Nowadays the horror or thriller movies are not so creepy or entertaining like they were in the old days My rating for this movie (only for Michelle Pfeiffer) **** 4/10 ***** "},{"Title":"A very dull ghost story","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Reading some of the positive reviews here it seems a few people are so longing to find anything good in the horror genre they have started seeing the good in dull. A dull couple deal with death of a dull neighbour in the dreary world of rich peoples lake houses, this in the end makes it impossible to relate to or care about any of the characters.The way it is filmed reminded me of both The Net and Speed 2, the world doesn't look like this, it's all so 90's banality. Get ready for awkward dialogue galore as Ford and some actress who apparently once had a career do such a good job at faking an upper class, middle of the road, white couple you will cringe as they 'sweet talk' each other in bed.It's like a 90's TV movie attempt at Sex in the City.. with a ghost. Yawn. "},{"Title":"Forbidden fruit, Spencer! (May contain spoilers)","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Throughout the film there are loose ends and unexplained story lines that are never revisited. Though the film has it's tense moments it has nothing scary and one is left with a feeling of What the hell? This is what we remember from this film which we watched for the first time a few hours ago. A neighbour, which the film spends the first hour showing as a murderer then abruptly drops and doesn't mention again. He is seen putting a body in a car and an explanation is never given. . An insane woman (Michelle Pfeiffer) who starts out as a promising (if slow moving) character which halfway through the film changes completely. One minute she is a normal woman, the next she is wearing a revealing red dress and taking an apple off her husband, declaring, Forbidden fruit, Spencer She later contradicts herself by forcing the apple into Norman's mouth and then biting his face. She then sees herself in the mirror dressed in black in the rain. She him to the desk. None of this behaviour is explained. She is also seen randomly flailing a phone at Norman and using it to defend herself when things turn violent. To add to this all, she seems to enjoy a dip in the lake, stealing missing children's hair from their homes and then later burning it and she seems to associate the ghost with herself, saying, the ghost looked like me but with green eyes! . Norman. Norman's character also changes throughout the film. He starts out as a normal, loving husband then transforms into a insane killer. Although this is the main storyline of the film, it is not mentioned until about an hour in. . Ghost woman. (We think?) Apparently murdered by Norman, but hard to tell as he lies so much. She occasionally pops up at random moments in the film and fills the bath with water. One can imagine Michelle Pfeiffer thinking to herself after about the third time of this occurrence Gosh darn it,the ghost has filled the bath again. Later, we can only assume she somehow possesses Michelle Pfeiffer's character when she suddenly sits up in the bath having turned into a blue zombie lady. Later, the ghost woman's dead body comes back to life a few times to take revenge on Norman, once again unexplained.Overall, it is not worth watching and it will only leave you confused, disorientated and angry that you wasted 130 minutes of your precious life on this. "},{"Title":"well-made but movie but too cliché","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This thriller had some very good scenes, like the whole bit with Michelle Pfeiffer dying in the bathtub. It was pretty well done, all things considered.Michelle Pfeiffer is sexy as ever in this, but unfortunately Harrison Ford is just a bit over average in this film. he comes across as hammy and maybe even miscast. That's not to say he's not a good actor, he is, but he just seems too awkward in this movie playing the bad guy. The last thing that bothered me about this movie is the CGI effects, especially of the dead girl. They just didn't come off too great and for a big Hollywood film, it would be nice to get more better effects. The best thing is the suspense level in What Lies Beneath is quite high and I wasn't really bored, even though the story is rather cliché. "}{"Title":"I've seen better ones","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Norman and Claire seem to be a usual pair, but suddenly, she starts to feel a strange presence in her house. When she tries to explain it it her husband, his rational mind will not believe her. Is she imagining everything? As most of horror//thriller films, the plot is a little unbelievable but this one tries to be real and it does not reach it. With lots of incoherences and with a bad acting, (only Ford does a decent one and it is not specially good) the film results very boring during most of the 2 long hours it has. On the other hand, the good manners of the directors are able to do some good scenes, specially at the end of the film, that improve the result. The film is not good, but with a worse director it could have been terrible. To watch to pass time, anything more. "},{"Title":"Relentlessly formulaic","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" VERY VAGUE POSSIBLE SPOILER The only possible surprise in this movie is that a character you assume is a good person isn't.Otherwise, What Lies Beneath is an over-the-top, faintly veiled rehash of almost every horror/thriller movie technique of the past 30 years or so. As a friend and I watched, we laughed and hooted - not shivered and cowered - as one implausible scenario after another unreeled.How Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford ended up in this mess is hard to understand. Even their considerable skills fail to raise to so-called plot to a believable level.Save it for a MST night with your friends, or a showing to tweens who haven't yet been soured on the genre. "},{"Title":"Schizophrenic Hitchcock rip-off","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Robert Zemeckis is a good director. It's too bad he blatantly resorted to copying Hitchcock rather than trying to be original. Ripping-off Hitchcock does not make your movie Hitchcockian.You all know the plot of the movie, so I'm not going to waste my time explaining it. But what I will comment on instead is the severe multiple personalities of this film. First, it's a ghost story. Then, it's a murder mystery. The problem lies in the fact that there's too much going on in each story that any attempt to connect them feels overtly contrived. It doesn't gel naturally, and it leaves too many loose ends that nobody mentions after they disappear (despite making a big deal about them earlier). The biggest example of this flaw is the neighbors. First, the female lead character thinks the man next door killed his wife, and finds a bloody shoe on their porch to support her claim. Later on (much later on), we find out that the couple living next to our main characters really have NOTHING to do with the actual plot. A whole hour of film wasted on something that doesn't even matter. And they never ask for the shoe back, either...and it's never revealed how it got bloody in the first place.I'm giving this movie a 6 out of 10 (which equals 3 out of 5 stars). The two lead characters were perfectly cast and anybody else playing their roles besides Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford would simply be wrong. Pfieffer because she is an outstanding actor (yes, actor. You don't call an author an authoress, do you?) and Ford because you will never expect him to play that kind of role...even while you're watching the movie. The cinematography is very good looking, if a little too bright. The sound design is especially noteworthy and helps a great deal in creating suspense. Alan Silvestri's 'Bernard Herrmann Psycho/Vertigo amalgam rip-off' score is too over-the-top for my liking and sometimes used when it silence would not only suffice, but enhance the viewing experience. And like I said before, Robert Zemeckis is a very talented director. He does a great job here, creating some very unique shots and generating suspense at key moments.But one thing that really sucked was the ending. Anyone who has at least seen one thriller before will see it coming from 3 miles away. Not the big twist, but everything that happens after it the chemical that was explained earlier for no reason at all, the killer not really being dead, the killer not really being dead for a second time, the killer following the protagonist as she makes her escape, etc. It's 10 minutes worth of film and the audience is already at 11 minutes. Personally, I don't like being able to predict what will happen in a thriller, like I did when the dog came into the bathroom during the séance.This is a strange kind of film where there is a lot of bad, but even more good. Even the bad scenes are good, on their own. When they are all together in one film, it's still bad, however, outweighed by the good. Get it? Good.I'd just like to say again that not only is Michelle Pfeiffer one of the most beautiful women in the history of the world, but she is also a very talented actor. She definitely deserved some kind of award for her performance in this film. She carried the movie despite it's many flaws and made it worth watching, and she should do more movies now that I think about it. "},{"Title":"Truly pathetic","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Channel 4 in the UK ran a series of films under the title Yhe Worst of Hollywood many years back. This qualifies. Almost comic in it's total lack of subtlety and depth. No surprises, no belief, no sense of relating to the characters. Almost no sense of any characters at all. An evening wasted.The theory is that some woman may or may not be possessed or haunted by some other woman that may or may not have been murdered by someone you really don't care about.I have no idea why I'm even bothering to write this but if I stop one person wasting their time in watching this I have spent my time well. Unlike the last two hours. I guess Harrison Ford does his usual bit of decent acting but by the end of this film no one will really care. Do not watch this it is as bad is at gets. "},{"Title":"A decent thriller","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Classic thrillers are not one of the most popular genres these days. Especially not ones like this one where the element of the thrill is quite pronounced. It's a genre that i appreciate though, even though i wasn't expecting very much from director Robert Zemeckis. A man i feel is more skilled at wasting high budgets on sappy over-emotional movies than actually directing something enjoyable.This is a nice-looking movie. Still it's hard to see where the whopping 100 million dollar budget went. Because this is not a spectacular effect filled thriller, rather it's quite sublime, which i very much enjoyed. The story of the couple living their quiet life until a mistake from the past comes to haunt them is maybe nothing unique, but it's well executed. Michelle Pfeiffer was decent enough in the female lead, while Harrison Ford seemed to be on Valium. Most of the time his lines come out garbled and he looks distant, how he is supposed to play Indiana Jones once again is beyond me.I found this to be an enjoyable movie. With suspense building effectively early on, and with a nice twist toward the end. The stylish look is somewhat overdone in some scenes, but mostly it works fine. Zemeckis has created an entertaining classic thriller. I rate it 6/10. "},{"Title":"A decent-looking film dragged into boredom by its weak script","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath is a disappointment for me although it didn't look promising to begin with. Zemeckis's great track record makes it look very bad. This story of a woman haunted by spirits is highly uninteresting. The problem lies mostly in the screenplay.The script is not good. There are long, long sequences completely without dialogue. That alone, of course, isn't a bad thing; a perfect screenplay would have no dialogue, as someone wiser has said. However, if one is going to include such sequences in a film, one should make sure they don't - pardon me - bore the viewer. Sadly, in this case they do. Pfeiffer alone isn't able to make them interesting. Furthermore, some parts of the story - you know what I'm talking about - are really not very believable; and yet, one can see them coming. The dialogue isn't too fabulous either.Harrison Ford is off screen for most of the first hour. And when he is on screen, he isn't exactly... convincing. The film does look good, though.All in all, What Lies Beneath is tedious, overlong (why are those two always together?) and indifferent. It does give one the occasional fright (but then, what kind of one-two-three-four-SEVENHHH moment wouldn't?) but that doesn't mean much when the state of mind throughout most of the film is boredom. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous plot, cheap thrills","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ***  Some spoilers *** This film has the most wonderful opening and goes on to become incredibly predictable.  Despite the good idea of casting Harrison Ford against character and of taking full advantage of Pfeiffer's fragile edginess, the plot suffers from piling up too many shocks and horrors. It would have been so much better to dwell on the story rather than on the ghost-story mumbo-jumbo.  Also, the sub-plot about the creepy neighbours is nothing but a red herring and it is such a pity, because it could have developed into something intriguing. The cinematography is high class and the acting decent, but ultimately I found it a very disappointing film. P.S. Also, it's a patchwork of loads of other films- i.e. at random Gaslight, Consenting Adults, Midnight Lace, bits and pieces from Hitchcock, Basic Instinct, Fatal Attraction, Final Analysis,Diabolique, Jagged Edge....and more "},{"Title":"If Hitchcock made a Lifetime TV Movie","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Final Score 4.3 (out of 10)What Lies Beneath is nothing more, and in it's best moments nothing less, then Robert Zemeckis' homage to Alfred Hitchcock. There isn't an original idea in the movie or scene that it's blatantly recreated in making this into a collage of Hitchcock's thrillers (predominantly 'Rear Window' and 'Dial M for Murder'). For that, and on a level, I can forgive Zemeckis. The movie is pure disposable cinema from beginning to end, but at least his heart is in the right place. As opposed to, say, Gus Van Sant's shot-by-shot 'Psycho' remake from 1998 conceived only for the purpose that young audiences won't see a black and white movie. Like I said, as an homage, the movie has no independent plot. It focuses on Michelle Pfeifer's character who believes she is either going crazy or actually seeing a ghost in their large lake-side country home in the wake of her only daughter leaving the nest. Imagine if Hitchcock made a TV movie for the Lifetime cable network. Zemeckis does a terrific job in the visuals department. He captures Hitch's style and gives it a gloss all his own very well. That, and the musical score homage, is the best part of the movie. Much of it is just flat-out dull. The script is dry and events unfold in a choppy somewhat conflicting and confusing manner. If you can make it through the lifeless nature of the first 2 hours, you've got an exuberant finale waiting for you that is as exciting and fun as it is completely absurd. There is a grand guilty pleasure aspect to 'What Lies Beneath'. Not only in seeing the director of such pure entertainment as 'Back to the Future' and 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit' ('Forrest Gump' is overrated) indulging in this novelty act, but in seeing two big reputable stars doing the same. It is kind of fun to see Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeifer (who still looks great) running around, getting wet, clawing at each other and jumping at endless false alarm music cues. Got to admire their gusto. But, like I said, that is only if you can make if through the first 90% of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Oh please","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was just a bad movie, not at all believable.  For anyone who likes films which keep your interest, ask something of your imagination, offer an element or two of insight, this movie is surely not for you.  With such an able cast and director, it is shame that this script was ever put into production.  It just goes to show the importance of good writing and results of bad.  "},{"Title":"What Dies Beneath","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film, is probably about 45 minutes too long, probably because the producers were so thrilled to get two such heavy-weight Superstars, that they wanted their moneys worth.  It starts off as a good intelligent pschological ghost thriller then peters out into another screaming damsel in distress (I'm thinking Jamie-Lee Curtis - Halloween) being chased by the monster, with Norman becoming every bit as indestructable as Jason. All the time you are shouting, finish him while he's down, or he's in the back of the truck, but as usual this normally together, intelligent adult female totally loses it at the end, just so natch.Nods to other movies, Rear Window when she's spying on the neighbours, (actually following the neighbours story would have been far more intersting, something deeply dark and sinister happening there). Psycho, when she's trying to escape in the truck, hell, even the musics similar, and of course the afformentioned, Halloween.In the end I just got the feeling this was just a stretched out episode of Tales from the Crypt, or a Ghost Story for Christmas which would normally be aired late night on the Beeb on Boxing day. "}{"Title":"Promising for so long, then absurd.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, at least it was for me.In that I'd read *nothing* about the movie - hadn't even looked at the back of the DVD which literally spoils the ending/twist. Granted it's relatively predictable, but I'm surprised the twist is promoted by the movie as standard plot structure.The movie is basically a ghost story with bumps in the night, a hysterical woman, an austere man, and a house which seems to have a lot of history.In terms of direction it's carried out reasonably well, but standards have gone up since Sixth Sense, and this isn't in the same league. In the hands of Night Shyalaman this would be a lot more effective. As it is it's a bit uninspiring. But the acting, as performed by 2 highly seasoned pros is as good as you'd expect from them.The general plot is decently paced, and for the first two thirds of the film you'll be pretty gripped by it. But the last third delves into silly realms and destroys any notion of remotely suspending disbelief.*SLIGHT SPOILER*Ghost stories are fine, as long as absurd notions such as the speed a bath drains at, and the killer who never dies just serve to annoy rather than entertain.*SLIGHT SPOILER OVER*Anyway, in saying all this it's undeniably enjoyable, and there are one or 2 *reasonably* shocking moments. But it's certainly nowhere nears as haunting as it should be for its genre.Leave your brain at the door and you'll probably like it as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Fire the director!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Well, I really want to tell you that you should buy this movie, or see it (if you haven't already)... hmm. Ah, but I simply can't. There are so many lacks and cuts, stupid things happening without decent explanations, predictable scenes and a lot of poor distractions from the main story. Well, I wouldn't warn you down with all the bad features of that try-out film, but I can say a little what should have been in it and also some good things that were noticeable First, a preparation for a good thriller is always the last scene; you begin with a flick of the ending without uncovering too many details and then you tell the story that lead to it. Second, lots of events should occur with some reality; a bloody half dead guy, that barely crawls, cannot make a distance of 20 meters without some noticable noise (unless he's unreal), a woman can't hold her breath above 4-5 minutes (unless she's some kind of an olympic athlete) and above all - recovering from a paralysing drug takes time (please!) and after being a while in cold-freezing water, you can barely move! and certainly not jump into a car ... well, in short, it's not realistic! Two good things you can say about this picture are that acting is great, done by an experienced couple of actors, who won't disappoint whatever the story is. Another good thing is casting Harrison as the bad guy - this is the only genius feature this picture had. Harrison Ford always plays the good guy, thus is a trusted figure, and that made it. Also Michelle's eyes also contribute to the scenery - she's a natural! In Summary, I'd give this picture a 4/10 for the few good things in it. The director should be more thorough... "},{"Title":"Sloppy, ridiculous, unbelievable...","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Zemeckis is not the kind of director you want to make suspense films. Back to the Future, Who Framed Roger Rabbit...those were classics.In this one it's like Zemeckis took a Ouiji board into his bathroom (muhc like in the film itself) to summon up the soul of Alfred Hitchcock to get a good plot from the guy he could rework into his own film.The Others starts out promising. Then you start asking yourself questions about why things in it would happen. Next thing you know your head is spinning and you've got a headache from all of these meaningless plot twists, and eventually leading back to what you thought in the first place.This is not good filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst suspense movie of all time","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *******SPOILERS********Unfortunately, the opportunity to see this film arose -- I probably never would have bothered if I'd read Zemeckis on the box.  What can you say about a film so shallow, with so much awful dialogue and a constant failed attempt at suspense?  Good scene involving death fetishism.  Otherwise, a total waste of time for all involved, especially the audience.  The biggest problem is that, although the film does have a genuine surprise in store for the audience, it takes all kinds of time to build up to it, and along the way we're supposed to be in a state of tension half the time.  Zemeckis should know that this is impossible to pull off unless you kind of make a joke of it (like in Dario Argento's Tenebre).... the way it's done here is to just keep the tension until the audience is numbed to the possiblility of suspense. "},{"Title":"Disappointment coming from Zemeckis","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not that Bob Zemeckis was in the pantheon of Great Directors, but everything he did up until this movie was original and well above average.  This is just run-of-the-mill stuff you've already seen hundreds of times, and reaks of a Hollywood sell-out by Mr. Z.  Overlong and predictable, nothing special.  I'm being a little on the generous side in giving this one a 5 out of 10.  How useful the IMDb has been as a guide quite consistently, I haven't come to expect much from anything rated much above a 6.5, so I figure that I should have expected that this would be an ill-spent 2 hours.  Two thumbs up for the IMDb, and lesson gratefully learned.  (BTW, I thought that Zemeckis' follow-up, -Cast Away-, was a welcome return of the Zemeckis we'd all come to know and like.)  "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For an hour, it was slow but interesting. But after you find out about the women next door, every bit is predictable.  I don't think there was one event i got wrong.  If you have seen a hundred thrillers, then this is no different.  If the film was made thirty years ago, it would have an effect, but it's way too predictable.  Nothing new, so only 5/10. "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is crap. I'll give you an example of how bad this film is. Comparing this film to Silence of the lambs is like comparing The Sixth Sense to Stir of Echoes.It is very misleading with a very boring and very crap twist.Michelle Pfeiffer's acting is crap(no change there) but I expected better from Harrison Ford.Weird things start happening to Michelle Pfeiffer's character and she goes the completely wrong way about it. She gets paranoid about and thinks the neighbour is a weirdo.Bad plot usually means bad film which is the case for this film. No scares or any suspense just a terrible film. 2 out of 10.If you haven't seen this film see Stir of Echoes or Silence of the lambs. "},{"Title":"did not like it","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i thought it was boring and un original. the plot was so predictable, it made me sick. i recommannd that you do not go see this movie. this was the worst harrison ford film i have seen in all my years. and that part in that bathtub, was really boring "},{"Title":"Piece of crap","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not only does it use tricks you've seen before, it uses them poorly. I mean, if a movie is going to be suspenseful, it has to be at least believable, otherwise you're in Scary Movie territory, where you can predict exactly which bonehead move the victim is going to pull that's just going to make the whole situation worse. I give Ford credit for straying from type-cast for one of the first times in quite a while, and Pfeiffer really does give a good try, but with the writing what it is, there wasn't much they could do to rescue this. And before someone points out that in a movie with supernatural elements, not everything needs to be totally believable, I'm talking about the pieces that aren't related to the ghost story aspect (I actually didn't mind that). If you rented this (or watched it on cable), be glad you didn't waste $15 for two at the theater on this stinker. "},{"Title":"Not much lies beneath the surface of this average thriller-cum-supernatural drama.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  `What Lies Beneath' is decidedly average in every manner. Plot wise we have the `original' concept of a couple who have recently moved. That's a cue for the wife, Claire (Michelle Pfeiffer) to have some doubts, et cetera, while her husband Norman Spencer (Harrison Ford) is off with his doctoring. Claire starts to worry about her neighbour's well being when she hears and sees some mysterious things but - gasp! - the real shocking truths are a lot closer to home. Really. Never saw that coming.Ford never seems to outdo himself in a role, and here he's not particularly calling on the Powers That Be to excel himself either. That said, he's perfectly adequate for the script he's presented - hard working husband with a bit of an edge. It's nice to allow him to have some more menace to his character than the rogue/good guy stock cut he normally slips into, but he doesn't quite cut the menacing factor. Pfeiffer fares somewhat better as the troubled wife, upset by her daughter's departure to college, and trying to fill up her days without wallowing in fear.Director Zemeckis doesn't go to town here, but again. the word `adequate' comes to mind. He's capable enough of creating a few `thrill' moments, particularly with the super natural angle to the movie, but the other moments of tension - such as Bad Person Appearing Suddenly - are clichéd. These contrivances only defuse some of the tension, allowing the viewer to anticipate what happen's next without surprise. The script doesn't help much with some obvious foreshadowing of latter events, the typical use of mention-something-in-passing in a manner that screams, `I'm important' to a reasonably alert audience.It's not that `What Lies Beneath' is an awful movie. It's not. It's just forgettable. The script offers too little in the way of surprises, or memorable lines. The characters are thinly drawn and, while the actors infuse them with some skill, they fail to linger in the mind much longer than the credits take to finish. An average movie for any genre deserves a pretty much average score. That works out at a 5.5/10. "}{"Title":"On my list of worst all time big-star movies.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An absolutely awful movie which doesn't hold together for those viewers with even a portion of a brain.  Someone needs to help makers of such movies as this and Malice (another such movie) to put together something that at least doesn't insult the viewer's intelligence.  Say, hire someone for $20,000 (modest by movie standards), just to review for all the problems and inconsistencies.  Not that the maker of such movies cares but, hey, what's $20,000 and so why not? "},{"Title":"This movie SUCKED so bad.  Worst I have seen in a long time.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was more predictable than death itself.  Every cliche turn in the plot was so easy to guess ahead of time it was painful.  Worst movie I have seen this year, possibly worst in a long time.  Please save the 2 hours and read a book.....or maybe just stare off into space, it would be more interesting. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERWell acted, but ultimately disappointing because of a writer and director who tried to be too cute for their own good. The first ten times they used Hitchcockian conventions to build suspense and then did nothing to pay them off, I was caught up in the suspense and then let down. By the eleventh time they did this, I started not to care. And when they paid off the mystery of the disappeared neighbor by essentially saying, Ha ha. Fooled you! The real story has nothing at all to do with the neighbor and started telling the real story, I was just waiting for the whole thing to end. If they're going to try to emulate Hitchcock's tricks, they should at least try to figure out what made them work rather than pasting them in haphazardly. "},{"Title":"A very bad movie","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the producers called WHAT LIES BENEATH the kind of film Hitchcock would have done in his day. That statement makes me wonder if that producer has ever actually SEEN a Hitchcock movie before. Just because this movie rips-off of REAR WINDOW and PSYCHO ever once in a while, it does not make it anywhere near the caliber of a Hitchcock film. While a Hitchcock film is usually so intense it leaves you on the edge of your seat, WHAT LIES BENEATH instead is so boring you might be falling asleep. What's worse is that anybody who has seen the trailer (as I have) already knows what happens in the first hour and a half, destroying any possibility of being surprised up until the slightly more exciting, but far-fetched and equally as unsatisfying, ending. The only good thing about this movie are the two leads. Michelle Pfeiffer is alright, but certainly not at her best. Harrison Ford seems to be phoning it in until the last half hour, where he is very impressive as always. Robert Zemeckis (who is certainly NOT Alfred Hitchcock) does a decent director job, but a firm thumbs DOWN to Clark Gregg, who wrote this horrible screenplay. Unsurprisingly, it is his first.3/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm just glad I waited until this came on HBO to watch this disappointing thriller that tries desperately to be scary and shocking but turns out to be formulaic and almost comical.Harrison Ford plays a small role in comparison to Michelle Pfeiffer's housewife with a bad case of empty nest syndrome.  Pfeiffer handles the central role fairly well (except for a ridiculous scene when she channels the dead woman who's been haunting her); Ford, as her husband, sleepwalks his way through the most of the film.  He wakes up in the last 30 minutes, but seems very uncomfortable with his character's transformation.Unfortunately, the mystery of the plot is revealed fairly early on, thus making the ending quite predictable.  I held on until the bitter end, hoping for some final twist in the story, but all we got was the usual frightened-protagonist-chased-by-the-badly-wounded-but-somehow-amazingly-mo bile bad guy.Save your money (and your two plus hours).  Don't bother. "},{"Title":"Don't Bother","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Oy.  What a waste of $3.50 for a rental.  What Lies Beneath was overlong, overstated, and boring.  Only two redeeming qualities to this one...Harrison Ford (in the last half hour) and Michelle Pfeiffer (in the last half hour).  The first hour was a waste.  Save your bucks and rent a good Hitchcock flick instead! "},{"Title":"Totally Predictable","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A rather mundane and totally predictable story of a woman haunted. There wasn't very much original to be found. Doors opening and closing by themselves, lights and other appliances going on and off for no reason. YAWN! Considering this was supposed to be a thriller, there wasn't even very much suspense to be found until the last twenty minutes or so, and then the whole thing got bogged down into something that vaguely resembled a slasher movie (Look! He just won't die!)I watched this on the strength of Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford. Pfeiffer was all right playing the haunted woman, but I thought Ford, who never really (in my opinion) seemed to capture his character, was a bit of a disappointment. He moved away from the good guy roles he's generally played but didn't handle it especially well.In any event I had the ending to this thing figured out fairly quickly, and nothing that happened in the movie even caused me to question my guess for a moment. That does not make a good suspense movie. It wasn't a disaster, just a disappointment that I rate as a 4/10. "},{"Title":"What a load of tripe!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I watched this film last night and I'm glad I did as I needed something to put me to sleep. This film was terrible. The story was highly predictable about half way through, there was no suspense, the acting was dull and on the whole, totally unconvincing.Harrison Ford looked like he was acting on valium until the moment his character suddenly turned into a rather comic-like psycho. Pfifer went through the motions of trying to look scared but on the whole just annoyed the hell out of me. The plot is pathetic. Two hours to find out nothing even slightly interesting. Who cares?I can't believe people have compared this to Hitchcock. Have these people actually ever seen any Hitchcock movies or have they just heard about some shower scene or something... "},{"Title":"I see hot old people!","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can never think about 'What Lies Beneath' without remembering the above line written in a professional review of this movie. But really, 'What Lies Beneath' has little to do with the very good thriller 'The Sixth Sense'. It's more like 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' for the Babyboomer set. Here we have an older, attractive couple- amusingly enough, the Ford-Pfeiffer pairing seems to be an honest attempt to cast a woman old enough for the male lead, and there's still a 14 year age difference. At least H.F. and M.P. are good in their fairly one-dimensional roles. Anyway, one of them 'did' a bad thing and of course it's going to come back and haunt them. 'It' is a young woman that has disappeared, and Agent Michelle is on the case. 'What Lies Beneath' has got a lot of jump scenes- complete with musical spikes- and a couple of genuine thrills, but I think I would have enjoyed this movie a lot more if I hadn't correctly guessed the ending 45 minutes in. "},{"Title":"No real emotion from the cast.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I must say that during the initial hype for this movie I was very eager to see it... Had a spooky look.... Well to say the least... It wasn't spooky. The whole ghost could have been left out... For the most part it was. The introduction of a ghost into the story had little baring on the movie. I certainly did not like Ford in the twisted role he was in.... Neither Ford or Pheifer really meshed... No real emotion...Over all I am very glad I didn't waste more than the price of a rental on it. "}{"Title":"doesn't pass the acid test","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The acid test is, if huge stars weren't in this film - could it have been a made for television movie?  Alas, the answer for this one is an unqualified yes.  There is nothing original about this script and it is structurally poor.  It could have been so much better with just a little attention paid to it, but as it is, it's fairly poor, full of red herrings and unnecessary characters and slower than molasses.   "},{"Title":"Rent it but do not go to the cinema to see it","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Understanding that Robert Zemeckis is what I  could call a very commercial American director I decided to take a risk and see What lies beneath.All the elements of a very predictable thriller film are present a mature couple decides to buy a detached nice house in Vermont and when her daughter decides to enter at the university both remain alone in such a big haunted house. Strange and mysterious possibly guilty neighbours are also present in their life.The end is too predictable that any spectator could write since the real beginning. Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer are just Zemeckis' puppets and do not add any further excitement to the script.  Do not lose your time/money to see it, perhaps just rent it.Rating 3/10  "},{"Title":"This movie was horrible...","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (**Minor Spoilers That Don't Give Away The Plot**) Question - A killer is after you and there are two phones in the house. The cell phone(1) is on the table and the cordless phone(2) is under the killer (who's knocked out at the time.)  Which phone do you go for, the cell or the cordless phone under the killer?Well, in this movie Michelle Pfieffer goes for the cordless phone.  Just one of many idiotic moves that took suspension of belief to an undesirable level in this less-than-thriller.  Watching a terrible movie with potential is worse than watching just a bad film.  This movie had potential, but it doesn't come close to realizing it.I've seen worse movies, but I rate this movie a 1.  Its so stupid that its insulting to the viewer.Parting shot - If you have two cars and two sets of car keys, do you make sure you have the right set when you run to the car to get away from the bad guy?  Again, not in this movie... "},{"Title":"disappointment in some ways, great in other ways","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I expected a great deal from Zemeckis, Pfeiffer and Ford (Ford being one of my all time favorite actors). The movie had a nice eery touch, very well done, but don't you just hate it when everything goes suspiciously quiet and you *know* that you're only seconds away from an explosion of sound and a sudden movement, just there to make you jump up from your seat? In this kind of movie such starting effect can be functional sometimes, but Zemeckis really overdoes it. By the time it could be functional you're so used to jump up from your seat that it doesn't work anymore and you just get annoyed. Bad heart? Don't watch the movie. Ford also disappointed me. When he tries to convince his wife that he's really a good boy, it's like he just got out of acting school. This is not a good part for him. Bad casting? "},{"Title":"How easy is it to make a movie scary...","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Very easy to create such a movie. Ok, it has some scary moments, but even if somebody bumps his toe they make it look as if the world goes down... In the first half, almost nothing happens, it's only the last part that has some nice scenes in it.  "},{"Title":"How easy is it to make a movie scary...","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Very easy to create such a movie. Ok, it has some scary moments, but even if somebody bumps his toe they make it look as if the world goes down... In the first half, almost nothing happens, it's only the last part that has some nice scenes in it.  "},{"Title":"Avoid this!!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie's just time-pass and nothing else. It begins real slow, and then goes on for far too long. The horror scenes are very much predictable and gets a way too far fetched. Harrison Ford seems to have extra ordinary powers(which is why the movie goes on and on......-). Michelle Pfifer really shines in her role. She truly steals the show here.Hard to believe that Forrest Gump was also made by the same person!!! But this movie bores you to the hilt! The plot is far too simple, even for kids. Don't ever waste your time on this one. Thoroughly avoidable.  "},{"Title":"You have already seen this movie x-times...","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The only surprising feature of this movie is Harrison Ford not playing e brave good guy...Other than that there is not much making it worth being seen The plot is foreseeable and the thrills follow the well known concept of a slow camera, building up anticipation and suspense and then surprise surprise...Well, if u feel like suffering along with Michelle Pfeiffer then u might find it quite moving, if not forget about this piece as quickly as possible! "},{"Title":"What Lies Beneath?  Nothing.  One of the worst movies of the year","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The current rating of 7 makes me wonder if we all watched the same movie. My wife and I found this movie boring to the point of being painful to watch.  It started off at a low ebb and went down from there.  Several funny situations and some scary music couldn't save this 110+ min. dog.  "},{"Title":"-CONTAINS A BIG SPOILER !!-Will Robert Zemeckis STOP making worthless films ?","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Before i bring Mister Zemeckis and his cast of yet another useless film down to size, i would like to say this review contains spoilers. THAT said, here i go. When Forrest Gump came out everybody said that i simply had to see it or my life wouldn't be complete. Talk about dramatic. Anyhow i didn't get a chance to see it in the theatres and ended up owning a copy (via not sending in my Columbia House reply card in on time). From the moment that feather appeared on the screen, and the iditoic cliches started drooling from the mouth of semi-talented Tom Hanks, i knew i was deeply in trouble. Now, a week ago, when i went to my local movie cino-mega-movie-plex to see What Lies Beneath, i was VERY worried that i made a horrible mistake when once again the cliches came falling off the celluiod and got themselves stuck in my teeth with the over-buttered popcorn. Pfeiffer ain't the brightest bunch in the acting field and well let's just say Harrison was thrown into a cardboard cutout role for this film. By the time he ends up trying to off Pfeiffer in the bathtub, i was ready to report a robbery to the local authorities. ZEMECKIS I WANT MY SEVEN BUCKS BACK !. Now i realize this film is a hit and the drooling Pavlovian audience have been pawing the furniture to shreds to see it but what i really wanna know is why ?. Have we become brain-dead and zombielike enough to find this movie a scary b interesting c worth wasting 130 minutes and risking severe cramping?.Arthur P. (check out my review on the already on video Runaway Bride and Stir Of Echos as well as next week my thoughts on Hollow Man) "}{"Title":"you can't spoil what's already spoiled","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The entertaining parts of this movie were due to the different way it was shot (others liken it to Hitchcock - I wouldn't know) and due to Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford.  I think it would have been a lot better had the trailers not given so much of the movie away.  Some others commented on the surprise ending (?) I guess I just saw it coming half way through! There was some attempt it seems to throw us off track, however instead those parts just left my friends and I wondering was that supposed to MEAN something, or did it even need to be in the film? Also have to agree with others - it tended to drag on too long in the end.   "},{"Title":"The audience laughed spoiler","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While I'm glad that the people who have raved about this movie enjoyed it, I thought it was one of the laziest and most predictable movies of the last few years--not counting Mel Gibson movies, of course.  Let's take the end of the movie--a series of cliches the villain lunging out of nowhere, the desperate struggle in which our hero/ine always prevails joined together with some of the silliest plot contrivances known to man.  The only saving grace about this movie was an audience that laughed at all of the absurd plot developments and cliched dialogue for the first hour or so.  But even they had become dispirited by the end--after two hours of this tripe we only wanted it to end, and couldn't care less who drowned and who survived.As for those people who think this was Hitchcockian, they must mean Family Plot or Torn Curtain. Hitchcock knew how to keep a story moving--Zemeckis does not.  And the thefts from Bernard Hermann were shameless. "},{"Title":"Spoiler! don't read unless you saw the movie, but why would anyone want to?","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   Ok. Like I said, spoilers. You've been warned.    I was reluctant to see What Lies Beneath' at first, because the previews didn't make it look very good. However, when it recieved great reviews from the local newspapers, so I decided to give it a try. I should have stuck with my first instincts. Apparently, nobody in this movie had decided what it was supposed to be. Although I agree that not everything has to be classified into one genre, it had too many things going on at once. What was at first a 'Rear-Window' type voyeurism-murder mystery quickly turned into a ghost story, which succeded in switching back and forth between a Hitchcock-wanna be and a quasi-'Scream' 'who's the killer?' rant. And what can I say? By the end, it was sheer comedy. The subplot with the maybe-murderer next door neighbor was quickly forgotten and never explained. The neighbor's wife turns out to be living, sure, but what was in the body bag her husband was loading into the trunk? And how do you explain the bloody shoe? The sad truth is, they didn't. At all. I also had problems with the ending. What could have been a truly suspenseful cliffhanger ending was dragged on just about forever. I couldn't even believe the cheesy underwater scene with the 50's B-movie quality special effects. The writers also tried way too hard to elude to Hitchcock movies, adding the unnecessary 'Rear-Window' bit, not to mention the obvious twist on the 'Psycho' shower scene, although Hitchcock's movies never touched supernatural subjects. It looked like they were aiming for unpredictability in uncovering the killer's identity, however, in a movie this chock-full of Hitchcock rip-offs, anyone named Norman is looking awfully shady....     "},{"Title":"A waste of talent and time.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    In 1994, I was very mad to see Forrest Gump win all those awards.  I can understand how people might have voted Tom Hanks as best actor of the year but I was sure to see The Shawshank Redemption walk away with the best picture Oscar and Quentin Tarantino with the best director Oscar for Pulp Fiction.  Instead, Forrest Gump won best picture and Robert Zemeckis won best director for his work there.  Since then, his only work has been 1997's Contact.  Before Forrest Gump, he had done some good movies like the Back To The Future trilogy, Romancing The Stone (1985), and my favorite Zemeckis movie, Who Framed Roger Rabbit (1988).  So walking into the cinema, I was expecting some good work from this director.  But after having seen What Lies Beneath, I guess his Oscar victory in 1994 was his once in a lifetime 15 minutes of fame because he sure won't win one for this movie.   The movie is not really terrible but it lacks originality and I mean a lot of originality.  This movie is a mix of Scream (1996), Fatal Attraction (1987), and Cape Fear (1991).  It also resembles Copycat (1995) in the way that the attempted murder is recreated the same way as the original murder.  It has some of Scream's suspense and surprise attacks, Cape Fear's revenge and haunting aspect, and Fatal Attraction's dishonesty towards a wife and jealousy and threats from the mistress.    So if you have seen none of the four movies above, you might consider this movie to be very original and suspensful but as soon as you see them, even if it after, you will realize how What Lies Beneath seems to have big chunks of these four movies thrown into the script and all mixed up together by the direction.  The final negative part of the movie is the acting.  Granted, Harrison Ford is good, but his role becomes serious only in the final forty-five minutes or so of the movie.  The biggest acting disappointment comes from Michelle Pfeiffer who is simply not credible as the haunted and terrified wife.  A few of the supporting performances are good (like the next door neighbors and the psychiatrist) but too many of the friends' of Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer are not quite credible either.   The story is good though.  A married wife (Michelle Pfeiffer) suspects her next door neighbor of having murdered his wife and soon comes to realize she is wrong.  But when strange things begin happening in her house, she gets scared and finally finds out that a spirit is haunting her house.  She discovers Harrison Ford has had an affair with another woman and that the spirit that is haunting her house is the spirit of the woman with whom Ford has had the affair and she comes to suspect him of having murdered her and starts fearing he might be planning to murder her.   You're probably thinking, So what?  It copies a few movies and has a few bad performances.  Why couldn't we recommend this movie to someone else?  What makes me unable to give a slight recommendation for the movie is Zemeckis's direction.  The way he handles the camera is way too predictable as we see the camera going one hundred and eighty degrees around the head of one of the actors.  This movement means that at the end of the spin of the camera, there will most likely be another person next to the actor whose head was used to turn the camera around.  What could have been a good movie turns out to be one of the biggest disappointments of the year up to now.  Too much of a copy of many movies and too predictable.  "},{"Title":"I'm sorry, did I order the vegetarian supernatural thriller?  Where's the beef?","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Harry Ford's movie was just `okay'.  It was a suspense/supernatural thriller.  The strong point was that, because there were supernatural things going on, you never knew when or where the Popcorn Toss was going to come from next.That was cool and all, but because the director spent so much time developing the foundation for the movie, it ended up being a little `vegetarian'.  Not a whole lot of meat there, except at the end.  The previews made it seem like the haunting ghost was going to cause more things to happen than it did.  In fact, there were only a couple scenes in the movie involving the ghost that I DIDN'T see in the preview and that sorta sucked.I wasn't expecting The Exorcist or anything, but, damn&#133;  that's it? "},{"Title":"Hitchcock wannabe","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I like director Robert Zemeckis, and stars Michelle Pfieffer and Harrison Ford...just not in this film. The script is the culprit. It tries too hard to include references/homages to Hitchcock films (I noticed Rear Window, Vertigo, Dial M for Murder and Psycho). Why couldn't the screenwriters have written an original story instead of borrowing so much from other films? There are some eerie moments, but not enough for this to be the classy, modern thriller I was hoping for. "},{"Title":"A cliche' filled, New England gothic tale.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Amidst the moody photography of a lakeside area of Vermont, Robert Zemeckis's What Lies Beneath early on portends great possibilities for evoking a striking sense of eeriness and tension. Alas, that promise remains unfulfilled, as the film sabotages itself through unequal character development, overused fright gags (limiting the audiences' field of view to thrust something in it, or backing characters up just to have them meet up with something at the edge of the screen, for example) and a plot that audiences will likely recall from most any Movie of the Week. The talented Joe Morton's presence in the film is forgotten too soon after he is introduced, and Harrison Ford's Norman (don't ask about the Silvestri score, it's just too derivative) seems to have been written by multiple screen scribes kept in isolation, for he ends up contradicting himself throughout. By the end of this overlong film, the payoff, far more gentle than most summer fare requires) does more to save mood than generate excitement. Performances are all reasonable (Ford notwithstanding) but the load of cliches makes this a trite and lackluster blockbuster.  "},{"Title":"Left with questions, but it's an effective thriller","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember in 2000 seeing some of What Lies Beneath, but I never got to finish it, so I figured I would rent the movie recently. I just watched it last night and I have to say that actually this movie sent chills down my spine, I was really impressed with how intense it was. Michelle and Harrison were absolutely perfect for these roles, I couldn't imagine anyone else in their parts. My only problem with the film though was some of the questions were left unexplained, like the bloody shoe next door and how quickly the situation of Michelle's husband's situation was with the girl that was haunting her, but when you see the film, you'll see what I mean.Claire and Norman have just moved into a new home where their daughter has gone off to college and they are all alone. They seem like an extremely loving couple and that they have everything under control. But things get scary when Claire starts to hear voices and see ghostly images around the house. Norman thinks she's crazy of course, Claire first suspects her neighbor of murdering his wife, but then she realizes she is wrong and that her husband has a deadly secret that he's kept from her and now it's after her.What Lies Beneath was a great thriller and is a guarantee chill if you watch it at night with the lights turned off. The acting was great and the atmosphere was perfect, the director really had the feel of the film and what it should of been. Just the script needed more work I think, it just left me with some questions, I don't mind usually that much about that stuff, but with this film I felt it was kind of important. Not to mention I didn't like the ending with the computer effects, but I'm letting that go. Over all, I would recommend it, it's a scary thriller, but be prepared for unanswered questions.6/10 "},{"Title":"Rather boring and banal","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This really was a terrible movie saved only by its unintentional howlers. As others have said, the entire production seems to be a sort of bizarre quilt of a movie rather than a cogently produced whole.The scare part of of the movie is created by fiddling with the decibel level of the music with or without a jump shot. In other words, cheap tricks. The only other scary parts of the movie are more cringes as the lead female steps on glass or gets splinters on a fence and that sort of stuff.The howlers are legion. One character is paralyzed by drugs, hardly able to move on minute, but the next is sprinting in full coordination. That's just as well because another character gets brained, falls down some steep stairs, then he too is able to spring up and participate in a decathlon. OK, that decathlon isn't really in the movie, but it could be. Another, even more grievously hurt character also participates in fight which creates some unintentional comic relief right at the end. Yeah, I can go on and on.The final twist isn't too twisted, and in fact, is predictable with the race and gender of the villain as stereotyped as race profiling of any police force ever is. How dreary.Unlike others, I didn't even like the sets all that much, but they weren't terrible by any means. Worth a look if only to laugh along with. "},{"Title":"The Neighbor","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The main flaw about this movie is that the first hour revolves around the neighbor--who's said to be some sort of psychopathic serial killer. The rest of it revolves around Harrison being the bad guy. Not to say that he isn't good at it. He is! Really! He and Michelle are both great actors and they give off great performances--why I'm not giving the movie a one. But the movie just doesn't make much sense as far as the neighbor goes. I think that he could've had at least a little more screen time--perhaps the one who saves Pfieffer from Ford? I was expecting this, but nope! That's why I give it a five. I love Harrison--just not this time. "}{"Title":"Oh My God, this was horrible!","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I cannot believe Harrison Ford signed up for this wretched tripe. Utterly predictable (the worst sin imaginable for a horror/thriller)--even given the twist regarding the killer's identity--and amazingly confused, this ranks as the worst major release of its genre since Sleeping With the Enemy. I cannot believe this made the big bucks it did . . . "},{"Title":"Oh please","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was just a bad movie, not at all believable.  For anyone who likes films which keep your interest, ask something of your imagination, offer an element or two of insight, this movie is surely not for you.  With such an able cast and director, it is shame that this script was ever put into production.  It just goes to show the importance of good writting and results of bad.  "},{"Title":"What Lies...!","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What lies beneath this movie is the premise that you can take well-known actors and a grade C script and get a good movie. Harrison Ford and Michele Pfeifer gave their all to impress deep emotion into their characters but they could not keep this superficial overly-inflated plot from going belly up. They end up looking tragically wasted. I lost interest around the time that the plot 'thickened' and started to reveal 'answers'...answers that created more rifts than they closed, but I don't want to get into that area. Watch this movie if you are loyal to Ford and Pfeifer, hopefully you will still be afterwards. I only half-watched this guck after the middle. This movie is hard for me to rate because it wasn't that I hated/ liked it, it was like Cup-A-Soup when I thought I was getting beef stew. or something. I don't know.     "},{"Title":"Isn't there enough frustration in the world without movies like this?","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow, just got through watching this film and I'm feeling the same level of frustration that I get when I am stuck in traffic! Maybe I will lie to Block Buster Video and say that the DVD was horribly scratched so that I can get my 5 bucks back. I was too generous in giving it a 4 out of 10 stars, I guess it did HAVE potential, briefly that is.This is your typical bad horror movie, complete with a lame plot, super obvious foreshadowing, and everyone's favorite, the last and most crucial moments of the film seem to be completely thrown together on the fly. (Had me cussing at the characters! Yep, it's that bad!)Such disappointment is challenging to put to words. The movie is not scary, it seems scattered, tends to drag on, and like I said earlier, typical horror movie plot, meaning, you will see people do the most retarded and illogical stuff, completely opposite of how any non-mentally challenged person would react!I guess what I am trying to say here is, if you liked Jurassic Park 3, you will LOVE this movie!  "},{"Title":"Thanks for the effort, Michelle","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What an astonishing mess. That this film could garner so much praise on these pages reveals much about the American public! But then, why was it not a commercial success?This is a very manipulative film- substituting *startles* for scares- loud crashes and cell phone rings blaring in quiet moments, e.g.The last half hour had me laughing aloud- the cliches were so fast, thick, and unabashed. How dead must H Ford be before he finally stops reviving? How dumb would a genius be to leave his stirring victim with her toe massaging her salvation? How evil would he be to transform from a loving spouse into a reluctant wife killer  without so much as a hint of ambivalence (in the film he smirks and relishes his 2nd murder, clearly unable to take his role seriously).Only Ms Pfeiffer deserves praise in this overlong nightmare of incompetence and irresponsible editing. Michelle, you are a peach.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing, Considering Cast & Director","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Diana Scarwid and James Remar, both fine character actors, add some much-needed fire to this overwrought ghost story starring radiantly beautiful Michelle Pfeiffer and that aging hunk from the Indiana Jones movies.  Pfeiffer's performance is good but her talent only really shines through within a sequence wherein she is completely incapacitated.  Harrison Ford, on the other hand, is his usual block of wood; the closest his character gets to actually putting any emotion across is petulant envy of his father's fame.  I can't help but thinking how much better this flick would have been with Scarwid & Remar in the leads.  Robert Zemeckis needs to stick to high-concept kiddie flicks. "},{"Title":"too long, too predictable","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WHAT LIES BENEATH is not a terrible film. But it is disappointing. It has a solid cast and it had a fascinating trailer. But it turned out that there was nothing else to it than that.I never came to see it in the theater, but rented it today on DVD to watch it on my brand new wide screen set with Dolby Surround sound and crystal clear images. The active subwoofer groaned and moaned, the sounds of doors opening and closing, water running in bathtubs and voices whispering when there was no-one there, reached me from all possible directions. Outside it was dark, hot and damp, with flashes of lightning in the distance. Nothing wrong with the setting. Still the movie didn't scare me. I jumped two times, but I guess that was because of the sound effects.The point is, the movie's plot is too predictable. About halfway you have a pretty accurate picture about what's going on. At least I did. I didn't have all the details figured out but I knew where to look. The next hour my suspicions turned out to be correct, one by one. The grand finale almost p****d me off because I'd seen that sort of scene a million times before. Michelle Pfeiffer is in a car, a pick-up truck. She's trying to get away from the house where her assailant lies unconscious. Guess where the villain turns out to be....Rating 5/10  "},{"Title":"Sucks, Sucks, Sucks, sucks, sucks, sucks, sucks, sucks!!!","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is rotten! Why, it's the movie that is a few fries short of a happy meal! It sucked! Why see it, you'll waste your money! I've seen better horros, if you can consider this one.... So, don't see it peeps, unless you want to be bored stiff and not scared! "},{"Title":"Great Expectations (and other let downs)","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Going into this film I had very high hopes. I thought - Michelle Pfeiffer...Harrison Ford...the directorial genius of Zemeckis...I can't lose. Well I did. I heard all of this hype about it being one of the scariest movies in years...It scared me that they still allow movies as bad as this to be made. Put together a weak and predictable plot, some confusing neighbors, one of the worst endings in film history (up there with A.I. and The Bone Collector), and you have What Lies Beneath.  The movie wasn't in the least bit frightening. This is one film where all of the greatest acting in the world couldn't save this movie...but hey, if you want to see a movie about a dead girl who wants her necklace back...Go See WHAT LIES BENEATH!!! or don't... "},{"Title":"What a waste!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Talent like Ford and Pfieffer are supposed to give you something to talk about.  This film does not.  They sold this film because of the actors names.  If any unknown tried to make a run for the money with this scenario he'd never get any money for funding it and nobody would pay to see it.  The film is 60% in the dark, as if they deliberately tried to hide it from the viewers.  The music and sound effects play more then the content of the film.  Hitchcock that lies beneath must be asking himself as anybody been paying attention.  It's not the type of performance that you would expect from these talented actors.  It just goes to prove, fans will go see anything that there favorite stars play in.  So Michelle and Harrison next time get a good script or just read the phonebook in front of the camera...and leave a light on! "}{"Title":"The movie that would put the world off Hollywood","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was actually painful to watch.  I am serious.  I had stomach pains because of how bad the movie was.  The plot was awful, the acting was horrid, the scripting was worse, the rip-offs were obvious, and the scares predictable.  The whole movie should have been banned in the United States because of how bad it is.  And what is movie-making coming to when people think that mediocre movie-making is excellent?  That is if the movie even qualifies as mediocre.First, the acting was just the worst acting I have seen in a while from a Hollywood movie.  Worse than Mission To Mars because the acting wasn't campy, and wasn't good either.  Harrison Ford sleeps his way through this picture, and barely shows any emotions throughout the movie, even when he is mad.  It's like watching somebody say Darn as they pound their fist on a table.  And Michelle Pfeiffer is the latest scream queen.  Her acting abilities are lower than Linnea Quigley's.  At least Linnea Quigley does nudity.  (Check Hollywood Chainsaw Hookers for her acting abilities.)  Pfeiffer is the most over-the-top, and over-paid, actress out there.  At least she matched the movie Scarface for excessiveness.Second, the plot.  **Spoilers****spoilers**The first act of the plot is one major red herring that takes way too much time.  It is a condensed version of Rear Window minus the broken leg.  And, if nobody saw the changed ending, then my screen name isn't Cofemug.  However, one can hope, and I hoped because that would mean that the movie would have been blessedly short.  The rest of the movie has been given away by previews, with the revelation of the affair and the article behind the picture.  The best part is the computer.  The ghost is a techno geek.  And it knows cards so well.  The initials should have been m.i.l.f.  (Apologies to American Pie) Third, the scripting.  With awful dialogue, scenes out of nowhere that do not enhance the plot or the characters, and a pacing that is even slower than that of Eyes Wide Shut, Spartucus, or Lawrence of Arabia, this movie's writer should be fired and banned from ever scripting again.  9 1/2 weeks at least had nothing much to do, and had decent sex scenes.  This movie needed a cattle prod to get moving.  And the line, I think she suspects something.  Come on.Last, the direction.  With framing that is awful, and that does not make me feel uncomfortable, and shots ripped off from other movies, Zemeckis has reached a new low.  **Spoilers**  He steals looks from his own movie, Death Becomes Her,  steals the first act's look from Rear Window,  steals two shots from the shower scene of Psycho,  stelas the end shot from Vertigo,  steals the drug idea from Notorious,  the list goes on and on.  I have seen this movie before, done so much better.  Luckily my money was not wasted on this drivel.In the end, skip this movie, and burn all of the prints of it.  It is more boring than Titanic, more irritating than The Blair Witch Project (and less scary), less scary than Rosemary's Baby, and less funny than Mission to Mars.  Run away from this movie as fast as you can.  Go find Cecil B. Demented which is anti-Hollywood.  Go see Scary Movie or something else.  Just stay away from this one.(negative infinity)/101/10 "},{"Title":"great...if it were a made-for-television movie","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Zemeckis must have gone to Barnes and Noble and bought `Making the Suspense Thriller...for Dummies.' He then went into the NBC vault of rejected made-for-television movie scripts and picked a simple little ghost story to try his hand at. He follows the book faithfully and gets all of the tricks right the get-the-audience-to-think-one-thing-is-going-to-scare-them-then-scare-them-with-something-else trick, for instance. He likes this trick so much in fact, he uses it like, ten times. Chapter three, part two, paragraph one of `...for Dummies' reads, `set film in big, creepy New England house by a lake.' Got it.What Lies Beneath is sufficiently creepy, scary in mood only, well photographed and well acted. Heck, the writing is even pretty good. It's all ruined, unfortunately, by cliches and a stupid ending. The story begins with a shook up housewife, Claire (Michelle Pfeiffer) and her brilliant scientist husband (Harrison Ford) living in a quiet lakeside community. Claire overhears the woman next door crying in fear of her life, then witnesses what she thinks is the woman's husband loading a cadaver into the trunk of his car (in a pouring rain storm, of course). Claire then thinks she's seeing ghosts. The audience is supposed to think that it's the neighbor's ghost that's haunting her. This never fooled me for a second because I've seen this story line a thousand times before, so the first half hour of the film is wasted.Even if the movie's trailer hadn't ruined many of the plot's twists and turns, any idiot could guess what was going to happen at any given point in the film anyway. It's constantly looking to surprise you, but rarely does.  This is because not one thing happens in the story that you can say you've never seen before.  Instead of trying to go in different directions than we're used to in creepy supernatural murder mysteries, the movie falls back on more used up, tired suspense thriller conventions, such as the frail heroine stepping over the unconscious body of her attacker. Will he wake up and grab her? Well, what happened the last fifty times you saw this scene in a movie?I actually would have been happy with this film and given it a passing grade had they just ended it with the best scene in the movie Claire has been given a drug that paralyzes her while leaving her fully conscious, and the bathtub she's sitting in is filling with water. The way it was done creates about as suspenseful a scene as any good suspense movie has to offer. It really feeds all the senses, with some cool sound design and inspired photography. It also provides the movie's only legitimate jump-out-of-your-seat jolt. But Zemeckis isn't content to leave it at that, closing with a big, dumb, disappointing action sequence. What would a Harrison Ford film be without him hanging off the back of a moving vehicle?Zemeckis continues to be a reliable director and does solid work here. Pfeiffer and Ford also perform as well as you've ever seen them. In the end, though, all parties probably should have steered clear of this one.What lies beneath? Unfortunately, nothing all that interesting.Grade C- "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow, what a truly poor film! What was Robert Zemeckis thinking? What was Harrison Ford thinking? What was I thinking going to see it? It is ridiculously cliche and an absurd concept. Robert Zemeckis hasn't made a really great movie since the first Back To The Future (no, Forrest Gump wasn't as smart and enjoyable as Back To The Future). Michelle Pfeiffer does her usual fine job in performance. She is a real actress, though some of the material she has been given has been lackluster (Grease 2 and... well What Lies Beneath) But even in those stink bombs, she does the best she can with the material. This movie is awful and rides on the names on the poster, not the quality of the movie. If you're trying to pick a movie, go see the X-Men, at least that's entertaining. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Very disappointed in this movie. Harrison Ford and Michelle Pheiffer are two of my favorites but the plot is just a remake of many other film plots and neither really has any opportunity to act. Too much just left hanging.  "},{"Title":"Contrived, potentially good ghost story with too many false climaxes...","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the annoying traits of this movie is setting up a false notion about neighbors and a distraught wife and then using that simply as a red herring that has nothing to do with the rest of the plot.Then it plods on, at a snail's pace with many wordless scenes of a worried heroine (many of which could have used a Bernard Herrmann kind of background score), only to have the truth gradually revealed but coming as no great surprise. Michelle Pffeiffer's heroine is slightly irritating after awhile and her chemistry with Harrison Ford (who looks a little frayed around the edges) is not quite believable despite a love scene in which she is possessed by another's spirit. She plays the role as though she is sleepwalking most of the time.All of this has an it's all been done before kind of look with material derivative of many other films with ghostly qualities. The car in the water scene reminds me of a more gripping little ghost story simply titled Ghost Story back in the 1970s which was genuinely frightening and not quite as slickly contrived as this one is.Passes the time but definitely not a classic ghost story or horror film. Harrison Ford's weakest performance in years in a poorly written role. Only those not exposed to Hitchcock-type films will find genuine surprise or scares. "},{"Title":"Wasn't impressed","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath feels too contrived to be effective drama, is too predictable for a thriller and is not scary enough to be a horror film.Strange occurrences, creepy neighbours and eerie whispers bother Claire Spencer in her new house.  The wife of genetics researcher Norman Spencer, Claire deals with the daughter's departure to college amid these odd happenings.  Pictures break and doors open by themselves, Norman worries, Claire discovers the truth and the bathroom sees an effective climax before a cop-out ending.The scenario rehashes numerous thrillers, drawing from The Sixth Sense, The 'burbs, Cape Fear, several Hitchcock films, all of which are far superior to Zemeckis' film.  There is nothing here that we have not seen before, from murders in the bathroom to a séance on a wet afternoon.  The climactic scenes in the last half-hour prove unbearably tense even though the outcome is inevitable.Zemeckis' direction is, for the most part, as lazy and uninspired as the script.  His pacing is careful - a couple of shocks work - but his interest is elsewhere.  He worked on What Lies Beneath while Tom Hanks lost weight for Cast Away.  He seemingly wanted to imitate Hitchcock and works with elements of Rear Window, Vertigo, Psycho and Notorious but his conventional direction amounts to a tedious film, in which only the performances keep one watching.Michelle Pfeiffer rises above the clichéd script to make Claire believable and sympathetic.  Harrison Ford's performance is quiet and restrained, though he lacks the menace or intensity of, say, Claude Rains in Notorious. The rest of the cast adequately acquit themselves to their stock characters in this overall dull and unrewarding movie.  Potential viewers would be better off renting the old Hitchcock movies. "},{"Title":"A haunting, a murder, a beautiful woman just not enough.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A big Harrison Ford fan as well as an aficionada of psychological horror, I was very disappointed in this very slow film.  Early on I figured out whodunnit.  When it was disclosed who it was dun to, I knew why and how. Even the supposedly suspenseful ending was unsatisfactory as the viewer knew ahead of time what would happen in each sequence.  And the makers had the gall to compare it to Hitchcock.     "},{"Title":"Horrible!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With a cast like Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford, how could they go wrong?  Well they found a way.  I don't want to spoil this movie but you need to know before you go and rent it that Harrison Ford plays a very bad man with no redeeming qualities.  You have seen this bad movie many times before, usually with a B cast or worse, which is more than this movie deserves.  Avoid this movie.  Get a documentary about lancing a boil instead.  Your time would be better spent. "},{"Title":"Ghost story loved ghost, hated story","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For good spooky scenes I will put up with a lot, but this script wore out my tolerance a long way before it ended. It is one of those stories that produce mystery and surprise by going out of its way to withhold essential information which the characters would normally have and one of those stories whose chief surprise, when sprung, makes nonsense of the whole. Like most ghost stories it happens in an almost unpopulated world so that the visitee can be alone and scared and be assured it's all in her imagination, and such characters as appear are there mainly so that she can learn things in the sequence and on the schedule the writers learned in Suspense Movie Writing 101. The leads aren't very good, either. But many of the ghostly moments are really scary and will look good as clips for the AFI tribute to Robert Zemeckis 25 years from now. "},{"Title":"Artificial, vacuous but highly skilful supernatural chiller.","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's ironic that a movie be entitled `What Lies Beneath' when it is so shallow. Not as much &#145;shallow' as opposed to &#145;empty'. This picture is typical Hitchcock suspense. There are plenty of creaks and jumps and `look behind you' scenes, but there aren't enough full on scare sequences. And much of these are just overused clichés. That said, there's a good deal of fun to be had along the way. Zemeckis is clearly having a blast behind the camera and successfully masters yet another genre. He puts a tremendous deal of skill into the proceedings. But there simply isn't enough material to work with. The film uneasily balances between domestic drama, supernatural chiller and all-out thriller, and the three sub-genres simply don't gel. While it starts well and ends well, there is a huge dissipation in the mid-riff. With the `horror' being reduced to a series of talky conversations, it's just too slow burning. But the closing half-hour is a skilful succession of high-octane moments that never wear thin. The less you know about the plot, the better. And whatever you do, don't read the tagline, as it will only spoil things.As the neurotic housewife, Michelle Pfeiffer is perfectly cast and brings depth to her first good role in a long time. And she holds her own against the more popular Harrison Ford, who curiously avoids the limelight for most of the movie. It's just surprising that he was credited first. Miranda Otto and James Remar on the other hand, are totally out of place. No that the performances are bad or anything, but after a revelation in the first 50 minutes, their characters are totally and utterly irrelevant to the plot.As soon as the emotional hokum gets going, the film loses a good deal of momentum, but the shear suspense of it all is what keeps `What Lies Beneath' going. But with the uneasy mixture, the bogeyman material seems out of place when in tone with the thriller aspect. While it is very slow-paced, my advice is to stick with the movie and you'll probably be rewarded. Zemeckis and Pfeiffer make a deadly combo and almost overcome the bogging down of sentimentality and a slightly shallow script. Eerie, creepy and surprising, `What Lies Beneath' is flawed, but generally good. My IMDb rating 5.9/10.  "}{"Title":"Frankly not as good as everyone says.","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let me first start off by saying this movie is by no means bad but I was just expecting something terrific from all the reviews I read. Michelle pheiffer and Harrison Ford cant act. Im sorry everyone out there but its true. Michelle is much better then Harrison but still not great though every time ford was on screen I wanted to shoot myself. Even though there was a big twist you could see it coming a mile away. Predictable cheesy writing with a 90 million dollar budget. Don't ask me what they spent all that on.This movie is about a woman who lives in a big house with her husband. She is home alone most of the time due to her husband working all the time and she begins to notice strange things happening around the house and then she starts to see ghosts.I found this movie to be OK for a one time watch but it was just such a let down from what I was expecting. "},{"Title":"Review What Lies Beneath","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had a very vague memory of watching What Lies Beneath when I was nine years old, at the age where I loved even the crappiest films ever recorded in history. The only part of this film I could remember was mysteriously the end, where you find out that Harrison Ford's character is actually the culprit, and that lead me to believe, many years later, that this was my forgotten viewing masterpiece. I had a choice of watching it again or not but my choice was pretty obvious and considering my praise for this particular film, I went out and bought myself a brand new copy. The beginning scene where Claire's daughter is going away to college, I was already impressed. I hated those sex-crazed teens that always ruin the movie and have to pay for it at the end. The cut on her was very wise and it made the film that much better. Look at me ranting on about a b*tch I don't even know of. Harrison Ford plays a medical doctor who goes by the name of Norman Spencer and he actually knows more than he is hiding about the case his wife is investigating. The twist at the end was so unexpected and shocking and that twist made the film for what it is, and that is a decent thriller/drama. Harrison Ford plays his role convincingly and strongly which makes him the best out of the whole film. Michelle Pfeiffer on the other hand is quite hateable because her acting isn't even worth a dime. My reason for bulging her eyes out is not a good one but it is her fault not mine. James Remar, who plays Warren Feur, did a good job of being accused for killing his wife and it really added more mystery to the film as well. He is a light side to this thriller mystery by being funny. The director should have included him more. The scene at the party was laugh out loud funny as Warren teases Claire. The story is great but is painfully slow all at the same time. I was really disappointed at that and I was expecting something fast-paced. There were hardly any scares in this film and when a scary face popped up it did not make me scream even for a second. The seance scene was, to be honest, quite scary and funny at the same time all thanks to Diana Scarwid.Norman Spencer, a university research scientist, is growing more and more concerned about his wife, Claire, a retired concert cellist who a year ago was involved in a serious auto accident, and who has just sent off her daughter Caitlin (Norman's stepdaughter) to college. Now, Claire reports hearing voices and witnessing eerie occurrences in and around their lakeside Vermont home, including seeing the face of a young woman reflected in water. An increasingly frightened Claire thinks the phenomena have something to do with the couple living next door, especially since the wife has disappeared without apparent explanation. At her husband's urging, Claire starts to see a therapist; she tells him she thinks the house is being haunted by a ghost. His advice? Try to make contact. Enlisting the help of her best friend, Jody, and a ouija board, Claire seeks to find out the truth of What Lies Beneath.The film definitely has to be something you have to watch out for but in some cases it didn't work for me. The slow story and the cheap scares really made me sick. The cons were slow story, bad acting from Michelle Pfeiffer, cheap scares. Pros were Harrison Ford's acting, James Remar, Diana Scarwid, and the priceless twist at the end. I recommend this over Hide and Seek at any time. "},{"Title":"Rub a dub dub, spookiness in the tub.","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer star as a married couple in this thriller from Robert Zemeckis that tries to maintain a completely Hitchcockian atmosphere from beginning to end, and does quite well at it.The story concerns Pfeiffer's angst over the strained relationship of her new neighbours (played by James Remar and Miranda Otto) and her suspicion that the wife has been killed. Although Ford does not think her story holds any water there is a presence seeming to support her theory, albeit one that nobody else seems to ever see while it gets up to it's ghostly hijinks. Is Pfeiffer going mad or is she being contacted by the spirit of the deceased? Will Ford ever see things as she does? And has a woman actually been murdered? Famously knocked out while Zemeckis had to wait for Tom Hanks to lose wait during the filming of Cast Away, What Lies Beneath feels like what it is - a lightweight thriller with good production values and a great cast.There is a lot of padding here, or so it feels, and it's really the performances of Pfeiffer, Ford, Remar, etc that help to carry the audience through to the more interesting moments.Having said that, it must also be admitted that Zemeckis does well in his execution of the thrills. The mystery unravels at a rather sedate pace but when things kick in Zemeckis seems to revel in toying with the audience and setting up a lot of fun scares.Safe, inoffensive, unexciting but, thankfully, moderately entertaining in places. A fun film to stick on during a rainy afternoon or a quiet night in but no big event to plan an evening round, if you know what I mean.See this if you like Rear Window, Disturbia, Les Diaboliques. "},{"Title":"Solid mainstream horror-thriller","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror - or perhaps there should be another sub-genre, the shocker-thriller - isn't my principal bag but this is sufficiently by the numbers to neither bore nor give me nightmares. It's a good piece of work from Hollywood safe hands Robert Zemeckis with robust but coiled storytelling and some good ideas that work the surprises, shocks and twists into the visual mettle of the film.Both Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer are cast as much for their matinée appeal as their acting ability, which, to be honest, is only firing at about 4/5ths of its potential. It's a 4/5ths kinda film though, an entertainment not designed to nourish the soul. A straightforward flick but nonetheless an interesting chapter in Ford's career. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The film is very good. very big interpretation of only Harrison ford which in this site there are two weights and two measurements. To the film  has been given to history of violence 7.5 while What Lies Beneathand to this film, a put 6.5 . Is not it would right be necessary to raise the vote. The film is acted quite well and it is really excessive to give history of violence a 7.5, after all is awfully a film violent and melodramatic. This film shows how much it can be easy for a psychopath it is really splendid to deny a delitt, the film to be seen. And then you have given leslie nielsen 7.5 ... but we go ... Increase the vote both to k-19 and on what lies ... Harrison ford is a great actor. "},{"Title":"What lies in...the bathroom!","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is the kind of movie where you occasionally need to hide under the covers. What Lies Beneath is about a woman named Claire Spencer who discovers that a ghost lives in her bathroom who has a big secret to tell. Claire decides that she wants to know what this secret is, so, she sets off finding clues about this girls mysterious death. But Claire, along the way, is having trouble with her husband, Norman Spencer (played by Harrison Ford) who seems to be acting strangely lately. Then after she finds all these clues (a necklace, this weird code and more) she discovers slowly that *gasp* her own husband did it! I'm not going to say why, you'll have to watch the movie for that. This movie is packed full of pop outs which makes it so scary. But, to tell you the truth, without the pop outs, it wouldn't be as exciting. "},{"Title":"complete disappointment","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is my first IMDb comment and I could not help writing it for this meaningless and weak movie. A movie that never ends, too long, no consistent relation between scenes. You hope that this time it ends, but no, it starts over again. As if all mystery and thriller effects wanted to be involved throughout the whole movie, which resulted then, a kind of ZAZ production, with the lack of humor of course! Phases of the movie are keeping you busy for some time, then you understand it has no meaning or importance at all to the movie. Self opening front door, self going on/off stereo set and PC, photo frame on the desk etc. make no difference to the ongoing story, they are just for increasing the tension. Supernatural subjects are used childishly, so you can not tell whether it is a crime or supernatural story, or a mixture of both. Waste of time, waste of stars. "},{"Title":"Not your typical drama...","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie may work for people that are easily impressed by ghost movies. This is a drama thriller that uses some elements from the horror genre.What Lies Beneath is filled by false scares and mostly relies on it's scary scenes. The truth is that the movie shouldn't be scary just because some scenes take the audience by surprise. The plot is interesting and actually believable and at some point catches the audience's attention and doesn't lets it go. The movie was sold as a horror movie in the likes of The Sixth Sense (the movie that awakened the ghost sub-genre) but it's merely a dramatic feature with minimal use of the genre. There's infidelity, betrayal, passion, and madness. Recurring elements in a drama movie.For people that like movies that deal with the supernatural... Yes there are some disturbing images but cannot carry the whole movie. People that like to watch original movies and aren't very used to the horror genre may love this; but die hard horror fans that actually believed in the publicity campaign of the movie won't like it.Special mentions deserve Harrison Ford and the great and always beautiful Michelle Pfeiffer but their good performances. A movie like this always needs solid performances and that's pretty much part of the movies' success.The direction is stylish but not appropriate for this kind of movies that always need an eerie atmosphere.5/10. I'm part of the horror fan database and this movie bored me. In my opinion the movie was an attempt to be a huge box office hit. "},{"Title":"What Lies Beneath the Garbage Can...?","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" More garbage. Talentless but beautiful Michelle Pfieffer and handsome but aging Harrison Ford team up with chia-headed director Robert Robby Rob Zemeckis to make a scary movie.What's THAT?!?Oh, it's just the cat.What's was THAT?!?Oh, just the wind.If this is your idea of gripping terror you will love this movie. For me it was two hours and ten minutes of excruciating boredom. See osteoporosis-bound Pfieffer struggle to form a facial expression. See Ford have a go at acting in between reading his script for K-19 The Widowmaker. See Robert Zemeckis do Hitchcock so poorly he actually considers making Forrest Gump II.Ford is no stranger to high-class crap (Random Hearts) and neither is Pfieffer (I Am Sam) so they both come off pretty well. But the movie is a guaranteed downer... a sigh-inducing sleeping pill with trilling violins and a 'shock' surprise ending that will have you talking for minutes. But I won't ruin the end for you- you'll have to torture yourself.Grade D- "},{"Title":"Why do so many people love this film?","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS INSIDE- BEWARE.'What lies beneath' has been a film that has enticed me from the shelves of Blockbuster for a while now, yet not quite enough to demand a rental. Therefore, on a quiet Sunday night, in search of some undemanding entertainment, its terrestrial TV premier came as a pleasant surprise. However, after settling down for some edge of the seat thriller action, I was left, a couple of hours later, highly disappointed. Now, it wasn't that it was that bad, but I was hoping for much better! The slow escalation of tension was applied with subtlely by Zemeckis and the para-normal element was presented with genuine ambiguity, which at first was intriguing and compelling. However, it seemed as if all the good work of the first hour or so was squandered, as the deftness of the introduction made way for a truly predictable conclusion. Once the ouija boards and the dusty book on witchcraft were out I felt I was being spoonfed, and although the plot blind alley worked to a degree, even before it was resolved, the ending was never in any serious doubt.Pfeiffer acquitted herself reasonably, but Ford loafed through the film and came across as a very 2-dimensional character. In fact one could say two very 2-dimensional characters as his sudden transformation at the end was preceded with not even a hint of menace in his character up to that point, making me wonder whether he should have appeared in the credits twice (Dr Norman Spencer- patient, non descript husband, Dr Norman Spencer- unfeeling, pathological killer). While you obviously don't want to give the game away, surely there should be some clues, that we can later refer back to. I wouldn't have minded all this so much if I hadn't heard several friends raving about this movie, an opinion that seems to be mirrored by many on these pages. Anyway, I'm glad it gave so much pleasure to so many. For me, I thought it was distinctly average. 5/10. "}{"Title":"Somethings works others don't","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WHAT LIES BENEATH is a creepy thriller with Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford in the two leading roles. The movie is made by director Robert Zemeckis and has got a really creepy mood laying over itself. The movie is about Claire and Spencer that's married and are living in Spencer's dad house, who's father is actually dead. Living there Spencer is a doctor and has a lot of work to do and therefore doesn't spend much of his time with his wife at daytime, so Claire is chilling around alone in the neighbourhood. The new neighbours seem mysterious and she suddenly hears someone crying on the other side of the grind, she sees a woman and she seems scared to death. Now things starts happening and Claire is convinced that the place is haunted by a young girl... The movie starts off very good and is very exciting and interesting, but as the movie rolls on in over 90 minutes it all gets slowly boring and uninteresting pity enough. Although it does keep up the excitement through the movie, we're a bit tired of the whole thing at the end and just wants it all to quit. There are of course scenes in it that scare you, especially some considering a bathtub and stuff like that. Robert Zemeckis has done a pretty good job behind the cam and the mood, acting, music, a lots of it works pretty well but the big problem is simply that the script doesn't work, and so with the editing. The movie jumps back and forth (although it doesn't do that!) but you get the feeling that you don't understand what's going on and that is a bit irritating. Early on in the movie we get to like taste some of the scares in this movie (although it isn't scary) where Claire is looking through a small hole in the grind to see if she can get a look of the crying lady, and suddenly she jumps and a whole eye fills the hole on the other side, well, it's that kind of scare yeah. Although the scariest scene in the movie flashes upon very late, and so does the most thrilling. The movie tries making a new Hitchcock mood and it does it pretty well but as said before; the script ruins a lot of this movie, and another thing; the movie never reaches a point where you just want to leave the room, it keeps a pretty exciting mood and scenes through all, but never really scares the s**t out of you, although it seems like it wants too, with exception of the last scene with Pfeiffer suddenly changing her beautiful face into something not that beautiful, that scared me really good. It fits well as a thrilling horror movie on a late evening together with friends and stuff, but...well, it's not that much of a good horror movie! STARS 2-3/5       "},{"Title":"Too long and twisty","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie started out all right. It had some good effects and the standard shocks mixed with eerie camera angles, etc. and the plot seemed like it was going in a good direction. Then it kept dragging on and introducing new plot lines and twists and turns until toward the end I was just waiting for the finish (which was a pretty good special effect, if nothing else). I would say it was a better than average Hollywood movie, but a worse than average thriller.  "},{"Title":"Bloch stuff","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *** Spoiler ***Apart of massive Psycho reminiscences, the theme about the corpse of the victim emerging from deep water to accuse her killer was already developed in a short story by Robert Bloch, Tunnel of Love, in an even freezier way than in this movie. I can get the film as a homage to Bloch and his atmospheres, but not more... Another thing about a fourth of the movie is aimed on Pfeiffer's feet! Is Zemeckis getting fetish? 5 of 10, for me... The scary stuff is scary, but it's borrowed from uncredited sources! "},{"Title":"follow director at first and use your mind at last","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  first, i like to see thrillers, but not kid-scaring thing which just shock your eyes and your guts. i like to see thrillers which full of mysterious air, restrained and not exaggerated scenes and expressions, unexpected suspensions insinuated in the details. What Lies Beneath is perfect with these standards at the first 45mins. From Clair was electrified by the hair-dryer, and then suspicion the neighbour murdering his wife, till suspicion clarified, you was supposed to follow the director and Michelle Rfeiffer's natural performance to enjoy a scaring while clever concept.while after this, too much cheap ostentations on the steaming bathtub and door-opened-without-hands-touching and etc, as well as Harrison Ford's more and more wooden face, untidily loosed as nonsense which persuade your mind away and away from movie and alas it is turn to the cliche set totally. The watery end of trucking scene was especially needless and kind of stupid. If the movie ended at bathtub when Clair saved herself and Norman slipped at a ghost sight, i can give it 7 out of 10 for the elegant photography and performance, but now i can give it only 6 out of 10 only for Michelle Rfeiffer's sake. It seemed that only she didn't know what lies beneath while we all know before the end. "},{"Title":"Oh Please, the cliché","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I didn't like this movie and with Pfeifer and Ford as the leads I was betting this would be a 10. What lies beneath, which looked great in the previews, was yawn provoking. It was absolutely predictable, conforms to every cliché a movie can conform to including but not limited to predictable story lines, corny chase scenes, run of the mill scare tactics, long drawn out ending and a dull, overused plot-I think the two leads did this film because they knew it would be a hit-I thought the movie had a lot of creative paths to take then the one it ultimately wound up taking. There is not one original thing, that I could find, about this thriller and though I found it watchable, there were so many clichés involved in the movie, Particularly the ending, and so many places it could have really shone in a more creative way,(especially with the talent involved) that I was disappointed and a bit baffled as to why this movie went by the wayside of the ever predictable.I don't get why so many thrillers all end the same or use the same old tired tricks-two great talents-Ford and Pfeifer-Ford was given more to do then Pfifer,who gets chased a lot, but I still left the theater feeling Unsatisfied. My vote is a 4, main reason I didn't give it under a 4 is because Ford really did some good acting and so actually, did Pfeiffer which is the best thing about the movie-the talent. Great talent involved in a watchable but very predictable movie. "},{"Title":"Wannabe Hitchcock crap","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Michelle Pffeiffer plays Claire Spencer, who starts suspecting something bad is going down next door. The newly arrived couple seem to have some problems. But she not only has to deal with that, she also starts thinking the house she and her husband, Norman (Harrison Ford), live in, is haunted.One of the characters sums up the movie best with the line, Not much happening.There are some really poorly written lines. For instance, when Norman wants to make love with his wife he says, Wanna fool around. Wanna fool around?!! Groan.This movie has no rhythm to it. And the performances are quite lacking in any real emotion.Too often the movie relies on cheap thrills, such as bouts of silence before a loud phone ringing or people creeping up out of nowhere. There never is any real tension or suspense.A movie can't be scary or thrilling when the twist can be seen miles away. The trailer even practically gives the whole story away. Do Hollywood really think we are this stupid? It seems so.*** POSSIBLE SPOILER ***And what is with the first mystery? It was just so irrelevant in the end, crazy!!*** END OF POSSIBLE SPOILER ***And to make matters worse, this film had to rip several bits from Hitchcock films. The first part is so Rear Window, and elements from Psycho are used to the extreme. Even the score sounds like it's from a Hitchcock film. I don't mind film-makers making homages and the like, but I get the feeling the film-makers wanted to be Hitchcock and not just celebrate his work. I'm surprised this movie wasn't called The woman who knew too much. If you want a modern-day film of the likes Hitchcock might have done, check out David Fincher's wonderful Panic Room.In the film's favor, I thought some scenes at the lake looked nice and there are some nice camera angles near the end of the movie, especially one that moves under the floor. Very cool!But there are just too many detractors to this movie to find any real enjoyment in it. So many scenes and elements are just too insane to take seriously. And the ending is predictable and ridiculous.This could have been a nice thriller, but it's too cheap and implausible to find any real terror in it.5/10 "},{"Title":"full of suspense in the beginning, full of crap in the end","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  At the beginning of the movie you can feel the suspense, the fear and try to beat the puzzles yourself of what happened. The movie tries to push you along another way, tries to confuse you in finding the truth. Every time you think you solved the mystery, something new happens. While watching this movie you hope that there will be a good ending, something to let you know you're right in choosing this movie to watch.An the end of the movie the plot starts to turn, to crackle, to rotten. There are action scenes without any plot. After the point where you realize what happened, the whole movie loses it's magic.That's very sad. I first thought that THIS is THE movie to watch, to be scared of. But it is not - only in the first half of the movie. "},{"Title":"Decent Thriller","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film was bound to be a big easy success because it starred Harrison Ford, and Michelle Phieffer, and is directed by Robert Zemeckis(Back To The Future, Contact). The plot is not rock solid, and neither are the performances, although this is probubly Phieffer's best acting yet. There are a few good thrills in there, but overall I found it to be somewhat predictable. Harrison Ford is also really beginning to show his age in these newer movies.  I really like Harrison Ford so I am being easier on this movie, If he wasnt in it and say Michael Douglas or Bruce Willis was, I would have not enjoyed it very much. Overall its not a bad thriller, I think the 6.5 out of 10 sounds about right. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A ghost is hunting the wife of a wealthy doctor and she suspects that it could possibly be the ghost of her next door neighbor who she believes was killed by her husband, despite the fact that their is no body nor any evidence that she was killed! This confused thriller tries to be many things and is way too long. The first hour of the film is totally unnecessary to the story and does absolutely nothing for the film as far as character development or setting up a tone. However, despite these flaws this film remains a pleasure to watch and is very suspenseful with some nicely designed sets and good performances. The ending though on the other hand is disappointing and overdone.Rated PG-13; Violence. "},{"Title":"It was ok. (Spoiler Included)","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER AHEAD!!!!Well, the whole movie was going just fine until Harrison Ford's character had to turn all bad.  I didn't really like that at all.  It was in sharp contrast to what we had been learning about his character till then.  After that I was thinking, Oh no...the same old horror story.Otherwise, it did good in keeping the suspense alive and the constant tense atmosphere.  Michelle Pfeiffer was great.  The tense expression that she had throughout the whole movie did her character total justice.  Harrison Ford was good too, but wasted.Watch it if you have nothing else on your list. "}{"Title":"Poor pacing spoils interesting concept","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  M. Night Shyamalan's understated 1999 The Sixth Sense demonstrated clearly how blood, guts and gore are ephemeral to successfully scaring audiences and keeping them on the edge of their seats. Robert Zemeckis' movie takes a similar, understated approach, but sadly is not building on the foundation of a compelling plot or comprehensible characters. Ford and Pfeiffer turn in good performances in their lead roles, but tension fails to build as it should. The picture feels over-long, but this is as much about poor pacing as it is about length. The movie is definitely worth seeing, if only because the first hour is quite suspenseful and enjoyable.Worth a shot. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Attempted big splash, but in the end all wet","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After a decent build-up and some well-constructed tingly moments, this promising thriller falls to bits in the final reel. What went wrong? It's difficult to say without major spoilage, but here goes...Harrison Ford is reasonably convincing in the early stages of this film and there's good chemistry between him and Michelle Pfeiffer, despite the 15-plus year age gap. As the film darkens, he becomes less convincing and begins to look out of his depth. A case of casting a box office certainty rather than an actor better suited to the role?Michelle Pfeiffer carries most of the first half of the film and does pretty well. If only she'd shown this much emotion in Wolf. She tries hard at film's climax but is sadly hamstrung by a couple of daft plot devices.Back to that ending. Ugh, in a word. It simply doesn't fit with the rest of the movie. The first part of the film is a decent study of a woman dealing with the empty nest syndrome as her only child moves out to college and she is left alone in her house while her scientist husband pursues some high-powered research, spending most of his time at the office and even when he's at home, he's usually working. The haunting starts. Is it her imagination working overtime? When they renovated the house, did they forget to upgrade the wiring? Are the new neighbours weird (aside - Miranda Otto is tops but doesn't get nearly enough screen time)? The unfolding of the plot does not fit the early story development and the over-the-top, SFX-driven and much too long climax could almost belong to another film. As a result, another promising movie is dragged down to become merely ordinary, which is probably more disappointing than seeing a film that starts out average and stays there. "},{"Title":"good acting, but not too much plot","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  as for what lies beneath, i thought the acting was solid and very well done by all characters. the plot at first was done well, background, the neighbor, the picture, the smoke, etc. but i thought that once the movie progressed it fell back into that same old horror movie routine that is boring and predictible.  "},{"Title":"Nothing Lies Beneath","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a beautifully wrapped sugar containing absolutely nothing. Two top Hollywood stars, a good work of direction, splendid cinematography, wonderful art direction. All this gathered to tell a stupid, flat, foreseeable ghost story, with two or three ready-seen tricks to make you jump in the seat (actually, it didn't get it with me). Boring, indeed. "},{"Title":"Not A Good Movie","Date":"31 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why Did This Film get Marked Down as One of the Best Suspenseful Movies Ever Made. Sure. It had a FEW Good Scenes. But it Wasn't even Close to a Bloody Murder. It will never even Compare to the Puppet Master Series. They Made one too Many Problems. One of Them Being The Cast. I could Never even Imagine Harrison Ford starring in a Good Scary Film. He Belongs in Action Movies Forever. Not only That, The Acting Was SO Bad. Even if Ford Can't Deliver good Scares, He Usually can Act. Terrible. Cheap Scares and Predictable Secrets make this the Worst Attempt of a Suspense Film Ever. I Bet that Five Minutes into the Film You Can Guess What Lies Beneath. People who want to see a Good Movie need to Try Bloody Murder or Slumber Party Massacre III instead of Wasting their Time with this Trash. Complete Garbage. 2 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Unrealistic parts distract from the drama","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There is, as is typical, some parts in the middle that is unrealistic and therefore that make things confusing and less thrilling. It is the type of stuff that writers feel a need to throw in just to make things more thrilling. The stupidity, although minor, was a major distraction for me.  "},{"Title":"Cheesy BOO! flick.  Save your money.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Good Points  There aren't any.  If this film didn't have Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer in it, it would have gone straight to video.  All that can be said is that Zemeckis does do a good job directing as always, but it's not enough to save this waste of celluloid.Bad Points  This is a cheesy suspense flick full of annoyingly loud BOO!s designed to make women cling to their men in terror.  This kind of movie stopped being cool about twenty years ago.  The plot is mundane and predictable, and since there are no interesting visuals to speak of, that's about all this kind of movie has going for it.Bottom Line  It sucks.     "},{"Title":"Slow, predictable, trite","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***    ***SPOILERS*** This film was recommended to me by many watchers but I failed to find any redeeming value in it. Have we run out of suspense plots? Must we resort to Friday the 13th?  Lukewarm performances by Ford and Pfeifer were sorely  dissappointing. I would have expected more from such seasoned professionals. The plot was predictable and stale. I was especially  turned off in the last 30 minutes when cheesy horror conventions riddled the already fragile storyline. Is he dead? Is he alive? There is no way he could have survived that but he did and he is in hot pursuit. Typical. Don't waste your time.  "},{"Title":"I don't think it is something special","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Nice pictures, nice story but that's all.There is nothing more that will keep you in front of the screen for two hours, in dvd version there are some good extras for the director of the film that i really liked a lot. "},{"Title":"An unfortunate reminder of what horror movies have progressed from being.","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To get to the point quickly for movie watchers looking for opinions on which to base a rental decision if you didn't think The Blair Witch Project was scary, you should rent What Lies Beneath.There. Now that those people have gone away, I can share. This movie had flashes of being interesting, mostly after only the one-hour mark was past. This marathon of cheesy shocks and roundabout revelations felt like a Tales from the Crypt episode stretched out to movie length; seeing Zemeckis' name at the end made some things click into place.The title was the best piece of writing in the film. Michelle Pfeiffer gave some good performances, but her character was such that Diane Scarwid stole a scene from her.I have to suggest some kind of numerical index indicating how much time one should let pass after watching an M. Night Shyamalan film and watching this sort of uninspired formula thriller.  "}{"Title":"Predictable, slow, forgettable","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this film. But I was so disappointed.  It's all been done before.  It was all so predictable and slow, I kept waiting for the film to grip me, it never did!  I thought I might be a bit scared but no, the only scary thing was the number of times that I yawned throughout the Movie..... "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To think, I spent almost twenty bucks on this piece of crap when I took my wife to it! Yes, that's how this review will begin, so you can tell that it will not be favorable.I'm a relatively large Harrison Ford fan, same with director Robert Zemeckis - I'm so-so about Michelle Pfeiffer (I find her over rated, along with Julia Roberts, but tolerable). This movie had a decent cast, a wonderful director (proven as such with an Oscar for Forrest Gump), and what appeared, in the trailers, as an intelligent script.But, there lies the trouble. The trailer. The ads for the movie gave away almost all of the films twists, surprises, shocks, scares, etc... Once you've seen the ad, you've seen the film. Don't waste your time because the answers to What Lies Beneath lie in the trailer itself.And to think, this movie still managed to score with over a hundred million at the box office.The film starts out fine, even creepy, with a fairly crisp directorial hand that we have come to expect from Zemeckis. But then the first surprise comes around the corner, and you realize that you know what's about to happen. Then the same happens with the third, fourth, fifth, right up until the end.But, you know, even if the surprises hadn't been ruined, the film still would have failed, since the story itself is fairly strong, but it collapses under it's own weight in the third act, resulting in a silly, contrived, Hollywood formula that makes you want to puke.Big bugdet, big cast, big waste of time. I shook my head throughout most of this film, wondering what Harrison Ford was doing here. He's a terrific actor and deserves better roles than this. Michelle Pfeiifer, I can understand - this is, after all, one of her follow ups to Story of Us.Basically, the story of an unfaithful husband who's lover dies and comes back to haunt them. But is it really a ghost, or is Michelle Pfeiffer crazy? Who knows? Who cares? By the end, you'll be rooting for the ghost because at least she's out of her misery.Watch the trailer, save yourself two hours and ten minutes. Sad when a thirty second trailer can give you the same number or spooks and chills as a 133 minute feature film.Pass it by. "},{"Title":"Scary music isn't scary","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all Han Solo should have dumped her ass. This whole movie revolves around how desperate this one chick is for attention. Han Solo is trying to get some work done so all she does is whine and cry about not getting any attention. So she creates this cockamamy story so she can get some attention. There is a dead person she's haunting me, i'm scared me, me, me. Then she goes on to wase all his money on a shrink who rightfully thinks she's nuts. But instead of locking her ass up where she cant hurt herself he panders to her whims. She then goes on to force herself into schitsophrenia just to play horrible mind games that result in poor old Han Solo suffering a heart attack. This is a movie created for women that panders too women and could have only been created by a man with no testicles. "},{"Title":"Go see Hitchcock's Psycho and The Sixth Sense.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's common knowledge Robert Zemeckis shot this while Castaway star Tom Hanks prepared for the more 'meaty' part of his role in that film. So, it's kind of a time filler and it often shows. What Lies Beneath may have grossed a mint, but especially for someone like Zemeckis it is a relatively small film. No Vietnam wars or meetings with presidents, no time-traveling and no contact with aliens, just a haunted house. And I'm not talking a The Haunting-style castle here. Just a house. Of course, smaller doesn't necessarily mean less good (not that I'm a fan of Zemeckis' past works, though, because to me, he's still a Spielberg protege and not much of a distinctive director).What Lies Beneath is a halfway house between paranormal thriller and pure Hitchcock. The ghostly apparitions and the supernatural angle make up for the first element and the subplot with the neighbours and the way it's directed make up for the second. Also, the bathtub which plays a central role recalls Psycho, as does the basic structure of the script. For me, however, the movie falls short on both levels. On the Hitchcock level, mainly because the script is godawfully predictable (even without seeing what must be the most spoiler-ish trailer I've ever seen) and because no matter how hard I tried, there just didn't seem te be any deeper psychological meaning (or even logic) to it. Compared to Hitch's works, this is a high-gloss piece of emptiness. As a paranormal thriller it fails, because it really isn't about anything paranormal, it's just uses it as an audience-luring angle and a plot device. That makes What Lies Beneath feel like Strange Days. Yes, I know, they're very different films, but both films use interesting ideas (WLB ghosts, Strange Days recorded memories, cyberpunk) and reduce them to a plot device in a tired an old way. What Lies Beneath never delves into what ghosts are (ok, pretty obvious) or, more importantly, why they are. If you want to see a real ghost film, go rent The Sixth Sense. The second reason it doesn't work is it's use of shock tactics. I did jump twice, but in a movie with about fifteen jump moments, that's a lousy batting average. They are all build-up and no pay-off.Well, I shouldn't be all that negative, because What Lies Beneath is not all that uncomfortable viewing. The simple 'ghostly' scenes, like the one in which a door opens twice, miraculously, work very well. Also, the film's shot in a cold way, making for an often chilling film. Furthermore, the quality production values and the continuing promise of some form of surprise make it highly watchable. In fact the whole film feels like its jump moments. The build-up is good and will keep you interested but don't be surprised if the jump never follows. Of course I'm referring to the final act. Up until the point the proverbial penny drops it's solid entertainment. The problem is, you're waiting for a breathtaking, surprising or satisfying ending and you get nothing like that.Finally there's the acting, which boils down to the performances of it's two leads, Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer. Pfeiffer is the actual lead and pulls it off well enough. Most of the time, she is very convincing as the woman questioning her sanity as much as her surroundings. Harrison Ford, trying a supporting role this time (despite his being first billed), seems totally miscast.In short Apparently for Zemeckis, smaller DOES mean less good. What Lies Beneath is not beyond redemption (it's still a LOT better than The Haunting), it still comes across as vacuous, predictable and generally unsatisfying. People stopped makes this kind of film a long time ago for a reason.Rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"Not worth the $2.95 rental fee","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was a complete and utter waste of my time.  The movie was twice as long as it needed to be, the silence that some speak of as a plus was actually sleep-inducing.  Some characters were totally unnecessary.  Jody for example, wasn't needed at all, except to spew cliches and slang terms that were about 20 years outside of her expected vocabulary.  A middle aged woman should not attempt to sound like a teenager.  it was nice to see Christina from Mommie Dearest acting again. Way to space out the movies there, think maybe there's a reason she hasn't been in a hit movie since Extremities?Outside of that, the movie was totally predictable, and the plot was un-original, copied from about 100 other ghost movies.I hope Harrison Ford doesn't need a job this bad.  I would like to think he misread the script when he agreed to do it. "},{"Title":"Nothing Original, But...","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The kind of movie that really relies on audience participation. I saw this at a theater with my girlfriend and I can tell you her reaction was what made it an enjoyable experience for me.All the punches are telegraphed way ahead, and Zemeckis even throws in the standard Oh, it's only the cat trick, but if you're lucky enough to be sitting next to somebody who'll scream his/her head off, none of the faults will matter. Good, campy fun. "},{"Title":"The BEST movie ever put on the Big Screen......","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is without question one of the best movies ever created. The chemistry between between Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfifer is simply amazing. The suspense is breathtaking. This movie contains a perfect screenplay with very creative special effects done by none other than the Dreamworks team.What Lies Beneath contains all the neccessary elements a classical thriller must have Chilling suspense, Great Acting, Vivid and Fluid Direction, Awesome chemistry, and a powerful ending that leaves you breathless!A perfect 10!Sdonat2313 "},{"Title":"If you like this flick, get out your Ouija board.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath offers a thin story, a weak plot, two of Hollywood's most over-rated stars, and little else. Things go bump in Pfeiffer's head as the camera lingers ad nauseum in one fabricated suspenseful moment after another and the perfectly perfect couple's encounter with the paranormal unfolds. The film is predictable and fails to compel the audience to make the necessary leap of faith required by all such spooky flicks. A big disappointment from Zamackis and a waste of time for all but the most avid supernatural junkies. "},{"Title":"I didn't have high hopes, so I guess I wasn't disappointed","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have a lot of problems with What Lies Beneath, the least of which was that the idiots who edited the previews gave away some key information about the movie, something that isn't revealed until a good hour into it! I swear to God, these people must live in caves in the woods. Y'know, it's one thing when you can figure out where the movie is headed as your watching it, but it's another when your told exactly what will happen. If it were a friend that told me about the surprises, I would slap them.This is a trend in Hollywood that I want to see taken care of right away.Okay, here's the deal, I don't dislike this movie but at the same time I can't really say that I liked it. I wasn't even going to bother seeing it because I could tell from the previews that I wasn't going to like it, but I got bullied into going so eventually I gave in and went to a matinee. My first reaction was, Could someone tell me when Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer got so old?. They look positively ancient in this movie. I know Ford is getting up there in years, but I mean, Jesus! That's why they have make-up people. Dude is looking more and more like Yoda every day. Catwoman, where for art thou?My main problem is the scares. This movie has them, but it doesn't EARN them. I'm a bit of a horror movie connoisseur (well, not really, I just love them all), and the scares are just so damn predictable because you've seen them done in about a million other movies. When ever you see a reflective surface, you know something is going to appear when the camera pans over to give you a full view, when someone opens a door or cupboard and you can't see what's behind it, you know when they close it someone will be standing there, when a door slowly creeps open the thought on everyones mind is, Okay, will it be the dog or her husband?, when you're looking threw a knothole in the fence, of coarse the most surprising thing your going to see is someone staring back at you. But it's not a surprise because you know what's going to happen. When I jumped a few times in this movie, it's not because I was terrified at what I was seeing on screen, I was just waiting for the sudden, loud burst of music to startle me. This movie only honestly earned a couple of it's scares, one toward the beginning and one toward the end. And what about that ending? Did anyone buy that, or was it just me? Hey, I like a good twist as much as the next guy, but this was really unbelievable. What a terrible script. This movie had one thing going for it, and his name is Robert Zemeckis, and I swear I'm not even a fan of his. Back to the Future is a classic, and Forrest Gump is a cute movie but way to syrupy for me. I think he could have done better with a decent script, and so could the stars in what was some very dull roles. But the paycheck cleared so everyone's happy I suppose. 6/10 stars it gets, not for being good, but for not sucking as bad as I thought. Not the most glowing endorsement for a movie, but it's all I can manage. G'night!  "},{"Title":"A True Sleeper","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film has done mankind a true serice in finding a cure for insomnia. It's over long and very slow paced.  The story is very predictable with no surprises.  The cinematography is good and there are a few nice spots but overall it would've made a better one-hour TV show so the commercials could wake you up.  It may also be Harrison Ford's worst work to date.  If you go, drink plenty of coffee beforehand.   "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With that cast and that director I entered the theater with high expectations.  I left with a feeling of great disappointment.Much too long, slow, cliched . . . you name it.  Almost everything that could make a movie bad can be found here.The biggest letdown of the Summer. "},{"Title":"Kinda spooky, kinda weird","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is made by Robert Zemeckis, the guy who is responsible for such classics as Back to the Future where a dolorian became a time travel unit, and Forrest Gump where a slow wit goes in an American odyssey to find love. This film takes a turn into Hitchcock land, but Hitchcock would never make this movie, despite many obvious references to his work.  The plot here involves a suspicious wife (Michelle Pfieffer is good here) who is now getting weird vibes in her house, mainly because it is haunted.  But of course, the husband (Harrison Ford is always exceptional) is skeptical if what her wife is saying is true.  Now, with this, it makes 2/3 a good movie, 1/3 a weird finale and 3/3 OK.  Definately not Zemeckis' best work to see, but it is better than some of the other crap out there in the theaters today.  B "},{"Title":"Good...If You Like The People Overdoing It!","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw What Lies Beneath when I was in the eighth grade. I have to admit, there are worse movies, but there are also better ones. Michelle Pfeiffer's character tends to overdo things. I mean, she's pretty accident-prone, hurting herself all the way through the movie and she almost drowns, like, four times. (I bet that's why my mother's like, Seems she'd be scared of water!) Plus, the movie's pretty grim and dismal. I know it's supposed to be a somewhat scary movie, but, please, can't it have, like, more life to it, too? I mean, the movie could have had a livelier ending, like Claire Spencer (Michelle Pfeiffer) getting to see her daughter again. All in all...not the worst movie, but personally, I've seen movies that are totally better. "},{"Title":"Very very slow movie","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Michelle Pfeiffer plays Claire, a 35ish mother who is slowly being driven crazy by visions of a dead woman. Harrison Ford is her hub Norman who is beside himself dealing with this crazy woman he still loves. At least that's how things appear on the surface. But then matters get more complicated until we finally get to an ending which provides the only real action in the movie.As i said, this movie is slow and put me to sleep. And i didn't care for the Claire character who is something of a brainless bimbo who goes running to her hubby every time something goes wrong. Ford is OK but he looked every one of his 58 years and was too old for the part. "},{"Title":"Pretty Bad.......","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've seen this twice, and I feel the need to let everyone know that this is not a good movie AT ALL. It's actually one of the worst attempts at a Hitchcockian thriller I've ever seen. The plot is simple Michelle Pfeiffer is a constantly worried woman, and her husband is a super-perfect handsome scientist played by Harrison Ford. Pfeiffer's performance is good, but her character is simply too weepy; she's almost a modernized caricature of Joan Fontaine in REBECCA, and the trouble with that is that most women simply don't behave like that anymore. The bulk of the movie consists of a string of scare, or jump, scenes, followed by Pfeiffer's increasingly hysterical reactions, and then a brief moment where Ford consoles and tucks her into bed. The jump scenes come literally every few minutes, to the point that far from keeping us on edge, they become irritating. You know when it's coming, and you come to dread not the creepiness of it, but the irritation of it, because it's so loud and hokey and obnoxious. There are way, way, way, way too many jump scenes in this film; you could practically set your clock to them. After about an hour of this irritating and repetitive (and lazy) attempt at building a suspenseful atmosphere (which of course fails), it becomes clear that a dead lady is trying to communicate with Pfeiffer. She figures out that the spirit is trying to tell her the identity of her murderer. Gasp! How original! And does hubby believe her? Well what do you think? Of course he's all Oh honey you're just hysterical and I think you're overreacting and so on. And who's the killer? Could it be the seemingly normal but vaguely sinister next door neighbor... or could that be a red herring? Hmm... And then we find out who the killer really is in case we hadn't already guessed. Well, I've spoiled enough, but let me tell you, the revelation of the killer's identity is no more surprising than it is plausible. And toward the end of the movie, when our heroine finally faces off with the killer, director Robert Zemeckis must have suddenly developed a James Cameron complex; the climactic suspense sequences at the end of the story are as laughable as any lousy action film, and it is a fitting end to this completely mindless, unoriginal, and oddly self-impressed bit of tripe. Zemeckis throws every trick in the book at us, but after a while it just seems kind of desperate. While this may not be the worst film ever, it just doesn't gel for me. I found it predictable, contrived, and lazy. I didn't feel this was as bad as a 1, but I couldn't bring myself to give it anything above 2. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal But Effective Enough On A Dark Night","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" !!!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!!! Robert Zemeckis directs Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer . If this had been released three or four years earlier it would have been a massive blockbuster since all three were at the height of their box office pulling power . In 2000 all three were slowly but surely sliding down the ladder a bit , but having said that the movie still did pretty good businessWHAT LIES BENEATH plays out like a Hitchcock thriller with Claire Spencer convinced there's something not right about the couple next door and her husband Norman being very cynical on the matter . Despite the unoriginal premise Zemeckis made me jump out of my seat a few times with some simple editing and sound effects . The story starts to twist about half way through into a supernatural thriller and there is a scene in the bath involving Claire and Norman that caused me to literally jump out of my seat so I have no complaints with supernatural elements being brought into the plot . Unfortunately there's one too many supernatural twist at the end which resolves the movie but is rather contrived in its level of coincidence and is rather ridiculous when you think about it in detailHaving said that I should just repeat that this movie caused me to jump a few times and we have the opportunity of seeing Harrison Ford in an unusual role . Don't think about it too much if you're watching it on TV one dark night and you might gain some scary enjoyment from WHAT LIES BENEATH "},{"Title":"Ouija Board, Ouija Board, would you help Claire Spencer Solving her problems?","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An eclectic although a bit erratic filmmaker throughout his career, Robert Zemeckis chose to shot a movie with a very trendy topic since several years psychological fantastic movie. The result is What Lies Beneath. What did I think of this movie? It disappointed me a lot and disappointment is all the more significant as this movie had been highly praised. I think that quite obviously Zemeckis isn't gifted for psychological fantastic.Lots of people had told me that What Lies Beneath was a creepy film. Frankly, I must say that I wasn't scared at all. On the contrary, certain sequences made me laugh. Zemeckis is powerless to establish a lasting feeling of fear, anxiety and this way he can't hold a candle to Night Shyamalan (the Sixth Sense, 1999) or even Adrian Lyne (Jacob's Ladder, 1990), partly because quite a lot of sequences are too carefully made to create fear. Furthermore, such a mysterious story should convey suspense. But just like fear, Zemeckis is unable to create and maintain it during the whole movie and it is in a comparative indifference that you watch Michèle Pfeiffer's investigation until she finds the horrible truth.The scenario of What Lies Beneath in its general line could have given rise to a great fantastic movie. Besides, the beginning of the film turns out to be promising thanks to the paranormal phenomenons (the doors that open themselves, the bathtub that fills itself with water) but as the movie goes along, these strange phenomenons tend to be less frequent and you almost deal with a trite detective movie. Moreover, Zemeckis' efforts to make the movie fascinating are ineffective, even by using some processes linked to detective movie such as the wrong track (the first sequences when Pfeiffer suspects her neighbor to be a murderer).Basically with What Lies Beneath, the filmmaker wanted to make a good fantastic movie that paid a tribute to Alfred Hitch Hitchcock. All right, why not? But the problem is that Robert Zemeckis mistakes tribute and borrowing. Because he borrows too many sequences, ideas from the master of suspense, he makes his movie dull and it loses of its appeal and its credibility. In short, too many borrowings end up spoiling the movie. It is also to be noted that Zemeckis didn't only draw his inspiration from Hitchcock. Indeed, the paranormal phenomenons recall the Sixth Sense whereas it is difficult not to think of Shining by Kubrick and les diaboliques by Clouzot for the sequences in the bathroom. Even the conclusion of the plot has nothing amazing because it recalls a thriller entitled the Stepfather (1987).In the middle of these shortcomings, the movie has only one asset the directing, it means the way Zemeckis shot his sequences where he shows a certain ease.Ultimately, What Lies Beneath is an unremarkable supernatural thriller with allusions or rather borrowing from Hitchcock. Fortunately, Zemeckis was to shot a better and more down-to-earth movie the same year Cast Away.   "},{"Title":"A great movie to watch if your in a coma...","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What Lies Beneath was in fact the worst movie I have evr seen in my entire life,it had good acting but that doesnt make up for a crap movie!!This film delivered absolutley NO SUSPENSE like it was led to believe,and a crap plot that makes you vomit!!This film was suposed to be the scariest movie of 2000,but what did I get when I watched it?yup,crap.Harrison Ford does give a good performance,but that doesnt make up for this movie's many flaws.Seriously people,DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM,IT IS PURE S***.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever madeSpoiler","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  These movies are meant to be a psychological horror that gradually builds up the suspense and leads to a heartstoppingly intense finale. The opening 20 minutes of this are quite good as it lets you see and feel the characters emotions and there are some effective frights but then it just deteriorates into a farce.The movie is laughably bad. I didn't laugh this much when I watched Meet The Parents. It's supposed to be akin to an Alfred Hitchcock movie. When did he make a comedy and advertise it as horror.Quite frankly this is the worst movie I have ever seen.SPOILERThe ending is terrible. How Harrision Ford can get into that car after having his head sliced open I don't know. Also how can a dead person with no explanation as to why get up and drag him under the water.The performances are just as bad. Michelle Pfeiffer has about 10 anxiety attacks in the movie and Harrison Ford just can't be bothered to create a 3d character. All in all this pile of crap is not worth watching no matter who you are. I can't understand why any critics like it's style or visual effect. I saw better effects in Only Fools and Horses.* out of ***** "},{"Title":"Torture for me to sit through","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Maybe I saw the wrong version.  Maybe I was in a mood.  In any event, the movie I saw called 'What Lies Beneath' was so stupid that I can't believe it wasn't a tv-movie on USA starring Sally Kirkland and Tom Selleck.I love Michelle Pfeiffer and have suffered through many of her mistakes ('Up Close and Personal' comes to mind) because even if the movie is bad, she's always good.  Well even she let me down in this one.  I'm not even going to mention Harrison Ford.Don't want to go on cause I already feel stupid for having seen the entire movie, so don't want to trump that by spending more time writing about it.  "}{"Title":"boring, boring, boring","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With the exception of the twist in the end of the movie 5 minutes, this movie sucks with a passion! Very boring!  Waste of time and money!BrainBuzz13  "},{"Title":"Use this as an example of how NOT to make a movie","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gets my nomination for worst film of the year.  Achingly slow.  Brain numbing.  Creaky by-the-numbers plot.  Zemeckis, give me my money back.  What bet did the big stars (Pfeiffer, Ford) lose to have to make this drivel?   Do not even think about renting this turkey.  The only frightening thing about this mess is the two hours wasted watching it. "},{"Title":"A big giant mess!","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Perhaps the most over-rated film of 2000, this is one of Zemeckis' worst movies. The only redeeming feature of this film is great acting by Michelle Pfeiffer, who does what she can with this script. The problem with this film is that it can't decide on what genre to be, so it just jumbles it all together.On one hand, it's an eerie ghost story. But then, it turns into a good- husband-turns-bad story. Then, it becomes a psychological drama about a lonely wife with an empty nest. Add to that a totally pointless subplot about strange neighbours living next door whose actions are never addressed.Yes, there are some scary suspenseful scenes. But the plot is a big mess. One minute Pfeiffer is a lonely woman in a haunted house, and the next minute she's evil and writhing on the floor at Harrison Ford.This movie gets more and more ridiculous as it progresses. Avoid this horrible mess. "},{"Title":"The worst film this year!","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!!!Robert Zemeckis' WHAT LIES BENEATH is an utterly awful film from start to finish. It is so predictable that their is no suspense through the entire film. Plus, if you've seen the trailer you have seen the entire movie in under three minutes. The trailer gives away key plot points that do not come up in the film until almost the end. The acting is subpar. Michelle Pfeiffer is an overrated actress- she rarely embodies any of the characters she plays (the only two good performances she ever gave were in BATMAN RETURNS and THE AGE OF INNOCENCE). Harrison Ford always plays Harrison Ford in his films, and this is proof why. As soon as he takes a role that is different from his screen persona, he turns into a pathetic actor. This is the worst work he has ever done. The screenplay is like a mixture of all the great Hitchcock films, but unlike the other film that did that (Kenneth Branagh's brillant DEAD AGAIN), this film lacks all the charm and suspense of those films. This is the worst film I have seen all year!!! "},{"Title":"Show me something new...","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Entertaining, but predictable.   And, of course, the male is always the bad guy.   Show me something new, Hollywood. This was very similar to Stir of Echoes.  "},{"Title":"Save your $8.50 - maybe rent it one day when you're completely bored!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford are two of my favorite actors and so I went opening night.  Unfortunately for me! This was so contrived and utterly boring, I was saddened to see Ford and Pfeiffer putting their time into it.  Not much to say other than completely ridiculous story.  Could have been so good too!  Sadly it is just nothing! Save your money folks.  Better luck next time Harrison! "},{"Title":"Pfeiffer is great...the movie isn't","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OK supernatural thriller.  Pfeiffer is very good as a woman who thinks she's going crazy.  Ford is HORRIBLE as her husband...he's incapable of playing a weak man.  The movie made me jump a few times but that's about it.  It's too long (the ending goes on FOREVER), the first hour has very little to do with the rest of the movie and it just gets dull.  Too bad.  Worth seeing for Pfeiffer's performance.  Otherwise, stay away. "},{"Title":"Like the drip, drip, drip of the Chinese torture !  Thumbs DOWN.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday afternoon.  My opinion is that it is poorly cast, poorly directed, poorly scripted, etc., etc., etc; however, I do give it an A for set-decoration.The movie moves like an inch-worm.  It's lack of subtlety is appalling. It is flagrant in its attempt to frighten, and, thereby, loses it's appeal.Harrison Ford was the wrong person for the role.  In fact, he has become tiresome, as far as I am concerned; therefore, I shall avoid his movies in the future.  Michelle Pfeiffer might have given a better performance under a better director.When I returned home, after having seen this movie, I rang my daughter who loves thrillers to see what she had thought of it.  Her response to it was as mine had been.  She gave it a 'thumbs-down'.It is really too bad that this story was so mis-handled because the story, itself is a good one.  Too bad that it was not in better hands. "},{"Title":"2 Hours of my life I can't get back.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have seen in quite some time.  I can't believe that Harrison Ford, Michelle Pfeiffer, and Robert Zemeckis made this piece of trash.  I just saw the movie last night and I am still upset that I wasted time and money on it. After the 3rd or 4th tense music, walking through the dark, waiting to get scared scene the audience was actually laughing at the movie.  I don't think that was the effect the producers were looking for.  Did they really need to have ALL of those scenes?  The movie was way too long to start with.The story was not much better.  I found it confusing and amusing.  Did the ghost really appear in the bathroom scene or was that just Norman's imagination?  Claire calls her neighbor a murderer and he and his wife just laugh it off?  Who walks down a flight of stairs backwards?  How can a man crack his skull open on a sink and then run down a speeding truck?  How can a woman be paralyzed by drugs one minute and then be running through the house the next?  I realize suspending reality is needed in a movie like this, but come on!!!! The only believable and compelling character in this movie was Cooper the dog.My wife and I were trying to decide between this and Scary Movie.  I guess we chose Stupid Movie.  If you haven't seen What Lies Beneath, keep it that way. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the worst movie I've ever seen. Not only could I not believe either Michelle or Harrison, but the plot was so usual and typical and done a thousand times before. The dialogs are choppy and almost seem ad lib.I give a three because hey, Michelle Pfeiffer is Michelle Pfeiffer. I can't follow the story, sorry. The critics of this movie in this case are right in the general perception of it's atrocity. Harrison Ford has his worst acting performance ever. I actually had high hopes for this movie, but I was let down tremendously. The supernatural effect was not developed enough and I was actually convinced the neighbor killed his wife. The actual explanation of the fact she wasn't killed was far fetched and so incredibly unbelievable. Slipping and hitting your head on a porcelain tub never seemed more unrealistic as well as the escape from a tub filling with water. There was no excitement in this movie what so ever. I was able to figure out each and every action before it actually happened and the way I figured it in my mind was a better version than the actual product. "}{"Title":"Scary But Riddled With Clichés","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath tries SO hard to be Hitchcockian. Well, I've been watching Hitchcock again and this ain't no Hitchcock.It's a grown-up Scream for adults, what with mature co-stars in Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford. Director Robert Zemeckis uses every cliché shot in the book, every expected trick, and gosh it still grabs us.But every time the audience screams -- and we did, a lot--we immediately all burst out laughing at the gotcha!. It's the kind of movie that the audience narrates out loud as if doing closed captioning for the blind- Oh look, the door's open! Oh she found a key! Oh the bath tub's full again!Hitchcock did it all already and better -- the shower in Psycho, the taking on of a ghostly identity in Vertigo, the quotidian being the scariest of all (a playground in The Birds --gosh one of the most frightening scenes on screen--and a kitchen murder in Torn Curtain etc. etc.)It's a roller coaster ride in a water park that you go on to enjoy being scared at because you know it's going to go downhill underwater fast. The music was so cliché that the audience even narrated that Oh scary music! (8/4/2000) "},{"Title":"Awful for so many reasons","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recall seeing this one summer in high school when tickets had gone up something upwards of two dollars in a month.  I wouldn't have minded the increase if the movies being made were better, or at the very least, NOT inspiring me to have my eyes slowly eaten out by ravens or vultures or what-have-you. This movie (and i use the term loosely) was excrutiatingly abysmal. The main problem, of course, is that Harrison Ford plays a villain.  Oops, that may have been a spoiler, although if you're reading this review and STILL want to see this bile, I can only say I warned you and take solace in the fact that there are other people in the world that will also be permanently stupider for having seen it.  But back to Harrison Ford There's a reason why he doesn't play bad guys, and that reason is that he can only make about three faces smug, blank, and momentarily enraged.  This makes him ideal for Richard Kimble, Hans Solo and Indiana Jones.  This makes him awful as a genuine bad guy.  Now one can argue that this was a good casting move, making his villainy more of a shocker.  The person making this argument would, however, be wrong; Ford's evilness is so obvious from the get-go that the revelation is rather embarrassing for all concerned (which, fortunately, did not include me). Other gaping problems include Ford's character dying every five minutes,Michelle Pfeiffer owning a pistol that stores 17,000 bullets, some annoying shots on a dock which completely ruin any pacing the movie may have been struggling to acquire, and a dog with a funny name (which i wisely have blocked from my memory).  And don't even get me started on the last scene. Let's just say that underwater fight sequences involving people dead for several years make me laugh until stomach acid comes out my eyes. In fact it was so funny that a few weeks later, myself and a few friends pre-drank a second screening (a friend got us free passes, and how the movie was still in theatres is beyond me) so that we could tear the movie apart in a way that makes Statler and Waldorf look like yes-men. If you see this movie, be prepared to become a bark-eating hermit and recluse yourself from society.  I saw it two years ago and still sport the scars... "},{"Title":"Disappointing. A waste of a good cast.","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pfeiffer is excellent and Ford does what little he has to well but there simply isn't enough substance in the film.This isn't scary, it isn't surprising and it isn't original.There is nothing new in this film, it takes a lot of clichés and puts them together in a way that tries to keep you guessing but just leaves you bored.The attempts to generate suspense fail miserably and the twists are so transparent they seem to be just there to bulk the film up.The ending is so over played it was almost laughable.It isn't an awful film but there is nothing special or interesting about it, you can watch it to the end but there isn't really any reason to do so. Go watch Stir of Echoes instead! "},{"Title":"Bad. Not Funny. Not Scary","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I usually can find something interesting in any film. Its a hobby. But here there is nothing at all noteworthy. Folks, this is the stuff our kids have been making fun of for years.Michelle has based her living on her face, and it is showing signs of too many tuneups. Ford might have had a stroke, but who would know?I understand a squad of script doctors worked on this, which explains the splice of two script ideas. Also a fixit team was called in late in the game. Shows. But there's just too much broken here.Even I was disappointed.  "},{"Title":"A surprisingly stale thriller, full of red herring subplots and cheap jump scares...","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Lies Beneath Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer play a seemingly happily married couple who uncover a terrible secret...a secret so disturbing it threatens to destroy them. When Claire Spencer begins seeing ghostly images and hearing mysterious voices in their home, her husband Norman suspects it's just her imagination - until the images turn real. Now, together they must uncover the truth, confront their worst fears and find what lies beneath...with twisting and terrifying results.Considering 'What Lies Beneath' is directed by Robert Zemeckis, the fact that it is so run-of-the-mill and, well...dull, comes as quite a surprise. Maybe he isn't quite cut out for the thriller genre (see last year's mediocre 'House on Haunted Hill' remake, which he produced), but whatever the reason, this is a stale thriller, full of red herring subplots, cheap jump scares and a silly script that includes séances, possession, and a final couple of scenes taken right from some teen slasher film. Michelle Pfeiffer is okay, but there's only so much she can do. Harrison Ford sleepwalks through his role...what more can I say? There's a truly nail-biting sequence involving a character in a bathtub (I won't say more, but people who've seen the film will know what I mean), and it's truly the kind of stuff great thrillers are made from. Just a pity Zemeckis couldn't make the rest of the film as involving.~ 4/10 ~ "},{"Title":"Suffers badly from rehash-itis ...","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The problem with What Lies Beneath is not the acting or the directing, but what lies beneath The screenplay. We've seen this movie a thousand times before, and no amount of skill on the part of the actors or directing talent can help with this.It would be literally impossible to write a spoiler on this film, because it's been done so many times before. I won't bother to describe the story, but you may want to see it for reasons other than suspense or interesting story (actors involved, etc). If not, I would recommend staying away. There's just no suspense here at all, and it has nothing to do with anything but the fact that this film has been endlessly rehashed, rehashed and rehashed yet again. I did manage to sit through it, but only because I love Robert Zemeckis's directing and appreciate both Michelle Pfeiffer and Harrison Ford. With a different director and less talented actors this would have been about 2/10. "},{"Title":"Awful film","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen thousands of movies but WLB is seriously very, very bad. I am shocked that Ford/Pfeiffer/Zemeckis actually churned out a film so awful. Considering how many cool movies Zemeckis has created in the past such as the BTTF trilogy, Who Framed Roger Rabbit and Cast Away, plus his involvement with the 'Dark Castle' movies (House on Haunted Hill, Thir13en Ghosts, Ghost Ship-all graphic and way scary) and Tales From The Crypt for WLB to be such a boring affair is bizarre. Thank goodness I bought this DVD cheap, I would have felt so criminally cheated if I had paid full price for it. Never before has 2 hours seemed so unfathomably long. Every tedious minute is dragged out and every second is felt. This wouldn't be so bad if the plot and story were bearable but the whole thing is so full of holes and embarrassing contrivances that it becomes too hard to swallow. For such a long, drawn-out and tedious affair to have a boring, tension-free ending is unreal. Considering the talent behind this film it's strange for it to be so bad. I wouldn't recommend it under any circumstances.The DVD is in 2.351 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby/DTS 5.1 sound.  "},{"Title":"Great movie with a great plot hole.","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the most enjoyable horror films ever. very good characterization. But, what pours water on everything is a very huge plot hole in the story.The ghost types MEF MEF MEF...on the screen to hint the name of the victim, May Elizabeth Frank at one point and it goes on to scare Michele Pfifer forcing her to discover the truth.If the ghost could type MEF, why not just type you lousy husband killed me. My name is Mary Elizabrth Frank. My address is.... My parents live in... and finish off the matter.I get a feeling that it was a loophole that went unnoticed by the filmmakers. Of course, inclusion of this makes the whole plot look silly. "},{"Title":"The type of movie you know directors tried too hard","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So I saw this movie on vacation in a hotel while i was getting ready to go out. In the beginning you feel like its one of those movies were the women is getting all mystical and everybody thinks shes crazy but shes not, and then in the end she proves them wrong. The kind of movie were the husband remains the pants in the family and tries everything he can in his power to keep the brains of his wife in one place. HOW ORIGINAL! Well the directors tried WAY too hard to make this movie an original, the end of the movie is sloppy, yet interesting.Better then Air Force One.Indina Jones is probably the only reason Harris Ford Is still acting. "},{"Title":"Garbage!!","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Spoilers included, and you can thank me.What can you say about a movie that had a little of Fatal Attraction, Rebecca,Six Sense, Basic Instinct, and Gaslight? Put it into a Plot and stir, and you get garbage. The beginning was not bad at all, so i thought it could only get better...but it didn't. Oh yes, I forgot another movie with the above..THe Terminator. Give yourselves a moment and visual each movie and see if you can see some similarities. A 99% percent dying human being, left on the floor of his home, only to appear in the back of the pickup truck that his wife is driving. Just when you thought he was dead. Terminator? Anyone? How did he have the strength to do so? I just laughed and laughed the entire scene that I got disgusted for wasting 3 hours of my time watching on TV with an hour of commercials. There just was nothing else on TV that night. "}{"Title":"Stupid Movie","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I give it a -1!This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen! There are so many attempts to startle you that it gets humorous for a second, then extremely boring! I knew I should have seen Scary Movie. At least it is supposed to be stupid. "},{"Title":"What Lies Beneath","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Director Robert Zemeckis (Back to the Future, Forrest Gump) proves himself a versatile director with this spooky supernatural thriller. Basically retired concert cellist Claire Spencer (Michelle Pfeiffer) was involved in a car accident, and now a year on she has to go through sending her daughter Caitlin Spencer (Katharine Towne) to college. Now Claire is convinced she can hear voices, and suspects her quite new neighbour of murder, and Claire's husband, university research scientist Dr. Norman Spencer (Harrison Ford) is very concerned for her. The suspected murder of the neighbour, Mary Feur (The Lord of the Rings' Miranda Otto) by husband Warren (James Remar) is cleared up, but Claire is still sure that a spirit is trying to tell her something. She sees the woman's face in the bath, and tells a little bit more to shrink Dr. Drayton (Joe Morton), and eventually she finds a name, based on some initials she found. It turns out husband Norman knew this girl that disappeared, he had an affair with her, and unfortunately for Claire, he plans her to be his next victim, drowning her while she is still from breathing chloroform. The last scenes of Claire trying to escape (after her body is back to normal), and the car plunges into the lake, with Norman going down with it, because of the body of the dead girl grabbing him, is very interesting. Also starring Diana Scarwid as Jody and Amber Valletta as Madison Elizabeth Frank. The spooky moments all add the mystery, Pfeiffer is convincing as the traumatised, Ford drops his lovable action hero persona completely to become a sinister and quite unexpected villain, definitely worth a look. If you have Scary Movie 2, then you would recognise the spoof of the I think she's starting to suspect something moment, and in the deleted scenes, the still in the bath sequence. Good! "},{"Title":"Good performances but really an overlong and lacklustre affair","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Norman and Claire Spencer are a happily married couple who have just helped their daughter move out and go to university.  Norman starts to worry about Claire when she hears voices in the voice and claims to have seen ghostly images appearing in water such as the lake and the bath.  Claire believes that the girl she sees is in some way connected to their neighbours - a belief that becomes stronger when she feels that the wife next door has been murdered.  As she investigates, she begins to uncover surprising dark secrets.Despite the lacklustre reviews for this film I decided to give it a stab nonetheless.  The film feels like it was meant to be a classic film - very much like the phrase `Rolls Royce of a movie' was in the minds of the producers when it was conceived.  This is apparent in many ways - the actors involved, the lack of special effects and even the overly long running time. The plot is actually quite good, but the film could easily have done without Claire's suspicions over the neighbour's wife - that ran for a large chunk of time and really isn't the focus, in fact it feels like filler, but why have filler in a film that already runs longer than it really needed. The film wants to be an old fashioned scary movie but the problem with that is that it isn't going to have much of an affect on modern audiences.  It has good moments where the style and atmosphere get it right, but it doesn't really manage to do it anywhere near consistently enough though for my money.  If you do find this scary then I can only suggest you see Ringu or Dark Water - just two of many films that have the same aims but do it much better than this.The cast is good, both on paper and on screen.  It is good to see Pfeiffer in a major film simply because she seems to have hit an age where roles start to get harder to come by - too young for an older character, too old for a younger character.  Here she is actually very good even if she is just required to `be a little creeped out' at times.  Her interactions with Ford are good and, where she has to change her character a bit, she shows she can still easily be very sexy and seductive.  Ford is enjoyably solid but not quite as good.  The requirements of his character are a bit too much for him and it shows at time - he didn't convince me and some of the jumps he has to make and not well done.  Aside from a minor role from Joe Morton there aren't really any other main actors in this film - but the lead pair do well enough to carry.Overall this wants to be a classy movie and I suppose that some people may take that from it.  However for me it was too long and didn't have the consistently creepy atmosphere that it really needed to do the job.  It is maybe worth a watch once if you like creepy stories and have the patience to bear with it through the stages where it just seems to be meandering instead of moving. "}]