[{"Title":"The Son of Sam story is an effective backdrop","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"50 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  The Son of Sam killings are just a backdrop to a slice-of-life story in New York City in the summer of 1977.  I believe that Spike Lee wanted to tell a story about the seventies - the excesses of sex, drugs and the desperation of the times.  He chose a summer that stood out in the minds of the people who lived through it because of the record heat, the murders and the blackout.  The Son of Sam killer was in one sense a strongly contrasting back drop and in another sense an extreme sign of the times.  David Berkowitz was out of control and driven by invisible demons, but that could be said of the main character Vinnie.  The difference between the two could almost be reduced to a matter of degree.  I was struck by the part of the story where a group of friends thought the killer was one of their own because he was into punk rock and same-sex sex for money.  Their misunderstanding of the killer seemed startling in light of what we know about serial killers today, but was dead on for the time.  Spike Lee reminds us with this movie how much damage is done when we allow ourselves to be driven by our ignorance and fear.  He makes us uncomfortable, of course, but the lesson rings so true.  As far as the direction went, I thought that it was classic Spike Lee with a little taken from some other popular young directors, but if someone imitates something good and does it well, I don't complain.  My favorite scene is where the punk rocker character Richie does a porno dance to The Who.  The soundtrack is also pretty good, by the way.  I gave the movie a 9 out of 10.      "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"43 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know I may be one of the three people to say this (Roger Ebert being another of the few), but I think Summer of Sam is a great movie!  First off, I'm a Spike Lee fan and I do feel that this is one of his best films.  I think the problem most people had with the movie was that it wasn't the standard serial killer thriller they were expecting.  If that's what you're expecting, you will be disappointed.  Instead, S.O.S. is a character study that focuses on the paranoia that spread amongst New Yorkers in the summer of the late seventies, when everyone was suspecting one another of being the Son of Sam.  It was like a modern-day version of the Salem Witch Hunt.  If you were as much as an eccentric, you were a suspect (like in the case of Adrien Brody's character in this movie).  I like movies that focus on characters, and take time to develop them to a point where a feel a deep connection to each of them.  Spike is one of those directors who favors character development over plot devices, and I think that's what makes most of his films work.  The characters and dialogue are written in a very realistic fashion.  It helps that Spike cast mostly authentic New York actors (i.e.  Adrien Brody, Jennifer Esposito, Mike Starr, Michael Rispoli).  First of all, they don't have to fake their accents.  Secondly, New Yorkers just have a certain vibe that cannot be fabricated.  It also helps that the actors all have a great chemistry with one another.  The cast is excellent all-around, with not one bad apple in the bunch.  I think John Leguizamo gives the best performance of his career.  For a comedic actor, he can surely pull off a straight role with flying colors.  Part of the reason why is because he doesn't try too hard to play the drama, and when there's a scene that gives him a comic opportunity, he takes advantage.  It's nice to see that Brody became famous, after winning an Oscar for The Pianist (as a side note, he's the youngest ever actor to win a Best Actor Oscar).  If you're anxious to check out one of his good earlier performances, he does a superb job in this movie.  Some people have criticized the use of F-bombs throughout the film--and yes, there are many.  If you're easily offended by bad language, this will be like sitting through a death camp.  But I didn't feel the language was in any way gratuitous.  We're dealing with working-class Italian-Americans from the Bronx, who are involved in things like drugs and prostitution!  Obviously, they're not going to be saying things like gosh darn it!  This is not like South Park where there's just profanity for the sake of profanity.  It adds to the film's realism.  Finally, I loved the film's lighting style.  Some of the shots are rough and grainy, but it helps intensify the gritty tone of the film.  If you're one of those people who likes slow-moving character studies with great acting, you might share my feelings about Summer of Sam.  Obviously, if you're part of the summer blockbuster crowd who favors explosions and gross-out gags, this will put you to sleep.  The movie runs at approximately 2 hours and 20 minutes, yet I never once felt bored.  I'm not one of those people with a minute attention span, but any movie that can sustain my interest for 2 hours and 20 minutes deserves much acclaim.  I have nothing wrong with long movies, as long as they're not overlong.  After all, bad movies are never too short and good movies are never too long.  When a movie is this great, you don't want it to end abruptly; you want it to keep going.  (10 out of 10)P.S.  The seventies soundtrack is magnificent! "},{"Title":"Just one story about the summer of 1977 in New York.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Summer Of Sam is the story of just one group of people and what they went through during the Summer of 1977 in New York during the Son of Sam murders. If you are expecting a film the is solely about the David Berkowitz and the son of sam murders you will be dissapointed because while this does tell that story all the way through the film it is more about a just one set of people and how it affected them. The acting is very good especially from John Leguizano (vinny) and the gorgious Mira Sorvino (Dionna) and although sometimes the film drags a little they make this fresh and worthwile sticking through the 137 minutes. The soundtrack is fantastic as is the direction from Spike Lee and it is nice to see him doing a subject that is different from his usual African American topics. A good movie . 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Flashy Departure For Spike Lee...","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"33 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee goes berserk with SUMMER OF SAM, a twisted revisiting of the Son of Sam killings, New York, 1977.  Lee steps away from his usual message pictures depicting the differences between blacks and whites and plunges us into the small Italian neighborhood within the largest city in the United States that serial killer David Berkowitz terrorized for months.  The Son of Sam himself (played by Michael Badalucco) is placed in the back seat and Lee presents a community and an era for that matter in complete chaos.SUMMER OF SAM has its good points and its bad points.  We get to know this locale very well whether we like it or not.  The characters who populate the neighborhood are funny, sad, and stupid all at the same time.  You get a feel for the smells and the language of that time in that place.  1977 was the year of Disco's peak, the uprising of British punk rock (represented well by the Adrien Brody character Ritchie), and the Yankees were on top of the baseball world.  These characters are truly nuts in their vigilante approach to finding the killer.  Hell, Reggie Jackson (#44) may be the .44 caliber killer.Aside from seeing into a sometimes gripping and stupefying world of violence and flash, the film does go overboard many times.  Lee continuously rams the sex aspect of the period into our minds and Berkowitz is not seen or known enough.  I did not expect a Berkowitz bio at all, however a more focused look at the killer would have proved more effective.  The relationship between Vinny and Dionna (John Leguizamo and Mira Sirvino)   is well-done, but over-told.  True, Vinny is the movie's central character, but he has barely a redeeming quality and is a hard-headed product of his environment.The cinematography and overall sound of SUMMER OF SAM is awesome.  It looks grimy when it should and the use of The Who on the soundtrack is emotionally rousing, especially during the inevitable climax.  I liked the picture mostly for cinematic reasons than for historical or emotional ones.  The fictional neighborhood pieces are not as good as the small glimpses of Berkowitz, who does indeed chat with dogs.  It did remind me in many ways of Lee's DO THE RIGHT THING, but this film has a larger canvas to paint.  It works despite the shortcomings.RATING ***  "},{"Title":"Sam-Enchanted Evenings","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam was berated on its US release by New Yorkers and relatives of the victims of serial killer David Berkowitz alike.  In the summer of 1977, paranoia eclipsed disco fever as the so-called .44 Killer murdered six and injured seven, all while keeping in contact with columnist Jimmy Breslin (whose comments bookend this movie).  Not the kind of events to revisit in these days of the easily offended, and seeing Lee's claustrophobic take on Berkowitz in his deranged apartment is almost enough deter you from visiting the Big Apple.The focus of the movie is an insular community of Italian-Americans. Mistrust rules the roost the only thing close-knit about them is an occasional cheesy tank-top.  Fear and conformity underpin the set-pieces upon which Lee thrives, from cops meeting a Mafia chief (Ben Gazarra) to a half-hearted Studio 54-style orgy.  John Leguizamo thrives when passing himself off as John Travolta, but his marriage is a hollow sham.  His quest for redemption hinges on saving punk friend Ritchie (Adrien Brody) from both himself and the lynchmob they grew up with.Summer of Sam has invited comparisons with Do the Right Thing, on account of its portrayal of the simmering tensions building up to horrendous violence. Yet the lifestyles on show throughout make it closer to Scorsese's Mean Streets, albeit balanced by several strong female leads, notably Mira Sorvino.  At 142 minutes it has stretched the attention span of some viewers and reviewers, but as the closing credits roll Lee has got us to care about the characters as each boils over.  Ditching the irksome music video/sitcom visuals - even at a Late-term Abortions gig, with Ritchie on guitar - this is Spike Lee's most mature joint to date.Graham Barnfield  "},{"Title":"You can almost feel the heat and dirt on your clothes as if you were right there in hot New York City","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" With films like 'Inside Man' and the upcoming 'Selling Time', it appears as though Spike Lee is departing from his gritty streetwise films on racial prejudice, and into the pleasant commercial world of Hollywood. He stills touches upon the odd racial issue today, as is his trademark, but they seem more like mandatory inclusions than anything else, being left unexplored and unimportant. This is not saying Summer of Sam is a lecture on racism or anything (in fact, it steers away from the topic), but it fits the gritty crime-infested streets style that Lee used to do so well.Summer of Sam brutally zooms in on an Italian-American South Bronx neighbourhood in the summer of 1977 -- the hottest summer ever, a real killer. Lee does not shy away from sex, drugs, raunchy dialogue or violence in his portrayal of the events which are based on reality of the summer nights when Sam murdered women on the streets. As the Bronx inhabitants grow anxious and suspicious of the murders, Summer of Sam focuses its story on Vinny (John Lequizamo), his marriage with Dionna (Mira Sorvino) and his friends and we see how the killings affect their lives, while plating the Son of Sam himself in the backseat to make room for these dynamic characters.I can admit that there is no strong point or focus in this film, but I don't think it's entirely necessary. It's a portrayal, and a realistic one at that -- it is also a portrayal of an era, the 1970s and this is most apparent in the flashy 54-styled nightclubs that Vinny and Dionna go to. It occasionally drags on, but this is good because it emphasizes the terrible heat and anxiousness of the city, making it almost nightmarish. It is so realistic that you can almost feel the heat and dirt on your clothes as if you were right there in steaming hot New York City. I therefore feel that a great deal of praise is due to a film that succeeds in being haunting without actually dealing with the murders head-on. 8/10 "},{"Title":"It's a shame...","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a shame this movie came out when it did, during a time when it was as politically incorrect as it could get to have violence in a movie (think post-Colorado shootings).  If this movie were released a year sooner or later it wouldn't have been as ignored and hated as it is.  This is really a good movie, if you aren't expecting a crime-thriller, but an interesting look at the summer of 77 in New York.  The use of music is outstanding in this movie, the atmosphere is incredible, the editing is flawless, and it makes my top ten of 99.  Not for the faint of heart (ie. conservatives who go insane when they see sex or violence on the screen).  There is nothing 'a priori' wrong with having sex or violence in a movie.  If you don't like that kind of stuff, what the #$%$ did you see this movie for? "},{"Title":"Summer of Spam","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film is a collection of cliche's on just about anything out there. It has no focus whatsoever, no goals, no real message. Symbolism is pushed over the top and stereotyping is abundant and outrageous.  This movie can't resist the temptation of making drama where non exists. Every small exchange of words turns immediately into a lengthy, unjustified dialog that is so typical of an acting class rehearsal. Where there is no substance to this exchange, the actors (regardless of how good they are normally) can't help but compensate with exaggerated emotion, aka raising the stakes. Over acting, to put it simply. The directing is of no help here. Nothing can save this non-story. It is forced, faked and boring to tears. Inaccuracies in portaraying punk rock with The Who, piercings and flashy 90's outfits. Characters wander without a role, detail and motive. Locations are arbitrary. This is Boogie Nights cum The Good Fellas cum Saturday Night Fever, with meaning and art ripped out.Good DP. I'll give it that.Some films have flaws. This film is Lee's flaw. He sold out, like the rest of them. Became irrelevant. He has nothing of interest to say anymore.I have no desire to see anything again from this guy (whom I'll refrain from naming from now on).  "},{"Title":"intriguing disappointment","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"30 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee's Summer of Sam, like most of his films, emerges as an intriguing but, nevertheless, regrettable failure.  Using as his background the long, hot summer of 1977, when the serial killer known as the Son of Sam held New York City in the grip of terror, Lee spins a tale of drug abuse, infidelity and violence among a group of Italians living in a Bronx neighborhood.  Unfortunately, Lee's meandering take on the subject robs it of much of its potential drama as he searches for a focal point that will make it compelling to the audience.  He only occasionally succeeds and that is when he concentrates on the two lead characters  Vinny, whose deep religious convictions and sincere devotion to his wife cannot compel him to resist his womanizing compulsions, and Dionna, his beautiful but longsuffering wife, who suspects his infidelities and desperately struggles to satisfy Vinny's strong sexual needs but who runs up against the roadblock of her husband's strange misapprehension about what exactly constitutes the extent of marital relations.  Vinny, in particular, as he struggles against the demons that plague him and the guilt they impose on him, suggests a complexity of character that makes him a compelling center for this otherwise sprawling story.Unfortunately, many of the subsidiary characters, who surround these two and keep pulling us away from them, emerge as little more than ethnic and sexual stereotypes, from the neighborhood mob boss (Ben Gazarra) to the loving-father drug dealer to the punk rock iconoclast to the local flaming fairy.  Not even strong performances by a game cast can infuse these roles with the depth and humanity necessary to justify their inclusion in the film.Stylistically, this film is much less visually flashy than previous Lee works with less elaborate camerawork and only the occasional near-subliminal quick cuts (used to convey memories) to distract us.  Lee should, also, have avoided at all costs the temptation to cast himself as an on-site news reporter.  Even more egregiously, why oh why did Lee feel compelled to visualize literally (through animatronics) the demon dog that Berkowitz reportedly cited as the motivation for his crimes actually barking out instructions to the crazed psychopath?The risk in these docudramas is that the moviemakers will not be able to match, in their narrative, the compelling nature of the actual events upon which they are based.  Lee's film is no exception, for just as the killer is captured, the fictional side of the story resolves itself in a flurry of heavy handed Ox Bow Incident melodramatics, scarcely credible even for a cadre of characters as lacking in common sense as these are.  Summer of Sam is notable for the performances of John Leguizamo and Mira Sorvino in the central roles, its disco-drenched soundtrack and its letter-perfect recreation of a particular moment in recent American history.  What a shame, then, that the film never really coheres into a satisfying whole. "},{"Title":"Here's a two sentence review (all that's required)","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam is complete cinematic crap, and an utter waste of time.  It's not the sex, it's not the violence; it's the terrible characters, the meandering and plotless script (lots of subplots, but no real plot), and the horrid directing that make this one big stinking pile and one of the worst if not THE worst film of 1999. "}{"Title":"BOOGIE NIGHTS MEETS FAILED DIRECTOR","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the most ridiculous and badly directed movies I've seen in a very long time. I've never liked Spike Lee, but thought I'd give this one a try bad mistake. The movie is supposed to show how the Son of Sam real life murders affected a neighborhood in the summer of 1977; what it really did was center around the most boring characters that I doubt anyone cared for as far as their drug problems, marriage problems, and so on, etc. The scenes that depict the murders are just that, and nothing more; a shooting and then it's back to Saturday Night Fever! What's even more ridiculous is Spike Lee's choice to show up as a reporter in the movie Spike, trust me, you're no Hitchcock, stay out of the movies, it makes them even worse off. The most silly scene had to be the dog speaking in a goofy voice, which was depicted in a scene before it where it was supposed to have been shot???  Spike, what were you thinking when you made this film? Not thinking at all is my guess. People who think they'll see a crime drama, take my advice and do not waste your time or money on this loser. You're better off watching Jerry Springer in this case! Waste of film, I gave it a 1 out of 10 awful dud.   "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why?That simple question had to be on the lips of every single New Yorker during the 12 months of terror that David Berkowitz created in 1976-77. That same one word will surely become the same perplexing question 22 summers later as people exit theaters exhibiting the trite and exploitative Summer of Sam.Director Spike Lee attempts to weave the story of a pack of misguided thugs searching for the celebrated psychopath -- who paralyzed New York City for over a year -- with a stark and graphical depiction of the killings, the demons inside Berkowitz's head and the frustration of a futile NYPD manhunt. He presents an ensemble of despicable losers who hear their own barking dogs as they live lives devoid of love, honor and humanity  -- no different than Berkowitz.  Lee browbeats the audience in nearly every frame with not one of us are what we seem to be.  Often a critic of the white establishment, Lee perpetuates the stereotype by including a scene where Mira Sorvino, playing a newlywed with a cheating husband (John Leguizamo), hopes to have oral sex with a black man in the back of a big black Cadillac.  An Italian Mafioso tells a black detective that the famous Willie Mays' over-the-back center field catch was lucky.  Lee even makes sure to deliver the racist musings of one middle aged black woman who declares I'm happy it's a white man killing all these white people because if it were a black man killing all these white people - there would be the biggest race riot in NYC history.Other than an outstanding opening pan shot of an arrival at a disco (reminiscent of shots from Martin Scorcese's Goodfellas or Orson Welles' The Third Man), this film has no soul, purpose or passion.  He parades characters on the screen bereft of human decency.  Although we learn nothing about the true victims of this horrible spree, Spike Lee seems to be saying New York City got what it deserved during that frightening, boiling summer over two decades ago.How could anyone wreak such havoc on his beloved city?  How could someone show such hatred toward his fellow man?Are these appropriate questions for Berkowitz or Lee?You decide.  "},{"Title":"Misleading tag","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Finally got around to renting this.YES I already knew that it would not shed any light whatsoever on David Berkowitz (which is quite a shame)The idea of a film taking place in that context, however, was quite a refreshing breakthrough.However, the execution was severely disappointing.The main storyline IS NOT suspicion among friends and neighbors (if the focus stayed here, it would have been truly compelling)The bulk of the film is wasted on the Leguizamo's perversions interfering with his marriage, in redundant and graphic detail.He likes certain kinds of sex that he feels would cheapen his wife. If I wanted to watch a movie about a cheating pervy husband, I would have rented something else!This plot line overtakes the whole fiasco, blurring the more interesting story lines.A mistake.It prevents the film from EVER airing on network TV.ADD several annoying, overly long disco sequences.Setting the mood of an era is fine, but too much is more than enough.Overall comes across as a rough draft in severe need of editing. "},{"Title":"No Longer A Subjective Opinion New York Is The Greatest City In The World!","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Originally, the term, Chauvinist, derived from the articulate Frenchman, Chauvin, who thought French culture was unquestionably superior to virtually all other cultures in the world. Today,the term, Chauvinist, is construed as something pejorative with regards to eschewing feminism, aka the Male Chauvinist Pig. When implementing Chauvinism by its real definition,New York is the number one city (Dallas being a distant second) that would be classified as the most Chauvanistic city in the world! This adamant belief, which is garnered by many New Yorkers, (Including the people in this movie) evokes a quintessential candor with everyone about how New York is the only real city in the world. Snobbery amongst New Yorkers is not about country club elitism, rather, it deals with a cosmopolitan superiority which pertains to the actual concept of a city, and, its aggregate potential that purports how intensely urban a city like New York, and only New York, can actually be! Ironically enough, the New Yorker's bravado is predicated on how New York City is one big citadel for imperfection, and intransigent life lessons. There is just something acutely enlightening, and genuinely humorous about meeting an individual who truly believes that he is the best at something. New Yorkers of this ilk have the exuberance, not to mention, the b**ls (time to insert a euphemism) to cogently believe that they are, indeed, the greatest city in the world. What does this long dissertation have to do with the movie Summer of Sam? Only this, all of the characters in this movie were New Yorkers who all possess this Promethian New York City attitude.This movie deals with a lot of Italian Americans living in New York. I am Italian in descent, and, I have noticed that New York Italians differentiate themselves from all other Italian Americans in that they are for more ingrained with the old world Italian ideals. The film, Moonstruck established such a theory as their foundation for their movie's dynamic. Focusing now on the movie Summer of Sam, the whole plot was very high strung. The reaffirmation of the Saturday Night Fever mentality gave the movie audience a crystal clear concept of the prevailing mindset for all the significant characters in this film. Set in New York, back in 1977, Elvis passed away,Studio 54 became a nightclub sensation, Jimmy Carter was President, disco was king, gas was rationed, inflation was double digits, and that summer in New York City, in 1977, was one of the most hot and sweltering summers in the city's history. These young men were not just hot from the oppressive summer days, but also, from really liking Farah Fawcett Majors. While culture clashes disseminated an old stand-by motley crew of lost souls from the Bronx, the Son of Sam was at large to terrorize everyone just totally sh**less(time to insert another euphemism). The violence, the agitation,and the paradoxical love/hate relationship with New York City, all were executed flawlessly with this film! I found it interesting how someone would not slug you if you bumped into him and uttered profanity at him, but, he would deck you for being a Red Sox fan... Only the Yankees... Remember! The movie Summer of Sam covered the phenomenal event whereby Reggie Jackson hit three home runs in one game to win the 1977 World Series for the New York Yankees. This is painstakingly ironic that I just saw this movie, as I recently witnessed the World Series this year, 2011, in which, Albert Puljous hit three home runs in one World Series game against Texas. Only three players in the history of baseball have accomplished something so paramount Babe Ruth, Reggie Jackson, (As this movie points out) and, the 2011 World Series, Albert Puljous (For the champion St Louis Cardinals). Baseball in New York City has perennially been an identifiably pandemic obsession for New Yorkers to thrive on! Spike Lee directs this film, and, he is a wealth of talent (Including his performance in Do The Right Thing). The acting in this movie has a sensational authenticity to it.John Leguizamo was particularly convincing with his role in this movie, as the John Travolta incarnate case. Adrien Brody displayed an effective innocence as the emerging spawn of Punk Rock pop culture. Finally, the strong performance by Bebe Neuwirth(Formerly Lilith of Cheers) was very impressive! The use of cuss words in this film, overwhelms you, as the F word is used 324 times! Invariably, if a film is truly a good one, more often than not, it sensitizes you with some sort of indelible concept.. In my case, the New York Chauvanism, as depicted with such a fervent intensity in the movie Summer of Sam, was emphatically and indisputably, the concept which achieved such a feat. It is realistically indicative of our honestly innate human nature to be intrigued with someone who is convinced that his city is undeniably, the overall, number one, best city in the entire world, period! Americans still love a winner, in that case, they should love this movie! Without a doubt; There are eight million stories in the naked city,and this (Wonderfully creative masterpiece of a movie) was one of them! "},{"Title":"Congratulations! You just realized you were married.","Date":"9 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like movies about New York, you will love Summer of Sam and it's look at Italian-Americans in the Bronx in the Summer of '77.If you like movies that focus on the characters, rather than the events, then this is a must-see movie, as the reaction of these people to the events of that summer - the soaring heat and a crazy killer who gets his messages from a dog -- is priceless.Forget the killer in the title. He is only a backdrop to the story and is no more important that the heat. What this film is really about is the reaction of these people to a Summer of fear.I love John Leguizamo (Sueño, Land of the Dead, Collateral Damage) and in all the movies I have watched with him, this is his best performance. He is friends with Adrian Brody (Sueño, The Pianist, King Kong), who is, shall we say, a little strange as a punk guitarist who makes gay porn on the side. Friendship give way to peer pressure after he wife (Mira Sorvino) leaves him, and he turns on his friend as a suspect. It really shows how being different automatically makes you feared.The film has a lot a native New Yorkers and some of my favorites, so it really is watchable. In fact, I'll give Spike Lee's treasure another turn to see what I missed.Look for Jennifer Esposito, Michael Rispoli, Bebe Neuwirth, Anthony LaPaglia, and Ben Gazzara in this great cast.Skintastic Moment Nice shots of Patti LuPone's breasts as she fools around with hubby on the couch. "},{"Title":"The Talking Dog Is Not What It Seems","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Summer of Sam has a couple different meanings. It's not quite Son of Sam, the nickname of the serial killer the movie is ostensibly about. It's also an abbreviation for SOS, as in mayday. These are on purpose. Spike Lee centers a movie about paranoia, changing times, metaphorical dog collars, war, post trauma, stress, sexual revolutions, disco vs punk and scapegoats into one electric, charged, throbbing explosion of a movie. It's a bit indulgent, maybe doesn't completely add up, and isn't quite perfect in its period detail (enough about this particular punk scene being a year or two off, this is art!).The film revolves around these murders because they represent another movement in American history. One in which the hangover from Vietnam is finally fading, and what's left is the feeling that we have been used and abused. Like dogs, wearing the collar. Adrien Brody's punk rocker represents this rebellion against the collar, against the causeless wars and manipulation. Punk, gay and uninterested in conformity. John Leguizamo (with a performance that questions how he never quite became the star he should have been), still wears the collar, refuses to treat his wife properly and sleeps around. He treats her as an object to be on a pedestal, not one to be shamed and used like all those other free love types.This PTSD serial killer is hearing orders from a dog wearing its collar (literally, in one of a couple surreal sequences that clearly establish this film as metaphor and fever dream), just like Nam' and he can't stop killing. So blame the punks, the gays, the unorthodox priests, anyone but the master. You gotta fight the powers that be. "},{"Title":"Excellent Period Piece","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I never fancied this film when it came out and after reading a lot of reviews today I was going to give it a miss again but I was glad I didn't. The Son Of Sam serial killer seemed more like the films back drop rather than the main story line, I understand why there were negative reviews if the viewer was expecting to see a serial killer film and this is why I had avoided it in the first place but more often than not movies of true life serial killers are normally disappointing.The characters were interesting, the depiction of the era of disco against punk believable and the acting by all concerned excellent.Overall a very interesting character driven perspective of an historical summer of turmoil. "},{"Title":"Tales from a borough . . .","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Summer of Sam' has the perfect title and the right idea. Biographies of serial killers are so stale, more interested in facts then in personalities. In this film Spike Lee takes a different approach. Instead of showing us the nuts and bolts of the case we see the chaos that David Berkowitz caused.It is New York 1977 in a lower class, racially mixed section of New York. Disco is dying, the heat is overbearing and Vinny (John Leguizamo) observes his friends and the community going to pieces with fear.One of the locals speculates that because the neighborhood is so tight and confusing to outsiders that the killer must be someone who knows the neighborhood. That begins a lot of theories about which the killer might be. I love a particular scene in which a man speculates that the .44 caliber killer could be Reggie Jackson (his number being 44).With disco giving over the Punk scene, Ritchie, the community freak becomes the guy that everyone suspects. He has embraced the Punk invasion by wearing a mohawk and a union jack T-shirt. We don't see much of David Berkowitz (Michael Badalucco) but what to do see is horrifying. A man enraged over the least little thing and sent on a tirade.The movie is seen as flawed but I saw it as a movie that took me into a place that I had never been before and spent time with people whom I thought were real. Their rising fear and prejudice that spinning out of control reminded me of 'Do the Right Thing' as it reaches a fever pitch.No Spike Lee film is ever without technical achievements. He is always the innovator of new visual tricks. I loved his cinematography, I loved his editing and I loved his dialogue. "},{"Title":"A very ambitious film from Spike Lee","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Summer of Sam is a gritty, profane crime drama set in the bronx of New York City (NYC) in the sizzling Summer of 1977. A bunch of Italian Americans with lots of free time who smoke cannabis and drug deal heroin and cocaine with foul mouths who dance and cause violent mischief, and have huge amounts of distrust for one another. Panic hits the streets of NYC with a psychotic serial killer on the loose who calls himself 'The Son of Sam' is on a killing spree causing frantic anxiety to all in NY's neighbourhoods. Vinny (John Leguizamo) is an arrogant man with a rude attitude and a beautiful wife named Diona. Vinny is seen throughout most of the film with his so called gang of buddies who are constantly arguing and fighting each other. Ritchie (Adrien Brody) is a brash & cocky young man with a fake British accent who loves rock and huge British band known as 'The Who' Ritchie and Vinnie's relationship becomes very edgy as the film progresses. Ritchie wants nothing to do with Vinny after Vinny assumes him being the serial killer Son of Sam, even though he said he wasn't gonna call the cops. The gang later on persuade Vinny to go to Ritchies to lure him into a violent and bloody kicking from the gang who falsely accuse him of being the killer after the killer had been caught on TV revealing to the cops he is 'The Son of Sam' The film is 2hrs & 16mins long with 476 F-words and constant drug taking and smoking. It is rightly rated 18 because of the sexual nature of the film and the mature themes. Certainly not suitable for children even though they watch adult films nowadays. "},{"Title":"What took you so long?- David Berkowitz","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the Summer of 1977, the .44 Caliber Killer, also called the Son of Sam ruled the streets of New York City. Similar to the Zodiac Killer of the 1960s, the Son of Sam shot couples and sent letters to the police and media. After a year and a half of bloodshed, the Son of Sam was finally identified as David Berkowitz.This historical fiction film does not follow the killer itself, but is about a fictional group of friends who live in 1977 the Bronx, one of Berkowitz's hunting grounds. Vinny (John Leguizamo) is the main character, he is an unfaithful hair-dresser married to Dionna (Mira Sorvino). Soon Vinny, his friends, and the Mafia begin to set their sights on Vinny's friend Richie (Adrien Brody), who's lifestyle and dress-sense attracts their attention.Don't get turned off if you want to see the killer more, he is a focus of the story. In between interactions you see David Berkowitz (Michael Badalucco) battle his demons and the story also makes reference to the infamous dog made me do it story. Badalucco does a great job in his rather short screen time.This captures the atmosphere of the 1970s very well. It also paints a great picture of how massive chaos and paranoia can be created by one man and ruin many lives. Director Spike Lee is backed by a superb cast, great sets, and a great storyline. This is probably one of the best crime-dramas I have ever seen. "}{"Title":"View From the Bleachers","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a better movie that I'd expected, having heard that it wasn't much more than a pointless study of an Italian neighborhood in New York and that it had little to do with the fascinating and horrible Son of Sam case.Actually, it really IS about relationships among young men and women in an Italian neighborhood in the Bronx. We see little of David Berkowitz, the serial murderer. He's in the background, a kind of hovering, invisible presence. But, his relationship to the main plot is encapsulated in an angry exchange between Vinnie (John Leguizamo) and his wife (Dionna). She's angry at his infidelity and recent looniness and he's trying desperately to explain Dey think Richie is da Son of Sam. It's drivin' me nuts. And she shouts What does THAT have to do with you ****ing Ruby? That's pretty much it. The boys of the hood sit around in diners wondering who it is who is doing all the killing in their neighborhood. A black out adds to the confusion and hysteria. The good old boys try to make a list of possible suspects among those they happen to know. Let's see. There's Father So-and-So. Remember him? How he used to beat hell out of us? One night they stop the priest and search him and his car, meanwhile asking him to give them their blessing.But Richie is at the head of the suspect list. He's a freaky looking guy, what with his punk hair do and his working as a stripper and hustler in a gay night club. And there's a lot of his time that he can't account for because he's so busy boffing Vinnie's wife.Spike Lee and his two Italian-American writers have got a reasonably good handle on life in this kind of neighborhood. They nail down its good points -- if there's a blackout, a neighborhood power broker throws a block party and assigns patrols to keep potentially lethal strangers out -- and they nail down its bad points, as reflected among kids like this, say, in Howard Beach. If it's different, it's bad. The compliance is forced. The wrong haircut can win you a broken face. They get the incidentals too -- the religion that pervades everything and the precepts of which nobody bothers to follow too closely. No apologies for the vices are given. Every other word is the F word and that's okay for the guys, but the women use it all the time as well, and if that's the case, things have evolved a good deal since my youthful experiences with these kinds of folks.The movie sometimes DOES seem to be going nowhere but it's never boring. Nothing so vivace could possible be dull. There's always somebody talking, often overlapping, even if the utterances are mostly repetitions of what someone else has just said. And there's always movement, even if it's only someone running off at the hands.Anyway, the neighborhood portrait we get is both good and bad, a tribute to the objectivity of the writers and to Lee, and glory be to God for dappled things. A movie without a Manichaean scheme. And to top it all off, Mira Sorvino carries off the sexiest dance ever put on celluloid, including the one in Gilda. Jimmy Breslin, the least pretentious columnist in New York, tells us about what happened in framing sequences. He's matter of fact about it all. After all, it's New York and the summer is hot. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I understand what Spike was going for, but this film didn't work. At all. Not once. Not even close. A complete unwatchable waste of time. Too bad. "},{"Title":"Probably not what you'd expect, great nonetheless","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie and I was incredibly surprised by how Spike Lee did an incredible job writing such great characters.  I knew this was not a movie about the black struggle, which most of Spike Lee's movies are, thus I didn't know how well Lee would actually do, and I didn't know what exactly to expect.Well Lee blew me away with great characters facing real problems.  There were no exaggerations, everything was believable and easy to just hop on and go with it.  I was also very impressed with how Lee brought a lot of life into the characters, specially the punk rock guy and Mira Sorvino's character.  They were both very well grounded and you instantly want to cheer for them, since they represent a lot of what one needs to survive in such a crude world.Richie is a self confident man that doesn't let any of the b-s around him have an effect on who he actually is.  The scene where he is playing his guitar to WHO'S babba o'riley is great, it shows how Richie is able to put all the b-s behind and just go on and do his thing.  It is also great to watch how he has a great effect on the personna of Ruby.  Dianne is also a great character because she is trying so hard to please her man, and it is great to watch how much strength she puts into it. The Italian vigilante a** ****s !!!, what a great job Lee did, it is just hate at first sight.  I don't know if it was the casting or how he wrote the characters, but it won't be long until you just hate all of them.Overall, this was a great movie, and I am just talking about the characters, I won't even mention the great cinematographic shots, the way Lee plays with different resolutions, textures, lenses and colors.  This is a great flick and I recommend it to anyone who's ever been mistreated due to race, gender, sexual orientation, personality or who's been judged for something so simple and stupid as being left handed. "},{"Title":"All wrong, yet somehow brilliant fun.(possible spoiler)","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SUMMER OF SAM is so pleasurable and entertaining, not least because it is Spike Lee's first watchable film in over a decade, that it seems beside the point to suggest that (I hope I stay within the IMDb guidelines in doing so - it's a positive, non-spiteful review, honest!), from a cinematic and creative point of view, almost everything is either wrong or derivative. In fact, I wasted the first half of the film ticking off its flaws until I copped onto myself, sat back and enjoyed.I may as well get the negative stuff out of way and so end on a celebratory note.  Although more fluid than Lee's previous films, SAM's movement, especially in the opening sequences, evoke genuine masterpieces like BOOGIE NIGHTS or GOODFELLAS, and can only seem lumbering beside them.  Those films used gliding camera movements, elaborate set-ups and montage so effortlessly subliminal it felt like a pan, to signify the emotional mindset of a wannabe newcomer into a strange community.This is SAM's problem.  We are not guided through the exhiliration, terror and banality of late 70s New York by a central protagonist, but by an organising external force, the opening narrator (a curmudgeonly ex-cop), the director, whoever.  John Sayles managed to pull off something similar with more success in CITY OF HOPE - another tale of a city at crisis point told through the interconnected narratives of a group of characters.The form is actually very literary (I was reminded of Tom Wolfe's novels, for example), and its tenets are very conservative.  It suggests that something as unmanageably sprawling as a city, with millions of individually complex units can be made to conform to a pattern to create meaning; that problems can be controlled.SAM is a very reassuring film the melodramatics are cod-Scorcese, right down to the cliched characters; the murderer may be slaughtering innocent women wholesale, but we don't know them - deus ex machina (or whatever the plural is) are put firmly in place to prevent anything too nasty happening to anyone we've come to identify with over two and a half hours; the initial invigorating disco energy of the soundtrack is quickly replaced by the kind of pompous, swelling score more suitable to a classical epic, signalling very different, more conventional kinds of emotions; adultery, homosexuality, drug-taking, pornography, sexual experimentation are all predictably punished in the film, seen as wrecking families and communities.The end suggests a bag of loose ends, but is actually deeply safe (signalled in the subtle references to 'Dead End' signs).  The narrator at the beginning pointed out that New York today enjoys an Indian summer of prosperity and security; that this is a tale from its sordid past. Obviously Lee is pointing to the evil potential waiting to be sprung at the first sign of a crisis that could once again paralyse New York - 22 years isn't that long ago.But where's the ambiguity, the formal breakdown?  Compare SAM with SHORT CUTS, a definitive tale(s) from the city.  Altman similarly connects disparate characters into a seeming mosaic, but he is a postmodernist, and his connections only lead to fracture and despair.  Lee's modernism contains.More problematic still is the filming of the murders.  Setting up lame ducks to be knocked off, however distasteful, is the only way to suggest the terrifyingly random Absurdity of the world Sam creates.  Showering windscreens with blood is probably a justifiable tribute to 70s tropes of representation.  Lingering on this blood, and focusing a moon to create a kind of red sky over New York is grotesque, particularly as it isn't even beautiful.  Treating Sam like a fat, grunting, sweating, comic maniac/neurotic who harangues dogs doesn't help either.On the other hand, Lee's use of this same Sam is daring - it is HE who is the film's director figure.  Unseen by the other characters, his actions force them to behave in certain ways, and force their true personalities onto the surface.  It is he who controls the geography and sprawling dramatic personae, and like Six Characters In Search Of An Author, his capture results in their eventual obliteration.  This has terrifying implications, such is the trust Lee has placed in his omniscient filmmaking, especially when the true master seems to be a 2000 year old dog.  Maybe self is less of a concern in old age.So why does SAM feel so good?  No matter how old-fashioned, any story that lingers on character can be deeply pleasureable, and if on paper they are the old familiars, the amazing actors breathe extraordinary life into them. John Leguizamo , half Garfield, half Travolta, is superb as the cocky sex-crazed religion-haunted hairdresser lead whose complacency comes to dangerously and significantly pivot the film.  Adrian Brody is just as good as the punk freak with a double life; and it's wonderful to see Ben Gazzara or the beautiful Bebe Neuwirth any time.Mira Sorvino (prompting memories of a dad who starred in many of this kind of film), though in a thankless Lorraine Bracco-type role, is long and lovely, bursting onto the screen in the first sequences after the opening murder, troubling all our preconceptions.  You've got to see her in a blonde wig, and she somehow manages to convey the dowdiness and frustration of a cuckolded wife while still looking a peach.  It's deeply shocking to see how 70s New York erupted, however briefly, into brutal fascism, but this latter always has its roots in crises like this, and when an impotent police ask the Mafia for help you know you're in trouble.Each major plot incident and illuminating vignette has a novelistic density that is, I begrudgingly concede, a thrill.  But only this once. "},{"Title":"Energetic, involving, affecting","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Energetic and involving Spike Lee movie, which takes place in the summer of 1977, when Lee got his first cinema camera, and when the serial killer dubbed &#145;Son of Sam' was terrorising New York City. A nice balance between period recollection and imagination; covers some of the same thematic ground as `Do the Right Thing', but depends on a different style. "},{"Title":"Sure, Spike Hates White People -- But Not As Much As He Hates Sex!!!","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A bunch of hideous, foul-mouthed Italians lounge around in their underwear talking about sex and making fun of minorities while real-life killer Son of Sam horribly murders innocent victims. And that's what SUMMER OF SAM is all about.But the message isn't that white people are bad. The message is that sex is bad. Spike Lee postures like an angry black militant, but scratch the surface and you find a repressed old spinster on the verge of sexual hysteria. He's less Nat Turner and more Lizzie Borden!Think about it -- have you ever seen a sex scene in ANY Spike Lee movie where the sex wasn't disgusting and the people (black, brown OR white) weren't represented as filthy animals in heat? SUMMER OF SAM is unique because Spike has finally found a white guy he can relate to. A guy who hates sex -- and women -- almost as much as he does. Of course the guy happens to be a serial killer. But when a fat, ugly, disgusting looking guy shoots nice looking young people who are making out I think Spike can relate. I think he wants to dig it.Of course there's one white person in this movie Spike really likes -- and that's the Lady of Sorrows, the Blessed Virgin, aka Mira Sorvino. Ostensibly she's married, but Spike seems to feel that her husband is right -- sex is just not something you *do* to the woman you love. While her feverish husband literally disintegrates right before your eyes (John Leguizamo giving another brilliant performance in another throwaway role) the cool and perfect Mia just goes right on lighting candles before the Virgin at the Altar. And if you think Spike is making fun of all this -- he's not. I think he wants to dig it. Oh, there are a few tired racial jabs in this movie -- but they seem surprisingly half-hearted. Spike himself appears, interviewing a handful of black New Yorkers who seem handpicked to be just as repulsive as the Italians. Perhaps the point Spike is making is that everyone deserves to die. After all, everyone wants to have sex. It's disgusting!One thing about this movie confused me. When the racist Italian in the restaurant made fun of Willie Mays for being lucky in the 1954 World Series. Why would a racist bother to bring up a spectacular catch from twenty years earlier? Why not just say, Reggie Jackson blew it again last night? Even more interesting, why does Spike NEED Willie Mays as a hero? Why isn't Reggie Jackson good enough? He hit plenty of home runs in the Summer of Sam. And he definitely got in Billy Martin's face. What more do you want, Spike? I really want to know! "},{"Title":"Summer of Idiots","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you want a movie to clue you in on exactly how the most stupid and illiterate New Yorkers saw the world in 1977, then this movie is for you.When you look at all the names listed, you cannot believe this movie is going to suck, but it does. What a waste of acting talent. It's incredibly depressing, violent, sexist and bigoted, and while it fully captures the feeling of the time period, it shows the worst of the worst bizarre misfits and losers of the era.Regardless of the very weak script, the actors manage to pull out their skills to raise the level of this movie (slightly). Leguizamo, Sorvino, Brody, LuPone, Neuwirth and Esposito all bring their usual high level of talent and it's certainly not their fault the script is so poorly written and thought out.Lee is always a fine director, even here, but it's my opinion that he should stay behind the camera at all times. He is laughable, at best, as John Jeffries, a very obvious impersonation of John Johnson, an African American local NY reporter for ABC news in the 60s and 70s. He tries to add some levity, but anyone who knows of John Johnson, knows he was 100% serious 100% of the time. Lee even goes so far as to insinuate that the masses thought of him as an oreo cookie, which I'm sure was absolutely not the case for anyone except, maybe, hoodlums and punks. Tacky, very tacky, and insulting to a pioneer in journalism.I personally don't know anyone who thought they could possibly know the killer was amongst them, which was a ridiculous point of the story, and unfortunately, a good deal of the script, as well. It was also another thing that made this movie so disappointing. If that wasn't bad enough, they also suggested that people thought Reggie Jackson was the killer because of the number on his jersey. Oy vey, what a bunch of idiots. I rate this movie O for offensive to everyone, including your intelligence.Michael Imperioli, one of the writers, also makes a pre-Sopranos appearance as a gay club owner. I can only assume he took a few acting lessons before signing with HBO because his performance here (along with his writing) was absolutely horrid. Anthony LaPaglia's Australsian accent was as obvious as the strings on the flying saucers in Plan 9 from Outer Space. Not exactly the previously connected New York Italian Detective he was supposed to portray. He's since improved on that, but it doesn't appear he makes any grand efforts to do so, even today. (In other words, if you can't commit to the profession, go host a talk show.)Bottom line, if you want a GOOD movie about the era, see Saturday Night Fever, which premiered just after all this went down (in real life). 1977 turns out to be an incredibly memorable year, albeit for showing the worst side of human nature (as this movie points out to a fault). Despite that fact, there were a lot of good things happening then. Maybe had the writers stuck to the point of the movie and elaborated on how it affected people's lives (rather than focusing on the side dramas and using the Summer of Sam as a side bar), this actually could've been good. But they didn't .... and it wasn't. "},{"Title":"Great Storytelling Put to Use.","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was excellent. I saw it years ago and didn't remember much of the details, so I re-rented it and I found it to be completely wonderful. Based on the actual 1977 murder spree that terrorized New York City, Summer of Sam revolves around a group of adults in New York's inner city area. As the Son of Sam continues his brutal murder spree with a .44 caliber, tensions between old friends and relationships rise, along with a heatwave taking over the city, and the people in the neighborhood begin to turn on each other. Ultimately, distrust between the neighborhood residents take over as police try and track down the killer.The chemistry between the characters as they lose trust in each other is excellent, and the short segments where the audience gets to see the Son of Sam, screaming and going completely insane in his apartment, were genuinely creepy. The film mainly focuses on the character's lives, and how the murders effect them individually, which is very interesting to watch. John Leguizamo, Adrien Brody, and Mira Sorvino give wonderful performances, along with the entire cast. Director Spike Lee uses bits and pieces of actual history and weaves them into the lives of the residents of the city, and does an excellent job doing so.Complete with a brutal murder scene played over with The Who's Baba O'Riley, some excellent performances, a great story with actual history behind it, and that classic disco music of the '70s era, Summer of Sam is a great example of how a major event can effect the people within an area. Great movie. 9/10. "},{"Title":"a (wonderful) remake of an old German movie?","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In N.Y.C. during the seventies, a serial killer still at large causes the reaction of the Italoamerican community. The movie is ten stars. and Spike Lee is, in my opinion, one of the best (if not the best) American director of our days. I am just curious to know if the director was inspired by an old German movie (also very beautiful) by Peter Fleishman (the title, translated in English is something like Hunt Scenes in South Bavaria), of whom this movie could be considered, in my opinion, a very personal (and wonderful) remake. In the German movie a young (maybe homosexual) guy is persecuted by the people of his village in south Bavaria who think he is the maniac who killed a young girl simply because he is different and unconventional. In the Lee movie the plot is practically the same, just replacing Bavarians with Italoamericans.So I think that Lee, as Fleishmann in the 1969 movie, wanted to show, and he did it very well, how intolerance and suspicion towards diversity can be a trigger for fascism and blind violence. Finally, the actors are all very good and in particular I liked very much the performance of Adrien Brody and John Leguizamo. "},{"Title":"Since when does your hairstyle determine whether or not you're a killer? -Richie","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Many of the occupied minds of their expectations just not seem to be able to understand what this movie is all about. It is about community and social order enforced to those who crave to be something different. It's something more too. It's about expectations of what people have on their lives and how those expectations are not born freely, but from need be in line and need to merge to society. Actually that is perfectly clear when Vinny struggles with his wife. In the end you are not sure is Vinny really in love with her or is he driven by obsession of having decent marriage and so on. He struggles between what he have learned to be right and where his desires drive him and in between he is unable to take responsibility for his actions. And this is why there's so much sex. Where else in life's spectrum people's expectations and reality is as sensitive as in area of sexuality. In this sense the most sincere relationship in the movie is between Richie and Ruby. Richie don't want to engage to sex just because it's expected. He's perception of sex seems to be that it's completely corrupt and in no circumstances sex could be truly gentle way of expressing desire and love. But in the end Ruby make him believe otherwise. Before that sex have only been a way of getting money to get away for Richie and he leaves his real self outside of it. Thus his relationship to Ruby is the most gentle and honest one found in movie.Some have said that there's no explanation of why Berkovizc did the killings. There certainly are not so much said about his personal reasons, but lot are said about society's ways of enforcing social order and thus using violence as a meaning to maintain that order. And this is what this movie is about. So why whine about if it ain't something different. Are people really so occupied by their expectations that they can't listen what storyteller have to say and can't open their eyes to see the obvious. Or are movie watching not driven by curiosity for life, but fulfilling expected mantra? Many of the comments seems to suggest, like some characters say in the film, while speaking about Richie, that Lee have gone out of line with this film, which I find quite revealing. I have seen suggestions that characters in movie are so dysfunctional that they would have deserved to end up as victims of Berkovizc. Any hint what kind of mentality perhaps was driving Berkovizc? It is obvious in the Richie beaten-scene that gang who beats him is disappointed as they are interrupted. They don't care about murderer, but want Richie down cause he is different. In the end murderer is closer to those gang members than any of the strange guys they are listing as potential killers.Thirdly I see this film as a comment to our ways to glorifie violence in media and so on. It is in question of violence serious, but in representing violence it is also ironic. Powerful end sequence, where star of the show ( Berkovizc ) is coming to police station and Who's music is used, is crucial. It have almost revolutionary fewer in it, but in the same time Who sings welcome the new boss, same as the old boss. And it is cut to the beating of Richie, the one who is too different and don't care about respecting the rules that others follow and worry about. Movie seems to suggest that society doesn't change and individuals end up to suffer from same sort of burden of expectations which makes those trying something different it's enemies. Berkovizc is portrayed making killings, cause dog order him and it is not coincidence that in the end-scene Berkovizc character looks to police dog and smiles. It suggest that same sort of despise drives society to punish it's members than drived Berkovizc to killings. Smile suggests that he welcome's his punishment, perhaps even craves for it. Remember how real Berkovizc have tried to integrate back to society and get acceptance by turning Christian. So Berkovizc is product of the society and it's pressures. I also see whole speaking dog thing making irony of how people don't take responsibility of their actions, but look for excuses. So speaking dog-scene, ridiculed by some here, is well motivated and actually what else it could be than farcical. Perhaps it is too challenging, as a way of telling story, for some viewers. But this only makes Lee even more courageous. Hub of the life stems from diving to uncertain, not from obeying the expectations. And Lee is explorer of that uncertain, at the same challenging viewers to be ones. Unfortunately, but not surprisingly, some haven't been up to this challenge.It's not the individuals who destroy themselves, but the order that people have built for themselves. Fassbinder "}{"Title":"The Cast is More Engaging Than the Characters They Play","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd heard good things about Adrien Brody's performance in this film, so I rented it to see what all the fuss was about.  Along with THE PIANIST, SUMMER OF SAM (SOS) cemented my conviction that Brody is not only one of the most talented actors of his generation, but also one of the most fearless actors working today.  Brody's work as THE PIANIST was physically and emotionally grueling as he starved himself, all but froze to death, sold his car and apartment and cut himself off from friends and family for 6 months as he attempted to emulate the sense of loss that Wladyslaw Szpilman felt as the Nazis took away his family, home, and dignity. Before Brody took on that Oscar-winning, star-making role, however, SOS featured him as Richie, an Italian-American kid from the Bronx in the summer of 1977 (not far from where I grew up, in fact). Against the backdrop of a New York City terrorized by serial killer Son of Sam, a.k.a. The 44-Caliber Killer (one of his victims was a student at St. Catharine Academy, my high school), Richie goes punk (spiky hair, chains, even an outrageous fake Cockney accent), gets drawn into a life of graphically-depicted gay hustling and porno performances in Times Square while trying for punk rock stardom at CBGB's, and his best friend Vinnie (John Leguizamo) lures him into an ambush by a mob of paranoid goombahs who've gotten it into their heads that Richie must be the killer (SPOILER ALERT...Imagine the meatheads' disappointment when Richie's stepdad interrupts their beating and near-lynching by announcing in the nick of time that the police have just arrested David Berkowitz for the shootings...END SPOILER ALERT). Like that's not enough, Richie cuts off a hostile diner patron at the pass and generally freaks out the straights by breaking a glass bottle on his own head as the diner owner tries to make him leave (in an interview, Brody said Spike Lee swore the bottle was only candy glass, but the subsequent bleeding was real enough)! Here I am, so shy it takes all my courage just to strike up small talk with my little daughter's school friends' moms, and Adrien Brody's got the cajones to do such outrageous things onscreen for SOS and other movie roles. I've gotta admire someone with that kind of gutsiness! -) As for the rest of the film, the acting is uniformly good, but there are so few people to root for that I had a hard time staying interested when Richie and his girl Ruby (Jennifer Esposito) weren't onscreen. Indeed, the character who's concentrated on most isn't even killer Berkowitz (who's mostly confined to murky cutaways where he's either shooting people or screaming in psychotic agony in his dingy apartment, plus an unintentionally hilarious scene where his neighbor's dog speaks to him -- in John Turturro's voice, no less!), but hairdresser Vinnie, who's not only easily swayed by mobs but also has this Madonna/Whore complex whereby he screws seemingly every woman who crosses his path while being afraid to have sex with his beautiful, loving, willing wife Dionna (Mira Sorvino is beguiling as one of the film's few likable characters).  Well, at least SOS serves as an interesting time capsule of NYC, especially the outer boroughs, during that fearful summer. Too bad Lee and co-writers Victor Colicchio and Michael Imperioli couldn't find more engaging characters to follow around. "},{"Title":"Utterly unoriginal and pointless","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Macho Italians without a single brain cell to rub together between them swear at each other. Meanwhile, an infamous murder case happens very much in the background and gets referred to from time to time. Believe me, the murders are infinitely more interesting than the main plotline, which we have seen before many, many times. If New Yorkers are really like this (and I suspect that they must be, since that's how they're always portrayed), remind me never to go there. "},{"Title":"Another yawn-fest from Spike.","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the hands of a film master like Martin Scorsese, this film would've meant something and been relevant. In the hands of Spike Lee, you get one shallow, supposedly hard-edged account of a place in time in New York that pretty much goes nowhere and says nothing. All of the characters are caricatures with shallow personalities and zero likability. Decent cinematograhpy is about the only thing I can commend about this film.  "},{"Title":"I was terribly disappointed.","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have always liked Spike Lee's movies, but this one was a total waste of 2 1/2 hours. I expected more about Son of Sam and instead got a movie that seemed to have very little to do with the 1977 serial killings. The talking dog was laughable (you know you're in trouble when all the movie patrons burst into laughter inappropriately). The whole movie seemed very disjointed and not very interesting. The sex scenes were totally irrelevent to the plot. I'm not opposed to sex in movies, but it should have some point (unless it's a XXX movie). All in all, we were very disappointed at this Spike Lee effort!!  "},{"Title":"Sex, drugs and Son Of Sam","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" At first it's pretty hard to see any connection with the over all story of the film and the case of Son Of Sam. There are flashes, where we see Sam doing his crimes. But then we see these people, who have nothing to do whit the case. We see sex and punk and disco. Mafiosos and vigilantes trying to figure out who is Son of Sam. But it all relates very little whit the case itself.In the end it all explodes, the anger and fear caused by the murderer, and it all clicks in and shows, that even thought the movie is filled with unnecessary scenes and plot lines that don't go anywhere it all did relate on the case. Summer of Sam is a story about what serial killer does to people who aren't his actual victims. Sam is just the engine, which makes the wheels turn in peoples head. Vinny (John Leguizmo) sees Sam's victims in a car and then he unnecessarily gets scared, that if Sam is thinking if he saw something of him. Vinny is also driven by guilt of cheating his wife Dionna (Mira Sorvino). Richie (Adrine Brody) is a punk rocker, who just wants to get away with his girlfriend Ruby (Jennifer Esposito)and become a real rocker. But as he is too different of others, who are into disco and stuff the vigilantes start to think that Richie is Sam. SOS doesn't let you go easily, you need to watch to the end, because it's very different from all the other serial killer films. Even thought it revolves around the murders, it's about more things than that. It about people and their feelings. It's just that some times the film drags and it has too much of things going besides the point.But if you can go over those points you got yourself a good flick. Well worth of watching. "},{"Title":"What the hell was that?","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So, after reading the glowing reviews, and going on the legendary reputation of the director, i decided to rent Summer of Sam'. Whoops. What exactly was the plot? Has Mr Lee ever heard of the concept of characterisation? Why does John Leguiziamo (something like that!) bother to act. His character (the main character of the entire movie) is wholly unlikeable and leaves the viewer just itching for him to become a sam victim. With a frankly boring plot a several needless sex scenes, the film becomes almost a Hollywood porno. Forgive me if this is not what i expected. The only thing that stopped me from killing myself was the quite wonderful Mira Sorvino, but the strongest actor in the whole film is degraded to just a bit part, just a furnishing on the side whilst Mr Leguiziamo tries to be as unlikeable as possible.Aaaah. I can breathe again now. Thank you for listening, and please all of you critics out there, CLIMB OUT OF SPIKE LEE'S BACKSIDE!!! "},{"Title":"Caricatures of caricatures","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This long winded film turns out to be less about Berkowitz and his effect on NYC, but more about painting caricatures of a certain group of Italian-Americans, known locally as Guidos.  The problem is that Guidos are uninteresting, no matter what kind of story or setting they are immersed in.  They are already living caricatures, so Lee only amplifies them, rather than simply portraying them.When someone has a caricature done of themselves, they don't go home and say, Hey, let's make the ears and nose even bigger!  That's what Lee has done in this film.  The most interesting characters in the film are the two (Adrian Brody and Jennifer Esposito) who wish to escape the Guido lifestyle.  Top it off with an uninteresting storyline for the characters, particularly John Leguizamo's, and you get a nice film to fall asleep by. Especially considering it's lengthy run time.One more strike against it  For someone proclaiming to be a Yankees fan, and has grown up in New York, Spike Lee should know how to spell Phil Rizzuto, which is spelled incorrectly in the closing credits.  "},{"Title":"A terrible, self-indulgent abuse of dramatic license.","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam opens and closes with Jimmy Breslin, sufficient warning that what lies ahead is a film which promises not to be as good as it should have been. Director Spike Lee indulges his every whim; grinds all axes, and manages to complete his agenda a dizzying whirl of gratuitous foul language, ethnic, racial and sexual stereotyping, with mindless violence tossed in as a final lagniappe. The actual series of killings is relegated to repetitive shots of proper pistol grip, shattered auto glass and bloody victims. The stars are the summer of 1977, Reggie Jackson, and a collection of misfits, the core of whom want to be vigilantes. We are also treated to Spike Lee as a roving, rambling and somewhat incompetent t.v. reporter, who in one clip, goes to Harlem for a darker view. The darker view would seem to come from a nasty place where the sun don't shine. Compared to some of the ersatz people in the cast, the Son of Sam character seems particularly benign. We are left with the felling that he did in all the wrong people. Those old enough to remember the Movietone and other shorts featuring talking chimps, camels, etc. may find one scene involving a dog as the last straw. Jimmy Breslin, in his second appearance at a DEAD END sign is appropriate. The summer of 1977 and this particular story deserve better. So does the audience. "},{"Title":"One Big Swearword","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say? I think I have to write Spoiler alert and then reveal they used the F-word a LOT in this movie - like in every two sentences. I did not like this movie at all - too much hints on sexual perversions, sidesteps and cheating. And that swearing was totally out the window. I gave this movie 3 and two of those points are for Mira Sorvino's sexy movements on the dance floor. "},{"Title":"pointless and long","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not sure what Spike was trying to say - that Son of Sam was a product of the craziness of NY and the heat of 1977?While movies don't have to have endearing characters, you have to relate to them on some level to empathize with them. So that even if the circumstances of their lives or are not ours but we have find a connection on some level to be interested in them - in this movie, there are no such characters.Some of them we are just tired of them because this movie is so long and enough already. The scary thing is we can relate to Son of Sam's breakdown more than any of the characters because we are starting to wonder if this dreary mess is ever going to end. Each character is unpleasant because they lead small, petty lives and are just whiners - we get it - let's move on Spike. Not interesting. And any characters we care about just dissolve into a pornographic and sleazy means.Spike was a great director for exactly two movies - Spike, what happened? - he starts the movie by placing his characters in front of a sign that reads Dead End - as if that's not bad enough, in case we didn't get the pan on it or the lingering closeup, he cuts back to that sign about 50 times. In a local community college film class, you'd be derided as a rank amateur - let along a big budget movie.Spike also appears in the film as a TV announcer - we know Spike can act - he choose not to act for his role - why? Who knows?This movie is pointless, tiresome and dreary.   "}{"Title":"Summer of Stink","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This could have been a good movie, and it is interesting to see the parrallel between the killer, Sam, and the characters in the movie (everyone here has a dark side). However, it's long, boring, and really does nothing except make you wonder why Spike Lee made it.It's amazing to read some of the positive remarks on this film here considering  the stereotypes are SO overdone to the point of being aboslutely annonying (Italian guys yelling the F word every second of the film worked in Good Fellas, not here), the music adding nothing (contrary to some other comments, the Who and the disco music actually detract from the film), and the blatent overdone sex scenes (the main character Vinny shouldn't have to worry about Sam with all the STD's he probably has).Don't waste your time  2/10-Indy-11  "},{"Title":"Awful waste of time.","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had to walk out of the theater.  After an hour, all I was seeing was people cheating on wives, schtupping like dogs in a rut, and using the f-word like a diabetic using Equal.No thanks.It was especially frustrating because the movie could have done a lot. Any one of the characters could have been quite interesting if they were given more to do than fornicate, talk about it, and swear at each other.The few times that it looked as if there were about to be some sort of character development, all that happened was another sex scene.  Plot development in the 1st hour can be summarized as 1)several murders occur, 2) Vinnie sees murder scene 3) Vinnie stares moodily across Atlantic/East/Hudson River 4) Vinnie cheats on wife, and 5) Joey (most sympathetic character in the show) gets kicked out of his parents' house. More than that, I didn't wait to see.The photography and the interplay between the characters were superb, but THERE WAS NOTHING for them to DO.  The flood of sex and vulgarity was hardly worth waiting another hour for SOMETHING to happen.Sorry, Spike.  Take some lessons from Notting Hill, or Shawshank Redemption. Either one is a better study in community and interpersonal relationships. "},{"Title":"Treacherous Title, Talky Script","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wish Spike Lee had chosen a different title for his film. Summer Of Sam conveys the impression that the film is about the infamous serial killer, David Berkowitz. It's not. It's a gritty, earthy portrait of NYC street life during the hot summer of '77 when Berkowitz terrorized that city.The film follows several young fictional characters in an Italian-American neighborhood, and their reactions to the Son of Sam threat. There's Vinny and his wife Dionna; there's Richie and Ruby, and several other characters.The problem is that these characters are not likable. They are routinely annoying, and at times unbearable. Lee then belabors their high energy, chaotic lives, which are filled with anger, lust, and general turmoil. There are at least two protracted fight scenes between Vinny and his wife, redundant disco dance scenes, countless gabfests ... Over and over I kept wondering where's the film editor?Meanwhile, with all that bulk, the film passes up the chance to convey any real sense of fear or dread arising from the Son of Sam menace, which is too much in the background. Lee is more successful at showing a different kind of menace, that arising from neighborhood vigilante groups.The acting is uniformly good. That, combined with 70's disco music, and lavish attention to costumes and production design, make you really feel like you are in an Italian-American neighborhood in NYC in 1977.The film's atmospheric authenticity, however, is not nearly enough to offset a rambling, overblown script about the lives of grossly irritating people. "},{"Title":"This movie is excellent.  Hands down.","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of Spike Lee's greatest films.  To start, the acting is incredible.  Leguizamo and Sorvino, as well as the other actors, give amazing performances grounded in emotion and realism.  The story is enthralling, and incredibly original.  It pits the people of New York City in the seventies against their fears, desires and each other.  Also Ellen Kuras's cinematography is beautiful.  It employs an expressionistic use of color, giving the film a very unique and very different look, creating stark contrasts between hues.  Any fan of Spike Lee's who hasn't yet seen this film must, and anyone else who hasn't should.  It is brilliant, simply brilliant.        "},{"Title":"A Profane Soaper From Lee","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this would be a very interesting story about a intriguing serial killer, David Berkovitz, who terrorized citizens of New York City in the late 1970s. Instead, it turned out to be nothing much more than one big soap opera concerning Italian low-life hoods. The film has between - I am not exaggerating - between 350 and 400 f-words in it, and all of the characters are so sleazy it is ridiculous. In addition to the over-the-top profanity, you get deviant sex practices and other degenerate attitudes. After an hour, your senses have been assaulted so much, you can't watch much more....at least I couldn't. I wonder what kind of people sit through this stuff?Critcs (Roger Ebert thumps up; Boston Globe electriying) who gave their approval to this garbage are even sicker than the man who made this film, Spike Lee. And I thought the Son Of Sam was a sicko! "},{"Title":"So.....? What?","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay. I was reading about serial killers around the world and David Berkowitz popped up. Then I find this movie. It really sucked. I didn't learn much more than I had already read. In fact I feel like i knew more than the filmmakers. And it was really really boring. And Spike Lee is rather impressive. Its an old movie (okay, not vintage old but old enough), perhaps it just didn't age well? Perhaps watching an old movie depicting and even older time period one can see the 90's reinventing the 70's instead of just trying to tell the story of Son of Sam. What a waste of time. Pity. I guess I should have read the synopsis Spike Lee's take on the Son of Sam I don't care about his take on the matter, I wanted to know more about the matter. "},{"Title":"Disco, Murder, Comedy","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Summer of Sam is a movie that would help you understand the 70's culture in my opinion. The movie at least shows how it was to be young back then.I give it a seven out of ten because this film was lacking just little important things. The story gets confusing during some of the film . The director Spike Lee did a horrible job at providing a back story for some of the characters.But besides that it is a good film with graphic materiel. I wouldn't recommend this movie to any one under the age of 15 because of the sex scenes and inappropriate langue.The film shows things I didn't know what was going on such as bathhouses, and punk rock clubs where bands can play music. Or even a walk in porn theater things was different in the 70's.The film did a good job at covering that. "},{"Title":"Very well made movie and movie within a movie","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" My quick rating - 6,5/10. This is really more like two stories in one. First is the obvious story about David Berkowitz (for those that don't know he was a serial killer in NYC in the late 70s.) and the second story about a man who has various mental problems and drug problems. Now the two really don't have anything to do with each other minus the fact both are happening at the same time and John Leguizamos character (which was acted very well I might add) has a best friend who is fingered as the Son of Sam (the killer). The acting in this film is well above average and the story itself, even if it is partially based on a true story, which it is, was well written out to hold your attention. I am unsure how I missed this one since serial killers are a thing I tend to be interested in, but I am glad I watched this finally and if you do, I am sure you will agree it was a good flick. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"good style but scattered story","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's the Bronx summer of 1977 and the Son of Sam serial killer is on the loose. After a night of disco dancing, hair dresser Vinny (John Leguizamo) and his wife Dionna (Mira Sorvino) encounter the latest victims. Even the mob is enlisted in the search for the killer. Women are changing their hair and people are avoiding public places. Vinny's friend Richie (Adrien Brody) has become a British punk rocker and an outcast in the neighborhood. Vinny's half-sister Ruby (Jennifer Esposito) accepts Richie's changes. The movie also follows David Berkowitz (Michael Badalucco) aka the .44 Caliber Killer. As the pressure mounts, suspicions land on Richie.Spike Lee is tapping into his inner Scorsese. This is a costume drama movie with good style. It has the terrific atmosphere. However the story feels scattered. The movie really needs more focus. Actually the lead should have been Richie rather than Vinny. Also Berkowitz should be left out since the movie is never about catching him. It's an interesting move by Spike Lee but it's a slight miss. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Film in Which Son of Sam is not really the Main Story","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In my opinion, Spike Lee missed out on a great opportunity. The so-called Son of Sam was the most feared serial killer in New York in the 1970's, similar to the Zodiac killer of the west coast of a few years earlier. When I heard Spike Lee had made a film about the killer, which I had little knowledge of since I'm a west-coaster, I was excited that this might be a very compelling offering from Lee. Instead, the film is not really about the serial killer Son of Sam per se, but rather the film focuses on a community of middle-to-lower middle class Bronx guys and gals during the height of New York paranoia about Son of Sam in the summer of 1977.The story is really about these fictional characters who sometimes hear and/or speak about the Son of Sam killer. For most of my viewing of the film, I kept waiting for the film to develop more about the Son of Sam murders and the investigation. Instead the film centers on these fictional characters Vinny, a hair dresser married to Dionna, a waitress, Ritchie, a punk-rock aficionado and part-time dancer at a gay bar, and Ruby, Vinny's half-sister who has a crush on Ritchie. At one point a New York police investigator, Detective Petrocelli, asks an urban mob boss, Luigi, to find the killer. Again, this detective is most likely fictional and had nothing to do with the real investigation of the crimes. Late in the film, one of the characters accuses another of being the Son of Sam killer.The poster for this film is very misleading as it shows newspaper headlines about the serial killer Son of Sam. But in truth, Lee's film uses Son of Sam only as a developing crime story in the background while the story is more about these fictional characters. I guess Lee's intent was to present the atmosphere of this strange moment in time in New York, not long before the infamous New York blackout caused perhaps the worst looting of an urban center in United States history. However, the film doesn't focus much on the serial killer and the real investigation. Unfortunately, there has yet to be a good film about the Son of Sam killer which ranks with Zodiac made not long after about the Zodiac killer of the San Francisco Bay Area. Zodiac focused all of its attention on the killer, his victims and the on-going investigation. Summer of Son does not tell the story behind Son of Sam. "}{"Title":"Summer of Spike Lee.","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Summer of Sam (1999) Dir Spike Lee / Cast John Leguizamo, Mira Sorvino, Adrian Brody, Michael Rispoli, Jennifer Eposito Supposedly based on an actual case in 1977 involving the shooting murders of young brunette women at night. It was the summer of fear and Sam was the name that caused women to wear blonde wigs. John Leguizamo plays a womanizer who cheats on his girlfriend yet feels guilty when he enters a murder site under police investigation. Mira Sorvino plays his girlfriend who works in her father's restaurant. Adrian Brody steals scenes as a misunderstood guy brandishing a Mohawk and wearing dog collars. He does erotic strip dances in gay bars while at home his parents have forced him to live in the garage. Screenplay is not so much about the killer as it is about the everyday lives affected by his reality. Different film for Spike Lee who examines the fear within the characters. He previously made Do the Right Thing. Leguizamo is superb as the guilt ridden cheater whose emotional decay affects everyone. Sorvino plays his girlfriend who questions him and awaits the drug ridden truth. Brody steals the film as the target due to his lifestyle and actions. Michael Rispoli leads the mob after the killer and suspects Brody. He convinces Leguizamo to help set him up. Superb filmmaking highlighting human hysteria at its most lethal. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Filthy","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has been on our list for years and I finally got to see it last night. I will never look at John Leguizamo the same. I gave this movie a rating of 3 out of 10 and the only reason it got a 3 was because I found the information and the way they presented the serial killer to be interesting.The rest was trash. I can't believe I sat through this movie, watching Leguizamo's character cheat on his wife again and again, all the while acting as if he's afraid of the killer. Garbage. And I found Spike Lee's involvement as an actor to be completely self-serving, annoying and useless. I don't mind a movie with nudity and sex but I was embarrassed for Mira Sorvino and her character.There were way too many scenes and too much focus on Adrian Brody's character that did nothing for the back story. You could have just shown/mentioned it once that he works at that kind of club. And Patti LuPone! OMG I can't believe she showed her boobs. Sorry but that's like seeing my mom's boobs. I can't believe a star of her stature lowered herself to do that and for no reason at all. The scene would have been fine without seeing that.I'm no prude but I felt dirty after watching this movie. "},{"Title":"complete garbage","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a complete waste of time and effort. It's nothing more than a superficial story of a few tacky, obnoxious kids arguing with each other over their trivial lives. So far (about halfway through the movie), I have yet to see anything meaningful about the actual case. For me, it is a total waste of time. I wasn't interested in seeing a trivial storyline about a few New Yorkers. I wanted to see how the case developed, which so far hasn't happened. Maybe it will change and I'll be surprised by an actual plot, but so far I've seen nothing worthwhile. Who cares aboutThe Perils of Pauline as told by a handful of punks? "},{"Title":"VIEWS ON FILM review of Summer of Sam","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1999, Spike Lee decided to direct a film based on a very hard hitting, true story. Depicting the events of the Son of Sam serial murders in New York City (summer of 1977), Summer of Sam periodically delves into the search and capture of famed murderer (dubbed the .44 Caliber Killer) David Berkowitz. It also peeks into the lives of the people that inhabit one of the Bronx neighborhoods he was terrorizing. Sam carries with it a majestic sense of time and place. However, it packs in very tightly, too many plot layers to go along with the central story. And the fact that this is all done in almost 2 and a half hours is a jaw-dropping miracle.Seeing this film for the first time in 7 years, it made me revert back to one of my favorite Spike Lee joints which would be Clockers. With shades of Martin Scorsese's Mean Streets and hints of Saturday Night Fever (especially the overhead shot in Sam of the two main characters entering a discotheque), Summer of Sam is similar in structure to Clockers. But it's unable to juggle the plot points effectively like that 1995 film did. The reason It could be the script which feels too abrasive and without thoughtfulness or ambiguity. Most of the characters talk in a racist manner with huge stereotypes to go along with it. Was that the culture of New Yorkers at the time? I'm not sure because I'm not from NYC and I was only 3 when these events took place. Regardless, this could create a rather large unlikability factor with the audience, an audience who invests their time to view this flick. In essence, Summer of Sam is the epidemy of restless, scatter shot film making. Spike Lee has harbored this style ever since he burst onto the scene with 1986's She's Gotta Have It. Sometimes he gets away with it and sometimes he doesn't. But you can't fault him for directing films that feel alive and have a pulsating sense of urgency. With his plot over plot over plot way of doing things, he unfortunately gets a mixed review from me. Bottom line Sam is a mess but it's an ambitious mess with a couple of really powerful scenes that hint at what a great film this could have been (one of the best sequences is a fantastic montage of sights and sounds accompanied by the tune of The Who's Baba O' Riley). With this vehicle, you get a great soundtrack (a mix of classic rock from The Who and disco) and two edgy performances (John Leguizamo as Vinny and Mira Sorvino as Dionna) that highlight the strong points. Also, the appearance of real life columnist Jimmy Breslin (he received letters from the killer and narrates the beginning/ending of the movie) is a nice touch. But like I said earlier, Sam tries to include everything. You have plot elements such as the infidelity of Vinny in his marriage to Dionna, the glory of the 1977 New York Yankees, the supposed birth of the punk rock movement, and even the local mob joining the police to find the would be Son of Sam murderer. So OK, let's be honest, Summer of Sam is not that bad of a film. But it's way too cynical and ideological to be great. I'll leave you with this notion In New York City, the summer of 77' was one of the hottest on record. After viewing Lee's exhausting, profanity laden marathon of a movie, you may feel just lukewarm. "},{"Title":"Pressure Cooked","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The summer of 1977. Disco is in the air, punk is on its way in, Jimmy Carter has his fingers crossed and the sexual revolution is in full swing.Into this cauldron steps the Son of Sam, a serial killer to which the title of Spike Lee's Summer of Sam alludes. He is later revealed to be one David Berkowitz - a deranged New Yorker who believes it to be his duty to kill women - but Lee's uninterested in such details. Instead he uses the cocktail of fear and paranoia, which Berkowitz stirs up, as an entryway into a more general fear of difference. And so Lee's large cast of New Yorkers form cliques, draw lines and gravitate toward different sub cultures. These divisions, the film shows, then lead to various anxieties, fears of exclusion and often violence.Whilst Lee's early films tend to look at racial differences, Son of Sam is preoccupied with sex. And so we're introduced to a cast of Lotharios, bisexuals, homosexuals, adulterers and monogamists. Everyone has a different take on sexuality, and most have wild double-standards. Lee's Us vs Them dynamic then comes to a boil when several New Yorkers begin to scapegoat a local punk rocker (Adrien Brody), who becomes the whipping boy for an entire community.Interesting scenes abound. In one, a woman (Jennifer Esposito) is shunned because of her sexual permissiveness. She's embraced by Adrien Brody's punk rocker, a character who is marginalised by the Italian-American community, but embraced by both the punk scene and the underground homosexual sex clubs at which he works. But Brody's character, who is straight, also doesn't belong to the gay scene. Another character, brilliantly played by John Leguizamo, embodies similar contradictions. He sleeps around, but believes in monogamy and being faithful. He also repeatedly degrades women, but only outside of his marriage. Within his marriage, he's frigid around his wife (Miro Sorvino). In one great scene, which pushes far past clichés, the duo have a huge argument in a car. Leguizamo attacks Sorvino, accuses her of being unfaithful, until she flips the script, accuses him of perversions, and rolls off in his own car. Berkowitz's violence itself seems to be borne of exclusion and a desire to purge the world of difference, but he is no more a deviant than the other characters we meet. By the film's end, everyone's related, everyone's relative may be a pervert, but perversions are themselves always relative.Summer of Sam is overly bombastic and suffers in comparison to other films which explore similar themes (Kaufman's The Wanderers, Kaufman's Invasion of the Body Snatches, Berlinger and Sinofsky's Paradise Trilogy etc). Lee's obsession with difference is itself lost on our generation; capitalism assimilates everything, promotes individuality as an ideal in order to drive consumerism, and prowls the world destroying real difference. The film ends with Berkowtiz's capture. With his arrest, tolerance comes to Uncle Sam.7/10 - Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"8 million stories in the city that never sleeps... And this was one of them.","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although not an avid fan of Spike Lee, I did thoroughly enjoy this film. It starts off with a killing sequence that sets off a tense mood right off the bat. We then are introduced to the bulk of the main characters at a night club and get a clear sense of setting; 1970's New York. The first character we meet is the character Vinny, fantastically played by John Leguizamo, who is a habitual wife-cheater and often feels guilty for his actions telling himself that God is warning him when he comes across the crime scene of the killing that had occurred in the first scene. The basic film structure is a juxtaposition between David Berkowitz himself (the serial killer the film is based on) and the people of the neighbourhood he has been terrorizing. However, this structure is not a typical juxtaposition, rather the Berkowitz sequences ofter involve a drastically different lighting setup, a more modern look, obscure camera positions and an even more obscure David Berkowitz (we rarely see his face whether his back is turned or the lighting is dark or something similar), whereas the neighbourhood scenes are shot in a retrospective 1970's style. The performance from the large cast is not only realistic but also quite entertaining and provides a much needed comic relief from the dark Berkowitz scenes. overall, the film does have its flaws but provides a solid profile of just another story in such a grand city. Definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"Dark","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's Spike Lee's most ambitious project - perhaps too ambitious, and maybe that's why it's mostly unsuccessful. The Son of Sam murders are used as a backdrop and an analogy for a story about New York and the people in it, in itself an interesting notion, but it's too messy, and too many of the side-plots don't connect, and neither do the actual murder scenes.On the other hand - it's also one of Spike's darkest films, short maybe of Bamboozled, and one of his most artistically oriented, and it has enough brilliant and beautiful moments to warrant a view for fans. Not a walk in the park, but worth seeing once. "},{"Title":"Hot town, summer in the city, Spike Lee's getting dirty and gritty.","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The trail of death and terror left by diabolic serial killer David 'Son of Sam' Berkowitz during the long hot summer of '77 might not seem like an obvious choice of subject matter for controversial film-maker Spike Lee, but everything becomes clear whilst watching the film.Rather than take the standard serial killer route and depict every last sordid detail of the demented murderer's twisted life, Lee uses the murders as the backdrop to his film Summer of Sam is primarily a character study piece, with Berkowitz's actions simply being the catalyst for the events that unfold.As the list of victims grows, Lee focuses his attention on a group of Italian-Americans living in the Bronx, who are struggling to come to terms with the growing paranoia and fear that grips the city. With the tension rising as steadily as the temperature, ignorance, distrust and prejudice bubble to the surface the clean cut, disco-loving Italians turn vigilante, ultimately venting their frustration on Richie, a member of the emerging punk movement.Clearly a metaphor for racial intolerance (a favourite topic for the African-American director), this culture clash proves to be thoroughly engrossing viewing. Spike Lee's style is as bold as always, with the talented director equally adept at delivering visually stunning murders as he is at conjuring up a super sexy dance scene. It doesn't hurt either that the cast he has assembled to bring life the well-developed characters is insanely talented John Leguizamo is fantastic as Vinny, the serial adulterer who almost meets the serial killer; Mira Sorvino (hubba, hubba, yum, yum!) is absolutely breathtaking as Dionna, his stunning and eager-to-please wife; Adrien Brody excels as aspiring punk musician/male stripper Richie; and Jennifer Esposito makes a superb slut.And, as far as I'm concerned, it also doesn't hurt that good old Spike sees fit to throws in a loads of super sleazy moments in order to convey the anything-goes attitude of some his characters Dionna dons skimpy red undies and blonde wig to seduce her hubby and accompanies him to a sex club for rich swingers; Lucky Vinny not only gets some serious attention from his smoking hot spouse, but also boffs his boss Gloria (Bebe Neuwirth) and bangs his wife's tasty cousin; and Richie gets grubby with punters from his strip club and makes hardcore porn with girlfriend Ruby (Esposito).Sure, not everyone likes the talking dog scene, but with all that going on, who cares? "},{"Title":"David is Sam and vice versa","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll never forget the day I first saw this (Friday 2nd July 1999). It was the first time I'd gone to a new cinema downtown that was built inside the block of a former department store. I marvelled at just how huge everything was. At a time when really big screens, stadium seating and the overall godzillaplex (a term I'm borrowing from the great Mitch Davis of Montreal's Fantasia festival) wasn't the standard yet, the whole scale of it all took a while to get used to.And the huge in atmosphere film that afternoon seared itself into my memory forever. Summer Of Sam is a plunge into a time machine. Or as much of a time travelling experience as one should want to have. The boroughs of New York, both in and out of the direct lines of a madman's gunfire, were paranoid about when and where the next murder attempt would occur. If there was a Richter scale machine for measuring cumulative public fear, it might have cracked in two and been rendered useless in the era of Son of Sam. Things couldn't function normally until the gunman was finally arrested and the world could breathe an enormous sigh of relief.Spike Lee lets John Leguizamo and Adrien Brody go to hell with themselves. What I mean by that is two young men in the middle of all this craziness feel like they're in some personal hell. John's Vincent is not sure of much in the world outside the community he's lived in all his life. Adrien's Richie's reinvention of himself elicits little more than outright hostility from almost every person he interacts with. Their futures are bound to crash together in an ugly way, all those formative years of friendship amounting to very little when one's back is figuratively (or literally) against a wall.Mira Sorvino is most radiant, her character Dionna being the sympathetic anchor of the whole group and so many emotions, normally held in check, flare up in several scenes when matters at home and on the streets become more than she can cope with. This is Mira's finest acting to date. Summer Of Sam drew the inevitable criticisms for so called stereotypes and the on camera depiction of David Berkowitz, played disturbingly well by Michael Badalucco. What does anyone expect here? If you want a film that isn't probing into society's real oddities, like the once an era criminal who gets more publicity than any other thousands combined and how the average person reacts to that being truly beyond their control, I'd suggest they watch something else. "},{"Title":"Ugly !","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" So the movie, as I understood, is about some kind of topsy-turvy community where the police are helpless, the mob is ruling, and nearly all the characters are criminals who suddenly play the role of judges, to represent the blind justice yet literally. The men from the Italian-American South Bronx neighborhood which the movie talks about are drowned in sex, drugs, and extreme violence, who want to capture the killer while every one of them is a killer in a way. Except Adrien Brody's character (Richie) who's another lost yet no violent, less blind and sees the truth of the mad schizophrenia that everybody, including himself, lives. So naturally he's the weakest among the rest, being the perfect victim for such a bunch of killers. It's a lost society that sometimes you might think it deserves a serial killer like Sam (they even sang his lunatic words which revile the city !), or that Sam who lives a summer, as in the title, is this dark fierce and defective city itself. However the movie sunk and sunk and sunk while saying that or before managing to say it in the first place ! Let's review the reasons WHY  _John Leguizamo is one of the worst leads ever, lacking the charisma, and the ability to convince you of even following him._The English vocabulary is nothing but the F word; that's a fact which I've learned from this movie which has, unlike all the movies that I've seen, a F**k word at least every second ! That was very loathsome and awfully boring before being the most pathetic attempt to look realistic ! _It bores the pants off. OK, we knew that Brody's character works as a male prostitute to earn money, so why to repeat that more than once ?!. And so on till the movie swelled to be more than 2 hours and 20 minutes ! In fact with the lowness of the whole characters the movie developed a certain feel of being so repulsive and pointless along the way._The poor artistic persona of it. I mean come 'on we're speaking about Spike Lee here. This man used to make something different in every movie, something outrageous or remarkable or somehow groundbreaking. This time it's not even a good movie by any measure; which's why so many viewers asked Was that really a Spike Lee Joint ?! It was too bad to the extent that there were some moments pushed me to feel that he made them so ugly deliberately ?!! I know that I was about to puke not more than once but during the whole thing ! So, the only outrageous thing he did this time is making this movie as horribly tasteless._Yes, it's not another historical epic about America of the 1970s or something like Martin Scorsese's work sometimes (such as Casino) despite how many times I felt that this is the most Scorsese Lee's movie (with the American-Italian characters, the period's singing soundtrack, and the rough photomontage). And basically it's not about The Son of Sam inasmuch as his killer city. Being a testimony about wasted generation that lived the crime till it ran into their blood, hence Sam is just the less sane one compared to them and the less lucky since they're loose unlike the poor him ! Simply Sam wasn't totally a lunatic as the final monologue tells us; he was sick person who killed people instead of his own pain. Hence the movie just used him as a mirror for all the movie's other sick youth who at least didn't confess like him at the end. So, it's one story out of 8 million, yet supposed to symbolize the rest or its disturbance anyway. BUT most of this &#x96; if not all &#x96; was theoretically more than practically...For instance, look at the lead's problem; he can't sleep with his wife because he wants a whore, and he can't sleep with whores because he's married. This confusion is so dramatic and a perfect case of schizophrenia however with the character's many disloyalties, his mania of the aberrant sex, Leguizamo's improvisations (that Lee loved to turn his character from secondary one into a lead !), and the too loud performance most of the time.. The storyline seemed heavy apart and away of telling a meaningful thing. He screams from his window cursing Sam in the middle of the night like blaming him for his own problems but that wasn't clear enough to be understood. Let alone that the movie forgot utterly about the real Sam himself, giving no reasons or whatsoever for his behaviors as a symbol more than a character yet I think this abstraction weakened the story, since he didn't get any storyline, or wasn't smartly related to the other story lines, thrilling, that vague (to see his face one time, then not to see it in others ?!), or comprehensible as a symbol eventually ! In general this movie was so myopic. And it didn't come up with something really coherent out of these characters that it dealt with, being non-enjoyable on all the levels, showing tortured persons in torturing way ! To be a suicidal objective I had to say that the sarcastic scene of making the list of Sams in the diner, and Jennifer Esposito's line to Mira Sorvino in the bathroom advising her to get along with her husband first, you mustn't be his wife! both were maybe the only well-written material in this ! And with the exception of the closing credits nothing is creative or watchable. I bet it could've been more interesting if it was directed by Sam himself ! Using talking dogs maybe.. Ah.. that should've been prettier ! "}{"Title":"The What?","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having been reasonably impressed by 25th Hour, I took a step back to watch this  similarly NYC concerned one.Judging by comments here, Lee seems to get people worked up about stereotyping  awfully easy. It doesn't seem any worse here than in many other US films, but for some  reason, by the simple fact of being a black director directing an almost exclusively white  cast I imagine, this grates with some people. But Italian-Americans in films are a genre  by themselves and it's open to all to put their take on it. He gets people worked up,  that's an achievement of sorts. The fact that Lee has been persistently vocal about racial  issues makes it tempting for some to try and get some of that mud to stick to him. To  me, he all too often seems to be a New York director making New York films, like many  others.My problems with the film aren't with the portrayal of Italian-Americans. There's good  and bad in most of these characters and it's kind of paint-by-numbers with some of  them for sure. But that's mainstream American cinema for you, from whichever quarter.At times, I thought I was watching Lee trying a bit hard to do Scorcese. There's a good  soundtrack, but it's overly intrusive and it doesn't mesh or play counterpoint with the  content that well at times. The punk elements are risible and this really lets it down in  terms of historical accuracy, it just looks all wrong. That crowd outside CBGB's are  clearly latter-day punks for hire and not those you'd see in '77. All those piercings? Not  that style anyway. And all those Stratocasters... Didn't anyone advise him on this?The idea is good, but it's never focused enough on the central story and it's too long. It's  a shame, as this film could have worked much better with 25th Hour as two New York  films on either side of 9/11. I imagine that event would encourage him to make Summer  of Sam quite differently if he were to do it now. "},{"Title":"Well-Filmed, but with redundant urban Italian Stereotypes","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is an interesting discussion on this movie's message board about the amount of f-words in this movie. Notice the other movie mentioned to have nearly as many f-words was Casino. What do these movies have in common? Central characters who are Italians from big cities.At some point, someone in Hollywood (ironically, probably Coppolla or Scorcese) decided that urban Italians swear and fight more than anyone else. (The only exception to this is Everybody Loves Raymond, which actually only has ONE Italian cast memeber) All the Mario Cuomos, Alfred P. Gianninis, Enrico Fermis and Antonin Scalias in the world couldn't debunk the Hollywood image of the dumb, corrupt, foul-mouthed, murderously violent and apparently racist urban Italian.As a twenty-something black who literally grew up watching Spike Lee movies (and his Nike commercials), it breaks my heart to have to admit that Lee is uniquely guilty of promoting this stereotype.The two or three movies in which Lee has prominently featured Italians - this one included - he has ensured to depict them as negatively as possible. This is much more damaging in Lee's films because, unlike other Italian-bashing films - mostly crime dramas - Lee's New York films are alleged, by him and others, to be quasi-autobiographical, and therefore realistic. The result then is that in the minds of white middle America (and, no doubt, black America) thhis image of Italians is the most accurate.Until Lee learns how to paint even-handed images of blacks and whites in his films, he should stick to straight historical piececs like Malcolm X, where, unlike Summer of Sam, he has no freedom to invent personae of already established characters. Of course, if he just mixes in a few more Jennifer Esposito or Mira Sorvino love scenes, then all is forgiven ... by me, at least. ;) "},{"Title":"Decent but boring","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this after watching EMPIRE with John L.  I like Spike Lee joints and thought this looked good. It is good in the sense that it gives you a SLICE OF LIFE out of 1977.  That part I liked.  Those ITALIAN dudes were annoying though.  From what I can tell, this is how it was in 1977.  Yes, DISCO, COCAINE etc.  Living in NYC during the Son of Sam murders as intense I am sure.  The only silly part was the character generated MOUTH on the DOG who told David to KILL!!!!v "},{"Title":"Disco Balls and Bullets (Possible Spoiler)","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was wondering to rent Summer of Sam on Video, and if it is any good since I enjoyed watching True Crime; Serial Killer Thillers. Even though the victims relatives are uneasy about it's production if it would lionise David Berkowitz-the actual Killer, even Berkowitz who wants to be called the 'Son Of Hope' did not want it made. So why was this still a project? Well it provides the atmosphere of the time and place where the Serial Killings happened without glamorising David in that particular idolising way, even though the movie can be flashy by illustrating a 'Natural Born Killers' touch to the photography, also Spike Lee Claimed no movie maker has done a film about the 'Son of Sam', well maybe he did not do any research because there was the 1985 Movie, Out of the Darkness about David Berkowitz.Set in the late 70's, in the days of disco. Leguizumo, and Sorvino play a married couple who are caught up on being the next target of the 'Sam's' hit list. This Movie focuses on them, and the Italian background too much-it is almost like watching 'Goodfellas' mating with 'Satuday Night Fever' and S.O.S is the OFFSPRING, but Oscar winner; the Beautiful Sorvino does an outstanding performance, Leguizumo is irritating as a lying' cheater which the scriptwriters are planning to make him a pantomine villain-to 'hiss' and 'boo' at for being a dirty dawg. The Talking Laborador reminds me of babe or Eddie Murphy's Dr Doolittle - it was laughable.(Spoiler starts here) Like 'HUNT OF THE NIGHT STALKER' you only see the GUN and the outlined silhouette, but you don't see the Killer's face or his psychological profile through out the entire film and WHY HE DID IT? albeit it is about their crimes and life of the suffers i.e. the survivors and detectives, but it should give us a much clearer picture to a Serial Killer's mind since we are on this sensitive subject.Overall a mediocre Movie loosely based on TRUE LIFE accounts, some may like it, some might not, but this is worth a look. "},{"Title":"provoking","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a strange feel this film had.  A social commentary against thebackdrop of a serial killer.   And, a blatant obsession with the NewYork Yankees.  However, it was far too long.  In need of editing.  But, Mira Sorvino is absolutely breathtaking.  One of the mostbeautiful woman I have ever seen.  I wish she would marry me andbecome my wife. Do you think I have a chance? "},{"Title":"Perfect Paranoia","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam is a masterpiece. There, I said it. The cinematography is stunning- are women better DP's?-SOS argues YES, the acting is wonderful, and best of all the soundtrack is perfect for paranoia. The Who were used better in SOS than Quadrophenia!!!! Time travel with this joint- it seems the Son of Sam created as much fear in 1977 as the Ripper did in turn of the century London...All hail Spike Lee "},{"Title":"Go ahead and laugh, but I though this was somewhat funny","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that this was a o.k. movie and certinly not the best, I will not bragg like some other users do (I have a feeling).Very much like Studio 54,but a lot more violent and from the very begining we all know who the killer is just by reading a history book before watching the movie.And that kind of takes away the fun of the movie and all we get a bunch of screaming rabel rousing New Yorkers who then start accusing each other of being the killer.The film then becomes a enjoyable circus especialy the lynch mob scene at the end.Why does every movie about the 70's always have to have music in the backround every 3 minutes or so,they want us not to forget that its the 70's but we know its the 70's.Dont get me wrong I like the music in this movie like during the opening scene when Vinny & Dionna were dancing to the grace of god but I dont have to be reminded every 3 min that its the 70's. One last noteFor those of you who are upset about John Leguizamo playing an Italian, just keep in mind that Al Pachino played a Hispanic in both Scarface & Carlito's way so SHUT UP AND GET A LIFE!!! "},{"Title":"COULD have been a good film...","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cut out all the sex, cursing, and just about all the cheap dialouge and add maybe a little bit better of EVERYTHING that it takes to make a good film, and this movie could have actually been worth watching.  Don't waste your time, becuase Lee really needs to stick to acting...oh wait..nevermind.  1 star out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not that bad after all","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I completely share the complaints about inaccurate details on the 1977 punk scene (The Who, mohawk cut etc.), I still think this is a nice study of human behavior when emotions, racism and prejudice overlay any attempt to reasonable thinking.Vinnie's role, though almost spoiled by a (imho) lousy actor, is to balance emotions and mind, prejudice and fairness. Careful Minor details on the ending I hope not to say too much about the end, but in the minute he gives way to his friends, madness rules. It is truly amazing to see how a mindless, drugged mob gives way to emotions, disregarding any rules of human conduct in the very minute they want to enforce them. This is the one and only reason that makes this movie different from lots of similar whodunnit movies and I recommend it - especially to those rating Spiderman or Pearl Harbour any higher than 3 points.  "},{"Title":"Please, baby, baby please give me my money back!!!!","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What has happened to Spike Lee!!!??? The last great movie he made was He Got Game and that was 4 years ago. Ever since, he has churned out two unwatchable movies, the first of which is Summer of Sam. I distinctly remember watching this movie in the theater 3 years ago and not believing how truly horrid this alleged piece of celluloid was.It's a shame because I actually looked forward to seeing this movie. I've always liked Spike Lee, I've always found John Leguizamo to be a creative and inventive performer, and Mira Sorvino is always interesting (not to mention very easy on the eyes), PLUS, having been born in New York, I've always loved movies about NYC, and I've always had a fondness for the 1970's--the music, the fashion, etc.  So how could a New York movie about a 1970's event disappoint?? Keep readingThe movie takes a great premise--a serial murderer's killing spree creates a climate of paranoia in a small Brooklyn community and turns the townfolk against each other (sort of like an urban update of that excellent Twilight Zone episode where an alien has invaded a neighborhood and the neighbors turn against each other as they try to find out who the alien is)--and leaves it to rot on the shelf while it instead focuses its attention on sex orgies, stereotypes, cliches, and uninteresting characters. The movie does a worthy job with the What--the killer, the 1970's details, the music, the fashion--but craps out on the Why. Why tell this story? Why these particular characters?To this day, I'm still wondering what Spike's--and the studio execs who greenlit the picture--intention was. To me, it seems almost as if Spike's heart wasn't really into this picture. In some ways, it all seems slapped together without apparent concern for plausibility or quality. I mean, JOHN LEGUIZAMO as an Italian?? That's like Woody Allen as an Irishman. And in the role as a TV reporter, Spike Lee is embarrasingly bad--even slurring his speech at times. You can tell he didn't even bother to research the mannerisms and gestures of authentic TV reporters.The film does have its moments. I liked how it showed the way dark-haired women dyed their hair blonde so that they wouldn't be the next targets. Also, the scene where one of the neighborhood knuckleheads tells his friends why he believes Reggie Jackson is the Son of Sam (Reggie's number being 44, a la the .44 Magnum, being one of the reasons) is hilarious and brilliant. And the closing credits showing each performer's name as newspaper headlines is ingenious. (Spike has always been great with credit sequences).But any movie where the closing credits are one of the three great things about it is doomed. So again, I ask Spike, what the heck has happened to you!!?? What happened to that guy who gave us consistently on-target, mesmerizing movies like Do the Right Thing, Malcolm X, Jungle Fever, Mo Better Blues, She's Gotta Have It!!?? We want that guy back!!!!!! Pronto!!!! We NEED that guy back!!!!!  "}{"Title":"Evil spelled backwards is live","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was okay. Actaully, it kind of sucked. But not completely. I thought certain parts were very good. The backdrop (New York City is always a good backdrop) gave this movie its edge, like most of Spike Lee's movies. I thought the acting was pretty good all around (John Leguizamo as an Italian wasn't the most convincing roll, since he is obviously not Italian), and I enjoyed the sequences where they played The Who (The Who is one of my favorite bands).I encountered numerous problems in this movie. I thought that the stories didn't really make themselves clear enough, or maybe they were lacking in detail (they could have gone deeper into the characters and less into the style of living in the mid 70's). The characters just kind of showed up and the movie went on from there. I think that the story just scratched the surface, when this could have been a great character flick.I didn't like John Leguizamo's character, I'll say that right off. He just ****ed me off. He is an unloyal, cheating, lying little grease ball, and usually characters like this are in my favorite movies (like John Cazale in The Godfather or Ray Liotta in Goodfellas), but he didn't change, either. He was a one dimensional character. Now I know that John Cazale was also like this, but he wasn't the main character, though. John Lequizamo just stayed the same little creep the whole movie, and he wasn't very interesting. I will say that he did do a good job with what they gave him, though, because he did add a little to the dense character.The reason that I liked this movie was Adrien Brody and Jennifer Esposito. They were the two good characters. Ritchie was a cool character because, one, he was a punk, and two, he was the most complex and mysterious character in the whole movie. Jennifer Esposito was equally good because she went from being an incredibly slutty floozy, to a grimy street punk. I thought that she did a great job. These two are the reason I liked this movie.This movie is hardly about the Son of Sam killer, just to let any one who hasn't seen it yet know. He is really the flame under the frying pan, so to speak, because his horrific actions cause the uproar in the neighborhood that causes everyone to go nuts. I think this movie would have been better for Martin Scorsese (I am not just saying that because he is my favorite director) or Sidney Lumet. I usually don't like Spike Lee movies, but he does do them good when he really believes in the project, but this one (or at least I think so) he just didn't put as much into the characters as he did into the city at the time. Okay if you have seen everything else. 6/10  "},{"Title":"A Film I Will Never Forget, Forget That I Paid Money To See It.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hmmmmm. I saw this movie in the theaters about 3-4 years or so ago. The film happily left my mind for awhile, then it was on FX and i, like the movie-buff i am, i couldn't help but watch it. I honestly have no clue why. I really do truly in my heart hate this film.I don't see what TOUCHSTONE was thinking. This film was awful. It's genre should of been labeled PORN/SNUFF/DRAMA. Man, SPIKE LEE has got to be one of my most hated directors now. This movie was no work of 'art'. Plus, EBERT'S little ELECTRIFYING note doesn't cut it either.  To me this movie was very dark, disturbing, and... pointless.The movie was really about nothing. If you think that showing a couple scenes of the SON OF SAM running around the place shooting people with incredible amounts of fake blood earns this movie the right to say it's about the son of sam, you're dumb, because it doesn't. Then we have to sit through these detailed sex scenes over and over again, which should NOT of been in the movie. About 2 scenes or so, i probably wouldn't of minded, just for the 70's redundant reason. But we have to see SO much of these, and they are stupid, and orgy? Wtf was LEE thinking. He's turned into VERHOEVEN.Oh, you've also got to love how the F-word was used about 5 times in each sentence. Preferably sentences that involve 'hey.' All the other ones round around 393493 F-words. VERY RIDICULOUS. Then we also have to hear a little of LEES 'racist' crap about how if SOS was black or not and blah blah blah. Typical.The fact that this movie was 2 hours of rare-daylight scenes, nothing but strong violence with sex, tons of language, and drug use all cramped up with some horrible 70's music, i shiver whenever i hear those songs now. This movie really got to me. Maybe it was the music playing while the camera zoomed into the blood in the car. Maybe it was SPIKE LEES moronic view, or maybe it was everything i have already said.I'm getting screwed up with my words. I'll sum it up in one line.THIS MOVIE SUCKED.  "},{"Title":"Fictionalized account of the Berkowitz killings.Yeah, Whatever.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"   There was a reasonable amount of controversy behind the release of this film, especially regarding the real-life David Berkowitz, who had since became a born-again Christian and denounced what he did. But the controversy is ridiculous since the story has been revived in many other movies and documentaries. And also because the film is barely about Berkowitz. It's about, well...nothing. Although well over 2 hours, it could have been cut down to an hour and a half and the reception it received - good or bad - would remain the same. Simply it's a composition of fictional vignettes, each one coinciding with the 1977 Summer Son of Sam killings in Brooklyn, and most of the stories prove no point. At least, nothing more than the one-trick-pony political ya-ya that is apparent in all of Spike Lee's films. In this overlong travesty was one memorable scene, a newsreel interview of a woman insisting that it's a good thing that Berkowitz is white, because if he was black, there would be riots everywhere. I'm sure Lee doesn't play the race card to offend, but one wonders the validity of this message and why he chose to take it in the direction that he took it here.   "},{"Title":"this was not a horror movie... a whore movie maybe","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was not only not scary but it was just dirty. It was soft core porn.  There was no suspense and a lot of it was just stupid and confusing. It was not enjoyable. Maybe if you're a Spike Lee fan or were alive during that time, you could appreciate it more but as for me and my friends, we hated it. A waste of some serious time.  "},{"Title":"Unique and Original","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This Movie can Only be Described as Unique, Original, and Very Entertaining. It is Important to know that This is not Really Based too much on Son of Sam. It was more Based on the Time Period in Which he was an Unknown Psycho. It is Also Important for Someone to Know that this Film is not meant to be scary. It is more meant to be a Documentary or even a Drama. It is Still a Good Movie and is Recommended from me to Everyone. I Don't know a Single person who Didn't like this Perfect Movie. "},{"Title":"must see","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i did not want this to end.  the characters where so intense and authentic that i felt that i was watching a documentary on the late 70's. this is a slice of history, though born out of horrible deeds,that has resulted in a most entertaining movie. more please Mr Lee!  "},{"Title":"Unique piece of cinema","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A really strange and intriguing film focusing on the summer of 1977 - sex, drugs, rock 'n roll and um, serial killers!You read write - The Son Of Sam is on the loose and he's stalking people with a gun, meanwhile Mira Sorvino's character is having troubles with her womanising husband.That girl from Spin City (Jennifer Esposito) appears in this too. Like I said, this film is really strange (think Almost Famous meets The Cell, and you'll have something that might slightly resemble this). "},{"Title":"Bummer of Sam Spike Lee's Joint has arthritis","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sham is an uninteresting display of gratuitous profanity and wannabe retro appeal. I haven't seen it in a little while, so I'll try not to get the details wrong, though I might.It centers on the events in the lives of a group of friends who live in New York during the infamous summer of 1977 when the killer called the Son of Sam was going around murdering couples in parked cars and, specifically, women with shoulder-length brunette hair.However, this movie isn't actually about the Son of Sam, although he makes cameo appearances. It's really about how his threatening presence acts as a catalyst for the breaking down of the main characters' relationships with each other. Be it indirectly or what not, the Son of Sam's presence is the final straw the characters' fragile holds on their morality and common sense are destroyed.John Leguizamo and Mira Sorvino play a young married couple. However Vinny (Leguizamo) has a problem he has so much respect for his wife, he can't bring himself to degrade her by passionately consummating their marriage. So naturally he satisfies his sexual appetites by cheating on her. Vinny also hangs around with a bunch of losers of various ages, including Ritchie.Ritchie is the outsider, the young misfit. To support himself, he delves into the seedy business underbelly of New York. Eventually, he makes it as a musician in one of the film's most annoying scenes decked out with a mohawk and leather jacket, he becomes a scratchy voiced Sad Vicious, belting out anti-establishment anthems that were really just stolen from one of Son of Sam's letters.Vinny and his wife try to get into Studio 54 (we knew about the '70s, wink wink!) in a ploy that lasts five minutes, they go with a strange man to engage in lecherous acts (gee, maybe we shouldn't have visited Randy Warhol's Sleaze Den!). After this night of guilty debauchery, Vinny's relations with his wife fall apart. Drowning his sorrow in drugs, Vinny decides to join his loser buddies as they attack ANYONE they think might be the Son of Sam.Front to back, this is a trumped up piece of crap whose controversial subject material only amounts to hours of so many f*** words it'd make sailors blush. Spike Lee's cameo as a news reporter is only another way to sneak racist blurbs into the film.Summer of Sam gets 3/10 stars. It doesn't matter how prestigious or cutting-edge Spike Lee is, or how good the acting was. A flop by any other name would suck as much. And this does. It's really more like Summer of Shame.  "},{"Title":"This movie is great.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I want to say that I love this movie. I admit it is a little excessive at times but it is still great. A lot of people bash this movie because the characters it depicts in that notorious period in history are very unpleasant,but I know those people. Names and faces are different,but all the nastiness is the same. Just like these guys I know a lot of people who just have nothing better to do with themselves than hang around on street corners and in trashy bars,get drunk,get high,and get in fights and I could see these people using a serial killer as an excuse to harass and rough people up. But not all of the characters are unpleasant. Sorvino,Brody,and Espozito are likeable. I think this a great movie. Instead of showing the worn out serial killer story about the cop who will stop at nothing to catch the murderer, it shows the affect a serial killer can have on a city. Great movie, Spike Lee's best. "},{"Title":"Interesting and unconventional look at serial killer hysteria.","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam takes the unusual step of focusing on two men whose lives are influenced by the Son of Sam murders and the hysteria they caused - womanizing Catholic Vinny (John Leguizamo) who narrowly avoids becoming one of Berkowitz's victims, and punk Ritchie (Adrien Brody) who is suspected by mafia-sponsored vigilantes of being the killer. By doing this, Spike Lee shows how many 'victims' big name serial killers can have, which makes it more interesting and realistic than the usual glorification of multiple murderers or the detectives who manage to catch them. Berkowitz, the Son of Sam (Michael Badalucco) is only a minor character in the film, the cops who track him down are only peripheral, and the murder victims are almost invisible. There are some very scary moments - the scene in which Berkowitz sees and hears Sam, the dog, speak to him in John Turturro's voice is first-class horror movie material - but all they really do is show that there was some basis for the hysteria which the murders created. This is really more of a look at the lives and attitudes of people in a 1970s Brooklyn Italian neighbourhood than a traditional serial killer film, so if you're a rabid fan of the knife-kill genre, this isn't your movie. If you're looking for complex characters and strong performances, though, it's worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Very interesting from beginning to end.","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although there's nothing overly excellent about Summer of Sam, it remains very interesting from beginning to end. The story and characters are absorbing. The Soundtrack is also very good. Overall, nothing overly great, but very interesting and absorbing from beginning to end. *** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Good, could have been better without Sam","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the most part this film was very well executed.  Leguizamo deserved an Oscar nomination for his work as the neighborhood guy caught up in a mob frenzy he wanted to avoid.  Ironically, the one thing that could have made this film much better would have been to leave out the scenes which showed Sam (Berkowitz).  We all know he was a nut, and watching him roll around on the floor moaning didn't add anything.  It would've been better to leave Sam as a mysterious, dangerous entity (which, during most of the time this movie covers, he was).  Still, a good job by Spike. "},{"Title":"Patchy and at times unfocussed, but not without its moments.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The bad points about Summer of Sam too many plot strands. I understood that Spike Lee was trying to depict a city under seige, but by trying to cover so much, he lost his sense of focus as to what he was trying to say. If he had stuck to one or two plots, like the deteriorating friendship between John Leiguzamo's and Adiren Brody's characters, or the failing marriage with the killings in the background, this would have been a far more emotionally involving and affecting film. Summer of Sam is TOO LONG and is flabby and goes nowhere when it should be tight and focussed. Also, I had no problem with the violence of the film, but not depicting every single murder would have been infinitely more effective than the approach that was taken. Definite overkill to the point where graphically this approach began to lose its impact and point and simply became gratuitous and, quite frankly, boring. That said, Summer of Sam does possess quite a few qualities that redeem it. Namely, a killer visual style. Spike Lee is not simply a black filmaker, he is also a New York filmaker. Watching Summer of Sam, I got the impression that Lee knows these streets right down to his bones. Check out the sequence which uses The Who's Won't Get Fooled Again as its soundtrack. I swear, I think I forgot to breathe for about ten minutes watching that. Gut wrenchingly powerful stuff which reminds you of Lee's talent. However, that sequence was nearly ruined by the fact that it went past the point where it should of; the main problem of the film in general, I felt, was that Lee quite simply didn't know when to yell Cut!. On the other hand, there were some great performances in the film, particularly from Adrien Brody as Ritchie.  In short, I would recommend Summer of Sam, but it is an extremely frustrating experience. "},{"Title":"70's overload!","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film may be a little overlong but as a film that takes place in the 70's, it does an incredible job of doing it, maybe even better than Boogie Nights.The film is about David Berkowitz, who as the Son Of Sam murdered a number of young people during 1976 and '77 in New York. The film takes place during the hot summer of 1977 when there was an intense heat wave and the paranoia surrounding the mass murderer.Sadly, the main characters aren't likable. The movie is about a group of stereotyped Italian-Americans who are their own police and want to find the Son Of Sam. One of the members is played by John Leguizamo, who plays a totally unlikeable guy but someone you'd pity. He smokes cigarettes, does drugs and sleeps around with his wife's cousin. The others are your usual thugs. Only Adrien Brody's character, a punk rock fan who tries to sound British during his conversations and ends up being the Italians main suspect and Mira Sorvino, as Leguizamo's wife, are likable. The rest have no redeeming qualities. Michael Baddalucco delivers a chilling performance as David Berkowitz.Still, Spike Lee delivers a superb 70's feel. The soundtrack is full of your favorite disco and pop tunes, the clothes and hair are dead on and all the excesses of the decade are in place. One great scene has Brody's character playing guitar while scenes of him at his day job as a stripper are mixed in while the song Baba O'Riley is in the background. It's a very stimulating scene.While a documentary about Berkowitz would be a better way to learn about the killer, this film uses it as a backdrop for the lives of others. Still, if you want to see the best attempt of showing people how life was in the '70s, interpreted by someone in the late '90s, Spike does it. "},{"Title":"Another convincing New York portrait","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When the godfather of the New Black Cinema announced that his next picture would deal with the serial killer David Berkowitz you could expect that it wouldn´t be an ordinary genre film.His movies are using the rules of a genre just as basis for a more complex analyses of the american society and New York in particular.It isn´t further surprising that Summer of sam isn´t a traditional serial killer story,but a critical review of the recent history of the city New York.After the restrictive politics of the conservative mayor Guiliani,Martin Scorsese in Bringing out the Dead and Spike Lee in Summer of Sam are tracing back the repression to the early 90´s and in this case to the overwhelming hot summer of 1977.In Summer of Sam the unbearable heat is leading to an explosion of subliminal conflicts through the invisible threat of a serial killer.In a formal brilliantly arranged web of different subplots Summer of Sam follows the effects of the serial killer paranoia in an italo-american microcosm in the south Bronx.As always in Lees´ movies,the protagonists are placeholders for a social atmosphere and a popcultural stream. Here the killer only appears as a secondary figure in Lees´ narrative patchwork. In the end it becomes very clear that after Do The Right Thing and Clockers,Lee managed to come up with another convincing New York portrait. "},{"Title":"Slumber of Sam","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really , really tried to watch this movie all the way through, about 4 times, but failed each time. Overlong and sooo boring, I never really cared about the characters at all. I thought this movie would be about the efforts by police and later the capture of the Son of Sam killer, but instead I got 3 or 4 boring subplots that ran 2 hours 30 minutes. Patoohie!! "},{"Title":"Spike Lee in enjoying himself shock!!!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Blackouts, baseball, drugs, disco, sex and serial killings. Spike Lee's SUMMER OF SAM is a little bit of everything. The verve is in place. Unfortunately, some bad research and abysmal stereotypes detract from Lee's best film in a decade.The ensemble cast is great. John Leguiziamo in particular stands out as a man whose infidelity and definition of loyalty conspire to bring him apart. His sorry anti-hero is a wonderful throwback to the daring school of seventies filmmaking that Lee pays homage to.The potential is great, and the nature of both script and narrative promise an unpredictable ride. But whoever told Lee that The Who were the seminal punk rock band was playing a really bad joke. It can't help but detract the action. There are also some silly racial stereotypes (the Italian community is represented as little more than a lynch-mob). A director as racially conscious as Spike Lee surely shouldn't set himself up for a critical battering in such an obvious manner but he does.When it comes to editing though, he is in his element. Lee mixes film stocks and mediums, and the tone switches well throughout. It isn't Mean Streets, of course, but SUMMER OF SAM is a welcome treat - seeing a brave, if frequently maligned director stick his neck out. "},{"Title":"Extremely Poor","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't think I've seen a movie for a long time that misses the point by such a huge margin.It is all too soon forgotten in the hysteric wake of a serial killers reign that people have been murdered.  This has been completely lost in this film. I think it is insulting to the victims and families that the only time the film graces their lives was to show them being shot.  A film a little over 2 hours long, spared about 3 minutes in total time showing people getting murdered.  This is inexcusable as the underlying point of this film is the `Son of Sam' murders.  Further more, the killings and actions shown, with David Berkowitz (`Son of Sam') are factually incorrect, I think this displays a stunning degree of ignorance on Lee's behalf.  "},{"Title":"a pointless N.Y. story","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I myself was born in 1974 and my memories from that period are pretty cloudy, but nevertheless I feel I could easily make a better job at choosing clothes, music and hairstyles for this film. As other people have commented, take for instance the so-called punk rocker... he looks exactly like a guy that listens to Offspring in 1998, not a Ramones/Pistols fan in the seventies. And so on...Spike Lee has not managed to capture the feel of the period in my opinion, the characters in this film seem as phony as the clothes. Everything is seen from the outside, the serial killer Son of Sam as well as the loud low-life italian-americans. We never understand WHY anything in the story happens, we just see it happen and leave it at that. Instead of renting this movie I recommend staying at home and checking for one of those great movies that was really made in the seventies, they are bound to be on some tv channel. There you have great scripts and characters, and all that nostalgia for free. "},{"Title":"A bore at times.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's the summer of 1977 in New York. Times are strange here. Blackouts are all over. There's a killer on the loose and paranoia is rampant throughout the city. Pretty much the detail of this story lies on the lifestyles of the teenagers and young adults who endured the strangest of times. And that's what you think about the movie too. It seems odd that the main characters in this movie would be portrayed to be just as nefarious as the crazy killer stalking the young girls who seems to be driven by a maniacal dog that would not shut up. Strange times indeed and boring too. Not a party movie as this is completely boring. But if you have nothing better to do than watch a semi-biographical movie about 1977 New York, look no further. But even then, try and keep your interest up. "}{"Title":"A superbly execute, multi faceted thriller","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Summer of Sam  Spike Lee has captured the mood of the seventies quite superbly, he has created a film with a strong identity which along with the solid story is a result of some typically creative directing and superbly implemented music.This is not as you might think a harrowing study of serial killer, but a study of the communities of New York city and the way they deal with the alarming prospect of possibly being the next victim on the Son of Sam's prolific list. We are led into the lives of a minority of inhabitants and their relationships and learn about them and the lives they lead. This helps the audience understand the ways in which each of them deals with the knowledge of what is going on around them. We witness peoples irrationality through fear, the anxieties and paranoia that engulfs New York City and how lives are affected as a result. The theme of judgement is evident as a result of fear and the way in which this enters the story can be compared to the way in which the twenties Ivor Novello film The Lodger did so.The media plays a big part too and we see however effective it is as a format to inform, it can prove dangerous as it heightens people's already substantial fears through the sensational way in which broadcasters present their stories.another very important part of this film is the relationship between Vinnie and Ritchie, which throws up questions of trust, loyalty and through Ritchie's distinct appearance, prejudice for which he is unfairly vindicated.The Son Of Sam himself is almost a backdrop, a human catalyst that shows people for what they truly are, how they react through fear and is a way of showing the audience, how at a time of such horror people can't let issues rest and work together to help save lives, instead they let pressures and opinions distract them and the result is chaos, instead of bringing out the best in people, the worst is achieved.Summer of Sam is not what it may seem, a run of the mill thriller, even though it is important to remember it does thrill and keep you on your toes, but it has many facets to it, many themes and if you can't trust in my judgement just have faith in Spike lee, he deserves it. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but disturbing","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SOS is a very interesting film when taken form a historical/social perspective.  It was more to do with a group of characters in the Bronx and how Sam affected their lives during that summer, rather than being about SOS.  There are some fairly disturbing scenes, and some creepy ones, but this film is more a character study than anything else.  The cast is excellent, the story is great- albeit a bit long.  However, it lacked the emotional impact that a subject matter like this deserved.  There was a lot of screaming, but not much else. One problem was that the characters were just not likeable, except for Mira Sorvino's.  In fact some characters were so annoying that you almost hoped they would be next on SOS hit list.  Still it was very interesting, but certainly not for all tastes. "},{"Title":"70's finest","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's almost a masterpiece, I'd say. Delicious Mira Sorvino, and all. Great soundtrack. Best Spike Lee ever. Must C (9/10)  "},{"Title":"the dog KILL KILL KILL","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That one scene where the dog goes up to Son of Sam and says, Kill kill kill! made this movie worthwhile.  Yeah, it's a little long and wears slightly thin at times but I did like it.  The shots of Sam all wigged-out in his apartment caused me some nervous laughter.  A pretty decent movie- if not Lee's best. "},{"Title":"Spike has done it again","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love him or hate him, you can't deny it Spike Lee is one of the most exciting, original filmmakers of the last 20 years. Despite the fact that it received zero Oscar nominations (like the similarly shut-out Eyes Wide Shut), this is without a doubt the best film Spike has made since the powerful Malcolm X.It's the summer of 1977 and New York City is gripped by the terror of the serial killer known as Son of Sam. The film focuses not so much on the crimes themselves, but on fictional characters that inhabit the city and their reactions to the epidemic. Most of these characters are a tight-knit young community of Italian-Americans, led by the husband and wife team of Vinny and Dionna, played by John Leguizamo and Mira Sorvino. Vinny is a less-than-faithful husband, who feels that his eyewitness account of the killer is a sin from God that he needs to change his philandering ways.Leguizamo and Sorvino turn in the performances of their careers. Other notable performances are by Adrien Brody and Jennifer Esposito, as Ritchie and Ruby. Ritchie is a neighborhood regular who has recently returned from obscurity, decked out as a full-fledged punk rocker (much to the dismay and amusement of his neighbors). Ruby is the easy girl of the neighborhood who changes her ways by becoming monogamous with Ritchie. There are many other interesting cameos in the film, including Bebe Neuwirth as Vinny's boss, Patti Lupone as Ritchie's mother, and Ben Gazarra as a mafia boss who is enlisted by the local police to help find the killer. Spike himself puts in an appearance as a TV reporter, chronicling the events of the serial killer and the city's reactions (that particular performance seems unintentionally silly to me, especially the scene where he interviews African-American residents of the Bedford-Stuyvesant community). The fact that Leguizamo and Brody were not nominated for Oscars is nothing short of criminal.The film is amazing in its ability to show the tension that the city's inhabitants feel toward the Son of Sam. Although the film lacks the wild, rebellious camera style of Spike's early work (possibly due to the departure of his brilliant cinematographer, Ernest Dickerson), another signature of Spike's films -- his ability to fuse terrific music into the scenes -- is present and accounted for. He puts in the obligatory pop and disco hits of the day, but some of the most effective music is the Who songs he uses. Ritchie, being a Who fan (referring to them as the Godfathers of Punk), plays guitar in his garage along to Baba O'Reilly in a chillingly effective montage. Won't Get Fooled Again is blaring as the Italian neighbors beat on Ritchie, having reached the foolish conclusion that he himself is the Son of Sam. This is not Spike's best film, but it is indeed a very well-made, effective drama that shows us what can happen to a community when fear and paranoia take over. "},{"Title":"Really quite good, but nothing terribly exciting.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While Summer of Sam is unquestionably good, it is not really a movie which is likely to stay vivid in my memory. It contains an intriguing study of a man driven insane by his tiny insect-infested apartment and the neighbour's dog which never, ever shuts up, but in fact most of the movie is about the effects of the killer's reign of terror on the inhabitants of a fairly poor Italian neighbourhood of New York. It does this rather well, and there are a number of sub-plots to make things more interesting. The fact that a 142 minute film didn't really seem terribly long says quite a lot for it. It obviously kept my attention. The cast contains a few recognisable faces, but only one big name - Mira Sorvino. Mira is somewhat disappointing in this film. I think perhaps it was not the right rôle for her. Her make-up and wardrobe is such that she doesn't look half as good as usual, and she doesn't seem to give the part her best performance. Perhaps this is all on purpose, and I am misinterpreting, but I think it was somehow lacking. Overall, Summer of Sam gets a thumbs up, but is not the most exciting film around. If you're a Spike Lee fan, you'll want to see it, but it's non-essential viewing for anyone else - not bad at all; really quite good, but nothing terribly exciting. "},{"Title":"let's think about this","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Personally, I thought it was an excellent film; a very interesting analysis of human behavior in what could be perceived as a high-stress/crisis situation.I read several comments regarding the hokeyness of the talking dog scene.Did it ever occur to any of you people that perhaps it was done simply to illustrate the absurdity of David Berkowitz's claims? That the silly-looking effects served merely to point out that, yes, this guy was indeed truly insane?Film directors *are* usually pretty smart folks, after all. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1999.","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I actually saw this film in 2000, but it is definitely a 1999 top ten.  Pre-Aids sex in the seventies?  Yes, it was happening all over the place with orgies, wife swapping, and various other sexual activities. Murder? happens all the time, and NY didn't have Mayor Giuliani in charge at the time.  Cheating on your wife while having mental conflict?  Happens everyday.  Short-sighted ignorant friends? We all have one or two of them. Humor? the bedroom scene with the dog was both humorous and chilling at the same time!  Music?  Let's just say that it took me back to the day! (And I'm old enough to actually remember the days). Length of movie? Who cares, I watched at home on video. Good acting/dialogue/script?  For this movie it was great!!   10 out of 10 stars!  "},{"Title":"Uneven at times, but also entertaining.","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam is at its best when it focuses on the paranoia that gripped New York in the  summer of 1977.  Spike Lee creates an air of unease and terror as the Son of Sam stalks the  streets of New York.  It works well in the neighborhood of close knit Italians and the paranoia  that is fueled by Sam is translated well by John Leguizamo and the rest of his group of friends.   The music grabs you and transplants you back to a time when punk was emerging and disco was at  its height, and you feel the oppressive heat of New York.   Summer of Sam falls flat when the  subplot that involves John Leguizamo and Mira Sorvino comes into the light and Sam is pushed  into the background.  They go from a punk club to 54 and then wind up in an orgy of some sorts.   Where this came from and how it figures into the whole scheme of things with Sam, I really  don't know.   Spike Lee can make good movies when he wants to, but Summer of Sam is rather  uneven in its story and that distracts you from the really gripping parts of this movie.    "},{"Title":"Maybe give this one a miss?","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm afraid that I have to disagree with the majority.  I found Spike Lee's latest a wee bit boring!  Although he was trying something different, i.e. not just documenting the rise and fall of the serial killer, I don't think it worked too well.There's really a bit too much going on - Vinny (John Leguizamo) and Dionna's (Mira Sorvino) relationship, Ritchie's (Adrien Brody) lifestyle and then the local mafia types.  The story is good, but at the end thats all you have - 2 or 3 stories.  With such a provocative killer could Mr Lee not have put more into that side of the film?  >There are some good points though.   All scenes with the 'Son of Sam' killer David Berkowitz look very nice (colour saturation etc...)and the acting is pretty good throughout.Overall I felt that the different stories would of worked well on their own or else without the killings.  It just wasn't strong enough in the end. "}{"Title":"Highly successful as a mood piece.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam displays all of Spike Lee's primary talents. He effortlessly captures the aura of NYC, and in particular the world of his  characters. The inspired soundtrack, the uniformly excellent performances and his almost immaculate sense of pace put this film artistically far  above most recent American films. His approach resembles to that of jazz musician, and consequently some strident improvisations, repetitions with a certain lack of complexly developed characters and intricate situations, are inevitable. Overall, a work of considerable directing skill. "},{"Title":"i like it","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like the movie, it's a good sketch of a new york serial killer. But the movie is more about the late new york 70s scene, than the Son of Sam... It definitely has too much sex scenes, not that im offended or somethin, but it stretches out the movie length. The movie could have been a lot shorter, yet powerful. Also Lee got a wrong impression of the late 70s punk scene, 1. Richie is dressed way too trendy for a punk, 2. the music you hear when richie plays guitar definitely isnt punk but just rock. He should have played The Clash! 3. Punks are not bisexual people who do strip shows! but still the movie has quite some good moments. Like the opening scene "},{"Title":"Spike Lee's best film to date","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't sure I was going to like this, but in the end it was well worth seeing although it does get a little bit sticky in the middle.The film captures the feel of the seventies well enough, although some of the punks look a little too refined and trendy to truly say it conveys the mood of 77. The disco scenes certainly took you back, though. Vinny, is convincing in his role, as are the supporting cast and it makes a change seeing a film about Italian-americans without De Niro or Pesci.If you're looking for an in-depth analysis into the psychological workings of an insane killer, then you'll be disappointed, as the killings are really only a sub-plot, and this is more about the small-minded bigotries and mob-mentality that descend on people when there is somebody a little different in their midst.As a slice of life in New York in the seventies and an insight into Italian-american mentality, plus the adequate documentation of a serial killer this film works, but a psycho-crime-drama a la se7en, or silence of the lambs it is not.It has been criticised for being too long. I don't adhere to this, although the destruction of the relationship between Vinny and his wife's relationship is not the most interesting aspect of the movie and this is were it gets bogged down. The cinematography is excellent and all-in-all it's an enjoyable movie, although you're left feeling that Spike Lee could do better and we are still waiting for his masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Spike Lee in not crap shocker","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is less a tale of the Son of Sam killings themselves than the tension amongst the New York community that year of 1977 as the .44 killings arose turmoil around the city.Not a normal Spike Lee film, in that this actually told a story well without the ridiculous paranoia and conspiracies his films have shown in the past. He was even reasonable in his cameo role as a TV reporter himself, and looks to have worked on his acting ability no end.The Italian community where most of this tale centres comes to accuse one of their own as he changes his ways and becomes an outsider, notwithstanding his relationship with the sister of one of his accusers.There are some good acting performances throughout - both Leguizamo and Sorvino are excellent - and the story is well enough told through the dual storylines of the killings themselves and the effect of them on the New Yorkers themselves. "},{"Title":"well acted and written but at 142 minutes, it goes on forever.","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i rented this movie with the intentions that i was going to absolutely hate it based off of comments from friends of mine.well, it wasn't that bad and actually was quite solid. the acting and writing is quite good and the premise of the film is unique. it could have just focused on the Son of Sam character but instead focuses on the effect that his murders have on the neighborhood around him. the murders in this film act more as transitions.the main problem is that at 142 min. the movie drags in quite a few places and seems to take forever to start picking up momentum. this could have easily been trimmed down by over a half hour and would have been much better in my opinion. it's like that Spike Lee maybe got too attached to the film and as a result it is bloated.But, there is a lot of good stuff in here. the murders are staged quite well and are scary and there is not one slacker in the whole cast. the soundtrack is also well done as it is in all of his films.  extremely bloated and overlong, but still worth a look.rating7    "},{"Title":"I noticed the music too much","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The fact that the soundtrack was so prominent in my mind while I was watching the film means either that the music was lousy, or, more probably, that it was more profound and interesting than the book. I didn't care enough about the characters to not feel exhausted after every tirade. I was also disappointed that the New York backdrop was not fleshed out. The soundtrack was the only thing that brought me back to that time. I did appreciate all the underwear scenes. Leguizamo looks great bending over in tight white briefs. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Movie","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I admit that this movie doesn't deserve any Oscar nominations, but all you people who have posted how bad it is, give it chance will ya! I mean, what is so bad about having sexual scenes and alot of swearing, what, are you people trying to hide from REALITY!! Obviously someone needs to take down the shield over your eyes, because wake up, this is what the world is all about!!! I thoroughly enjoyed this movie,  John and Mira gave a great performance, as usual. And I just liked the storyline, I think its one of Spike Lee's BETTER movies personally.  "},{"Title":"Shampoo meets Quadraphenia meets Goodfellas meets Babe","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that I generally liked SOS. It's an entertaining slice of life, reminding us of how humans act in circumstances very different from today, but maybe not from tomorrow. This stuff &#150; intolerance, fear, sexual confusion - is always lurking below the surface, ready to erupt. While SOS isn't as great as some of Spike Lee's best films, I don't agree that it is symptomatic of some kind of career decline. I also liked last year's `He Got Game'. I want to address some of the negative comments that have been made.1. I must admit that I really didn't notice the alleged over-abundance of `sex' many other IMDB reviewers have complained about. But then I don't find sex without nudity particularly titillating &#150; especially with the lights off &#150; and there was virtually no nudity in the movie.  Which suggests that the sex was there only to make a character point. Like it or not, how we approach sex says a great deal about who we are as people. Why else would the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal and its progeny hold such a peculiar fascination?2. Obviously people growing up in a particular cultural community &#150; e.g. Italian-Americans in New York &#150; have a unique insight into the community. Scorcese has made a career out of this fact. But people from other cultural communities which have contact with that community may have other equally valid insights to bring to the table. I for one would like to hear them as well. All this to say that Lee seems to have a particular fascination with and ambivalence towards Italian-Americans, and it's interesting to watch.3. If we're supposed to take De Niro as a Jewish character in Casino seriously, I can accept an Hispanic playing an Italian in Summer of Sam. Why get hung up about things like this? The question is did he succeed in his portrayal? All I know is I have never before in my life talked back to the screen as I did to his character in the climactic scene.4. I liked Lee as an Arthur Ashe-looking reporter, tsk-tsking his `own' people on the rampage. Getting back to sex (and why not?), it reminded me of Ashe's response to Magic Johnson's AIDS announcement and Wilt Chamberlain's famous boast/confession. I don't know what it was really supposed to mean, but it was entertaining.5. Others have whined that, contrary to the impression left by the movie and its soundtrack, The Who had nothing to do with punk rock. This ignores the fact that a musician's influences usually transcend what's going on at a particular moment. For example, Mick Jones of the Clash and Patti Smith were huge Keith Richards fans (Mick was even nicknamed `Keef' within the band), but I doubt that their fans felt the same reverence towards the Stones guitarist. However, I must point out that Pete Townsend's principal axe was a Fender Telecaster, not some blues-wimp Strat, as implied in the movie.6. Sure, I would have liked more of the talking dog, but clearly Berkowitz himself was not supposed to be the focus. And if Spike wants to throw in his patented `treadmill' shot once a movie, I say let him. It always works for me.To sum up, it all comes down to expectations. This movie could have been done any one of a thousand different ways. The point is not to bemoan the paths not taken, but to try and appreciate each character's viewpoint while questioning your own prejudices &#150; 7/10.  "},{"Title":"This movie only half succeeds","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps Spike Lee bit off a little more than he could chew here. His film meanders between a cluster of mixed-up characters during the summer of '77. The film really goes nowhere, and has really nowhere to go. Can't stick all the blame on Lee, however. The writing doesn't bother to flesh out any of the characters, or what makes them tick. It is indeed a sloppy flick, and lately appears that Spike has really lost some of his talent. One good side to this colorful piece of garbage, is the fine acting by newcomer Adrien Brody as the punk rocker.  "},{"Title":"A really dull Summer","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer Of Sam is director Spike Lee's effort at showing real life events mixed in with their possible effects on individuals or communities.  He fails miserably with this format.  Summer Of Sam cannot decide what it wants to be.  Does it want to be a porno flick (multiple sex scenes in this one)?  Does it want to be South Park (the only other movie this past summer to use the 'F' word this frequently)?  Does it want to be a record of New York City while under the grasp of David Berkowitz?Unfortunately, we may never know the true answer.  Summer Of Sam is a disappointing look at New York's summer of 1977.  The Yankees were playing the Dodgers in the World Series.  Disco and Studio 54 were all the rage. It was hot, with temperatures reaching well into the 100's for days in a row. There was the great blackout, with it's looting and pillaging in some areas. Most of all, there was the Son of Sam...David Berkowitz.  The serial killer who terrorized New York and in particular, young women with shoulder length brown hair.Most of the acting is decent enough in this one...John Leguizamo stars as Vinny, a hairdresser in a predominatly Italian neighborhood in the Bronx. He is often temped to cheat on his wife, played by Mira Sorvino.  I feel bad for her in this one, she acts well, and does good with what she is given, but she mainly appears to be Lee's masturbatory fantasy, often appearing in lingerie or some sort of sexual action.Adrian Brody stars as Ritchie, a kid from the neighborhood who has discovered a love and a talent for a new musical style punk.  His character is deep and well developed, quite different from the other Italian stereotypes featured in this movie.This is a star studded cast, Jennifer Espisito, Anthony LaPaglia, even Jimmy Breslin, the journalist who received letters from Berkowitz makes an appearance.  They are all wonderful talents who clearly thought this movie would be much more than it turned out to be.  What could have been a stellar look at NYC during Berkowitz's reign of terror, instead ends up being almost a stereotype fest.  Italians are portrayed as mafia type thugs who allow paranoia and differences to climax in violence at the end.  Blacks are portrayed as looters and thugs, and whites are portrayed as instigators of race riots (a comment made indicates that if Berkowitz was black, there would have been a huge race riot).Summer Of Sam was easily 45 minutes too long, failed to focus on its main plotline (Berkowitz, but the sequences involving him were outstanding), depended way too much on profanity and sex to carry the story, and was clearly aimed at the wrong target.  If the focus had been on the paranoia of the city as a whole and not just on one neighborhood in particular maybe this could have worked.  I don't need an hour and a half of marital problems and another 30 minutes of sex.1 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Sleazy Exploitation Masquerading as Social Commentary","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before I give Spike Lee's mess of a film SUMMER OF SAM a well-deserved thrashing, I would like to make one thing clear. I do not revile this film simply for its abundance of sleazy and unpleasant images. What makes this film so unwatchable is the fact that Lee seems to believe that SUMMER OF SAM should be taken seriously as a socially enlightening drama. The crime caper films of Quentin Tarantino, for example, are filled with violence, profanity, and other sleaze, but are nonetheless highly watchable because Tarantino does not attempt to pass these films off as socially redeeming works of art. He knows that such films are for entertainment value only. On the other hand, serious dramas such as SAVING PRIVATE RYAN and SCHINDLER'S LIST are often unpleasant to watch, but the unpleasantness serves to develop the film's plot and characters, with the end goal of getting the audience emotionally involved with the story and characters onscreen. SUMMER OF SAM, unfortunately, merely wallows in its own sensationalism and sleaze, while believing that it is serving as social commentary, much like other trash epics .SUMMER OF SAM does not serve as a serious drama because its characters are merely cardboard-cutout stereotypes. Its plot purports to show the emotional impact of the hysteria over the Son of Sam murders on the residents of the predominately Italian-American north Bronx neighborhood where the murders ocurred. However, instead of of presenting the locals as a diverse mix of personalities, Lee simply wheels out every negative Italian stereotype imaginable. The men are ignorant, lazy, oversexed goombahs. The women are split between weak, complacent good girls (Mira Sorvino's Dionna) and promiscuous bad girls (Jennifer Esposito's Ruby). Lee seems to vindictively wants to payback Hollywood for their years of negative African-American stereotyping by wheeling out stereotypes of his own, and few critics seem to care. If Martin Scorsese, for example, presented residents of an African-American neighborhood as a bunch of Amos 'n Andy and Aunt Jemima stereotypes, critics would rightfully condemn such blatant stereotyping. More importantly, one-dimensional, stereotypical characters undermine any film that attempts to be a serious social commentary.Without exception, the cast of SUMMER OF SAM is excellent. However, the acting, for the most part, is uninspired. The cast is either just going through the motions, or they have little to work with scriptwise. Additionally, there is notable miscasting. Comedian John Leguizamo is very talented, but his Vinny character seems to be a stale, comedic impersonation of John Travolta's Tony Manero from SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER. And Michael Badalucco, a perennial nice guy actor, is badly miscast as serial killer David Berkowitz, coming across as funny rather than frightening. The only performance worth paying attention to is Adrien Brody as the troubled, but sincere, neighborhood misfit Ritchie. The Brody performance and the typically stylish Lee cinematography are this film's only virtues.*1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would just like to say this film is wonderful.  Judging by some of the reviews, I can only conclude that only people looking deep into the heart of this film can truly see why it was a nominee (and I think winner), at the Canes Film Festival.  I am an actress and I feel and felt at the time I saw Summer of Sam, inspired and enlightened.  What Spike Lee and his awesome players (Adrien Brody, Mira Sorvino, John Leguizamo, and Jennifer Espisito in particular), have captured is true human emotion fear, love, joy, and distrust.  I don't understand many of the reviews I've read, but I do know that the experts know best.  As for the sexual scenes, these are necessary to show the confusion of Vinny and Dionna in a time where it wasn't dangerous to fool around, and it only seems like there are a lot of scenes like these because we're so embarrassed at even the mention of sex. Please, if you haven't already seen the movie, do, don't keep yourself back from such a mastery of acting. If you do, you'll be depriving yourself a wonderful, wonderful piece of art.  As for the people who give this movie bad reviews, don't judge this movie until you know how hard it is to portray the wide variety  of emotions this brilliant cast do so well. "},{"Title":"Indifferance to this film is unlikely.","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Judging from the volume of comments regarding this picture,both positive and negative in the short time since it`s release it is clear that Summer of Sam is a highly provocative picture to say the least.When I saw it recently about eight or nine people walked out.This is not the gritty urban perspective of other Spike Lee efforts.With it`s confronting violent and highly charged sexual imagery you would think it was an Oliver Stone or  Quentin Tarrantino effort.I cannot say for certain if the portrayal of Italian New Yorkers here is fair or accurate,but it is a fair description of mucho-testosterone filled prejudice and   stupidity(would this be more pc if they were rednecks?).This film at least recognises that there were more sub-cultures active in the U.S in`77 than just disco and certainly examines the cultural(and possibly socio-economic) tensions between them.The gratuitous sexuality displayed here really just reflects the excessiveness(and freedom)of a pre-AIDS society and  I think it is fair to say NYC was also a fairly violent place at the time(we`re dealing with David Berkowitz here not mary poppins).I wasn`t in New York in 1977 to say if the events as shown here are entirely accurate but at the very least this is a highly entertaining piece historical escapism.Also this is the first American picture I can remember using ABBA on the soundtrack!     "},{"Title":"Excess in all things","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee is a good director.  In the past, he has been great.  (See Malcolm X and Do the Right Thing.)  However, now he seems to think that gratuitous sex makes captivating viewing.  He saturates the film in sex that made me blush.  Believe me I am no prude.  Eyes Wide Shut was one of my favorites of 1999, and Boogie Nights is great.  The difference is, those films used sex as a tool, not as filler. "},{"Title":"A Few good moments in an otherwise awful movie","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Only a few moments were worth seeing in the filmThe two montages to The Who's Baba O'Riley and Won't Get Fooled AgainJennifer Esposito (pant pant pant!)The talking dogBerkowitz's line, You won't be barking anymore!(before he shoots the dog)The girl getting shot through her textbookAside from these, Summer of Sam is just too much.  It takes a group of blue-collar Italian-Americans and instead of having them be interesting, richly layered human beings, he makes them all into vulgar, violent, oversexed, idiotic goombahs.  There is not one redeemable character in this film.  I have no problem with profanity, but when you have people using f**k as a comma, then it loses all shock value and becomes boring.  No one here displays a glimmer of intelligence or is the least bit sympathetic ot interesting.  Actually Adrien Brody's character is slightly sympathetic. When you first meet him, you root for him for going against the grain, but then he starts doing all this weird s**t as a male prostitute and performance artist and I lost all sympathy for him because he was just too much of a f**kin' weirdo.  I wanted to beat both John Leguizamo and Mira Sorvino's characters with a baseball bat.  Both complete idiots.  The impression I got from the previews was that it was this was an intense story about the Son of Sam, which would have been a compelling story.  Instead, Sam gets pushed into the background while I'm forced to watch a bunch of idiots screw around on each other and beat each other up.  Blech.  "},{"Title":"bronx bull","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of Spike Lee's greatest films is outside of his usual vernacular of cinematic visions. The story revolves around the brutal killing spree of the Son of Sam in 1977. However, this is not the focal point of the movie as you might think. The focus is on a typical Italian neighborhood in Brooklyn. The vivid portrayal of the two main characters, one the Brooklyn Punk rocker and two, the Italian player who can't keep it in his pants are both very honest and very brutal. The casual decadence of this movie will probably repel many but it brings the film its best scenes. The well punctuated sound'track brings us into the soul of the film and is stunning on it's own particularly the Who and their definitive anthem Babba O'Riley. All in all, a ride well worth taking. "},{"Title":"From bad to worse...","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is definitely the worse movie of the summer because one of several things. Spike Lee who wields his authority as a director like a gun is expected to meet a high standard with his films and maybe its our fault in expecting too much. Summer of Sam was by a landslide a failure even though it had a big name director like Spike Lee. Yet while Summer of Sam was largely stylistic, its a wasted effort in that it has no other redeemable quality. Its mixture of sex and violence is perhaps too much. Spike Lee is relentless is exploiting the limits of an R-rating. Meanwhile this movie seems to be trying to paint a picture of an atmosphere -a period flick of the paranoid, heat-struck underbelly of New York. From references to NWOBR and punk, to vigilante Italians, to sexual deviants, this movie does no one a favor in arguing their case. If he wasn't, then why the emphasis and focus? Maybe it was the over-extended focus on several characters that made the movie unable to communicate the intended message. Maybe it was the shoddy story-plotting that made this movie...tiring. As for the lead roles, it was a weak case for both Mira Sorvino and John Leguizamo. Their stories seem to loosely and barely stitched together with the Son of Sam story. Adrien Brody though, manages to make a startling performance. Spike Lee however, made first year mistakes in the approach of the movie. David Berkowitz, the 44-Caliber Killer, Son of Sam in fact confessed that his insanity was a ploy long instigated to escape punishment through the Mnaughten Rule. While in one scene, Spike Lee with special effects (not a subtle mix) portrays David Berkowitz as succumbing to his demons. In this instance, the demon being a talking demon-dog. This would be an admission by Spike Lee that is not altogether true and totally an interpretation contrary to fact. I saw this movie twice just to be sure that I didn't like it and in both instances, seventy-five percent of the crowd left. A teenager responded once, this movie was a F--cking porno... And even then, as I asked him if he had like the movie or not he responded, no. But I admit I like the soundtrack.  "},{"Title":"You may want to walk out, but you've got to see the talking dog.","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have enjoyed most of Spike Lee's movies.  If not for their subject matter and willingness to address sensitive issues, then for their clever techniques,and innovative camera work.The idea of a film that tells the story of events that are tangentially related to the headline is good.  The potential for social commentary and a period piece of the late 70's is rich.  The trailer is one of the best all year.  In the hands of Spike Lee almost guarantees a unique experience.  Stop here because it doesn't get any better than the anticipation.  This movie needs a better script, assuming it has one.  Leave the improvisation to Robert Altman, because the story is linear, but no wider than a line of coke.  With the actors improvising, they are unable to fashion a functional narrative.  Adrien Brody and Mira Sorvino are the only actors that create consistent and believeable characters.  The rest of the ensemble, while fine actors in their own right, are left hanging like curtains, responding to the events, but never developing or advancing the story.While Spike Lee can claim that black people can't be racists, they can certainly aspire to homophobia.  The gay characters, like the others, are blatant stereotypes.  He may believe that this is ameliorated by the scene where the paisano's come to the defense of their flaming gay friend, but they do not excuse the imagery of bisexual (this is quite unclear) Adrien Brody knifing a female effigy while old men in the audience salivate and hold dollars in the air waiting for their opportunity to blow him after the show.  Maybe this is a reaction to the stereotyping of blacks in modern media.  These scenes, and other stereotyping demonstrate quite clearly that Spike Lee has become what he has hated.See the movie for the technical flaws.  Thrill to the messed up lighting in the second scene at the dead end road (note the multiple shadows that the actors cast on each other on a cloudy day).  Scream at the lack of editing continuity in the restaurant scene.  Wince at the lack of research of the punk scene and the misplaced music.  While the Who are the original punk band, their music makes no sense in the context employed in the film.  Its one thing to use music as a background, but to play it so loud as to drown out the dialog was distracting.  ABBA in the argument scene following Plato's retreat had me laughing; I wasn't sure if it was ironic or a mistake.  The treacly background music has become a staple of his films, but this time, it dripped.  The tracking dolly shot worked in Clockers, but it is not as significant an idea as Hitchcock's tracking zoom and should be dropped.  It is over used and it limits the field of vision so that it distracts from the film by creating a tight focus on an unremarkable scene.This film seemed like a painting where the artist threw out (or up) the right colors, texture, and tint, and hoped that this was really how Scorcese does it.  He doesn't.I hated this film, and I like Spike Lee.  This film is worth renting just for the flaws.  It should be mandatory viewing in film school.  Don't leave until you have seen the talking Dog.  Success has ruined Spike Lee. "},{"Title":"One of his bests","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee´s Summer of Sam is the work of an everchanging director. The progression in his work has always been notable. Here, in this movie, we see how he keeps evolving in the cinematographic area of film and in a new way of telling stories.  Im gonna be short and simple about it He is one of the few directors in NorthAmerican cinema that has something to say and is one of the very few that always look for a new way to tell it (let that be noticed). I think that, rigth along whit Do the rigth thing and Mo better blues were seeing one of spike´s best movies and we expect much more from him in the future "},{"Title":"Bebe Neuwirth","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have already commented on the general excellence of this movie in my opinion.  I am posting again to comment solely on the performance of Bebe Neuwirth whom I honestly didn't recognize the first time I saw it.  I really loved her character, Gloria.  It's a small but pivotal supporting role, but Neuwirth makes it fly.  I could not believe that this was the same woman I first saw (and laughed hysterically at) as Lilith Sternin-Crane on Cheers and then on Frasier in the same dour role.  Neuwirth is one of the last of what I believe to be a dying breed, the character actress, and she does it so well.  Everybody wants to be Julia Roberts.  Anyway, when I was watching Summer of Sam for the second time I leaned to my friend amazed and said, That's Lilith from Frasier! when I recognized Neuwirth.  She creates amazing characters, all different and purposeful and most importantly funny. See this movie (and Celebrity where she has another great supporting role) if only for her.  "}{"Title":"Aimless, Depressing","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I should not have been surprised that this movie has almost nothing to do with the Son of Sam murders. It's a Spike Lee joint, after all, so naturally, it's  an aimless character study of a bunch of freaks living  in freaktown (Brooklyn, New York). Not that there's anything wrong with that; I've enjoyed other Spike Lee movies that had the same basic modus operandi. But I didn't enjoy this one much.Plot? One guy (Vinny) likes to have wild sex with women he's not married to, but has a lot of hangups about sex with his wife. He takes her to an orgy, where they both have a lot of sex with other people. Because of this, he calls her a slut, and she leaves him. A middle aged couple is trying to have as much sex as the younger couples in the movie, but their son (Ritchie) keeps walking in on them. They kick him out into the garage, so he starts bringing his girlfriend over and they have sex in the garage. He turns out to be a bisexual stripper, prostitute and punk rocker. His girlfriend knows and is OK with all that. In fact, they make an X rated movie together. His friends find out, figure anybody kinkier than Vinny must be the Son Of Sam, and beat him up. Roll credits.Far be it from me make moral judgements about the sexual acts shown, described, hinted at, etc. But the sheer quantity of sex overshadows everything else about the movie. Everything else - the heat of the summer, the power outages, the riots, the murders, the gangsters, the vigilantes, the music scene, the drugs - is just a footnote. Mostly, it's not fun, happy, loving sex, either, but seedy, illicit, guilty or taboo sex. It's depressing. It doesn't really go anywhere. And believe it or not, it's kind of dull.Good performances by John Leguizamo and Mira Sorvino (my favorites here) couldn't save this from being an aimless waste of more than two hours. I wish I had seen a good documentary about the Son of Sam instead. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Spike Lee's best","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  without a doubt this is one of Spike's best, using gritty montages, and a soundtrack that beats, Spike tells the story of New York during the summer of '77,  the film never glorifies the murders of David Berkowitz, but rather the story of the lives he affects, see the film, you'll leave the film with busting images in your head "},{"Title":"Spike Lee, where have you gone?","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam - **Well, here we are again.  Another year, another bad Spike Lee joint.  I resolve today to stop following Lee's career with any real interest - it's just too depressing to see a talented, potentially brilliant filmmaker squander his talent.Summer of Sam is not so much a motion picture as it is a collection of directorial tics.  We have all of the usual Lee gimmicks  characters walking on dollies, 16mm and other film gauges, portentous street signs, squeezed anamorphic widescreen, etc.  What we don't have is a story... or interesting characters... or a message.  I will not deny that Lee is successful at evoking a time and place - Brooklyn, 1977.  And, as usual, he coaxes some wonderful performances out of his actors (particularly Adrian Brody as Ritchie.)  But for what purpose?The alleged plot is as follows  It is the summer of 1977, and Son of Sam is terrorizing New York City.  It's the hottest summer on record.  A city-wide blackout leads to looting and rioting.  And amidst all of this, a Brooklyn guy named Ritchie returns home from Europe, only to find himself suspected of being the serial killer.  Sounds like a decent plot, yes?  Well why, then, does Lee spend more than half the film following the exploits of Vinnie (John Leguizamo) and his wife (Mira Sorvino)?  Does their estranged relationship have any bearing on the other stories?  No.  Is it an interesting plot line?  Only marginally.  We also meet two cops working the Son of Sam case, only to see them lost among the film's numerous plot lines. We meet a local gangster, whose scenes go nowhere and add nothing to the story.The film has a great soundtrack.  That's about the best I can say.  "},{"Title":"An interesting statement","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You can tell this is an interesting movie from the number of people who have felt compelled to comment.  If you're plot-oriented, then it's likely to be disappointing, as it's pretty much documentary.  However, the interesting thing about it is the subtext, a statement about people's failings and how the skewed complexities of human nature lead us to wrecked marriages, riot and death in the heat of summer.Spike Lee ties the whole thing together with The Who and their music.  It's interesting that the band itself has become so pervasive and complex a symbol that it's useful to other artists who want to talk about violence, self-destruction, and human failings--but also the triumph of humanity over it's baser instincts.  Ritchie, the punk and the Who fan, is the character who finds himself and retains his integrity in this movie, even though he can't quite make himself free. "},{"Title":"Spike could do much better...","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee's latest joint, one of his most ambitious, and regretfully, his most flawed, heavy-handed and misguided feature yet, attempts to bring across America's (and the whole world's , for that matter) intolerance of its deviants. Not only does the film wander in the darkness, unrestrained, much like the title killer, for a good 2 1/2 hours, worse yet, the once innovative director offers no new tricks. The basic plot is a virtual rehash of Mean Streets  a sexually frustrated young Italian New Yorker with deeply set, tormenting religious convictions, protects a troubled friend (Adrien Brody, this time a punk not just by name, as De Niro's Johnny Boy was, but by very image), whom everyone renders insane. All of this is happening against the backdrop of Sam Berkowitz's one-year murder rampage, as the local knuckleheads under the mafia's watchful eye form a baseball bat wielding militia to rid the neighbourhood of anyone they consider abnormal. Grasping the director's point isn't difficult at all; the movie's problem lies in his handling of various storylines, some of which are preachy and contrived to the point of embarrassment. The portrayal of the 1970's popular culture is also quite sloppy, as Brody the freak's main listening interest strangely appears to be The Who's 1971 classic album which had absolutely nothing to do with the punk movement that he is so fervently a part of. Please, Spike, do some better research next time. The movie's only strength comes from the leads' acting the main characters are given small humanizing nuances to expand on, such as Brody's inferiority complex which makes him adopt a fake British accent when he's not interacting with close friends. The rest of Lee's trademark style is at its most exaggerated everything is dramatized to the point of absurdity, unlike Scorcese's believable explosions of sporadic violence, here we get protracted setpieces that seem to be happening in slow motion over layers of profanity.  "},{"Title":"A downward spiral","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the previews and couldn't wait to go.  For the first 30-45 minutes I was fairly interested.  Leguizamo and Sorvino were good.  But after an hour or so it seemed to be nothing but f this f that with this dog barking like something from a bad David Lynch clone and my fiancee and I ended up both looking at each other and going  what are we doing here anyway...we realized at about the same time that we were completely bored and we got up and left about 60-90 minutes in.  I cannot remember ever walking out of a movie before!  I probably would have toughed it out having paid 6 bucks had I been alone or with a male friend, but I was so close to leaving on my own that when she looked as bored as I was we said forget this crap.  Summary...an interesting idea with some good acting but about 30% too much film left in that should have been on the floor of the editing room.  And maybe New Yorkers are really like this, and I am not very thin-skinned with language, but why is saying f*** every third word the easiest way for hollywood to make characters convincing NY'ers?   "},{"Title":"gutsy and interesting","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With all the hype surrounding Kubrick's last it seems some worthier films have received little fanfare. this is sort of a tangent but the sexual scenes in this film were far stronger and loads more complex than over in that Cruise/Kidman vehicle. I thought this was gutsy and interesting. Despite criticisms I've read, the power of the film seems to come from its lack of a central character. Its one of those rare feature films where the period/atmosphere/location is the true character and it really worked for me. And with how many ideas Spike Lee was throwing around about and at you - a central character probably would have diluted the effect too much.  "},{"Title":"This movie was a waste of my time and money","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am an Italian-American from the Bronx and this movie was filmed 5 minutes from my house.  I was even going to be an extra in the film, but i was away during the filming.  Since I wasn't alive during the time period when the movie took place, I was hoping to see a good movie about the fear that my neighborhood had in the 70's.  I was wrong.  First of all, John Leguizamo is not even italian.  He is hispanic.  Thank you Spike Lee for having a hispanic play an italian-american.  Aren't there enough Italian actors?? Second of all, the movie didn't even have ONE normal person in it.  I think that the Bronx and New York in general have enough negative stereotypes associated with it that we don't need these wackos representing our neighborhood.  If you want to see a GREAT movie about Italians in the Bronx, rent A Bronx Tale.  Summer of Sam was a great disappointment.  I learned more about the summer of 1977 by talking with my mom for 5 minutes than I did for watching this movie. "},{"Title":"This film has so many different types of atmosphere- but appropriate.","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just came back from Summer of Sam- I was stunned. Lee is one of the premiere American directors. When his films don't bore they are great- now I have two fav Lee films- this one and Malcolm X. He is technically possibly the most learned film maker around. Lee consistently blows me away with his ability to apply what he's learned- both in film school and to adapt new film-making manners. This film has so many different types of atmosphere- but appropriate- NOT showing off. No, zero, none- zip, dry portions. He also captured the period to the t.The sequence where the dog is talking to Berkowitz is too creepy- for the first 1/2 second I thought it comical- then it turns to hair straight up on the neck time.  What surprised me was the AMOUNT of known acting talent in this flic- I was amazed and delighted to see Bebe Neuwirth. There is a sequence at Plato's Retreat that actually borders on X rated stuff.The shooting sequences are VERY harsh- very violent- and are very convincing. Hard to take. Too real.John Leguizamo will get an Oscar nod for this, I am sure. He's a good actor. "},{"Title":"not for all, but fine movie","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most complaints about this film are legitimate. Vulgar, overly long, convoluted, aimless. Sure, those are fairly true criticisms. I loved it, though. I hate vulgar movies - can't stand Tarantino or any of his followers. But I think that this is one of the few movies in which the quality of writing, acting, and the overall message, justify the use of such vulgarity. The nakedness and lack of glamour inherent in the unfolding of these scenes exposes them entirely vulgar acts seem vulgar; tender acts, tender; cruelty, cruel; and madness, maddening.I particularly appreciated seeing the undertones of self-hatred and sexual shame that informed the brutality and mob mentality of the good ol' boys. Everyone in the film was treated honestly, there was a minimum of propagandizing and audience manipulation. Most praiseworthy For all the sex and violence, there was no titillation. Nothing like Die Hard, Silence of the Lambs, or any other movie that massages the audience into being thrilled by horror and destruction.This is a hard, unpleasant, painful movie. It also has some fantastic humor, tenderness, and respect for its characters. The Berkowitz murders are more of a setting than a subplot, and the storyline itself is allowed to follow its characters with almost documentary-like patience and restraint.This was one of the best movies I have ever seen.  "}{"Title":"Too long, too boring","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee has been in a decline since his early successes and this mess does nothing to help.  I looked at my watch frequently hoping the movie would end or get to the point.  Lee's first movie with an all-white cast is a major disappointment.What's the point?  That Italians swear and like funky sex, but not with their wives?  If I wanted to see Scorsese, I'd go to a Scorsese movie.  The incredibly lame Godfather character only adds to the stereotype.I've admired several of Lee's films, especially Do the Right Thing.  This movie is a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"What Natural Born Killers should have been (kudos Spike Lee)","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see the Summer of Sam under a perception that I was going to see a film about David Berkowitz. I was pleasantly surprised when it turned out that this was a film about real (fictitious characters) people. The film took the Titanic approach by creating characters which may or may not have existed and put them in the middle of an historic event. The film depicts the anything but ordinary summer of 1977 and the chaos that ensued across NYC. The film touched on the highlights of Berkowitz complete with talking dog. The most interesting part of the movie was two Italian characters named Vinnie and Ritchey each struggling with there own demons in the midst of the hottest summer in NYC. Spike Lee himself even steps in front of the camera to play the news reporter with the thankless job of bring all the bad news to NYC. The film seems to have a Natural Born Killers influence to it. The only difference between Oliver stone and Spike Lee is that Spike actually goes somewhere with his film. Spike Lee finally dropped the attitude and let himself be an artist.  "},{"Title":"Did we need this much sex?","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only thing I hate more than a bad movie is a bad movie that had potential.  And Spike Lee's newest joint had loads of it.  For one thing, there is too much sex.  Don't get me wrong, it is erotic and serves the purpose the director is attempting to convey.  But is the seduction of Sorvino in a midnight orgy really relevant to the powerful drama of the summer of 1977.Let's face it, the Summer of 1977 is powerful enough without layering on the dysfunctions of an inner-city Italian who distrusts himself, his friends and his sexuality.  It just does not fit.  If the segments dealing with Leguizamo and on-screen wife Sorvino had been shot as a separate movie (it still wouldn't be worth admission) it would be more tolerable.  Instead it's annoying.A viewer is treated to sexual frustrations in one scene while brilliantly re-creating the Son of Sam murders in the next.  It just doesn't flow.  This film would have been best to cut out the sexual exploration themes and focus in on the race riots, the heat wave, the power outage, the Yankees, Reggie Jackson, and most importantly, the Son of Sam (who does not receive nearly enough exposure in this film).  I would love to see a Director's Cut which chops out all the scenes dealing with Leguizamo and Sorvino.  Hey, the movie couldn't be any more uneven if it tried. "},{"Title":"Coming from Lee, a disappointment.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Coming from such a talented director as Spike Lee, I found 'Summer of Sam' to be disappointing. I realized the focus was not going to be on David Berkowitz, but I was lead to believe that this film was going to be a portrait of New York City in that fateful year of 1977. Instead, things like Reggie Jackson with the Yankees, Studio 54, the big blackout and subsequent looting spree were just minor elements in the overall picture, given a little more than perfunctory treatment, but not much. Even the heat wave that summer wasn't depicted very vividly.Instead, the focus was on one Italian-American community and a group of friends living there, particularly one married couple (John Leguizamo and Mira Sorvino). While he has trouble trying to stay faithful to her, the others are falling victim to the city's paranoia and they come to suspect one of their own (Adrien Brody) as being Son of Sam, mainly because he's adapted the new punk-rock look and is affecting a British accent.Some scenes disappointed me in particular. The killings were graphic but rushed through as if Lee was anxious to get them out of the way, and were handled with no originality at all. The sex scenes were very unerotic, but it's likely they were intended that way. Still, they weren't very enjoyable to watch. Berkowitz's on-screen appearances depicted him as little more than a cartoon character, dressed in his underwear and banging his head against the floor as his nemesis, the neighbor's dog, keeps barking. The biggest mistake, I think, was the scene in which that dog that has so bedeviled Berkowitz comes in his apartment and speaks to him. When he started talking like a latter-day Mr. Ed, the theatre audience let loose with the biggest laugh that they gave during the whole picture, and I don't think that was the director's intention.Still, it was a 2 hour and 22 minute film, and Spike Lee can't be all bad. There were some worthwhile moments here and there. A couple of the best scenes were the music-video treatment of the Who's Baba O'Riley and the end credits (that's no joke--they were done in a tabloid newspaper format to New York, New York).The  acting was all done well but in Lee's films, like Stanley Kubrick's, the direction is the star. He may have hit a bump on the road with this film, but I have no doubt he'll be back on track. Truth is, since I left the theatre, I've tended to recall more of the good than the bad. In any case, with Spike you know it won't be long until the next movie comes out (very unlike Kubrick!) "},{"Title":"Could have been an outstanding film, yet too chaotic and unfocused.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all anyone who went to see this film thinking it was about the Son of Sam murders should have picked up a newspaper and read one of the dozens of preview/reviews that pointed out that the killings were simply a back-drop. I left this movie very disappointed.  There were several scenes that were incredible.  Yet every time Spike Lee treated us with something brilliant he'd drop the ball and the plot would bog down.  One positive note, the performances by the actors in this movie were very good.  But unfortunately the film was too long, too chaotic and weak as a whole.  Could have and should have been much better. "},{"Title":"A good idea lost in a mire...","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *Summer of Sam* would have been a great movie, if not for one thing, in my opinion.  The excessive sexuality.  But, before that, let me say what is good.  The movie has a great and interesting story, and I really loved the way Spike Lee used the camera and cinematography.  It reminded me a lot of Oliver Stone's *U-Turn.*  The acting was also great in this movie.  John Leguizamo, who is most familiar in comedies, gives an outstanding performance filled with reality and depth.  One of my favorite shots in the entire movie that is shown several times, shows Leguizamo/Vinnie hanging around with his friends.  They hang out at the end of this tier-like area with a large, yellow sign that says Dead End.  A couple of times, the camera focuses on this sign, and I believe Spike Lee is making a point here.  These people seem to be at a very realy dead end in their own lives and they are looking and grasping desperately for anything to fulfill this void.  And when the.44 Caliber/Son of Sam serial killings start up again, along with the raging temperatures, this only adds to their situation. This is made most evident with Vinnie, the movies main character.  As the killing continue, they have a drastic effect on him, that eventually leave him a broken man with nothing left.  For those who think this movie focuses on the killings of David Berkowitz, you're wrong.  The movies proposed focus is on how those killings affected the people around them.  Vinnie also seems to be somewhat of a parallel character to Berkowitz.  While Berkowitz follows the voices in his head to carry out his malicous deeds, we see as Vinnie is ultimately controlled by those around him, his fool friends, who are constantly tormenting him and are the ones who finally take him to his lowest level of despair by betraying/killing a friend, so to speak. Finally, one other interesting little bit, in the scenes that show Berkowitz, he often spells things out with blocks, a very interesting concept by Lee.  When he does this, the letter L is often replaced by an upside down 7.  The number 7 is considered to be the number of God, and this adds to the overall overtone of evil that surrounds Berkowitz. But this movie has one flaw that quite ruined it for me.  Like carrying around excess baggage, the movie is loaded with almost a whole other sub-plot on the sex life of Vinnie.  Why?  Grant it, a few of the scenes help develop the desperation of character that Vinnie is, but is all of it really necessary?  There's a whole orgy scene that really served no purpose whatsoever othen than to bring conflict between Vinnie and his wife, which could already be seen anyway, and could have been made evident in some other manner.  I think Spike Lee had a really interesting story and great concept for a movie, but I am confused as to why he let such a good thing be ruined by something that was not at all neseccary for the plot of the movie.  It should have kept its focus on the Son of Sam killings and how they affected humanity, not the sex life of Vinnie. "},{"Title":"technical triumph","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  after hearing strongly divided opinions on spike's latest, i finally got a chance to check it out late last night. now i have been a follower of spike's films for quite a while. i've seen all the films he's directed except for girl 6, which many claim is the poorest of all his films. . anyhow, for my critique on summer of sam. the movie is a triumph of style complete with lee's frenetic camerawork. however, i felt that there were too many characters in the film, so they all have little depth. the acting was fairly solid and they did with what little they had. but spike, yo, you need to do some editing so that the flow of the story stays sharp. at 140 minutes, i was struggling. i do feel, however, that lee should be commended for having the guts to make a story centering about the brutal killings of berkowitz. i think that if the story centered more around one character e.g. Ritchie, his message about the cruelty and poor judgement of man would have been much clearer. but by throwing in gratuitous sex and unnecessary characters e.g. (ben gazzara and his mob)that doesn't further develop the story, it almost feels like lee himself doesn't know how to explain the story to us. if the story had touched more on police investigation of the murders, the story could have become a sort of noir and been even more intense. i was a little upset at the film when walking out, thinking that spike had no real message at all. but this morning, i have warmed to it some. it should be seen by viewers who enjoy social commentary in their films. an intriguing, yet flawed film by spike.  "},{"Title":"Another Flop For Lee","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't feel that Spike Lee was even in the same era as this movie. This movie was very drawn out and went nowhere. The problem was the son of sam killer. But, this movie had very little to do with him. The orgy scene did little to help this movie. Spike Lee may not be the worst director in hollywood, but he is near the top of that list. I am curious as to why most of his movies are centralized around the almost pornographic sex, than the actual movie itself. The main problem with this movie is that Lee cannot seem to grasp the story over content. I went to see the son of sam and I got an R rated soft core porn. This film is probably the worst I have seen in a long time. I will think long and hard before spending my hard earned money on garbage. Mr. Lee, please learn more before you pick up the camera. I give this movie a half star for the performance Mira Sorvino gave. Good Job Mira. "},{"Title":"a filmmaker brave enough to make movies about something","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I greatly enjoyed this movie and admired Spike Lee's continuing courage in making dense, intelligent, challenging films.  At a time when filmmakers get all their ideas from other movies(Tarantino and his copycats) or make movies about nothing (the Michael Bays and virtually every other director in Hollywood), Spike gets his ideas from real life, from society, from how you and I interact with each other.The critics should praise such a valuable artist rather than take cheap shots at him.  This movie is no more anti-Italian than Saturday Night Fever, which contained much of the same behavior and was also directed by a non-Italian. Keep 'em coming, Spike! "},{"Title":"The year's best so far and one of the decade's best.","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam is the year's best film so far.  It is a haunting, electrifying and powerful motion picture experience that is also one of the best of the decade.  This is Spike Lee's best film to date and is on par with Martin Scorcese.  Spike Lee's film invoked a significant amount of terror inside me once I left the theater that I didn't even want to sit in my car that night.  The performances were excellent across the board. Mira Sorvino continues to satisfy since her Oscar-winning turn and Jennifer Esposito has come a VERY LONG way from I Still Know What You Did Last Summer.  I never really cared for John Leguizamo as a comedian; he can be just downright annoying.  However, he has always shined in dramatic roles and here is no exception by any means.  Adrian Brody proves here he was above his all-too-brief role in The Thin Red Line, a movie I could live without.  The mood, setting and the musical score were very frightening, especially when Son of Sam was onscreen.  Summer of Sam is a magnificent achievement from director Spike Lee that I will remember for a long time. If the academy overlooks this film for Oscar nominations, I will lose all faith in the voters.  (Like I haven't done that already.) "}{"Title":"Spike tries to capitalize off of horror, fails","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's difficult to put into words the almost seething hatred I have of this film. But I'll tryEvery other word was an expletive, the sex scenes were uncomfortable, drugs were rampant and stereotyping was beyond the norm, if not offensive to Italian-Americans.I'm not saying the acting was terrible, because Leguizamo, Sorvino, Brody, Espisito et. al, performed well. But...almost every character in the film I despised. Not since The Bonfire of the Vanities have I disliked every character on screen. "},{"Title":"Summer of Vinny cheating on his wife?","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing the trailer for this movie and finding out Spike Lee was directing, I was excited to hear about this event. I wasn't alive at the time, I didn't live in New York, so I expected more of a history lesson than anything. What I got was some interesting acting, a lot of sex, and about 30 minutes worth of film that actually had anything to do with the Son of Sam. I guess the film wasn't about the Son of Sam, but it was a peek into the summer of '77. Label me disappointed. "},{"Title":"Disappointed!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was looking forward to this movie.  I enjoy Spike's films and feel he is one of our better film makers; however, this film did not do it for me. I was hoping for something the caliber of M X.  Something far more artistic.  It focused too much on very unappealing, seedy scenes. I believe perhaps a documentary would have been more interesting and educational, and perhaps better deliver the goods that he was looking to deliver.   "},{"Title":"The 70s as I remember them","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee has made an excellent film. People who want to see a movie about David Berkowitz are bound to be disappointed, because this wasn't about the Son of Sam.  This movie was about New York in the 70's, the New York that Spike Lee grew up in (and that I remember from watching the nightly news as a boy).  The Son of Sam killings were a national story and led to a national hysteria, but nowhere was that hysteria greater then in New York City, and Lee captures that with vivid clarity. This was yet another contribution to the current 70's nostalgia craze, and a much better contribution then a new Brady Bunch movie (at last someone concentrated on the good parts of the 70's, like Reggie Jackson and The Who). I didn't find the sex scenes that gratuitous-- though he did manage to show that, even along side Mira Sorvino, older women can be sexy too (if they happen to be broadway stars Patti LuPone and Bebe Neuwirth).  The acting was first rate. John Leguizamo and Adrian Brody are both riveting.  Mira Sorvino underplays her role of the tortured housewife to perfection.  The entire ensemble was marvelous in the way they tried to deal with the horror which was going on around them, panicking while all the while pretending life could go on as usual. As usual in Spike's films, the camerawork was superb.  Best of all, Lee managed to employ the post-modern MTV style in a film with serious subject matter. He isn't the first to do so and he didn't take it to any new heights (and, indeed, it may have nowhere else to go), but it made for a fun ride. Worth every penny (which I could not say about Austin Powers or Wild Wild West).  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, daring piece of movie-making.","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With SOS Spike Lee both takes a major leap in film-making while at the same time he risks alienating his core audience.  Interestingly, Lee disproves his own theory (that only directors with a particular ethnic makeup can make a film about their intrinsic culture) by perfectly encapsulating the Italian-American experience in NYC as well as providing a great take on the American punk scene.  Although there are no black characters in the film, Lee utilizes to great extent Adrien Brody's wanna-be Brit punk outsider to symbolize the alienation, betrayal and lack of racial integration themes prevalent in his previous films.  Brody and Leguizamo (as a local homeboy fruitlessly battling his inner demons) give stellar performances that capture both the characters and the times. Lee's depiction of 1977, Studio '54 meets CBGB's, the Yankees playing out a national soap opera, the heat, the grime, the racial tension and the rampage of Berkowitz, perfectly illustrates the era, and I for one thought the Jimmy Breslin narrated bookends worked well in the context of the film.  As always with his best films, the pic is about 30 minutes too long, but never completely bogs down. Unfortunately the audience I saw it with apparently was expecting something else, since a number of them left during the film and the after-show buzz was extremely negative.  The vibrancy of the work has left me hoping that Lee will follow-up with something even more daring as he clearly has the ability to become the next Robert Altman.  Don't let the bad reviews fool you this is one of the best films of the year....9/10 "},{"Title":"Spike Lee succeeds in transporting the audience to a different age.","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although most of the characters lack depth, the film skillfully tells a riveting story from several perspectives.  Despite the film's length, I did not look at my watch once during the entire screening.  The Who montage is classic and the performance of Adrien Brody, as Ritchie the punk rocker, is outstanding. "},{"Title":"Brought me back...","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was ten years old, living in Brooklyn in the Summer of 77... it was 22 years ago...Summer of Sam made it feel like yesterday.   Spike Lee has been criticized for his overgeneralization of the outer borough street tough (in this case Italian)  but I recognized these guys as people I've known, and the punk adrift in a sea of disco dynamic was about as dead-on as it could possibly be. (Just ask my friend who was repeatedly jumped for sporting an early eighties mohawk).  I remember standing outside all night with my neighbors during the blackout.. people coloring their hair to avoid the brunette curse, the escalation of chaos brought on by overall bad financial times, the oppressive heat and most of all the climate of fear that ran through the city in the summer of 77. Cinematic strengths (the baba-o-reilly scene was wonderful) and character weaknesses (I really didn't see Mira Sorvino and John Leguzamo's characters as a realistic couple) aside, this film paints a perfect picture of a scary time, and rang totally true to someone who lived through it.  The only complaint I had was the taco bell animation moment.. cut that and its a brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"Surreal ploys disjoint an otherwise tasty character piece","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Admittedly, I am an avid fan of Spike Lee and have admired the integrity and tenacity he brings to the screen, and so I went to see Summer of Sam anticipating another gem from the Brooklyn born director.  I was however disappointed by the disjointed editing style that Lee employs and his continual penchant to venture into the surreal.The first half hour of the film is visually stunted first by an doughnut of some guy who we as the audience are supposed to believe to be some afficionado of New York in 1977.  Who are you? And why should I care? What if I am from some small town in Kentucky, should I know you anyway?The next hour, an hour in which Lee approaches the film in a textbook narrative style, tackles issues ranging from sexual dysfunction, racial strife, and the hysteria brought upon by an unknown psychopath killer who roams the streets of New York during a heat wave.  Despite lacking a true protagonists Lee's careful use of ensemble acting creates a very interesting tapestry which wonderfully illustrates the summer of 1977.  However, everytime Lee insists on flashing back to Berkowitz in his apartment, showing us the killer's insane raves he manages to kill the rhythm and mood he so carefully crafts with his ensemble cast.  This is most evident in a absolutely silly scene where Berkowitz has a conversation with a dog. What!The scenes where we only see the killer in the shadows are much more effective.  If Lee had just stuck to the narrative form and had avoided using surreal images like toy blocks spelling out murder or even worse a dead end sign (we've never seen that before), the result would have been a gem worthy of films like Malcolm X and Do the right thing.Strong performance by John Leguizamo, Adrien Brody, and Mira Sorvino save this one.  I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Halfway through Spike Lee's new film, you'll be wishing a serial killer would put you out of your misery","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee's latest joint is about the effects of the Son of Sam serial killer's 1977 reign of terror on a New York neighborhood.  Despite this promising premise, this is without a doubt the most interminable and dull film Lee has ever made. In fact it may be the most boring mainstream movie of 1999. This is one of those movies that feels like the filmmakers took a 1 1/2 hour long story and somehow managed to cram it into 2 1/2 hours, if you know what I mean. In fact, in the movie's 150 minute running time, there are only 3 very brief points where it is truly entertaining or interesting--and these sequences are each very, very brief.In one Mira Sorvino rants and swears to great effect. In another a dog speaks, Babe the Pig style. In the last, the dumbass jerkoffs who serve as the film's main characters get shown up for the...well, the dumbass jerkoffs they are. That's a total of  maybe 10 minutes of screen time that isn't a snore. The rest just rambles, aimlessly repeating itself without much happening beyond cliches we've all seen before in many, many, other movies. Except forthe basic idea, the script has nothing to recommend it, but Summer of Sam could have been made into an ok movie with a lot--and I mean A LOT--of skillful editing. There's much more flab than meat here. Should have been no more than an hour and 40 minutes long.  "},{"Title":"take it for what it is","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I fail to see why there has been so much uproar about the film.  It was a mostly humorous view of a NYC in pain.  While there was some grim parts of the film, it was done well.  It showed people living through a difficult time.  It certainly wasn't an anti-Italian film.The indictments of Spike Lee in the media now seem laughable.  This is easily one of the best movies to hit the theatres. "}{"Title":"The victims' families were right, after all","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam is an obnoxious, cliched, and, yes, somewhat exploitative mess. It has none of the satiric energy and little of the cinematic virtuosity that characterizes Spike Lee's best work; what it does have is one profane, mumbling, unsavory scene after another, of the sort that passes for Serious Urban Melodrama. After watching John Leguizamo and Mira Sorvino together, I never want to see another movie in which a working-class Brooklynite tries to convince his wife to give their disintegrating marriage another chance. I don't necessarily expect characters in a movie to be sympathetic, but they should at least be interesting. Lee's contempt for his characters is evident from the amount of time he devotes to the most repellent of them, the local gang of deadbeats that hang out under a Dead End sign (get it?), as opposed to developing the one seemingly happy relationship in the film, between aspiring punks Adrien Brody and Jennifer Esposito.The depictions of the Son of Sam murders are lurid and stylized. Lee's choice to show the gory shootings in graphic detail, setting them to 70s pop classics, seems like a cynical nod to the hip nihilism of Tarantino and his legion of imitators. That's a big disappointment, coming from a director with such an important, unique voice. And one last complaint how come the only punk music in the movie is the freakin' Who? "},{"Title":"Didn't like it; Didn't hate it","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was eager to see this film as I had heard a lot of positive things about it.  I saw it the day it came out and left the theater with no real opinion of the movie I had just seen.  The focus of the film was on a particular neighborhood in New York rather than the Son of Sam himself. It was an interesting approach but it didn't really work for me.  The acting was terrific (except for Lee's portrayal of a news reporter) but the viewer never becomes emotionally involved with any of the characters.  This was probably done intentionally to parallel the lack of emotional attachment that Berkowitz had for his victims.  The film was also unintentionally funny at times.  The biggest laughs at my screening came whenever the Son of Sam's mental state was portrayed (especially when the dog told him to kill).  It seems to me that these should have been the most serious scenes in the movie.  Overall, the film was very interesting and there were many things taking place throughout.  I can't say I liked it, but, I can't say I hated it either.  My advice is to wait for this one to come out on video and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Adultery, Drugs, and a Talking Dog","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know Spike Lee is a great director.  I've known it for years.  The problem is, I couldn't relate to his previous films much.  As a white boy on the West Coast, I didn't know what it was like to grow up black in New York.Don't get me wrong, I've seen the messages in every one of Spike Lee's films, I've just never related because I'm not black and I'm not from New York.Finally, Spike Lee crossed the race barrier to give everyone a look at his messages and themes.This film is not about the Son of Sam.  This film is about the ignorance that is displayed among the classes and societal distinctions we witness day in and day out.We see several characters, only two of whom are sympathetic and moral. Who? The freaky punk rockers.  All the other normal people are crude, immoral, prejudiced, and stupid.Although Mitra Sorvino and John Leguizamo are first portrayed as a lovely married couple, in the next scene we see Leguizamo having sex with Sorvino's non-English speaking cousin.  But with Adrian Brody's and Jennifer Esposito's relationship, we see love, faithfulness, and respect.  Sure they make pornos, but they do it together.  Sure they are in a really grungy punk band, but they respect everyone around them.  Sure he's a stripper at a gay strip club, but it's only to make money.Spike Lee toys with our first impressions to drive home his point of you can't judge a book by its cover.  He purposely makes us identify with the outside, fairly normal lives of the Italians of 77 New York, and he purposely shows us the unrest that one man with spikey hair can cause in this society.  Then, Lee shows us the personal lives of these characters, and slowly, the audience morphs their views of the characters.  We are manipulized to tell ourselves, you can't judge a book by its cover.The entire Son of Sam fiasco is a subplot.  Extravagantly done, it takes us in and out of the story, adding a bit of conversation, but only around for the beautiful ending of the film where Lee, in a kind of a flashback to Do the Right Thing, beats up the sympathetic character because he is the loner. The outcast.  The punk rocker.Beautifully done and simply complex, this is a must see.  Plus, their are several memorable scenes.  A talking dog.  A Studio 54 after-party.  And Spike Lee as a news reporter getting the Brooklyn reaction to the .44 Calliber Killer. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Someone needs to inform Hollywood that what they always thought to be true is, in fact, quite false  Longer is not necessarily better.  This movie would probably have been watchable at 95 minutes.  As it stands now, it is a rambling pointless mess.  Ask yourself what the point of this film was after seeing it.  That the Son of Sam murders were terrible?  Thanks, Spike. That you shouldn't cheat on your wife?  Good advice.  The only thing I learned from this ugly film is that Italians hate punk rock.  (I'm pretty sure that was the whole point-seriously)Anyway, if you choose to sit through this indulgent snoozefest, that's fine. If you want good Spike, however, stick with Do the Right Thing or School Daze. "},{"Title":"SAVE YOUR MONEY","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh brother-I just saw this thing and it had to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen in fifty years of moviegoing.Summer of Sam is supposed to be the title. GARBAGE!  MISLEADING!It's a porno flick with the madman David Berkowitz playing cameo snuff takes. You like the four letter word starting with F? Then it's for you because if it's not used 10,000 times in that rotten piece of celluloid, it's not used once. If it's supposed to be about Berkowitz, it failed. If it  was supposed to be a social commentary, it failed. The film was gross and slapped together to make big bucks fast and Spike is  pulled it off. It's like this. If you want to see a film about  sex, then go to a film which advertises it as its main theme. If  you want to see a film which chronicles the immediate post-Nam  era, then go to one designed to target the theme. But for heaven's sake, to see a film about a man who scared the hell out of millions of New Yorkers and find out that such heinous crimes are TANGENTIAL to the basic plot while oral sex, straight sex, gay sex, orgyistic sex and sex sex is the MAIN THEME "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best film of this year so far.  Lee does a fantastic job of looking at a NYC neighborhood and keeping the Son of Sam murders an underlying theme of the film.  A must see.. "},{"Title":"Best Spike Lee Film Yet","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was not a huge fan of Spike Lee... his films always seemed unfocused. So when I read the reviews saying that this one is unfocused and overlong I expected more of the same. But OH no, Spike has made his best, most focused work so far.You have to ignore the critics on this one... Many films are simply over the heads of most critics, and this is one of them. I truly just think this film is too subtle for them.Lee seemed to have shifted his explorations of prejudice and discrimination away from the racial arena and into a more sexual area, and it is amazingly effective. The many characters here all intertwine and play off each other thematically in many intricate and carefully-drawn ways. I was amazed to read most critics saying that Adrian Brody's character's sexual explorations were superfluous to the film's theme... when in fact these kind of sexual explorations and denials WERE the film's theme. I honestly think critics read that this movie is about a serial killer and anything that doesn't fit into their idea of what the movie should be about just makes no sense to them. It must be so frustrating to know that the better you make your film, the fewer people are going to understand it, and see it.All of the performances for fantastic, but John Lugizamo truly runs off with the acting gold for this one. We love you, John. I'm also glad someone finally gave Mira Sorvino something to do. An intelligent woman like that shouldn't be running from six-foot cockroaches in the subway.I found the Italian thugs in this film truly terrifying, and Lee has done an amazing job of showing where distrust of difference can lead to horrifying consequences. This is a great, very well-written and directed film, and it's a shame that even critics aren't smart enough to understand it.--- Check out website devoted to bad, cheesy and gay movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Too tense for a movie about a summer.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The betrayal factor is the reason this movie could work.  It was not necessary for Lee to place this story in the summer of '77.  It could have happened in any summer where murders took place in New York.  The publicity of the Son of Sam killings was an interesting backdrop, but not necessary to the plot.  All in all, this movie was less about the summer and more about the betrayal of friends, lovers, and selves. "},{"Title":"Misleading trailers lead to disappointment","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Summer Of Sam.  Sounds Like a movie ABOUT David Berkowitz, doesn't it? The trailers seemed to indicate the movie would follow a group of people through the summer, but I got the impression it would deal more directly with the Son of Sam.  Instead, it was a film about that particular time, with occasional references to the paranoia that gripped New York City during during his killing spree.  It used David Berkowitz's year-long reign of terror as a vehicle to tell it's story, but it didn't deal directly with, or even follow the killer at all.Regardless, I found the film to be interesting and gripping, although it could have done without some of the gratuitous sex scenes (I wasn't alive during the time, but I do realize it was an era of great sexual freedom), and could have been shortened by 20 or 30 minutes.  I felt had the film been about Berkowitz, and the massive hunt to catch him, it would have been a much more enticing movie, one that I would have enjoyed a lot more.I guess it's difficult to spend an hour and a half just about Davey Berkowitz, as evidenced by Out of the Darkness, an 80s film starring Martin Sheen dealing with the same subject, which does not follow the investigation or the killer, but instead follows the life of the detective who was responsible for capturing him.Had this not been done by Spike Lee my expectations probably would not have been as high, which would have made the film seem more enjoyable. But knowing what he is capable of, I can't help but feel disappointed. "},{"Title":"Vivid, extreme, haunting....","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lee's film contains the subtlety and complexity that marks the truly great epics.  The film captures the wide social scale of one small slice of time in one distinct region affected not just by the reign of a killer but also by the changing times and winds of unrest.  A beautiful and enchanting film from start to finish, it seems to run long, but you find yourself unable to take your eyes from the screen.  John Leguizamo deserves at least a nomination for best actor, along with Jennifer Esposito for her supporting role.  Lee has crafted a brilliant, sensual and haunting feast with this fine film. "}{"Title":"Poor!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the worst I've seen since Virus (and that was pretty bad). It's 2 hours and 15 minutes, but never decides what it wants to be about. The Son of Sam? Well, for most of the movie, Mr. 44 doesn't have anything to do with anything. Occasionally he'll shoot a few people, read a note to the cops, or yell at the dog outside of his window to shut up, but he's not really a major issue in most of it. John Leguizamo plays an Italian (?!) hairdresser (?!) who must choose between his libido and his wife in the middle of the panic. Meanwhile, his neighborhood idiots (err...friends) begin accusing Richie, a Euro-punk, of being the Son of Sam, and pointless violence and profanity ensues (I think violence and profanity can be used effectively, but not in this flick). Every other character is just as unconvincing and shallow, and the movie never really decides where it wants to go. There are even some funny parts (the one I have in mind involves the dog...you'll see), but those are just absurd and add to the feeling that this is a movie about no one and nothing. Don't bother with this one. "},{"Title":"Another summer bummer","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh, no, here we go again...is it just me or is summer 1999 a real disappointment at the cinema?  I was really excited about Summer of Sam, it was on a shortlist of summer movies that I couldn't wait to see, and now it joins Star Wars Episode 1, The Thirteenth Floor and Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me on my shortlist of films I can't wait to forget.Spike really impressed me last year with He Got Game, which was his first worthwhile outing since Malcolm X.  Sadly, as I was sitting through SOS, I kept thinking Spike was getting me ready for something big. He couldn't possibly be boring me this badly without some unbelievably cool payoff. Ah, the power goes out in Manhattan, a blackout with Son of Sam on the loose...oh, wait, it's over.  Nothing interesting happened.  Everything still looks that ugly green and is grainy, just like in Clockers, but it seemed to work better there.  John Leguizamo are having another implausible conversation, or argument, or, wow, how did these two ever end up together...whoa...Didn't we just have a seven minute scene in the bedroom between Vinny and his wife involving a brief fit of intercourse...oh, she's going to go down on him this time...wow, even the sex is boring and repetitive....Wait, hold my tongue...a demented sex orgy, but it's really hard to see what's going on here.  Is that a girl with Sorvino?  Oh, the next scene clears that up for me... Boy these are really stupid characters who love to argue, must be italians from NY.Anyway, Spike Lee's cameo in SOS (not to mention his sisters', damn why did I mention that!) is so bad, you feel it is supposed to be a joke of some kind, but you're just too embarrassed to get it.  It's too bad, and maybe I'm a little sick, but the only scenes that worked for me, and were visceral and shocking, were Berkowitz's killings.  Unsuspecting females gunned down at close range, blood spraying...Quick, tough, and over before you can blink your eyes.  Too bad Summer of Sam feels more like the work of a more sadistic killer; it's  agonizingly slow, painful, and hard to watch.Okay, my shortlist is getting shorter, bring on Eyes Wide Shut! "},{"Title":"Evil is Live spelled backwards","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee films often deal with racism in America and the mistreatment of blacks.  Not so in Son of Sam where he portrays white Brooklyn in the summer of 1977 and the dramatic effect of David Berkowitz on that community. For his efforts, Spike Lee has made Son of Sam too long (almost three hours), with too much gratuitous sex (imagine the gifted stage performer Patti Lupone having her large breasts groped and the stunning Mira Sorvino graduating from this film to do pornography), and his story is all over the map with its characters and is unnecessarily complicated.  Using the Son of Sam killings as a metaphor for a larger message, Spike Lee is on the mark in telling us that we do what we do largely because of our natural makeup.  A repentant louse like Vinnie and a devil-may-care Ritchie cannot change their ways.  By bringing in too many other characters and complications, we can easily miss that message.  Go rent the video, Last Exit to Brooklyn and you will find that message better told and with more impact than any Son of Sam murder.  "},{"Title":"Strong but too long","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I dug this film.  I don't think it was Spike's best film but I enjoyed the attempt.  His films are never boring and are always a visual feast.  John Leguizamo is superb as is Adrien Brody.  This is a film you have to see to form an opinion because Spike Lee (like Kubrick, Spielberg, Scorsese) is not a filmmaker you can ignore. "},{"Title":"Film with great Spike Lee energy but lacking in detail","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam is crackling good entertainment but not quite fleshed out enough to be believable as a docudrama. John Leguizamo, in my opinion, gives a great screen performance. He is compelling to watch the whole movie, especially when Lee ratchets up the intensity and you see his selfish, narcissistic guilt-ridden character fall apart.  Adrien Brody also gives a  deceptively subtle performance and I agree with the other viewer that said the dance sequence he has is the most electric 5 minutes of the movie. Some of the other characters are written and played a little too broad and caricatured but it doesn't detract seriously from the movie. I resent the implication that Spike Lee has graduated to making films about white people(I'm thankful for the few smart, thoughtful filmmakers that decide to explore Black issues and get the proper exposure). In fact Malcolm X, Crooklyn and Do the Right Thing are better movies than  this.Spike has a tendency to neglect some of the human details that make characters real in favor of using them as representatives for greater themes that he's trying to explore. This kind of weakens Summer of Sam near the end when people start to turn on each other in ways that don't seem realistic(of course, I wasnt there). Spike excels at making the terror of the Summer of Sam very real, however. Gun murders are usually shown onscreen to be relatively sterile compared to slashers and ax-murders in movies. But the series of murders that take place in the movie are brutal and sudden and truly resonate with the viewer.I recommend this movie to those who can handle alot of sex, alot of violence, some great acting, and a pretty good story. "},{"Title":"not a Spike Lee fan, but this one was good","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I reluctantly saw this movie last weekend because my friends wanted to see it.  I am usually not a fan of Spike Lee because of his tendency to villainize the white man and overdo some of his social messages.  However, Lee seems to have matured a great deal in the making of this movie. Instead of belaboring the issue of racial strife in America, it deals with individuals.  In that way, I think Summer of Sam is his best picture yet. He might have overdone it with some of the sex scenes.  This could practically have been a porn movie if a little more skin was shown.  But overall it was excellent.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"not Spike at his best","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's nothing better than Spike Lee at his best, but I just don't think this was it. Though there were some excellent performances (Adrian Brody, John Leguizamo), it wasn't enough for me. Lee is known for bringing out the best in his characters, so I already expected that. I can see why the families of the victims of the real Son of Sam were offended. If this wasn't intended to be a documentary of Adam Burkowitz, then Lee shouldnt' have tried so hard to tell the whole story. Why did we have to see him at all?? I expected much more from the ending. It didn't have the climax I was waiting for. Mira Sorvino was weak. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Totally engaging, over-the-top movie.  Weaves together the story of Son of Sam with a bunch of neighborhood men and their girlfriend/wives during a few weeks in one summer.  Totally exciting moviemaking, very sexy, you can feel their sweat.  Riveting and mesmerizing.  Great use of music. Cross-cutting to make you feel like you're all over the city at the same time.  A great film. "},{"Title":"LEGUIZAMO SIZZLES","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Getting upset at Spike Lee for ethnic caricature is like being offended by Pete Townsend for destroying guitars...don't fight it, just accept it.  In 1977, Bronx hairdresser (John Leguizamo), repeating heavy doses of nicotine, Miller in cans, ludes, cocaine, and Catholic guilt, blames the world for his womanizing ways whilst his loyal wife (Mira Sorvino) finally walks out on him, red Camaro convertible and all.  A newly converted punk (Adrien Brody) returns to the neighborhood, hooking up with the local slut (Jennifer Esposito) for hardcore nights at CBGBs and making porn, then freaking out the Layton Avenue ragazzi who are convinced he is the .44 caliber killer. Leguizamo sizzles in the 100F+ heatwave, five-burrough blackout, and a therapeutic orgy at Plato's Retreat.  The Monster (Michael Badalucco) splatters couples making out in cars at point blank range, gets advice from the black dog next door, and submits notes to the cops and the DAILY NEWS while Reggie Jackson triple-home runs his way into Yankee history over the Dodgers.  Terence Blanchard's brass-dominated score ranges from Elmer Bernstein Moses regal to neo-hard bop ballad sappy.  Great period tunes by Abba, Chic, Marvin Gaye, Barry White, Thelma Houston, Elvin Bishop, Peter Brown, The Emotions, and The Who's 'Baba Riley' and 'Won't Get Fooled Again' (1971) receive adequate montage sequences.  Funny and violent, a triumph over the lame HE GOT GAME (1998).  Trademark deadpan Lee makes an appearance as a lamb-chopped reporter in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. "},{"Title":"I liked what the director was trying to show.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My main comment about this film is that of all the critical reviews I read on the internet, only Roger Ebert got it right. The ones who didn't like it saw it differently than I and Mr. Ebert saw it and were not impressed. I saw it as a very good study of people and how they reacted to the horrific events going on close to them. The director allowed us to be the ly on the wall, observing a happening. The cast was outstanding and therefore I remained interested. Good flick. "}{"Title":"Ignore dismissive reviews","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Once again, as he has done so many times in his career, Spike Lee produces a movie that pulls you in and doesn't let go until the credits roll.  Some may argue that Summer of Sam is not Spike's best movie, but it is his most ambitious.  It is that ambition that, perhaps, serves as this film's only flaw.  Instead of doing an Ode to David Berkowitz or chronicling the police investigation of the Son of Sam murders, Spike, instead, uses the murders as a backdrop for the story of the people who live in the section of the Bronx where the murders took place.  They bring their own problems and personalities with them, but the heat of a record summer and the fear of the murderer act as incendiary devices upon the world these people live in. So, in effect, we have the basis for three separate movies  the neighborhood, the police, and Berkowitz.  This film, in attempting to combine all three stories together without producing a four-hour opus, focuses perhaps too little on the police and a little too much on the neighborhood. I appreciate what Spike has done, though.  This movie isn't really about Berkowitz.  Like in his other movies, Spike paints a much bigger picture in order to address a much larger issue.  We all have our likes and dislikes, our peeves and prejudices.  If those things are stoked by the fires of heat and fear, the outcome will not be pleasant.  Fear, distrust of those who are different, and egotism will always forge the path to hatred and violence. We, like the people in that neighborhood, may not always act on those feelings under normal circumstances, but who's to say what will happen when the heat gets turned up (both literally and figuratively).The production values of this film are absolutely first-rate.  Spike takes us back to 1977 and immerses us in the disco and punk scenes, but at the level of the characters.  They are working class, so they don't get past the doorman at Studio 54.  They are at home in the smaller clubs.  Spike uses several different kinds of film and lighting that really makes this film a true, technical achievement.  He goes a long way toward illustrating that there is more to storytelling than dialogue; the camera itself can help us to better understand what's going on between the lines of the script.Because of this, the uneven parts I spoke of earlier are lessened because we become part of the story, we get involved.  It's not that often that a filmmaker can do that to us.  You will probably see reviews coming down hard on both sides of this film.  If you see one that dismisses the movie because of one or two of the things I mentioned here--ignore it.  As opposed to a movie, Summer of Sam is a Film.  Like many other things in this world, a Film must be experienced to be appreciated.Finally, just a quick word about political correctness.  I've seen and heard too many people and talking heads harping on this movie as poor judgment in the wake of the Columbine shootings.  Please.  Talk about your proverbial apples and oranges.  The argument of senseless depictions of violence and lack of punishment for wrongdoing in the movies doesn't hold water for this film.  Violence is depicted as ugly and useless, and, as we know, those that do wrong get punished.  Nothing makes my stomach turn as much as when people use someone else's tragedy to further their own pet cause or career. Then again, how else would they get on TV?  Of course, there could be another reason to jump on Spike.  I saw Wild, Wild West this weekend as well and I don't recall hearing about Barry Sonnenfeld getting vilified, even though people are killed in his movie as well.  Hmmmm?  "},{"Title":"A good diversion but not one of Spike Lee's best.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm an absolute Spike Lee freak, so I give him a lot of room. But this one didn't completely make it for me. It felt like he was more a contributor than the author here, and probably that's fine, but it makes it a little patchy. He seems to be trying to hit every one of the highlights of that outsized New York summer. So, when he doesn't have the time to really do Studio 54 (and since it's already been done), he settles for a quick stopover on the street on the way to Plato's Retreat. You also don't feel the drama of the Yankee's pennant pursuit, since it is in such deep background. The historic blackout seems a mere blip.In contrast to Do the Right Thing, Jungle Fever, or He Got Game where the characterizations were so finely chiselled, here the characters' motivations seem almost cartoon-like. That being said, one of the things I love about Lee is that he is a vignette painter. Many of his scenes just stand up by themselves. In this flick, the CBGB's scenes--one without goombahs and one with--are both masterful.By contrast, the talking dog is just plain weird. A real low point. I guess that's the Disney contribution. All in all, an ambitious effort that falls a little bit short of the mark, but because of Lee's artistry and some fine acting (kudos to Adrien Brody, in particular), it's still head and shoulders above everything else in the multiplexes this week.  "},{"Title":"Very Very well done","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam is probably not a movie for everyone.  I loved it, thought the theme was crystal clear, and well portrayed.  Spike Lee did an outstanding job directing this.  I really don't know what could have been done differently to have made this a better movie. Overall, the movie was portraying the dynamics of control, groups, individualism, etc.  One could possibly argue that it's just another deconstruction of society.  Maybe. But it offers a unique perspective and wraps it into an entertaining plot. While I think that there is something in this for everyone, I think that more than an audience member or two will be disappointed.  Any anti-society buff, or anyone disillusioned with watching the ants marching people or living that life style will immediately know who will under-appreciate this film.  There are enough one-liners, shooting scenes, sex scenes, and relationship crap to keep everyone happy.  But,  as the tag line suggest the human issues people will probably be more wowed. Either way, I recommend this as one to check out. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the critics","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  See this movie!!  It was a fascinating, funny, frightening study of human reaction to crisis and a wonderful commentary on the summer of 1977 in New York City arguably the craziest summer in history.  This movie covers an extremely broad scope typical of Spike Lee's style telling twenty stories at the same time, and doing so better than most directors tell one.  The film is fast paced and relentless in its pursuit of your undivided attention. You blink and you could miss something important to one of the plot lines (all of which are interesting by the way).  Leguizamo turns in a good performance as the coke-addicted husband, Vinny, who can't seem to stop cheating on his lovely wife.  He has his good points, and he loves his wife. However, he can't stop cheating on her which is what makes him so difficult to understand.  His paradoxes make him interesting.  Leguizamo was certainly a far cry from To Wong Foo with this role, bravo.  Richie remained a vague character  the old Brooklyn goombadi turned punk rocker.  We are never actually clear on his sexual preferences either, which is odd because the movie spends a great deal of time on it.  The most solid performance is most fittingly delivered by the Oscar winner in the group.  Mira Sorvino completely erased my memory of the horror that was At First Sight.  Her character, Dionna, is a good wife, a good daughter, and more so than any other character in this film a good person.  Beyond that she also knows how to stand up for herself.  Just when you think she's pathetic for putting up with her cheating husband, she shocks you by doing what the audience (or at least I) thought her incapable of.  She was also really underwritten, I would have liked to learn more about her.  But, brava, Mira.  As far as the murders are concerned, they simply contribute to the atmosphere of the city. The movie is not about the killings or the real hunt for Son of Sam... these are touched upon but not paramount.  As Spike Lee said, The murders are a cloud that hangs over the movie.  Two thumbs up and a solid A- for the latest Spike Lee joint.   "},{"Title":"An excellent film that captures the mood of the 1970's","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An excellent film that catches the mood of the 1970 era in New York City. The character presentations are well depicted with superb photography that seems to define Spike Lee's movies.Although the film is over 2 hours in length, you remain firmly focused throughout. "},{"Title":"Very intense and gut wrenching","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've never been a big fan of Spike Lee before but I have to admit, I thoroughly enjoyed this film.  However, if you're looking for a Son of Sam documentary type film, this is NOT the one to see.  Lee follows the lives of a handful of friends, during the summer of 1977, when the Son of Sam killings were occurring.  The story is fantastic and you'll be on the edge of your seat throughout.  The violence is not as graphic as other films, but the way the murders are filmed it is quite disturbing. "},{"Title":"Powerful Drama with great acting","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For those of us who lived through the summer of '77 in New York, this movie brings back both painful and joyous memories.  The backdrop of the summer and the 44 Caliber killer give a great slice of life to those who have lived in the five boroughs.The depiction of the Italian neighborhood, although not always complimentary, is fairly accurate.  As are the contrasts between the up and coming disco generation and the punk movement.However, I don't believe the violence at the end of the film was necessary to truly convey the fears caused by the Son of Sam.  It added an aspect of horror that did not complement the rest of the film.The acting, especially, Mira Sorvino, John Leguizamo and Jeniffer Esposito was outstanding.  As were the supporting roles played by Bebe Neuwirth and Ben Gazzara.This film is a must see for those looking for some realism in the time of all the summer fantasy movies. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but flashy","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's absolutely captivating on the big screen, but the movie suffers from the deficiencies in depth that have plagued Spike's other films (although to a lesser extent). More style than substance, but at least it's stylish. And for once, I didn't find John Leguizamo completely irritating. I'd like to see it again. One note The sound editor and music supervisor should never work again. About half of the songs were also featured in the Boogie Nights soundtrack, which I found rather amusing, and the musical cues were totally off and sometimes irritating. "},{"Title":"Spike's Best Film","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was Mr. Lee's best film. The performances of Mira Sorvino, Jennnifer Esposito and Adrien Brody were a real treat. There was good character development and a clear and gritty story. However, this film has some flaws that I had hoped that Spike Lee would avoid(One camera shot that introduces a character. Most amateurish and most weird.). Also, there are certain scenes that I wish were cut out of the film, period. I would recommend this film.    "},{"Title":"New LEE","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee has decided to go for a new approach in this current movie,and I for one welcome it. This movie is not just visually good but deep and insightful.I like the idea that this movie is based on the people in NY than on SAM himself.I was really drawn to the people and how their personal problems meshed with the killings. Many people believe Lee has tried to glamorize Berkowitz's killings but I for one see no difference in this tragic movie than say Schindlers List. Both not trying to glorify death but make us see the effects violence has on us all.The movie does seem overdrawn at times and can make the movie seem long.Other than that , SOS is worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Mira Sorvino Rocks","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very good if flawed movie.  It's more about capturing the ambience and feeling of a specific set of people during a specific time in a specific location.  I've heard mixed or negative reviews of the acting in the film, but two performances stand out  Adrien Brody kicks ass as a neighborhood kid turned punk/hustler/musician, and Mira Sorvino is AWESOME as a neglected, faithful, traditional wife who is married to an abject loser (Leguiziamo).   This movie has one of the most potent sex scenes (NOT the orgy!) that I have seen; it ranks with the 5-second orgasm from Fast Times... it makes its message perfectly. "},{"Title":"a good movie!","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer Of sam was a good movie!  I never thought it had flaws or anything. I mean, common people, these were the 70's, FILLED with sex, lust and weirdos!  New Yorkers, specially in that area of the state cussed like that all the time..still & always will too.  You have to understand Spike Lee's directing to fuly understand the camera shots, etc.   This movie I give a 9 out of 10.  Not at any point did I look at my watch or get impatient for this movie to be over with.  It seems some have problems at lengthy movies...well, too bad!   This isn't an Oscar winner..although the acting was great, and it isn't Lee's angriest movie, but as the net critic Berardenelli said & I agree, it was his most ambitious movie to date.  Go see it! "},{"Title":"Forget about it","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's unique among Spike Lee's bad movies in that it doesn't suffer from a lack of commitment. Most of Spike's turkeys seem wanly unengaged in their subject matter does anyone think he really cared about a confused phone-sex operator (in GIRL 6) or a non-dysfunctional family having solvable problems (in CROOKLYN)? In SUMMER OF SAM, Spike Lee tries to put on his Martin Scorsese costume, roll up the sleeves and dig into the mess at hand, but then he doesn't, quite.Making his first movie that's almost exclusively about white people seems to fill him with ambivalence. He wants to go at the Bronx Italian-American milieu straight, but he's full of resentments and has a few comments he'd like to add. And by the end, you realize that he's assembled these guidos in the drawing room to reenact the same replay of Bensonhurst lynch-mob violence that stood behind DO THE RIGHT THING. (It's as if Lee were getting at his Oedipal relationship to Scorsese by compulsively pointing out Italian-American racism--as if Scorsese hadn't done that already!)Spike has everything in his corner here angry goombahs, a colorfully dumpy Jewish serial killer, Mira Sorvino looking puzzled and hurt at a Plato's Retreat orgy, Jimmy Breslin talking into the camera, a surreal-looking Reggie Jackson, boylesque dancing, porn, blood, the Who. And yet the film shares one thing in common with other unsuccessful Spike joints the scenes are non-scenes, the story is untold. In a good Spike Lee movie, the scenes are really built; you might not like them, but you wouldn't miss them in a Sherman tank. In a bad one, nothing has shape--the actors have that insecure so-who-am-I-again? look and Lee covers up the wobbly improv with wall-to-wall music. SUMMER OF SAM drags on for two and a half hours, and you find yourself asking, Guinea hairdresser has bad sex, David Berkowitz shoots coeds--the connection being?SUMMER OF SAM may have started, in Spike Lee's mind, as an Oliver Stone-style madhouse allegory--Son of Sam as Uncle Sam. (It would be interesting to see what Michael Imperioli's original modest, indie script looked like.) What it has ended up as is another movie where Spike Lee gets impressed by a recent impressive film, and filters it through his sports-talk-radio sensibility--in this case, BOOGIE NIGHTS, which, ghostlike, reappears in tired Steadicam trolleys through a disco, plagiaristic music choices, and what we might call the Overambitious Seventies Canvas. Spike Lee exasperates us--that's his beauty, and that's sadly what will probably forever rob him of his due recognition as one of the best American filmmakers. It may be time to acknowledge that empathy is not part of his bag of tricks. It was once--in DO THE RIGHT THING, where everyone was simultaneously right and all wrong. But it isn't now, and we can only pray a subject engages him again, before he stops getting turns at bat. "},{"Title":"Sam sucks!","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film had all the charm and allure of a cheap porn movie.  In fact, at times, I thought I was watching a cheap porn movie. I'm not sure what I was expecting . . . I don't know . . . I guess -- art. M-X was a great film.  I think Spike is a great talent; but I could hardly wait for this film to end.  If realism was what he was after, I think this subject matter could have been handled better, and far more artistically, as a documentary.  There were some good performances . . . but much of it was like watching the video of the Rodney King beating. Wasn't there better ideas and images to offer us here?  I felt quite crummy when I left the theater, as did my three companions.  We all agreed, This movie sucked!   "},{"Title":"Piece of Crap","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee has went and topped himself once again.  When you thought that there was no way for him to make an even worse movie than what he already has, he surprises everyone by making quite possibly the worst movie since GreenCard.  The only thing that could have made this movie worse would have been Gerard DePardieu in the credits.  Hell he may be in the credits seeing as how the opening credits and the true meaning of this film go hand in hand, there is none.  I am still asking myself what Vinny and his gang of hoes have to do with David Berkowitz.  I keep coming up with the answer NOTHING. This movie is the hybrid of Crooklyn and Boogie Nights, but this movie doesn't quite equal either one of those films.   "},{"Title":"Spike Lee offers Brilliant Portrayal of NYC in 70's","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Summer of Sam is not necessarily a movie about the Son of Sam.  Rather it is a movie which depicts life in New York City during the mid 1970's. The movie's main character, played by John Leguizamo, is a married Italian man facing many struggles associated with the Disco era.  Lee brilliantly portrays the struggles many married men faced during this time period in which the Sexual Revolution was still going strong and drugs were everywhere.  Leguizamo's character struggles with trying keep the image of his wife, played wonderfully by Mira Sorvino, as a pure image.  In attempt to keep the image of his wife's purity he seeks sexual gratification by cheating on his wife with a number of different women.  This eventually leads to a very surreal scene in which Leguizamo and Sorvino are brought to Plato's Retreat, an NYC sex club of the 70's.  While all this is going on there are many subplots dealt with.  The two main subplots are that of the Son of Sam and his slip into homicidal insanity.  A slip which seems to be capped off in a humorous scene in which his neighbor's dog urges him to kill.  And the story of one of Leguizamos neighborhood pals, Richie, played by Adrien Brody.  Spike Lee makes an appearance as a bumbling reporter who covers the murders as well as the black out of 1977.  Lee does a great job in presenting this whole film in a very surreal manner.  The movies soundtrack consists primarily of, The Who, which at times really helps to strengthen the intensity of this movie.  I feel that this film is just another reason why Spike Lee should be considered one of the great contemporary American directors "},{"Title":"Atmosphere, acting dead-on","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Summer of Sam, Spike Lee has enabled us to get a feel for the paranoia gripping the Bronx during the summer of 1977, when Son of Sam was on the rampage, the heat was in the 100s, and the punk movement was at its peak. Oh yeah, drugs, sleazy sex with anyone... still popular.  We see how all these elements affect the ensemble of characters and set tensions on edge, leading to a powerful climax.  The violence inflicted by Son of Sam is graphic, but you get a second or two to tense up and prepare for it.  It's still shocking, because of the quick, senseless brutality of the killing.The cast couldn't have been better.  Adrien Brody was a smashing delight.  "},{"Title":"Stereotypes, Cliche's, and Lot's of Sex","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee forgot to do one thing before directing this film;  RESEARCH.  Sure some of the details about the serial killer are correct.  His name is David Burkowitz, and the other information about him is fairly correct, but lets see what else the film is made up of....  A whole potpourri of offensive stereotypical characters, cliche's about the 70's (what 70's film could possibly be complete without a trip to Studio 54?), and the weakest representation of the Punk Rock Invasion to have ever been put on the screen.  The band playing in CBGB's is named, L.E.S. Stitches(it says so on their Bass drum).  They are a contemporary band.  And the audience at the club is an entirely late-1990's goth crowd that was probably there to see a concert and in no way affiliated with the film.  What Mr. Lee misses in this area he tries to make up for with Gratuitous Sex (as in many of his other films).  Don't get me wrong,  I don't mind a sex scene here or there, when needed.  But Sheesh!..  enough's enough;  we get the point, Spike.   "},{"Title":"Spike Lee brings back the Seventies. A first rate job.","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was living in Nevada when 'Son of Sam' went on his rampage. It was a distant atrocity I purposely avoided reading much about. In spite of that I really connected with this movie. The murders put everyone in New York on edge. They cause the close-knit group of Italian Americans in the film to question their lives, who they are and who their friends are. This film successfully paints an impression of the era as it was, as filtered through a working class New York neighborhood that seems strangely familiar- Mr. Scorsese's neighborhood, as portrayed in several of his films, is what comes to mind. The acting is uniformly excellent and Spike has done what I think is his best work.  "},{"Title":"Summer of '99 is similar to summer of '77.","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I was watching this film, I noticed how the summer of 1977 is no different than the Summer that we are currently in now, 1999.  I'm guessing that the old saying is true, what comes around, goes around.  First of all, in 1977, people of New York City are were afraid of a madman who called himself Son of Sam who at random killed innocent people (mostly young girls).  People locked themselves in to hide and be safe from the madman on the streets.  In 1999, we hold a different fear, the fear that is in our schools.  From the aftermath of the tragedy in Littleton, Colorado; people are terrified about sending their kids to school, and wondering if they not get struck by teenage rage and violence.Other similarites are  the New York Yankees were at the top then, and they are at the top now.  The big movie people were talking about in 1977 was STAR WARS, in 1999 THE PHANTOM MENACE (STAR WARS EPISODE I) was the biggest movie of the summer.  And when 1977 brought out the rebellion of punk rock, 1999 has the same with grudge rock. Watching SUMMER OF SAM really put me into another world where this world has many differences, yet they are similar. Which is why I was awestricken with how well, Spike Lee reproduced 1977. With people wearing t-shirts with Sylvester Stallone as Rocky, to reheated and gressy pizzas.  The look was there, the music was definitely there, even the costumes and culture was there.  But the only bad aspect is that Lee has some slow spots.  There are parts that we want to see more of, and get little of.  Then there are parts that we want to see less of, and get more of.  But that doesn't make this a bad movie.  Oh no, this is a very good movie, but not a excellent movie that I was hoping. SUMMER OF SAM is about the lives of four young people in New York City in the summer of 1977.  Disco is getting more popular, and so is punk rock.  It's one of the hottest summer's ever in New York City (114 degrees, that's normal in Phoenix), and there's a madman on the loose who kills people with a.44 caliber gun.  There are different stories, first there is Vinny (John Leguizamo) and Dionna (Mira Sorvino), a young married couple who are great on the dance floor.  But their sex life is fading away, as Vinny is having affiars with many different women. Then there's Ritchie (played wonderfully by Adrien Brody) and Ruby (Jennifer Esposito), a young couple who are both falling into the world of punk rock.  However, it's Ritchie's new look and attitude that has a neighborhood vigilante gang (led by Michael Rispoli) wondering if Ritchie is the Son of Sam. Personally, I like Spike Lee's work.  I enjoyed CLOCKERS, GET ON THE BUS, and HE GOT GAME.  And I personally think that SUMMER OF SAM is his best work yet.  But I think that Lee concentrates on less exciting things, and doesn't focus on more interesting things.  We get the lives and life-styles of the four young youths, yet we are drawn more towards the paranoia and fear of the .44 caliber killer.  But this isn't about Son of Sam this is about some of the people that were around while the Son of Sam striked.  Like how the narrator at the beginning tells us, this is about New York City.  And I'm guessing that is what Lee wanted to focus more on. If you've seen Lee's other movies, you'll recognize some of his familar faces in the film (Mike Starr from CLOCKERS, Debi Mazar from GIRL 6, and Lee regular, John Turturro making a unusual cameo stay through the credits to see what he did). This is a very good film, but not a great film.  But I have to give credit to Lee, he's now making films that all of us can relate to, instead of certain people.  And the more he does this, the more of a masterful director he'll turn out to be. **** (out of *****) "}{"Title":"must see again","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very powerful film, not perfect but not much is. Great characterization, with Mia Sorvino outstanding in her role . Also the time and scene were captured to a tee.I will see it again, something I do rarely and I would also like to make the disclaimer that I'm not a Spike Lee fan. She's gotta have it and do the right thing being the only films I can stand to watch more than once.This is not a movie for those who want to see another serial killer movie, its about the human condition and all that goes with it, its about the attempt to escape change and avoid responsibility. Kudos to Mr. Imperioli and all on a fine story. "},{"Title":"maybe one of the best films of the year!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  summer of sam is a very good movie. it seemed like the longer it went,the better it was. it's maybe one of the best films of 1999! summer of sam is loaded with profanity,and sex. i don't know if i've seen another movie that has more profanity than this movie. it was also funny,and kind of scary in some scenes. the movie just got better,and better. i also thought the characters were well drawn-out. even though most of them were low-lifes. i give summer of sam ***1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"A serial killer causes hysteria in the summer of 1977","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Partially shot like an MTV video, Summer Of Sam came off like A Bronx Tale, without the flash the Mafia usually have in movies.  At times very intense and dramatic, and absurdly silly at others, I wouldn't recommend this film for die hard fans of Spike's work.  Although it was very long and drawn out, Spike held my attention with shaky camera work, and quick cuts. Most of this movie was very well done, but other parts needed work. One more edit would have saved this film. "},{"Title":"A real downer. Makes you want to take a shower when you get home.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here is a movie full of gratuitous sex, gratuitous violence, gratuitous drug use and lots and lots of dysfunctional characters. There is no plot, other than a thinly woven line about man's inhumanity to man and the mob-rule reflex in times of stress, which has been done much better in other films, or even TV shows, and in half the time. Take Velvet Goldmine, HurlyBurly and Leaving Las Vegas, mix them up and dump them out in New York in 1977, with Son of Sam as a simple backdrop. But the movie is not about Sam. I'm not sure what it is about, except maybe about and hour too long.  "},{"Title":"Quite a summer","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the summer of 1977, David Berkowitz aka Son Of Sam, went on a killing spree that lasted over a year and took many young New Yorker lives with it. Director Spike Lee's new film chronicles this event and the ways it touched a community through it's violence and intolerance.  It's Lee's most vibrant work yet, and it carefully explores each and every downfall Lee holds as a director. Working on his most detached film, Lee recreates the hot summer of 1977 flawlessly.  Watching the film you can smell the stench of the street, the hot cheese burning on a reheated pizza, the musty aroma of a gay porno shop, and most importantly, the delirium of the citizens as a killer walks among them. Lee's Crooklyn and Do The Right Thing were more intimately created worlds, but Sam is the most believable. We weave around the Brooklyn neighborhoods and watch the Guidos read the papers everyday, monitoring the moves of the killer.  They pose and threaten, try to go on as life intended, but everybody is frightened to death of Sam.  Their lives are drastically changed during this one summer. John Leguizamo and Mira Sorvino star in one story about a young married couple who cannot seem to be sexually compatible.  It is during the hysteria of Berkowitz that the couple finds themselves experimenting in role playing and sex clubs. Lee's biggest failure is trying to make the two actors more than one-dimensional characters.  They don't give the best performances of their respective careers.  Academy Award winner Sorvino especially seems to be slumming in a seriously thin role that requires nothing from her.  Leguizamo is a good comedic actor, and the dramatic roles he takes have been equally as sharp, but the script by Michael Imperioli and Victor Colicchio lacks depth. They leave him hanging in a sea of F-words and impossible improv. You can only take so much of that before you cry uncle. Lee fares better in the other story of a young punker (Adrien Brody) who the neighborhood suspects is the killer.  Refreshingly working outside of rap and jazz, Lee is remarkably accurate with his depiction of the punk movement.  He scores major points with a montage set to a Who song that sold the movie to me.  It's the best 5 minutes of the film.  As Brody runs around in spikey hair and a counterfeit British accent, he's the most eye-catching of the picture.  I would say it's the most layered performance in the film.  Leading a double life as an ambitious musician during the day, and a nightlife of nude dancing and porno films, Brody is compelling to watch.  Lee doesn't give any of his actors a chance to shine - the neighborhood is really the star of the film - so when Brody makes an impression, that's something to say. The biggest failure of the film is it's length.  At 140 minutes, it's just way too long.  The story runs out of steam long before the slick end credits hit. The movie would be better served as a faster, sleeker vehicle.  Spike Lee cannot seem to cut a film perfectly.  The extra fat that he loves weigh each movie down impossibly. Summer Of Sam would be a perfect picture about 30 minutes shorter.This film is fun to watch.  It's interestingly shot, breathtakingly sexually explicit, and contains a Spike Lee cameo that steals the movie.  As risky and challenging summer entertainment, Sam faces a battle with Eyes Wide Shut for the title of the Most Refunds For A Summer Film award.  Spike seems to be back on track after the unsatisfactory He Got Game and I hope he decides to revisit a New York summer in the future.  It seems to be his forte.----------- 7 "},{"Title":"Powerful. Absorbing.  Flawed.","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SUMMER OF SAM is a powerful, in-your-face, loud and taunting collage of images and stereotypes.  The movie is compelling and compellingly flawed. It captures your attention but it warps the story with Lee's jaundiced vision of events and the planet.  Brilliant and yet loaded with errors both in technique and judgment.  And, as always, too long.  Spike, edit thyself. And thanks for making movies. "},{"Title":"Not a black-issues film, a human-issues film","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Aside from the fact that there are no black principal cast members, the significant change evident in Lee's direction is one toward addressing all-encompassing social ills. True, he's shown the ugliness of racism on both sides before, but in SOS, he's addressing distrust and violence to one's own kind, even own friend or family. Criticised by screenwriter magazines as lacking an identifiable protagonist, the film seems to work best because there is none. A Bronx kid turned Euro-punk has little to take issue with, nor much merit as a moral voice, but his inarticulate banter puts him appropriately in his place. David Birkowitz (the son of sam) is not highly visible, neither is Mira Sorvino. The shared stage, where no-one eclipses his fellow cast was a perfect window dressing for an unsettling human study. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated movies I've ever seen","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" At the time I watched Summer of Sam, it had an average rating of 6.6/10 on IMDb. For a while, I didn't think much of the movie, as I didn't think it was supposed to be very good. However, after reading Roger Ebert's praising review, I decided to check it out. 2 hours and 20 minutes later, I was amazed. How is this movie not talked about more? This is easily one of Spike Lee's best films, along with Do the Right Thing and 25th Hour. A small detail that tells a lot about what to expect is the film's title. Most people expected a profile of the Son of Sam serial killer. However, the movie is called SUMMER of Sam, which tells what the film is about. It's about the time period and the paranoia that gripped New York during the killings, not the killer himself. There are several scenes showing the killer's life, who is played excellently by underrated actor Michael Baddalucco, but these scenes do not take up the majority of the film. Though he isn't the main character, the film belongs to Adrien Brody as wannabe punk rocker Richie, who is slowly believed to be the Son of Sam by his paranoid friends. His performance is eccentric, dramatic, and just close enough to over-the-top to be believable. The film's best sequence is about halfway through the film, in which Richie rocks out to The Who in his garage, and the scene is dazzlingly intercut with Richie moonlighting as a dancer in a sleazy club and the killer doing his business. I must also give a large applause to the film's top notch editing and soundtrack which play a big part in making the film unique. Despite any negative reviews you've heard, I highly recommend this film for any fan of unique thrillers and Spike Lee's other work. "},{"Title":"A rather timid summer","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee ventures back in time to the summer of 1977 and the South Bronx, smack in the middle of an ongoing creeping tension caused by the random killings of the Son of Sam (also known as the 0.44 Calibre) serial murders. Thrust into the local community the story is less however about the psycho whacking off people smooching in parked cars and more about the social turmoil of the period, attempting to fit in the crime into the wider backdrop of moral decline. Hence our two main characters are Vinny (John Leguizamo), a hairdresser with a loose zipper married an extremely luscious Dionna (Mira Sorvino), and Richie (Adrien Brody), punk wannabe earning money as a male stripper and escort at a gay club. Focusing more on their trails and tribulations, than on the Son of Sam himself (who is portrayed as a psychotic, crazed, but otherwise downright pathetic misguided individual), Lee detaches from a serial killer thriller into a period drama.Unfortunately with limited success. The biggest failure is the inability to create a sense of tension and dread connected with the Son of Sam killings. Despite supposedly causing a wave of fear-mongering, vigilantism and neighbourly paranoia the atmosphere of the movie is too laid-back, self-referential and detached, causing the whole murder spree to feel somewhat unnecessary, even misplaced with this story. Spike Lee even has his 'Chaos reigns' moment with a fox supplanted by a black dog. Spike Lee's appearance on screen as a wacky black TV reporter further alienates the themes of Summer of Sam, suddenly taking us away into Harlem and mob rioting or humourless jabs at the 0.44 Calibre Killer.Despite some well-intentioned ideas the ultimate pay-off is lacking, seemingly forced, as the two main characters, who are scripted as best friends seem overly alien and disconnected to each other to make the relationship work. Whilst the character themselves are funny and charming whilst being ordinary chemistry is unfocused throughout. Too many subsidiary characters roam around with little to no real input, while successfully disorganising the movies flow. The best offering is the subplot of Vinny's infidelity and Dionna's attempts to control her husband lust by redirecting it at herself, which eventually create truly effective drama. The overly forced morale of not judging books by covers ends up resoundingly hollow, as an obvious statement not requiring such a meticulous build.A great redeemer is the excellent cinematography done with subtle restraint and reinforced by a 1970s soundtrack constantly catching the appropriate jibes. These tidbits of quality (also spread throughout the movie) guarantee watching pleasure, but once the end credits role the dominant feeling is that of being duped. "},{"Title":"not a complete disaster it could have been a lot worse","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The trouble with Spike Lee is that his first movie, DO THE RIGHT THING was about as perfect a film can get or be. Therefore subsequent films will be compared to this effort even though Lee has made a long number of films which also include the wonderful MALCOLM X even though many parts of the film are historically inaccurate and sugar coated. As for SUMMER OF SAM, while a real departure for Lee, the film also contains many of the other elements of Spike Lee's other films that tend to render them either unwatchable, irrelevant or just plain dull. In SUMMER OF SAM the major flaw is the distinct lack of any likable characters with which the audience can identify with or sympathize with. Also, Lee's presence in his own films tends to be a major distraction rather than a viable addition to the narrative with one exception - DO THE RIGHT THING. Lee's films have a distinct tendency to be historically inaccurate especially those films that are based on true life and biographies. Lee's films also have an annoying tendency to be over-dramatic in inopportune moments. Unlike DO THE RIGHT THING which expertly built up to the shocking and powerful climax, other Lee films tend to dissipate the narrative making it seem disjointed. "}{"Title":"Horrible!!","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee's latest joint is an utter piece of crap. Not that this should come as a surprise to anyone who's seen any of Mr. Lee's joints, some of the worst movies ever made, directed by one of the least talented directors working today.Summer of Sam is a travesty on all levels. The story, the direction, the music, you name it. It was nothing short of painful to watch. The only - and I mean the ONLY - thing that made the film at least tolerable was the photography. But even that became impossible to pay attention to as the rest of the movie assaulted every sense.The real pity is that Mr. Lee drains valuable resources from unknown, talented directors who can't get their films made because the money is spent on joints like this piece of junk. GT "},{"Title":"I'd rather be watching General Hospital","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is easily one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my entire life. There is no central story or theme. Instead, the movie is more of a summary of the late 70's. The movie even has inconsistent cinematography. This film is set in 77 so lets use film from the 80's then every once in a while, we can use the same film and special effects that were in Se7en which came out in 97. O my God, there is a heatwave so let's go looting in our long sleeve shirts and jackets because it's the heat that is making us crazy, and I swear to God if the Son of Sam is black..... This movie felt like a really long, obnoxious run-on sentence. "},{"Title":"Gives you the feel of it...","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee has created the realistic atmosphere, although the characters are a bit hard to sympathize with (most of them are detestable, actually) But maybe that was his intent. As Jimmy Breslin has often quoted, in NYC there are a million stories a day, and this was just one of them.Bebe Neuwirth and John Leguizamo are a gruesome couple, and I cannot get some of the visual imagery out of my mind. Lee has perhaps created the view of the killer, why he detests these people, why it is so offensive. Much has been made of the Italian-American communities; anyone who has ever lived in the metro NY area will know it is not an exaggeration; people who have lived in the same area stick to their own, while there are stereotypes, basically each group has its own dynamics- anyone who knows basic psychology understands the group mentality; the deferral of responsibility- survival for the weak is easier in a pack; the weak cannot survive alone, so they mesh together to form a unit.That being said, the stereotypes of Mira Sorvino, Ben Gazarra, and the police, as well as some of the crude and objectionable scenes with Patti Lupone and Adrian Brody have all served to show the director's vision; reasons why these people should be eliminated; reasons why New York is so offensive. Certainly, the killings were not done for financial gain; Son of Sam perhaps desired publicity, but what else was his motive?.The visuals are impressive; the Dead End where the neighborhood locals gather to sell drugs; the lunatic fringe; it seems a more elevated view to NOT divide the people into race or ethnic origin; they are simply there, and the killer has chosen them for his own personal reasons. Certainly, with Do the Right Thing Spike Lee touched a nerve in these communities. I respect his viewpoint because he is from Brooklyn, not the beaches of Malibu. I just read a review today delineating how Ozone Park was more of an Italian neighborhood, and any other race would stand out. Shows how segmented and rife with hatred these small communities can really be. Anyone who liked this film may also like Straight Out of Brooklyn by Matty Rich. Highly recommended. 9/10. "},{"Title":"A claustrophobic summer in NY","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw Summer of Sam a late night on cable-TV and I couldn't stop watching it even if I hadn't planned to to begin with,it was far too late.It's a merciless movie about a brutal summer(the story is set in 1977) of heat waves,power-cuts,paranoia and random,brutal killings. I immediately got a feeling of claustrophobia that was very effective,I got a feeling of being there that was hard to ignore. The main story isn't about David Berkowitz at all,he's just a character flashing by in short and bloody sequences,but it is rather about people in the Italo-American community and how their lives and relations are affected by Son of Sam.We get to know the cheating Vinny,his friend Ritchie who has become a punk rocker and has to face suspicion and aggression from his own community and friends due to his new,startling appearance,and also Vinny's wife Dionna and Luigi,a powerful man in his neighborhood.Among others. With Son of Sam lurking in the dark,they soon have to face the importance of being able to trust your family,friends and those who live around you.Basically it's a story about trust,deceit and how suspicion,fear of the unknown and betrayal can threaten and destroy friendship and relations.And last but not least about how fragile our faith and trust in others really are... "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie. Spike Lee has a way of filming a movie in a way so that you feel like your in the time zone he is trying so well to portray. this movie takes place in the summer of 1977 in a Bronx neighborhood. This movie- with its hip 70's music, sexual escapades, paranoia, murders, and rage- make the year of 1977 the most dangerous and exciting year in New York City history. This is a great film which almost completely accuratley shows the Son of Sam murders. I know, i was so impressed by the portrayal of Sam in the movie that I looked up David Berkowitz- the Son of Sam- and realized that Mr. Lee had taken every line and murder sequence word for word and scene for scene from the actual events. Spike Lee makes Berkowitz look like a sick man and even gets into the head of Berkowitz so deeply that at times you start to thin your crazy. Although the Son of Sam murders are only the backdrop for the main story of which is the story of a Bronx neighborhood where drugs and prejudice of those who are different reside. When it is discovered that the Son of Sam is attacking near neighborhood these factors become larger as everyone who isn't a regular Itallian American becomes a suspect. I found John Leguizamo's dramatic turn as the cheating and equally paranoid Vinny to be riveting- mostly because my fondest memory of him is the idiotic but funny role in The Pest. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good drama, and the occasional graphic sex and murder sequence. "},{"Title":"A meandering hodge-podge","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to say much more that hasn't already been stated here about Summer of Sam the too-large canvas Spike Lee was trying to work with, the seemingly unnecessary amount of sex scenes, silliness of the talking dog, miscasting of Michael Badalucco as David Berkowitz, inaccuracy in the presentation of the punk culture during that time and place, et al. Even though I knew the Son of Sam was supposed to be a backdrop of the story, I was left wanting for a more fleshed out focus on Berkowitz, which I think would've made for a more interesting flick. Countless users have stated that this film needed to be either/or as a movie about SOS or the group of characters during that era, but with the latter all we'd get is yet another 70's NY flick, a theme already beaten to death in cinema. Although most of them were fairly quick and focused just enough to keep the SOS element moving forward, the handling of the murder scenes was still enough to create a sense of dread and fear. I found Virginia Voskerichian's death (the girl shot in the face through her schoolbook, played by pretty Tara McNamee) the hardest to stomach, with her approach to the camera drawn out in slow motion and her giving that momentary heart-melting smile shortly before she's killed (and a note to IMDb - she was actually leaving an LIRR station and not a woman on college campus). While all of the killings (and injuries) were tragic, this was the one victim that I ended up feeling the worst for (it stuck with me for a week) - and caused me to wish for a greater focus on the specifics of the Berkowitz attacks and subsequent investigations.While far from perfect, Summer of Sam is not altogether a bad film so long as you don't go into it expecting a tightly-spun story. It almost succeeds within the scope it covers - but at its running time of 142 minutes the released version plays out more like a padded director's extended edition. Keeping Adrian Brody's fantastic portrayal of Ritchie intact, cutting the Vinny/Dionna escapades (as well as the neighborhood Italian stereotypes that felt like filler after a while) down by as much as half and beefing up the focus on the story around the killer would've made this much more rewarding. "},{"Title":"Spike Lee's continuing saga of unpleasant Italian-Americans.","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Summer of Sam came out, the critics panned it, and I never really got why. Maybe it was because of the unctuous, wise guy feeling that the movie elicited. But considering that the summer of 1999 saw drudgery like The Phantom Menace and Notting Hill, there was really no reason to attack this one. The plot of course looks at New York City during the summer of 1977, when David Son of Sam Berkowitz was on a killing spree. Everything is seen through the eyes of hairdresser Vinny (John Leguizamo), an undesirable weirdo if there ever was one.As he often does, Spike Lee - who appears briefly as a reporter - portrays Italian-Americans very negatively (think Do the Right Thing and Jungle Fever). Well, I'm sure that he has a reason for it. Anyway, this movie is an interesting look at a bygone era (and it does make one a little nostalgic). Also starring Mira Sorvino, Jennifer Esposito, Adrien Brody, Michael Badalucco, Mike Starr, and John Turturro. "},{"Title":"It takes two views","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Before I saw Summer of Sam I had seen a fair collection of Spike Lee movies, and I have to admit this is in my opinion the best alongside; Malcolm X, He got Game and 25th Hour.The film contrasts the 70's era and the anything goes era of Life. Our central characters are Vinny and Richie who are two friends from a rough area of town, both grow and follow different paths of life; Richie becomes involved in the Punk Rock trend and begins work in the pornography industry to fund his band. Vinny who is a streetwise hairdresser and disco dancing ladies man follows the traditional fashion for the time. I think this film is so superb because the key issue of the movie serial killer is always a sub-plot to the events the central characters experience, whether it is music, drugs, sex or violence.There is such a brilliant conflict between the relationships of the characters as they deteriorate and fade away over time.The film is brutal at times, the serial killer executes his victims with a .44 pistol, however the violence is infrequent and is once again a sub-plot to the actual life's of the characters. There is strong sex throughout the film and very frequent strong language.Summer of Sam is based on an actual event that took place over a year in New York in 1977, the serial killer who dubs himself son of Sam is throughout the film portrayed as a man sent over the edge by the requirements and restrictions of society, which contrasts brilliantly the attitudes of the main characters, who in turn are changing and rebelling against society.A brilliant film. "},{"Title":"Long, boring and speculative!","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie Norwegian cable TV, a couple a days ago, and I must say I was really disappointed. I supposed this film was meant to be a docu-drama. But the story was fictitious, except the parts involving the killings, and the killer. Which really did not take a huge part in the movie. From my point of view, the film's major problem was the lack of focus. Just as I thought I got a grip on the story, the story changed. The film's overuse of long, boring and speculative sex scenes, could easily have been cut down. Acting was not at all bad, but some of the actors make-up was definitely NOT from the 70s... Especially Ruby and Richie... Early punk rockers did not do their hair like Richie! And Ruby's make-up looked WAY to modern. Minor details you say? Maybe...but I believe correct make-up is quite relevant to this pre-punk-period! I didn't know director's name until the end of the movie, but I said to my wife all the way; This film reminds me of another boring film we saw... Do the right thing. If that tells you anything... "},{"Title":"Not The Best Movie","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie Summer of Sam did not live up to expectations that I had for it. The movie did not focus on David Berkowitz's (Michael Badalucco) thought process during the killings. The only thing that it showed about him is the feud between him and his neighbor Craig Glassman about his barking dog. There was no attention paid to the psychology of Berkowitz and why he wanted to kill people. The main characters of the movie were Vinny (John Leguizamo), a male hairdresser and thinks that he is disco king, and Dionna (Mira Sorvino) his wife and the paranoia that David added to their lives during this time. Vinny also has a problem with commitment and was always cheating on Dionna. The movie starts out with David killing his first victims, and he goes to Vinny and Dionna at the disco club. Vinny leaves with Dionna's cousin and they end up parking on a street where the Son of Sam is watching them. When another couple pulled up and honked their horn, Vinny drove off. Then David walked up to them and killed them both, and when Vinny drove by later, and saw that there were two people died. Vinny seeing this lead to him going crazy, because he thought that the Son of Sam saw him and was after him. In the movie Vinny was also having troubles being faithful to his wife and these two problems lead to his total mental break down. Most of the movie was about Vinny's mental break down.This movie was not about what I thought that it would be about. I thought that there would be more insight into why he killed all of these people and not so much focus on the problems of others. It should have been more about David and the thought going threw his head at this time. I was a really disappointment, and I felt like it was a waste of my money to even rent this movie. I rented it think that it would go more into the psychology and life of David Berkowitz. But it talked about Vinny and his crazy, wild, and messed up life during this time. It told about how crazy it made the people of the time and the things that happened in the community during the hunt for the Son of Sam. The way that the director cut and filmed the movie made it very confusing to follow along with the story. It would jump from Vinny's life to the Son of Sam killing another victim, with no transition between the two different subjects. The movie would not be one that I would recommend to anyone that wants to know what happened in David Berkowitz's life during his killing spree. "}{"Title":"Interesting, sometimes beautiful film, yet flawed.","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw it on DVD. Basically, it was an absorbing look back at a very different time and place. You can almost sense Spike Lee's wistful nostalgia imbuing this seemingly violent movie. One gets the impression Lee is looking lovingly back on a hometown that was going through some very dark days -- yet days whose darkness was mixed with brilliance (like the '77 Yankees, and the world-conquering NYC explosion called disco).I agree with some of the other comments. Spike Lee is very obviously a gifted filmmaker, especially in technical matters. He very convincingly recreates the feel, the atmosphere, the heat, and the fear of New York City those many summers ago. The camera work rate is first-rate, and if the Scorcese-like use of ubiquitous pop music is a bit cliché, at least Lee has chosen powerfully evocative songs. Especially effective are a couple of pulsating tracks from The Who that nicely balance out the diso feel-goodery (an obvious but still effective use by the director of symbolic music that contrasts the danger and violence of late 70's New York with its sophistication and glamor).There were some excellent acting performances, as well. Mia Sorvino is very good. The Adrian Brody of 1999 is very clearly a major star in the making. And John Leguiziamo's (sp?) genuinely moving and powerful performance may be the best thing about whole movie.All this said, the Summer of Sam is somewhat flawed. It does drag a bit in places. If you're going to make a film that lasts nearly 2.5 hours, the plot really has to grab the audience and not let go. Summer of Sam wasn't quite strong enough in this area. I think the problem is basically the script. The focus on the troubled marriage may be necessary to construct a meaningful narrative, but it's a difficult task to blend it with the overall panorama of New Yorkers and their battle with the monster on the loose. The former subplot drags down the latter, in my opinion.Still, Summer of Sam is a visually stunning, generally absorbing piece of movie-making, that, if too long, is a valiant -- and very entertaining -- effort. "},{"Title":"Could Have Been One of the Greaest Films Ever","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Important Summer of Sam is, but a masterpiece which it should have been it's not.   Spike Lee likes to talk on the controversial side of things but has change of heart with Summer of Sam and instead makes a film about a summer of conflicting culture which the Americans and the whole world never forgot.  The moment I saw the trailer which practically shows the entire film I was having to get the tissues to wipe away the drool from my mouth because of how amazing it looks but it all went a bit wrong when it came to my first viewing.   I was really amazed by it but by the time the end came there was no real story overall apart from the lives of these New Yorkers surrounded by the Summer of the Sam Murders but nothing came of it.   This was also my introduction Adrian Brody who plays punkster Ritchie.  Ritchie has become the odd one out in the neighbourhood since going on a pilgrimage to England where he finds the Punk Scene more appealing than a Manhattan Drug Dealer Gangster.   His best friend is Vinnie played by John Leiguhizmo who is a sex craved adulterer who lives for the disco.  With the punk scene looming and the death of disco upon the people of Manhattan cultures begin to clash and friendship and loyalty is questioned.  In the meantime the whole city is on full alert to watch out for Sam.  The serial killer who pop's off couples one by one by shooting them in the head without warning.  The intensity of the characters thinking they might be next in the list of Sam's murders shows perfectly whilst trying to come to terms with their doomed lives but it feels like Spike Lee just put so much into the first hour and a half and then came to a block and decided to put any old ending to cover it up.   It wasn't an awful end scene but it wasn't anything to write home about.  Lee needed to finish off the movie on a high but it finished in a way we didn't get any answers to questions that were left.  If I had my own way then they should have killed Ritchie whilst beating him up and then gone down for murder and then realising who the Summer of Sam really was and having to live with the guilt of killing there old friend.  That I think would have been a more appropriate ending and a good send off to a movie that could have been great but like most films these days wasn't. "},{"Title":"An unpleasant mess.","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"   I like Spike Lee. He is quite a talented director. Do the Right Thing is one of my favourite movies of all time. However, Spike Lee does things like appear in Ibm or was it Microsoft ads? He also appeared in a Nike campaign. Talk about selling out to 'the man!' Does he even know about the oppression of sweat shops?     I digress, this film bugged me mainly because of the characterization. The performances themselves are not actually too bad. I even sought of warmed up to John 'I'm a serious actor' Leguizamo, who I normally find really irritating. The actors are straight jacketed by their limited roles. Almost no one here is given any room to develop their character into something remotely human. It also seems that Lee has always had problems writing for women. It is actually a complaint that I have heard come from many women who watch his films. Mira Sorvino really suffers here because she plays the 2-dimensional victim wife. Italian Americans also are portrayed badly here overall. Lee seems to replace their brains with spaghetti. They are certainly not the shrewd gangsters that you see as the popular stereotype. Are they really this stupid? Lee seems intent as making them as dumb as that crazy glue sniffing women that was following me around in downtown Auckland. From watching films like these, even though I am a Kiwi, you quickly pick up that there is a mutually antagonistic relationship between African Americans and Italian Americans. This film is not going to help. The other things that bugged me were that the Son of Sam was actually the most interesting thing here. I did not care about the characters. Adrian Brody plays a punk. Now if you remember punks from the 1970's they were nowhere near as mellow as Brody plays the character. Remember Sid Vicious in Texas? 'Nuff said. Also there are little details that struck me that were wrong. For instance by 77 I don't think they were using wallet chains just yet. The same goes for mohawks, I think these punk fashions happened a wee bit later on. However this is being a bit picky on my part. I just don't think Lee understands the whole Punk thing fully. The stories that Lee is trying to present feel like a rushed idea. Because there is no single story it feels like 3 short stories that lack any depth. All sense of detail is lost and this is bad for the movie because this causes a lack of empathy for any of the characters. In fact, the old bugger journalist at the start of the film says this is one story of 8 million. It feels more like this is three stories told in a shallow and offhand manner. This lack of cohesiveness of plot is what ultimately sinks the film. By the time the ending comes I just didn't care and disliked or was completely indifferent to all of the characters. I think in the last part of the third act, there was meant to be some tension building. I was yawning, looking at the clock and walking to the fridge to collect another beer.   I just felt the whole thing was a bad Scorsese knockoff. Like that one with pretty boy Dicaprio. Besides who can take all the whining of Vinnie's character. If he wants to have kinky sex just hang out at a swingers club. It is obvious the guy is  a self centered dickhead with some bizarre Catholic, virgin/whore complex.'I'm a man, I can't be a whore!' You keep hoping that the Son of Sam will deal to him. No such luck. Although Sorvino does leave him, which made me feel a bit better. As usual though it is well filmed. I liked the children's building blocks that Sam plays with. Also, you get a lot of grainy footage that looks like it was literally taken from 70's porn. This is instrumental in showing club 54 and the orgy scene. Maybe Lee should do porn! He could  make some really good, arty porn! At least 54 was handled a bit more honestly than the travesty of a movie that was 54! Another thing that bugged me was when a woman in the news report scene started going on about how if the killer was African American and killing white people there would be a race war. This is not entirely true. What annoys me here is what about the Zebra killings that occurred in the 1970's in San Francisco. This was when an extremist African American cult decided to start killing white people. The murders have been largely covered up because of the political element and there is still much pressure to reopen the case. These murders never started any race war although many white people were indeed killed by African Americans. Mass murder occurs everywhere to all races and I think Lee is unwise to bring this issue up. Even if it does seem to be there for comic relief because of the extremist nature of the opinion. Overall this film probably seemed a good idea on paper but has been poorly executed. People will get this out thinking it is a movie about the son of Sam and instead be confronted by a bunch of dysfunctional Italians whose lives are badly told. I give it 4 Spike Lee's out of 10 Martin Scorsese's.  "},{"Title":"I hated this movie!","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I did not like Summer of Sam. It had WAY too much profanity and sex. What was the point? It had a great storyline but the profanity and sex made it bad. I thought all the actors did pretty good jobs but the raunchy parts just made it suck. This movie was also too long. I think it could've been shortened to at least an hour and a half. Why did Jon Leguizamo's character have too be such a player? Why did Adrien Brody's character become a porn star? I hated this movie so much and I don't want to say any more about it. But I'm happy for those of you who liked it and thanks for reading my review. Bye! "},{"Title":"Yuck, yuck, yuck (And did I mention yuck?)","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam had some interesting components and the potential to be a good movie, but it had too much going against it. First of all, I was put off by the unnecessary and gratuitous sexual content and the use of the F-word every two seconds. There were way too many subplots involving blatantly stereotypical characters, and as a result the movie seemed to drag on forever. The only good thing about the it was the performance of Adrien Brody, but some aspects of his storyline seemed pointless and almost embarrassing. Also, Spike Lee should have thought twice about casting himself, even in a bit part he spoke v-e-r-y   s-l-o-w-l-y (seemingly because he can't remember what he's supposed to say)which made him very unrealistic as a reporter covering a hot story. Summer of Sam is not a horrible movie, but you need a strong stomach and the patience to try and make sense of it all. "},{"Title":"Racist, boring, inaccurate","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What would people say if Martin Scorsese decided to make a film about a group of Afro-Americans who were lazy pimps and chicken-thieves who ate watermelon and spoke in 'Yassuh Massuh.' accents?  Would the film be banned?  Would Scorsese be blacklisted and never be allowed to make another film?  You bet!Spike Lee, on the other hand, makes a film about a group of Italian-Americans who, as portrayed by Lee, can only be described with the 'W' word.  These guys are the epitome of the worst, most shameful stereotypes of Italians.  Lee revels in making them the slimiest Guidos you'll ever see on film.  Nobody takes Lee to task for this, though.  Lee's work of anti-Italian racism is labelled a masterpiece and a work of genius.  Nice double standards!The movie itself is looooooooooonnnnnnnng   and booooooorrrrrriinggggg.  We get to watch all these loathsome cartoon Italian-Americans engaging in all kinds of degrading behavior while the actor playing Son Of Sam shows up every half hour or so to roll around in his shabby room screaming for his neighbor's dog to stop barking.  Nobody really looks like they are living in 1977. We never feel any sense of period.  The punk rock character loves to listen to The Who, who were considered Boring Old Farts by real punks like The Sex Pistols.  Lee sure didn't do much research!The one redeeming feature is Mira Sorvino.  She is so pretty, she almost made it worthwhile.  "},{"Title":"Do The Wrong Thing","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I may have been a little too excited for this film.  My love of Lee films and obsession with serial killers may have hampered my ability to be objective. If you haven't guessed yet, I was  disappointed.  I think the biggest problem I had with it, was the casting.  The most Italian guy in it was Michael Baddalucco, who unfortunately was cast as David Berkowitz.  While Leguizamo is no doubt a comic genius, he is very badly miscast in the role of Vinny.  As is Mira Sorvino, basically replaying her role in Beautiful Girls, but with an accent.  The one bright spot is Adrien Brody, although his homosexual acts could have been left out.  Jennifer Esposito, while beautiful beyond words, isn't as big a character as she should have been. Having her killed and possibly used as a model of the result of promiscuity might have been a better sub-plot.  This easily could have been titled Do The Wrong Thing. PS. Great soundtrack...catch the opening with Grace of God...vintage Lee, but all in all, not that great...7/10 "},{"Title":"What a Revelation!","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...my, my, my...another Italianophobic, overblown miniepic from Spike Lee. In a painfully similar fashion as in Jungle Fever and Do The Right Thing, Summer of Sam is filled with enough F-dropping, gumba godfathers and gum-cracking, spike-heeled twits to fill a gondola.  A bit too distracting to label it insightful or artistic.  C'mon, Spike  Whatever it was or whatever it obviously STILL is  Get Over It!! "},{"Title":"Waste of my time","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like hearing the F word in every sentence? Like long drawn out sex scenes, one after another, having nothing to do with plot?You like shots of junkies shooting up, people vomiting???...then have I got a movie for you. Its only got one or two characters out of the dozens in the movie with whom you would actually feel comfortable being in the same room with. In short, if you like gratuitous sex and violence and want to leave the theatre depressed, then pay your money. But the reviews are great you say?...Not many in the media have the nerve these days to criticize a Spike Lee film...do it and you might be accused of being racist. Remember the big protests a few years back at the Academy Awards because black directors and actors weren't winning enough awards. Keep that in mind when you see a great review  "},{"Title":"What a waste of celluoid","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the end, I just couldn't take it anymore.  Or maybe I should say, in the MIDDLE, I just couldn't take it anymore.  I can't remember another movie I've actually stopped watching in the middle because it was so bad.  I don't have a problem with sex, profanity, or extreme violence in films, but Summer of Sam used all three to a blatantly stupid effect.  One-half hour into the film, no violent, sexual, or profane act portrayed either shocked or titallated me, and one hour into the film it even stopped surprising me that they were so bad.  By the 1 1/2-hour-mark, it was clear that the only way to save the movie was if the Son of Sam were to brutally slay all of the major characters.  However, since that seemed unlikely, I did the smart thing and gave up.  I suggest you do the same.  "}{"Title":"More than I wanted","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie expecting a concise movie relating the effect the Son of Sam had on the society.  I didn't expect Spike Lee to force-feed me more garbage on racial tension, mob-justice, or the inability of the common citizen to make a choice under pressure by peers.  Lee has presented an extreme opinion.The entire movie could have been more effective if in a 90-min format with more focus, less tangential sub-plots.Don't even bother renting the video unless you passionately enjoy Spike Lee; in such a case, the theatre is worth it.  This is not an escapist movie.  "},{"Title":"Don't smoke this Spike Lee Joint","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike lee has to be one of the most over rated directors I have ever seen. He is the critic's darling because he supposedly makes films with a message or he is just so bohemian in his approach that it makes critics that are waterlogged from formula Hollywood films eat his stuff up just for being different.Summer Of Sam does not even do that well. The cinematography and editing style is Oliver Stone, and so is the narrative. The plot is a lot like Do The Right thing. The portrayal of Guidos or for the PC set Italian-Americans (of which I happen to be one) is straight out of Eddie Murphy's Raw. Only Eddie Murphy's impression of a macho Italian guy picking a fight with a much taller African-American is much, MUCH more believable than the cartoonish, broad Italian caricatures shown here (the John Leguizamo character being a possible exception).Is there anybody who saw this movie that could not figure out how it was going to end up? As soon as Richie came into the film I could already see the fist in his face and the foot in his stomach, I could already see him being accused of being the killer. This character had the most integrity in the whole film so, of course,  Lee is going to show what happens to people that stand out in a crowd (what a white bearded clique!)Someone please, please give Spike Lee a lifetime pass to all the Basketball games he wants. So, maybe he will be enjoying himself too much to pick up a film camera for a long time and we won't have to be subjected to his self important drivel and furthermore I won't have to see critics (some of them whom I respect) ohhhh and ahhhh to an Emperor with no clothes. "},{"Title":"Miscast, luridly overblown","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Leguizemo, a wonderful comic actor, is a New York Latino, able to get inside a myriad of characters, both male and female, to show the bizarre foibles of an ethnic group trying to cope in an alien culture. He is not, however, Italian. He doesn't look, think or behave Italian...Especially Sicilian or Calabrese, immigrant groups who live in Bensonhurst or Bayridge Brooklyn. Every scene in which he interacts with his Gumbas rings false, as though he'd wandered in from a college production of West Side Story while the other guys were doing a low-rent Mean Streets. That's only one problem with this ill-conceived, mean-spirited flick. Spike blew this one big time. Btw, CBGBOMFUG means Country, Bluegrass, Blues and Other Music For Uplifting Gourmets or possibly Gourmands Ask Hilly Crystal who founded the club.  "},{"Title":"What the hell is this movie trying to say?","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Window dressing.  That is the first thing that comes to mind when I think of this film.  There are maybe two story lines that are clear in here and the rest is just things to fill the gap to make the film two hours long. There is the sub plot of David Berkowitz, which is strange because the title of the film makes you believe you're going to see a film about him.  Wrong. Then there is the story of Vinnie ( Leguizamo in a brilliant performance ) and Deonna.  Vinnie can't have sex with his own wife without feeling like he is being rude.  So he goes out and sleeps with whores that he can have raunchy sex with.  Those are the two stories that really stood out.  But on top of that there are stories about homosexuality, race riots, racism, how stupid people are when it comes to judging someone by their appearance, the mob, sex, sex and more sex and punk rock.  I mean the film just keeps going and going and it doesn't know when to stop or exactly what it wants to say. And Anthony Lapaglia is completely wasted in this film as a detective on the case.  And he looks like he has put on 50 pounds for this film.  I wonder if was intentional or not.I am one of those guys that pretty much sits on the fence when it comes to Mr. Lee.  I loved Malcolm X, thought Do The Right Thing was okay, thought He Got Game was pretty bad and I am in the same boat with this one.  This film is bad.  And I really think what it suffers from is it has no direction. There is a particular montage in the film that has so many images of what the characters are doing but as a member of the audience, you have no idea what the significance of those shots are.  And there are many times the film does that.  Especially with all the stuff about baseball.  It just wasnt't needed.  It is all window dressing.Perhaps if Summer of Sam would have concentrated more on one or two subjects instead of about ten or fifteen, it would have been better.  And I have heard the positive reviews of this film and I don't buy them.  They try to say that this was a film that examines a neighbourhood.  It examines how different people react to things.  And it looks at Italians and examines them.  Well I don't think that makes a film brilliant.  It makes it tedious and too long.  This easily could have been a 90 minute film, but at 135 it is just too long and rather boring.I don't recommend this film, it is a mess, but if you do see it, watch for the dog.  He is the best part of the film.  Just when you think you want to get up and leave, he comes on screen and does something that is right out of left field.  And at least that part is funny. "},{"Title":"SOS, indeed","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am writing this as a public service announcement to save you all seven dollars and two hours of your life ... please do all you can to AVOID this movie. This is a sadistic, ugly, vulgar, unpleasant film. At least the part I saw before walking out.I would not be surprised if you told me the script was written by 13-year-olds. I think the screenwriters were paid by the f-word, and given bonuses for each scene depicting an unnecessarily perverse sex act. Halfway through the film, bored by watching characters with the emotional depth of sock puppets, I began counting the appearances of the f-word. I was well past 200 before we left, and I started halfway through. I would not doubt the final tally is somewhere near one thousand. Now, I am no prude ... I suppose, as an aspiring writer, I was mostly disgusted that a script this mind-numbingly awful could be produced by a major studio. Millions of dollars were spent for this, Academy Award-winning actors spoke the words. Unbelievable.I am willing to put up with a lot of abuse from a movie if I feel it is reaching for some higher purpose. Happiness and The Sweet Hereafter are good examples of tough movies grappling with complex emotions. Summer of Sam is pure smut, and it's the worst kind of smut, because it thinks it's being ambitious. Example A bunch of low-life characters are standing at the end of a street smoking dope and saying F you a lot, and right in the middle of the shot is a gigantic street sign that says Dead End. Wow, how extraordinarily subtle! Such evasive symbolism! Whatever could that mean?There is another scene where two characters walk out of a punk rock concert, disgusted by what they saw, and one of them says, I feel like I could take 10 showers and still not get clean. I feel the same way about Summer of Sam. (Oh, by the way, the above quote is a paraphrase. If I were to type out the real line that was said in the movie, I would have to use the f-word 18 times.)The film makes the mistake of using a lot of songs which were also featured in P.T. Anderson's Boogie Nights, which made me realize what an exponentially better film that was.I suppose every great director is allowed one awful movie. Coppola made Dracula. Scorsese made The Age of Innocence. Spike Lee now has Summer of Sam, a movie he can apologize for in interviews for the next 20 years. "},{"Title":"The sound track was the best part of this film.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The two surrealistic sequences with The Who sound track were the only redeeming parts of the film. I am not a prude, but after the 200th 'F' word, I became embarrassed for the elderly couple sitting in front of me. This rich tapestry of characters, cityscapes, and circumstances turned into a cheap rug. I was very disappointed by what could have been with this film.  "},{"Title":"What a waste of 2 1/2 hours","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In typical Spike Lee fashion, the movie was meant only to shock and dismay. This movie has very little factual basis, as the characters were just that, characters.  Vinny did not see that Son of Sam, because there was no Vinny. To have scenes with orgies and gay porn have no place in a movie about a crazed serial killer.  I realize this movie was supposed represent 1977, but I think the extremes that were shown were, pardon the pun, overkill.There were too many subplots, and it made the movie impossible to follow. Why not just tell the story??  Who cares about the extraneous crap??? If you like brain candy, you'll like this movie.  If you have any intelligence whatsoever, see ANYTHING else!  "},{"Title":"stupid porno disguised to be something like scream","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was just a cheap porno with about 5 minutes about some random killer who had nothing to do with the characters followed... the trailers disguised it as something of another scream which is the only reason I went to see it ... but it is as far from that as possible "},{"Title":"God awful!!","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a terrible film. I saw this in a theater and will never forget when, in what supposed to be a moment of terror and psychosis, David Berkowitz begins to hear a dog speak to him. The audience howled with laughter! I wanted to walk out, but my friend didn't and he had the car keys. Avoid this unless you crave a really violent episode of Welcome Back, Kotter! The stereotyping is an insult to Italians, and only Spike Lee could inject racism into a story about the Son of Sam (his cameo as a reporter has black people yelling about what would happen if the murderer turns out to be black - gimme a break) This is without question one of the worst films I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"How can you hate Spike?","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although it doesn't come close to topping Lee's masterpiece, Do the Right Thing, Summer of Sam is among my favorite joints. Spike might try to pack too much into the film's frenetic 2.5 hours, but ambition is hardly a sin. I'd rather watch a film that aims for the moon only to fall short than watch a film that never takes any chances. John Leguizamo proves in this film that he is one of the top actors in Hollywood. It's a shame he doesn't get the recognition he deserves (I'll avoid going off on Hollywood's racism when it comes to Latino/Latina actors and actresses; all I'll point out is that, though there are some big name Latinos in Hollywood, they NEVER get the recognition of their Caucasian and black counterparts--I could argue a similar case for Asian actors and actresses). Mira Sorvino also proves that her Academy Award nomination for Mighty Aphrodite was not undeserved; she's excellent here and very touching. The supporting cast is also excellent, even Adrien Brody, whom I really don't like. There's also a compelling story here. In one sense, it's a very traditional Hollywood film--the hunt for a serial killer. However, Spike Lee made it, so it's not as simple as that. The director uses the Son of Sam killings as a springboard to examine the disintegration of Vinny and Dionna's marriage as well as the nasty side of human nature caused by paranoia. The end of the movie is positively brutal in its depiction of the paranoid mob mentality; it's as good an examination of that subject as the Ox Bow Incident or that old Twilight Zone episode. That this film has a killer soundtrack doesn't hurt either. It may be a little lighter fare than some other of Spike Lee's films, but it's also more successful (and more reserved) than a lot of his post-Crooklyn work. "}{"Title":"Rather Pointless","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm going to have to disagree with most of the other reviewers and say that this movie was GARBAGE! I didn't really get any enjoyment out of it, and everyone that watched it with me agreed that it was a bit of a waste of time. why all the cursing?? and why have so many sex scenes? if I wanted to watch that much sex on screen I'd go rent some porn. also, the whole NY Italian stereotype was ridiculous and annoying. I was expecting a little more time spent on Dave Berkowitz!??? I've seen most of Spike Lee's movies and some were good some were crap, and none of his films are great. I'd pretty much given up with Lee but i thought this time I'd give him another chance. this is the last time I'll watch anymore of his work. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone. "},{"Title":"Wow, a serial killer porno...what could I have wanted more? *gag*","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most pathetic movies I have ever seen. People went into the theater with the expectations of seeing a thriller, a chilling recount of one of the most terrifying years in the country's history. The gripping fear of a serial killer on the loose was not 'catchy' enough for the screenwriters. They had to throw in one tasteless sex scene after another. I was almost certain I must have wandered into the soft porn section accidentally. True, David Berkowitz did stalk couples who were parking. But did we really need to see orgy fests and back seat rendevous to understand that? On the upside, John Leguizamo performed his part with precision. I almost have to wonder if that is a good thing though, considering I left the theater more revolted by his character than the concept of a serial killer running rampant. Don't rent this with high expectations; if you're looking for a good thriller, go rent 'Copycat' again. "},{"Title":"A real test of your movie watching stamina","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is bad news and I'm really surprised at the level of big name talent who would ever agree to appear in such a piece of junk as this. I imagine there were a few strangled agents sprawled across Hollywood Blvd. as a result of this fiasco. What really gets you is that it could have been good. The directors star appeal and the subject matter was sufficient fodder to spark interest and ticket sales, but this is a flop. The multiple story lines all go from bad to silly by the pictures end, and you end up feeling like a mouse in a maze looking for a piece of cheese that turns out to be rotten. What Spike is able to achieve is revenge against any Italians who may have beat him up when he was a kid or insulted him, as the movie does quite a number on perpetuating outdated and probably offensive Italian stereotypes. As with any Spike Lee film there is some really thought provoking and magical camerawork. He does have the gift of grabbing your psyche and transporting you into his vision if only for a few memorable scenes. But the question remains...can you endure the other 2 hours of head scratching and clock watching as you wonder and wait for the ending that has to be there somewhere. "},{"Title":"Crap, crap, crap, crap","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I dont know what it is with Spike Lee but I'll admit, I didnt completely expect this film to be solely about the Summer of Sam murders but I expected that aspect of it to be slightly more a part of it than what it was.ok basically this film is crap.  Why?  Because it goes from scene to scene without allowing the viewers to make head or tail of what the hell is going on.  For instance, we have a lot of italian people in this film, and by chance, one of them enters the film speaking with an English accent.  Its absurdities like this, as well as the useless additions of elongated disco dancing scenes, along with the phrase 'Hey......What da hells da matter whicho?'  being said about fifty million frickin times throughout the film.I swear I was hoilding out for some great character development to occur with the Berkowitz character and, when it never happened, I was ready to go and have my own spree in my neighbourhood by the time this rolling piece of cinematic garbage finally finished "},{"Title":"Filthy","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you enjoy hearing the F word every other sentence, then THIS is the movie for you!  Sorry Spike, but not even New Yorkers cursed THIS much in the 1970's.  It's hard to believe that classy actors such as Leguizamo, Sorvino and Neuwirth agreed to appear in this trash.  A huge waste of my time. "},{"Title":"Rambling, scattered waste of time","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good actors and good performances can't mask a pointless script, bad dialogue, and patterns of behavior spiraling into nothing you'd care about. The most interesting character is David Berkowitz.  No character development - no growth, no interest, just some suffering for no particular reason, teaching us nothing and not even bothering to entertain. "},{"Title":"Let's give this Turkey a new name!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How about Vinny Does All the Bimbos  Does Spike Lee really dislike Italian-Americans as much as I suspect?  I could hardly wait for this turkey to end, as the stupidity and longevity of these characters was getting real, real thin.  The only likeable character was Ruby, which is only fitting as all the others seemed to dislike her so much. At least we were able to feel some pity for her, as her only friends were the losers that hung around that neighborhood.  I did not come away with a feeling for the loss that these people must have endured through the Summer of Sam, but alas, a feeling that these jerk-offs should even exist in the first place.  A big thumbs down! "},{"Title":"Regardless of what others say....","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is probably the worst film of the last 5 years.  There was no editorial control, scenes simply jumped to and fro.  Pathetic characterization, lack of concern for the obviously dysfunctional main cast (if this truly represents New York, then we're better off barracading them in and letting them rot), and the sexual connotations that had nothing to do what so ever with the main focus of the film (if there was a main focus, I surely couldn't find it) makes one wonder what Spike Lee was thinking when he was making this--what can only be called--a total and complete piece of excrement.Regardless of what other reviewers here may think, this film is worthless. And judging by the reaction of a majority of the audience here, it won't remain in the theaters long as this is the first film in over 10 years that I have seen people get up and leave complaining about how inane this film was. "},{"Title":"A MAJOR DISAPPOINTMENT  OVERLONG, DRAWN-OUT AND LOUSY!","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A few days before seeing Summer Of Sam, I watched Spike Lee's masterpiece, Do The Right Thing, and I thought it was a wonderful film that depicted the lives of residence in a particular neighborhood in New York City. When I saw the trailer for Summer Of Sam, I was so excited to see it. It looked like it was going to be a fabulous, poignant, and remarkable classic like Do The Right Thing. The trailer was a tease! The movie was a let-down! I walked into a 4 P.M. showing of Summer Of Sam on a sunday afternoon expecting another masterpiece by Spike Lee and what I got was something very very far from a masterpiece.....a travesty! A lousy movie that dragged on for 2 and 1/2 hours that had un-necessary characters, particularly Ben Gazzara's role as a mafia godfather who makes a strong opening but has no follow-through. His character is unexplained is barely seen during the rest of the film. The lame subplots were topped off with a horrible conclusion. I understand that Spike Lee did not want to focus mainly on the Son Of Sam killings, but rather on how an entire neighborhood was torn apart and effected by the killings. He had the right idea and could have done wonders with this movie, only he blew it BIGTIME! I never look at my watch when I go into a movie, but while I was watching Summer Of Sam, I looked at my watch a total of 6 times. 4 people walked out of the theatre 45 minutes before it was over. I stayed, thinking that it would get better and build up to a strong climax, similar to the climax in Do The Right Thing. The movie did build up to a climax, but a very weak and foolish one with a lot of un-answered questions. When someone makes a movie based on a true-story, it's not good to conclude the film with un-answered questions because it's not fiction where you use your imagination. You give as many facts as possible to make the film either more entertaining or informative and Spike Lee expects us to use our imaginations for factual incidents. The film is a disappointment! I give the film 1 star out of 4 only because of the attention-grabbing beginning and a few scenes that get you built up for excitement but let you down totally. And was the trips to Studio 54, Plato's Retreat, The Diner, The Discotheque, and CBGB's really necessary??? No, because they didn't evolve into anything. They were all boring. Better luck next time Spike. "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What was Spike Lee thinking?  He's always been over the top, but he kept his movies in control.  Not this one.  It's WAY too long (2 1/2 hours); full of profanity (100+ uses of the f word); contains a bunch of characters you couldn't care less about and has tons of needless sex scenes (a woman in front of me groaned Another one? at one point). People walked out of the theater (I almost joined them).  Also the movie makes you feel dirty!  After 2 hours + of violence, needless sex and horrible characters, I felt like I needed a bath.  It has two good points--The Who's Baba O'Reilly played full blast over scenes of the characters and all the acting was good (even Sorvino, who I usually dislike).  Still, it's a sick, twisted film with a very bleak, ugly view. See it at your own risk.  If you want to see a good Spike Lee film, rent Jungle Fever or Malcolm X.  Those show what a good director he can be. "}{"Title":"This is the Howard the Duck of Spike Lee's career","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I kept waiting for Berkowitz to say Have you seen my baseball? Boy is this a bad movie. Direction was awful! Continuity was non-existent. 90's clothes, attitudes, piercings, technology (Intellilights in the Discos) in a shameful knockoff of Goodfellas. This should have been a wonderful movie. All I can remember is the dog talking ala Taco Bell. Sheesh. Ben Gazzara, what the hell was your character's point? Mira Sorvino, good acting can't make up for bad direction - you got your career hosed in this one, honey. "},{"Title":"Remember those Nike commercials?  At least those were short!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee's latest film, simply put, is painfully long.  I couldn't help but notice that those who didn't walk out on the film, kept expecting it to end. And when it didn't end, I heard a collective sigh of boredom.  Obviously the length isn't the entire reason why this movie was hardly anything to crow about.The story telling was all over the place.  Lee repeatedly tried to develop certain characters, but then it seemed that he (or the writers) simply forgot about these characters.  There was no one in the film that you cared about.  Were we supposed to feel sorry (or anything for that matter) for Vinnie?  I certainly didn't.  The scenes that were supposed to be powerfully dramatic seemed to just tack on minutes to this painfully long movie.I couldn't help but feel Lee was aiming for the same effect that the ground breaking film, Boogie Nights accomplished.  In a way, they were both period pieces.  Both told the story of separate characters brought together into one group, and showed their demise.  However, Lee's film left characters undeveloped and tried to make up for it with one confusing and seemingly pointless montage.All in all, Spike Lee should make some more documentaries.  I really enjoyed 4 Little Girls.  Summer of Sam is most definitely on my list of films to forget. "},{"Title":"Summer of Sham","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An overacted, overdirected, overripe slice of ludicrous urban hysteria, Spike Lee's new film, his most bloatedly self-important and inhumanely void movie to date, is ostensibly about the melting pot fury of New Yawk life boiling over during the summer of 1977 (Spike tries to fit it all in Studio 54, CBGB's, Plato's Retreat, race wars, neighborhood insularity, heatwaves, the Yankees, a talking dog right out of a beer commerical, etc.) when the serial killer Son of Sam was terrorizing the streets.  However, the film is really about Spike's need to mercilessly provoke, even when the source material doesn't match his ambitions.  When given a strong script and a clear purpose, Spike Lee's films can be gripping (e.g., Do the Right Thing, Clockers), but Spike is all over the map here, blindly shooting at every urban stereotype imaginable.  This is auteurism without vision, a misguided attempt at overstylized intensity every bit as frustrating and miserable in its scattershot hugeness as past notorious focusless pet project disasters (e.g., 1941).  As a filmmaker, Spike Lee has truly lost his way. "},{"Title":"Three words I WALKED OUT","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, it's true... I walked out.I have sat through some of the worst movies of all time, but this one actually bored me enough to get up, get out and demand my money back from the box-office.As the television previews and trailers would suggest, I was expecting a horror or thriller about the murders of David Berkowitz.  Hardly!! Instead, I get a movie about a guy named Vinny who cant keep his pants on long enough to prove his apparent love for his wife.  He sleeps around on his wife, and finds himself trying to deal with his own inadequacies and trying to prove it to her.This story could have existed in any time or place, and the mere coincidence that this all happens to take place during the summer of Berkowitz's murderous spree, is hardly fitting to focus the title and teasers on it.We see about six people die needlessly at the hands of Berkowitz, but we hardly see them investigated.  The one time we do, it's only because Vinny happens to have come close to being the victim himself. And when we DO hear or see someone talk about the unknown killer, or trying to catch him, it seems so out of place, that I forgot that this is what the movie was supposed to be about.I gave this 2-hour and 22-minute lag an honest effort... I sat through two thirds of it before I felt utterly cheated out of the admission price, and went back out to the box office and demanded my money back.Sorry Spike, but Summer of Sam sucked.I gave this movie a 1 out of 10.-ZimanPS Could someone please tell the Berkowitz story??  "},{"Title":"Good capture of 1977 NYC but boring","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I purchased this film because the title interested me, having lived in NYC during the time that David Berkowitz reigned terror, but I was highly disappointed while watching this mess. I do understand that the film depicted the lives of ordinary people affected by the Son of Sam murders in 1977, and the impact that the killings had on NY residents, but I was expecting it to contain more about the investigation and search for Berkowitz in itself. The film did capture the essence of 1977 NYC, the music, Plato's Retreat, Studio 54 as well, except for the hard punk presence at CBGB's or anywhere else in NY at the time. Other than that, it was boring and slow-moving. "},{"Title":"A solid movie, but needs more direction","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While this wasn't Spike Lee's best film,  it was certainly his most unusual. Instead  of depicting the life of the common black  man, he decided to focus on the travails  of one hot summer in Brooklyn. All of the  lifestyles the people lived mixed and matched  nicely, and the performances were rather  believable. I was rather surprised Spike  Lee's signature was under the directorial  credit in this film, considering the only black  man in the film was Reggie Jackson. But  then again, he proved he could depict the  lives of other cultures as well as he could  his own. Not perfect by any respect, but an  interesting tale about paranoia. "},{"Title":"I have never seen so many people walk out on a movie....and I wish I would have left earlier.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not only was the acting laughable, but Spike stuck himself in the film as an inexperienced reporter.  Maybe he should have played the part of an inexperienced film maker because that is the impression I had of his work on this movie.  I just wish I would have walked out sooner.  I had such high hopes from the trailer.   It's too bad... "},{"Title":"A big disappointment","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having grown up in Queens, NY and being an Italian male who was single and dating in 1977, I was really looking forward to seeing this film because I could have been one of the guys being depicted.  You might say I was in Son of Sam's target demographic.To say I was grossly disappointed would be an understatement.  First, this film was deftly misrepresented as a story about the 44 Caliber Killer, when in fact it was really a slice of New York life in 1977.  The killings served as a more of a psychological backdrop to the story than the story itself.  In fact, the Berkowitz gets little more treatment here than the New York Yankees.After I resigned myself to the fact that this was really a story about the lives of half a dozen New Yorkers in the seventies, I tried to enjoy it as a period piece.  The trouble is, it was not a good period piece.  This was more of a caricature of New York in the seventies than a realistic portrayal.  Spike Lee, who is usually known for his stark realism has produced a lampoon of the era, (probably without intending to).As a period piece it was hit and miss.  The wardrobe and hairstyles were all wrong for that period.  Bell bottoms were still a mainstream style back then. Despite the burgeoning of the disco generation, hard rockers were the majority and were not in evidence in the film.  Punk was very fringe yet it was treated as if it were mainstream.  Hair was styled and much longer.  You seldom saw anyone's ears.  The majority of men in New York, particularly Italians, had moustaches.  I didn't see one white male with facial hair in the whole movie.  Generally, the look in the film was more of New York in the late 80's.On the plus side, the vernacular was fairly true to form.  Most of the New York accents were well done, although there were not enough of yeah right and fugetaboutit which was really quite prevalent back then.  We also didn't hear much of New York's trademark sarcasm.  They did use a few words only used in New York like `schkieve' (to make one's skin crawl, usually with disgust) and `skank' (an ugly woman) which you normally don't hear in movies.  It was really true that for a while, the restaurant and night club business was in the tank in New York.  Those types of businesses on Long Island saw a surge as a lot of New Yorkers would go to the Island for entertainment, since Berkowitz was a city killer.  This allusion was never made in the film.The story itself meandered and seemed content to portray New York life, without really having much point.  There were a few good scenes, such as the one where Vinny (John Leguizamo) was begging Dionna (Mira Sorvino) not to leave him as she was packing, but most of the writing was hack and overly stereotyped.  At two and a half hours, it was far too long.John Leguizamo gave a strong performance, though he looked more Puerto Rican than Italian.  Michael Rispoli plays the New York Italian perfectly (I don't think he has to do much acting) and his was one of the best performances in the film.  Mira Sorvino was terrific as Vinny's wife.  She was just exactly the right mix of insecure good girl trying not to be so good, and the fuming betrayed wife.  Though her accent wasn't the best, her behavior and mannerisms were very New York middle class.As for Spike Lee, this was probably the most mediocre film I've seen by him.  He toned down his creative use of the camera and he wasn't attentive to realistic details that usually mark his films.I rated this film a 4/10.  It was a poor masquerade for a New York story.  "},{"Title":"I decided to...","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...walk out after 40 minutes. The film is garbage. Utter garbage. Worst film I've ever seen.Bad script, bad handling of subject, odd look at 1977 (I was 14 at the time and don't necessarily remember all these stereotypical Italians being drug-addicted sex perverts hanging around the neighborhoods), dull romance sub-plots, painful-to-watch scenes between main characters (like an awful soap opera), cheap looking effects. And another thing the disco people NEVER drove pre-1970 Camaros. The car of choice for the disco crowd was the '76 Monte Carlo or Pontiac Grand Am.What was the point of the film? To show the sexual deviance of working-class Italians in the upper Bronx?The film is excrement. "},{"Title":"Just more amateurish BS from  Lee","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spiteful Lee exploits the Son of Sam murder spree as an excuse to,once again, make another typically tenth-rate,self-indulgent,horribly photographed ,horribly edited,and grossly inaccurate movie whose main purpose is to do nothing but be racist against White People,especially,Italians.It's mainly only for Blacks of his leftist ilk,to enjoy seeing Whites or other non-BlacksA)getting murdered by Sam/Berkowitz,and B)seeing White women getting it on with Black men, to deliberately rub it in the faces of the White males watching,to use the old,Black racist propaganda about White women lusting after Black men.Yes,Spite,blacks can also be racist (No matter what the old,worn out,1960s Marxist,PC-mindset says),and you prove it everyday.To paraphrase the one UK reviewerCritics,get your heads out of Spite Lee's rear end. "}{"Title":"Grade A-","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The climate is fear, pure and simple. Fear so heavy you breathe it in. There's a menacing entity killing nearly at random, and no one knows where, when, or who it'll strike next. The authorities are working hard to bring the danger to an end, but they're seemingly blocked at every turn. As the tension mounts, everything the people of this place don't like or understand becomes suspect. Social conventions break down. Hysteria seeps into the hearts of these people, a good, hardworking, blue collar people. And it drives them mad.The story I've just told is essentially the story told in Summer of Sam, which I believe is Spike Lee's best film. The story takes place in the summer of 1977 in New York City, but social mores being what they are today, it could easily take place in any town in America today, right now. Replace the Son of Sam with a terrorist threat, and the situation becomes strikingly similar.The vigilantes who beat Richie at the end of the film are beating him because he works at a gay strip club, not because they think he's the Son of Sam. They don't like his hair or his music or his friends or his attitude, but in the end the straw that breaks the camel's back is his sexuality. As the country struggles with a potential Constitutional gay marriage ban, we need to think about where our anger toward homosexuality is really coming from. Is it coming from a sense of morality, or is it coming from a sense of fear?That's enough political mumbojumbo though. This is a stunning film, and don't let anyone tell you different. I noticed Adrien Brody in this flick long before anyone saw The Pianist, and I said then that he was going to be a star someday. He should have gotten an Oscar nomination for his work here, as should have John Leguizamo and Mira Sorvino, Leguizamo especially. He shows range I haven't seen from him since. The script plays like an Arthur Miller stage production. Tormented protagonist, fighting battles with his own soul that he should learn to let go of. A climactic moral test of wills. Society turning on an individual out of fear and anger.So props to Spike Lee, who may never be this good again. Malcolm X and The 25th Hour are also both really wonderful films, but for me, this one takes the cake. If you haven't seen it already, do so. A lot of people don't like it, but like Adrien Brody says in the film, you've gotta think for yourself. "},{"Title":"This was like getting a rectal exam by Shaquille O'Neal","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" For the love of God. If I ever happen to meet Spike Lee I will thank him for making the worst movie in cinematic history. Then I will punt him like a used football. He should have his SAG card revoked and should never be allowed to make another movie and forced to move to North Korea. The Italian stereotypes were pasted on so hard that I didn't know if I was watching Summer of Sam or Living Colour with the Wayans brothers. Yes, I guess all Italians speak like 3rd graders and use the F bomb for every adjective in their vocabulary. Next was the mindless use of these Italian wonderkinds as sexual animals who fornicate every minute of the day. Adrian Brody and John Leguizamo's performances were horrid. I have seen better acting in my wife's 4 year old pre-school class. If the movie studio wanted to throw away 22 million they should have just given it away to some charity .... Not make the worst movie is history and have the mindless birdshits post a review like it was actually worth watching. I would rather have a burning hot piece of iron thrust into my urethra by Randy Johnson then to ever watch this smoking hot mound of horse manure........ I would comment on the plot if there was any semblance of one. If you really dislike someone please tell them to watch this ..... Spike Lee you should rot in hell for this ....... Thank You !!! "},{"Title":"Boring and vile.","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film says little about David Berkowitz, other than to repeat as the truth his lies about the supposed insanity that drove him to kill. In reality he was in full control of his faculties, and just got a sexual thrill out of his crimes. Instead, the film tells us uninteresting stories about various repulsive characters about whom we care nothing. The movie meanders boringly for over two hours, with not enough material for even forty minutes. It is hard to imagine how this film got made who was it aimed at? Who could possibly enjoy it? If Berkowitz had turned up and shot some of the main characters early in the film it would have been a relief! "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie a lot. Despite it's bizarre plot, racist Italian stereotypes and laughable representation of the 70's punk culture, I found it quite entertaining and enjoyable.Spike Lee does a good job creating an atmospheric film through music, news clips and cultural references that really bring you back to the world of 1970's New York. The acting is decent, despite the cliché Italian stereotypes, and John Leguizamo was a lot of fun to watch. Michael Badalucco as well made a good Son of Sam and the creepy, green tinged sequences featuring his descent into madness were my highlights of the film.I think this is one of the better serial killer films. It has a lot of flaws, of course, mainly the plot line and the length, but I like it because it doesn't take itself too seriously. If it had, this movie would have been a disaster but instead it's a fun, entertaining ride through serial murder town and definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Lots of ingredients on this pizza","Date":"23 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Summer of Sam is the cinematic equivalent of the kitchen-sink pizzas that came sometimes be found on the menu of your neighborhood pizzeria - every topping they have piled high with handfuls of cheese layered on for good measure, with the whole pie weighing 5, 8 or even 10 pounds. Spike Lee grabs cinematic scenery by the handful and drops it on this film, but as with pizza, it's quite hard to have the end product be pleasant to digest when you've put everything you can think of into it.Summer of Sam has a famous serial killer David Berkowitz (the Son of Sam) whose killing spree terrorized a city and became a permanent fixture in our cultural memory of the 1970s. Largely nostalgic in nature, the movie has basically everything else that was well-known about New York back then - disco at Studio 54, punks at CGBG's, the mafia in their dingy hangout in an outer borough, swingers at Plato's Retreat, the Yankees in the World Series. It has a romantic story, a crime story, a neighborhood friends story, it has disco, it has rock, and if that weren't enough it has a goofy classical score that pops up occasionally. It has riots, it has beatings, it has heroin use, it has so much stuff! So, does this pizza actually taste any good or is it just a nasty pile of carelessly chosen ingredients? I've seen the film twice now - once when it came out and again yesterday. I don't think anyone's going to call this a masterpiece, it's hokey in many parts, downright unbelievable in others, but its core story of a group of Italian-Americans driven a bit nuts by the Son of Sam media firestorm and beginning to point fingers at each-other, is pretty interesting. The romantic subplot is tired and not compelling and the 1970s NYC nostalgia parade works just about as well as any directer could be expected to make it.There's no real reason not to watch this movie if you have time. It's fun, if silly, and does, I think, capture the mood of times, if nothing else. "},{"Title":"Mishandled look at the lurid","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The premise had potential a look at life in a neighborhood paralyzed with fear during Son of Sam's reign of terror during the summer of 1977. Unfortunately, director Spike Lee's vision of the film takes from Michael Bay at his worst, and by the time we are allowed a way into the story, it turns out to be pretty generic.The story revolves around a neighborhood in the Bronx, lived in by many characters, including the philandering husband Vinnie (John Leguizamo), his oblivious wife, Dionna (Mira Sorvino), Vinnie's punk rocker friend, Richie (Adrien Brody), and Richie's girlfriend, Ruby (Jennifer Espisito). Also in the neighborhood are a couple of drug-dealing meatheads, led by Joey T (Michael Rispoli), who after losing faith in the cops (Anthony LaPaglia and Roger Guenveur Smith), decide to try to catch the Son of Sam themselves. There's also the local mob boss, Luigi (Ben Gazzara), who is also trying to catch the killer.The performances are okay, but they're more or less useless because of the distracting way that Spike Lee films the material. Camera tricks, vignettes, different film stocks, and other gimmicks are in full use. Lee is obviously trying to produce atmosphere with this, but it backfires. The story really only heats up in the second half when he starts paying attention to the story. But unfortunately, the characters aren't interesting enough or developed enough to make it worthwhile.That's a shame, because the film contains some great performances. John Leguizamo, known for his animated comedy, gives a terrific performance as Vinnie. He's a cheating husband, and knows its wrong, but he can't resist women. Adrien Brody is also good as Richie, who surprises (and frightens) everyone in the neighborhood by his new style. Unfortunately, no one else, not even Dionna and Ruby, have much to do. They're good performances, but Lee's excessive gimmicks take up too much time.Lee, known for his racially motivated films, has made a departure here. Although race and discrimination in general have a subtext, this is more story-oriented. Unfortunately, the story is boring when we realize what it is, and Michael Bay is not the guy to imitate when making a film like this. There are moments of effectiveness, such as when the news reels describe the lengths people go to protect themselves from the elusive killer, and the story finally gets going in the second half. However, Lee clearly has guts this is a very lurid film, filled with graphic sex (the film had to have two minutes cut to avoid an NC-17, and this is one of the only movies where the sex is graphic enough to warrant such a rating) and violence, and the profanity is more or less non-stop. This is one film where an NC-17 rating was actually warranted.Unfortunately, it's just not really worth it. The film has a fascinating and original premise, but Lee ignores it to play it safe with a story that's pretty dull. "},{"Title":"Greastest serial killer movie ever made","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Spike Lee made a great serial killer movie based on a real serial killer. Summer of Sam is masterful. It's easy to see why Spike Lee is brilliant. He was able to take a retro story that many people know about and make it interesting. Many hack low rent studios like Barnholtz or York have tried to feed on making serial killer movies based on real killers. They fail every time. Summer of Sam weaved together what was happening with average citizens in and around where Son of Sam was killing people. The cast was equally as brilliant as Spike Lee. Story had me hooked. Not from Son of Sam perspective. It was how people in this neighborhood related to each other. The ending was perfect. Spike Lee you are my hero. "},{"Title":"Too lacking in any content to be a psychological study and not interesting enough to be a good love story.","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a scene in Spike Lee's Summer of Sam or in fact two scenes linked together to form some sort of contrasting views that characters in the film have that perfectly sums the film up. The five minute sequence in question is about half way through this 142 minute fest of sex and random murders and it plays out like this the killer is hanging around outside Vinny's (Leguizamo) and Dionna's (Sorvino) apartment having watched Dionna get home; a few hours pass and Vinny wakes up completely paranoid after a bad dream; he proceeds to run to the window and hurl abuse at the killer; the son of Sam himself &#150; announcing he wants a showdown of some sort. This prompts Dionna to wake up and question what he is doing - but what follows is a sex scene once Vinny has calmed down, played out in one take.This sequence of events sums the film up perfectly as a film that is more interested in showing sex between two characters at the most inconvenient of times whilst completely ignoring its roots of what the film is actually about. Check the title of the film 'Summer of Sam' which is a direct reference to the serial killer that stalked New York City in the summer of 1977, the events that this film revolves around. However, instead of getting an in-depth, psychologically engaging film about this killer, we spend most of the time being told what's what in a love triangle between three pathetic Italian-American characters who all mope around, get a little angry now and again, have affairs, go dancing and generally have a good time. I suppose I was expecting Summer of Sam to be a little like Taxi Driver, American Psycho or Zodiac; instead it plays out like Mexican film 'And Your Mother Too', another pathetic love-triangle film about utterly despicable people; and with splashes of any weak serial killer film you can think of thrown in for good measure.As a film about serial killers, Summer of Sam fails. Despite its title which perhaps should have been called 'Summer DURING Sam', the film never pauses to give us any indication who or what this serial killer is; why he is doing what he's doing and how he goes about it. The film is so lacking in this department that I believe it actually invites us to laugh at the serial killer, played with a lot of energy but at the same time a lot of eccentricity by Michael Badalucco. During the time the film spends on Sam, it becomes evident that he has something against a neighbourhood dog that keeps barking at him but by the time the scene in which it tells him to continue killing, I think director Lee is playing it for laughs. Equally so, when the killer attacks his victims the scenes are incidental and uninspired; the killer using a common revolver and shooting at young couples through the glass as they express their love, ever threatening to become sexually active and thus; seal their filmic fate.But Sam in real life was obviously no Michael Myers; he could not go from car to car or house to house or whatever picking off those who had sex whilst sparing the lives of those who didn't. The sad thing is; in the film that is the impression you get. If someone was to watch this film, with no prior knowledge of Sam the killer nor of the 'sexually active' rule that horror films carry, they could be forgiven for mistaking Summer of Sam as an actual Halloween sequel. This is where the scene mentioned in the first paragraph re-enters the fray the emphasis in this film focuses more on the reaction to the killer and his strikes more so than the killer himself; the attention to sex and love in the film is also greater than the attention to the killer and his psychological predicament; like I said, Sam is given a few scenes as we witness his apparent descent into madness but it comes across more as if it's being played for laughs the scene in which he writes on the wall 'My name is Mr. Williams and this is where I live' being the best example.So for the best part of the film's long runtime, Summer of Sam is more of a love story between a handful of people you struggle to really care for. The killer's motivation to harm young lovers may be through his own sexually repressed memories and lack of a partner but we have to figure that much out for ourselves since Lee gives us nothing to work with. When Summer of Sam doesn't feel like a serial killer film (which is pretty damn often), it feels like a period romance with helpings of drama as Italian-Americans bicker and argue over what they're going to do, where they're going to go, how they'll catch Sam or.......who'll get the biggest slice of pizza.It's a shame when a film has the name of a serial killer in its title (be it fictional or non-fictional) and fails because it means the film as a 100 minute plus piece of moving image medium has not covered the necessary grounds of psychological study; it has not wowed us with an intelligent narrative as we either see how a law enforcer will stop them (Se7en, The Silence of the Lambs) or how the killer becomes more and more involved in his life and murders (Psycho, American Psycho, Red Dragon, Taxi Driver). Summer of Sam should not be viewed as a film about a serial killer but more of a dopey love triangle between people you couldn't care less about; a period drama revolving around discos or a film in which Spike Lee displays his apparent eagerness to waste our time. "},{"Title":"loved it!!","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw the press for summer of Sam back in 99 and i finally got around to renting the film in 2000(it had a very very very limited release here in queens land Australia at the cinemas) i was glad i did iv been a spike lee fan ever since my friend rented Do The Right Thing from my local video store in 96'and iv never looked back,since then iv rented every one of his movies and loved them-i think the real motivator for a spike lee fan is that his movies ant as embraced as other filmmakers and thus declaring them hidden gems in the video store-even if you don't like him or his movies you cannot deny his raw talent,however Miss directed,this film i thought needed a second viewing to really sink in,it was everything i thought it would be.I thought the execution while flawed at times was still amazingly powerful-his montages and the paranoia he presented of the lazy days back in the 70's New York was wonderful-while this film is far far from perfect it is definitely worth a viewing-my mind is made up-thats what I'm sticking with-The Summer Of 1999 was a good summer @ Spikes! "},{"Title":"From the gutter of New York City...","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The year 1999 was really a great year for movies; The Blair Witch Project shook us to death, American History X taught us about racism and his existence in the world... and year 1999 was also great because of the movie called Summer of Sam, an underrated masterpiece from Spike Lee, also known by directing an ambitious movie Malcom X and mysterious puzzle crime drama Clockers.The movie is based on true events; it's talking about a killing spree of David Berkowitz a.k.a Son of Sam, who killed six and wounded seven other people in New York during the summers of 1976 and 1977. When police arrest him, Berkowitz claimed, that the neighbor's dog Sam command him to kill those people. The movie is focusing on some people from Bronx, who are trying to living their lives, when everyone in the city are panicking because of the mysterious killer on the loose.The movie is basically a crime drama, but it's even more than that. Lee is focusing on three main characters; the ruined marriage between Vincent (John Leguizamo) and Dionna (Mira Sorvino) and a secret life of Vincents friend Ritchie (Adrien Brody), who is returned from England and become a member of the punk movement. After some events, the locals begin to turn their suspicions on Ritchie. But they don't have any real reason; his strange behavior simply gets their attention. The movie is not a typical serial - killer movie. It deals with a lot of problems of the society; broken marriages, sex revolution, danger of using drugs, the incoming HIV disease, judging people, just because they're different... And a lot of these themes would make a movie a huge mess. Not in this case... Lee is really great in mixing so much material together in simple story about people, who can't find happiness in the chaos of America.All three main actors done a fantastic job, especially Mira Sorvino as sweet Dionna, who is trying to solve her marriage and his cheating husband, played by Leguizamo. At first, I didn't like Brody as a guy, who listens to punk music and tries to be rebel, but I got used to it. I also liked Spike Lee in small role of neurotic journalist, reporting about the chaos in the city.The music in the movie is great, even through there's not a lot of rock or punk music (just some songs of the band The Who), just disco and pop music. Lee can really put the right music in the right scene; for example; in the scene when Son of Sam strikes the first time, we're listening ABBA's song Fernando in the back. That's really stylish and superb. In the fighting scene between Dionna and Vincent there's a ABBA's song Dancin Queen in the back. Also a great use of music.Overall; the movie is great. It's one of the best movies about serial killers ever made. I really like Spike Lee and this movie is his real triumph. Too bad that a lot of people don't understand that. Really an underrated masterpiece of love, passion, sex and murder. "}{"Title":"Evil spelled backwards is live!","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a slut? You're calling me a slut? You lowlife piece of sh*t- you f*cked- my- cousin! You didn't think I knew about that! I smelled her pu**y juice all over your f*ckin' face! You f*ckin' sick bastard! How dare you? And all this time I'm thinking there's something wrong with me. You perverted sick f*ck! Yes, working-class New Yorkers talk like that, and if you like movies about New York, you will love Sunmmer of Sam and it's look at Italian-Americans in the Bronx in the Summer of '77.If you like movies that focus on the characters, rather than the events, then this is a must-see movie, as the reaction of these people to the events of that summer - the soaring heat and a crazy killer who gets his messages from a dog -- is priceless.Forget the killer in the title. He is only a backdrop to the story and is no more important that the heat. What this film is really about is the reaction of these people to a Summer of fear.I love John Leguizamo (Sueño , Land of the Dead, Colatteral Damage) and in all the movies I have watched with him, this is his best performance. He is friends with Adrian Brody (Sueño , The Pianist, King Kong), who is, shall we say, a little strange as a punk guitarist who makes gay porn on the side. Friendship give way to peer pressure after he wife (Mira Sorvino) leaves him, and he turns on his friend as a suspect. It really shows how being different automatically makes you feared.The film has a lot a native New Yorkers and some of my favorites, so it really is watchable. In fact, I'll give Spike Lee's treasure another turn to see what I missed.Look for Jennifer Esposito, Michael Rispoli, Bebe Neuwirth, Anthony LaPaglia, and Ben Gazzara in this great cast. "},{"Title":"Excellent use of music","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I only just watched this movie and the music really stood out to me. I notice those sorts of things and in some instances that will trump a bad plot or wonky acting in my book. It's not just that it had a great soundtrack. There are plenty of films like that. But I thought the music in this film was perfectly placed.I had attempted to watch this movie previously but for some reason I got distracted and never got back to it. So when I caught it on TV tonight, trying to avoid watching the Presidential Address, I was surprised at how good it was. I mean Spike Lee has his moments. I thought 25th hour was absolutely great and Clockers I really enjoyed as well. But with Summer of Sam, I'm pretty sure I had heard that it wasn't so good or wasn't up to par with his other films, but I thought it was one of his best. I thought the cast was excellent. I thought it was very realistic avoiding some of the caricatures that you can get in a movie like this. I was about 4 years old when the events of this story took place so I don't remember it, except for what I've seen on serial killer TV specials and I know that '77 was the year we lost Elvis and got Star Wars, so that was the extent of my knowledge. I liked the way the film focused on the effect that the combination of circumstances, a killer on the loose, a heatwave, xenophobia, etc., had in this specific community. Toward the end when some of the locals think they have found the Son of Sam and act on that assumption, it very much reminded me of the Twilight Zone episode The Monsters are Due on Maple Street.As I stated previously I thought the cast was great. John Leguizamo isn't one of my favorite actors but I have to admit that I haven't seen a bad performance from the guy. He was great here as was Adrien Brody, who I'm not really that fond of either. And I really don't like Mira Sorvino, so the fact that I was impressed by her here as well, including her dancing, makes me happy that no one hired me to cast this movie.This movie is definitely underrated. And you can barely tell it's a Spike Lee movie. The telltale is always that stupid floating thing that one character does every movie. Why does he have to do that? I hate that. But even still this movie definitely deserves a watch when you can give it your undivided attention. "},{"Title":"Take a walk on the wild side","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie wasn't made to please, actually, it was made to shock. That was the whole point. Throughout history, we've had many examples of art that is made to shock. And it is, you like it or not, very important. By showing things that we think is repulsive and shocking, it generates conflict. Inside conflict. The conflict with ourselves. This art, when shown, causes a lot of polemic and those who can't stand the conflict quickly declare that the movie, or play, or sculpture was very, very bad. Is not easy to create art with this purpose, and it's even harder to create a movie with this purpose 'cause certainly it won't be a blockbuster. Spike is not afraid of conflicts, and he has proved that he can stand conflicts with himself and with the society. The question isCan you? "},{"Title":"Why you should never see this movie.","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If the director wasn't so camera crazy, maybe this movie would have been good. There was an interesting idea to it, and the story had so much behind it, but the outcome was terrible. The amount of unneeded garbage just brought the movie down completely. I wound up fast forwarding through half of it, and realizing that in the end, none of that stuff mattered anyway. Maybe if the family they based it on was real, or went into more about the killer himself it would have made for a better film. I learned from and found the stuff online more interesting than the movie. Waste of my money, and time.It seems like a great plot, and great story but knowing about their Italian life, and the parents having sex didn't interest me. The 10 minute dance sequence was also very unneeded. "},{"Title":"Nonsense......","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are many questions that everybody will have after watching this movie. The first one will be  why an Italian neighborhood? OK, you can have one, but with Italian actors, or at least Italian looking actors. But here we have with Leguizamo a Latino and with Adrien Brody the Overjew. Who gonna believe they are Italian? Why does this story play in the seventies? Nothing special that has no room nowadays, but the production costs have sure gone up. Oh, i haven't mention the story yet, but surprise there ain't one!!!! A murderer commits his crimes,point. And it's not as this has the most space in the movie. No, there are plenty of side stories, that no one needs. Like Adrien Brody the Italian punk, who does sexual favors to old men for money, but has nonetheless interest in women..... WASTE OF TIME "},{"Title":"Another great film by a great director !!","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a fantastic film. From the excellent cast, the groovy soundtrack, and the cool NYC vibe, this film is right on target. Adrien Brody shines as the anti hero. John Leguizamo is grand in his role of burnt out stud boy, even Bebe Nuerwith is great as his lust object. There are so many things to be said about this great film. The shots of Ritchie's band at CBGB's are so real and cool. And of course the disco scenes...it reflects how these neighborhood pals are very close yet very different. And it's all pulled off without a hitch. See this movie and enjoy it many times over. It's hard to take your eyes off the screen. There are just too many great characters to be ignored. "},{"Title":"Bollocks","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are essentially two things wrong with Summer Of Sam - 1. He obviously knows nothing about the English punk rock scene in 1977 (and it always amazes me that good directors can get such fundamental information wrong through ignorance, or not implying an adviser with some knowledge of the subject) because if he did then he'd know that there were NO English punks wearing Mohawks in 1977, especially not the big gelled-up rooster style favored by Richie who's supposedly just returned to New York from London. Joe Strummer from The Clash started wearing a Mohawk in about 1979 but his was inspired by Travis Bickle from Taxi Driver and Richie's style of Mohawk didn't come into fashion until the second wave of punk hit in around 1980 with bands like The Exploited, etc. Also, The Who were definitely one of the bands that inspired seventies punk but it was the visceral, anarchic, guitar-trashing pop mayhem of the early Who that we were listening to (yeah, I was one of those 13-year old punks in 1977) and not the bombastic, overblown stadium rock of 'Baba O'Riley' which Richie adopts as his mantra, and which effectively becomes the film's theme song. These may seem like small things but any good director knows that the devil is in the details... 2. All of the Italian-American characters in the film are such a pack of god-damned morons that it's hard to appreciate why we would want to bother putting up with them for more than about 5 minutes, in fact I started wishing that it was THEM that Son Of Sam was hunting with his Magnum .44, just to get them to shut the hell up. It's a pity that Spike Lee didn't tell the story of the people of Brooklyn experiencing the terror of a serial killer stalking the streets through the eyes of a black community, because I'm sure the people in the film would have been a lot more sympathetic. I think he should have invested a lot more time and effort in telling the story of David Berkowitz (Son Of Sam) and made the squabbling pack of idiots that are the main characters just a peripheral bunch of extras. "},{"Title":"This film was tedious","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a waste of time this film was. Its director, Spike Lee, seems to have an obsession with Italian American people. This is probably the third film that he's made dealing with them. Um, is somebody infatuated? Spike's direction is okay, but his acting is lousy (he should have done a walk-on like Alfred Hitchcock used to do)! With the proper make-up on, the actor John Leguizamo (who plays Vinny in the film) does manage to look like an Italian American. Kudos to his make-up artist. The film became painfully boring, especially during its final quarter, because it was overlong and didn't stick to one theme. In fact, it had little to do with Sam and seemed more like a sloppy, amateurish attempt at Italian soap opera. If you want good drama about Italian people then watch The Godfather Saga or The Soprano's, instead! "},{"Title":"Big Waste of Time","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think they should change the title to this movie to Summer of Ignorant Morons!! What a boring, no brain movie! What was billed as a movie about the Son of Sam murders in NYC turned out to be a mini-porno movie. Trying to keep up with this is like trying to sleep through a root canal. Who in the hell wants to sit through over 2 hours watching a gang of punks and how they lived in the summer of '77 in NYC? Oh, and every now and then the actual murders would be thrown in, I guess to try to keep true to the actual billing. Didn't work. What I can't understand is why in the hell would you make a movie like this, which in fact has nothing to do with the Son of Sam murders, and try to connect it with the murders? Pure Garbage!!  "},{"Title":"BLACK OUT!","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee makes a great comment on Hollywood stereotypes by casting a Latin actor to portray an Italian character in Summer of Sam.True Hollywood has always used white actors to portray people of color like The Conqueror with John Wayne as Chinese warlord Genghis Khan or Johnny Depp as a Mexican in Don Juan de Marco and I should add Anthony Hopkins as a BLACK MAN in The Human Stain.The acting in Summer of Sam is superber and the actors characters are very complex unlike the one-dimensional Hollywood characters who a majority of viewers are so willing to accept.Summer of Sam is about many things not just a serial killer but about aserial killer. It is about communities and how jealousy and intolerance physiologically affect people. It is about paranoia, infidelity, displacement, race, gender, and a summer night in 1977 where many people got paid!!!!  "}{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen more than a few really bad movies, but this is probably the worst of them all. I rented it thinking it was going to be about the Son of Sam killings, but it wasn't. Instead, it's nothing but a thinly disguised porn movie -- a boring view of the ridiculous carryings-on of a group of morons whose only thoughts seem to be about cheating on or beating up their wives. There is very little plot and even less social value to this piece of trash. I was thoroughly embarrassed that I chose to put this movie in the VCR in front of a date -- it was so full of nudity (male and female) and sex scenes that I couldn't help but wonder what my date must have thought of me! Don't waste your time.  "},{"Title":"Another winner from Spike Lee","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThe scene is the New York Suburbs,in the summer of 1977.A sweltering heatwave makes the lives of everyone miserable.The world mourns the death of Elvis Presley.The punk rock movement starts to take over.And,through it all,a gruesome shotgun killer is stalking the streets at will,shooting young brunettes with his .44 calibre pistol.Somehow,in the midst of all this,the lives of Vinny (John Leguizamo) a disco frequenting hairdresser who's engaging in promiscuity behind his young wife Dionna's (Mira Sorvino) back and Ritchie (Adrien Brody) a layabout musician who's fallen under the influence of the Sex Pistols and seems to think he's Johnny Rotten,must go on.But Vinny is especially worried as he's sure the killer thinks he saw him.And,as fear,suspicion and paranoia begin to cloud the minds of not just him but those closely around him,his trust and sanity begin to be tested,especially his long time friendship with the increasingly eccentric,seemingly perverse Ritchie.Lee gives all his films a distinctive,distinguishable style all of their own and it is mesmerisingly apparent in this film,like all the others.An engaging and equally balanced mixture of drama and thriller thematic elements,he magnetizises our attention with an all too real account of how living in a climate of fear can drive people with an insatiable need to find who is responsible before they are targeted next and how those who appear to act in even a slightly unexplainably extroverted,flamboyant way are the ones most likely to be singled out before all others.In order to guide this story and these characters in the right way,it would help no end if the performances were spot on,and this is indeed,luckily,the case.Leguizamo carries the film perfectly as the weak-willed,self concerned lothario cheating husband,with only a weary fear of God and concern for his own safety and sanity to spare his character any redemption.In the supporting cast,Brody too is very impressive as the increasingly isolated friend,who's only crime has been to latch on to a current trend none of them are familiar with and can't make any sense out of why his own sense of individuality and self choice should sway people in to thinking he may be responsible for the grisly crimes going on.Set in the late 70s,the film is briskly alive with a lively soundtrack that,when played against the backdrop of everything else going on,makes the film an even more absorbing experience than it already is,sucking us in to a time and place gone by with the sights,sounds and social attitudes being resurrected back in our faces with style.Lee spoke out against Justin Timberlake and Janet Jackson's recent impromptou performance during a superbowl half-time show,rounding it off by saying something along the lines of 'any artistic value seems to have been lost.'Indeed,in this current climate of instant celebrity and self gratification,he seems to remain one of the few people with genuine care and appreciation for his craft,and,although made a few years ago now,when compared with the more recent 25th Hour,this stands as a sterling testament to this.***** "},{"Title":"Thank you Spike!","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off let me thank Mr. Spike Lee for a great birthday present. Yeah, yeah, I know Spike Lee doesn't know my birthday, but this movie came out around the time of my birthday. Anyway, I saw this movie July 4, 1999, (the NIGHT before my b.day)and had much fun!!! I thought this movie was so entertaining. Some people were disappointed because the movie wasn't totally focused on David Burkowitz (the 'son of Sam'), but that was Spike's intention. He said in an interview that he wanted to focus on a group of people in the community where the killer was commiting his crimes and the impact it had the city of New York. Personally I thought it was a devine idea. In most movies that are based on actual serial killers or actual crimes, the director either puts complete focus on the criminal and their crime, or how the victim and their family was affected. But this movie was done differently, which is why I liked it so much. There are some scenes that are sterotypical, very violent, and over sexed, but that aside the movie had some very memorable scenes. *spoiler alert* For example, the scene with the black lab (dog) telling David B. to kill was disturbing, but also darkly funny. When that scene came onto the screen I laughed so loud it echoed through out the theater I was in. Probably because I was the only one laughing. What can I say, I have a dark since of humor!! Anyway, dark, violent, scary, and a good time in...at home!!!  "},{"Title":"Summer of Sam (1999)","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee's 1999 film about the infamous Son of Sam serial killer is a very ambitious project, but it ultimately succumbs to mediocrity. The movie has three principal stories the first involves a womanizer named Vinny (John Leguizamo) and his wife, Dionna (Mira Sorvino), as they struggle with marital problems. Then there's Ritchie (Adrien Brody) -- a punk-rocker who does homo-erotic strip-teases on the side -- and his girlfriend, Ruby (Jennifer Esposito). And the third one concerns a town posse aiming to hunt down the Son of Sam. While each narrative is fascinating in its own right, there comes a point when you start wondering what they're all doing in the same movie. Leguizamo gives a terrific performance, but his character -- the most prominent in the picture -- has absolutely no depth. In fact, the same can be said for every part in the film Sorvino (who won an Oscar three years prior for her turn as a bombshell hooker in Woody Allen's Mighty Aphrodite) has already proven herself as an actress, but her role in this film is crippled by blandness and banality. The up-and-coming Esposito and Brody (the latter of which would go on to win a Best Actor Academy Award in 2002 for The Pianist) are both outstanding, but -- as with everyone else -- their performances are negated by the mundane screenplay. This isn't to say that it's a particularly BAD screenplay written by Lee himself along with former actors Victor Colicchio and Michael Imperioli, it has good dialogue and some intriguing concepts. But the end result is a rather ordinary movie that lacks focus of any kind, which is a big disappointment considering the talents involved the supporting cast includes Broadway star Bebe Neuwirth, Michael Badalucco (as the Son of Sam himself), and Lee in a cameo appearance as a news reporter. Son of Sam has excellent direction -- featuring Lee's usual palette of vivid colors to convey summer heat -- and a great cast, but as whole, it's very uneven. One of the most perplexing enigmas is just why such a well-done film offers practically no insight into who the Son of Sam really is! While it obviously wasn't intended to be the focal point of the film (I'm still trying to figure out what that was supposed to be), you'd think that a movie called Son of Sam would at least have SOMETHING to say about the Son of Sam. But instead, we're served a cliched message about the dangers of paranoia. It's obvious that Lee has studied the works of Martin Scorsese and Paul Thomas Anderson -- in particular, Taxi Driver and Boogie Nights --, and its a shame that he doesn't capture the depth of Scorsese or the character complexity of Anderson. My brother just rented this movie the other night, and when I asked him what he thought about it, his response was It was ... interesting. I agree with him if you rent this movie, I'd highly doubt that it would ever bore you. But that doesn't change the fact that, by the end of the film, I still had no idea who these characters were.Grade B "},{"Title":"You've gotta love New York.","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read some shallow comments that the movie features rude New Yorkers with no morals and brain and reminds me to never go there. New Yorkers have to deal with extraordinary stress of living in a big city, full of cut-throat competition, crime, temptations and sensory overload, have to learn the street survival, but still manage to have a heart. Adrian Brody's character survives via acting in porno movies with his girlfriend and male-prostitution, while still managing to pursue his love of music and maintaining a loving relationship with his family. John Leguizamo's character deals with sexual temptations surrounding him everywhere, conflicting with the genuine love for his wife. Local mob wants to protect the neighborhood from a serial killer, because the police is helpless. All three are  perfect examples of maintaining heart and soul in a ruthless environment. That's why, you've gotta love New York. "},{"Title":"Interesting Film,but of course it's not for everyone","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The main reason I rented this movie was because I heard the very talented Adrien Brody was in it.Was Mr. Brody good in this movie?Absolutely!But,I also felt that Mira Sorvino and John Leguizamo(the two main characters)were good too.Now I have read other comments on this website about John Leguizamo being and lousy actor and that they should have gotten someone else to portray the oversexed Italian-American Vinny.I thought Leguizamo's performance was somewhat moving,and by the end of this film I couldn't help,but feel sorry for the character Vinny.Summer Of Sam has great camera work to make some parts of the movie look like some sort of creepy documentary/horror film.The acting is good,even though some of the dialogue could use a little work,and of course there is the fowl language(which didn't bother me)violence,and sex scenes,which could make almost anyone feel uncomfortable.If you want to watch a movie that's a little off(for lack of a better word)then I suggest you check Summer Of Sam out.I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"A good movie, with some let downs.","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I see that many get their facts a bit wrong about this picture. It's not actually about Son of Sam, but more about that summer of '77. It's about the paranoia that breaks out over the 44 caliber killer and the heat making everybody tense and paranoid. There is some great acting in this movie and the characters stories were well told. Spike Lee draws you in to his vision at several points and as many of the reviews here makes clear, this is a movie you will either like or dislike. It can't be said that this is a great movie, as there are several let downs. Some scenes depicting Dave Berkowitz are weak and should have been left out. There is a lot of swearing in this movie, and people saying f**k all the time seems silly to me. It gets more in the way than it strengthens the movie. You notice and get tired of it. The violence is portaid as gruesome and sets the mood of the film. Others have commented on all the nude scenes, but I can't say that there were that many or that they were particularily graphic. Yes, people were naked. But it was part of the story and had to be done so. Also it's a bit long, it would have been stronger had it been edited down some.To sum up I will have to say that Summer of Sam is a good film, but it's subject matter and execution will not appeal to everyone. Also it could have been better. I give it 6 1\2 of 10. "},{"Title":"Strong Movie about the 70s","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen recently '54' which was set in the same period - late 70s, and presented similar aspects of the conflict between the Manhattan drug, sex and violence culture, and the periphery of NYC. That was a good film also, but 'Summer of Sam' is better. Director Spike Lee brings to life a collection of strong characters, mostly young, trying to make their way in life, in an environment where morality has no meaning in the way 'normal' people see it, but still friendship, faith and clan solidarity have their role, in a different way. The environment is tested by the disturbing murders that a serial killer commits at night (true story). The suspicion falls on the different, and the best part of the movie underlines this conflict between prejudice and truth. All this is well paced and logically rendered in a film that may look extreme in violence, language or sex content, but succeeds well if you accept the film norms. A good team of actors does its job well, and the music is here not only to bring back the 70s atmosphere, but also to direct the action and put the right accent in place. I liked the movie. 8/10 on my personal scale.  "},{"Title":"A Great Tale","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Summer of Sam' is arguably Spike Lee's best film. A multi dimensional trip to NYC of the late '70s. Both a drama and a thriller, but mostly a social criticism that goes beyond race and nationality. It tells tales of the struggle of being different and the hypocrisy of being decent.Adrien Brody is the best actor of his generation and when he is given the chance he proves it in an explosive way. Also John Leguizamo and Mira Sorvino, provide great performances, as well as the rest of the cast.'Summer of Sam' is what movies should be all about, both exciting and clever, without being pretentious. This is the movie the Scorsese never did for almost over a decade.10/10 "},{"Title":"A Shakespeareian Tragedy in the Bronx","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was completely enthralled by this movie. It has the elements of a classic Greek tragedy, or maybe Shakespeare and even a little bit of the old Testament Book of Job going for it, all in a very dynamic, colorful, watchable way. The hero, Vinnie, descends deeper and deeper into despair, his tragic flaw, in this case, maybe his overactive sex drive. You really gotta feel for the guy and at the same time, see that he contributes to his own fate. The movie is about loyalty in a stronger way than it is about fidelity, although fans of Mira Sorvino can't seem to get past this fact. Spike Lee recreates the mood, the character and the feel of a New York City summer exactly right. The characters behave in a very convincing way. One can feel some compassion for just about anybody in this movie since they are simply us at some level. I have never before seen a Spike Lee movie, but believe me, I am now a fan! In two words, this movie is f***ing great! "}{"Title":"Must See!","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe Spike Lee's best- riveting. Worth seeing for the rockin soundtrack, the subtle history of the times without being in your face and excellent characters especially Mira Sorvino, John Leguizamo and Ritchie (and Ruby). Manages to be funny, serious and important all at the same time. Some sexy scenes don't hurt either. Love it!  "},{"Title":"Awesome Realism","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the most realistic movie of Italian American Culture in New York Circa 1977 that has ever been and will ever be made.  And I know!  Born Brooklyn NY 1962, 15 Years old and a resident of Bay Pkwy at the time. Oh, and of course both my parents were born in Italy.  Awesome Film, ugly stereotypes, but very true to life.  Its scary, when I see this movie Im back home with my friends in the neighberhood, talking trash and fist fighting like idiots.  Bravo.  A.G. (Original NY Guido) "},{"Title":"Where is the Editor??? 7/10","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that this is one of Spike Lee's greatest films since Do the Right Thing.  There is one key difference between the two films.  Do the Right Thing was a sprawling character sketch of a brooklyn neighborhood.  However, there was very little scrap characters and loose ends in this story.  Summer of Sam is filled with such loose ends and wasted characters.  To enjoy this film you need to understand and accept its flaws. Another key point to understand is that the film is entitled SUMMER OF SAM, not SON OF SAM or anything like that.  Therefore, this is not going to be a cult gore-fest along the lines of MANIAC.  This is a slice of life in New York or Italien neighborhoods during the reign of terror courtesy of Daniel Burkowitz (Summer of 77).  The scenes of Burkowitz in his apartment are appropriately creepy.  The voice of the dog, courtesy of Lee alumni John Turratto, is classicly campy and feels a tad out of place. Cut to acting.  Leguizimo is 3/5.  He is a charasmatic actor but is not capable of performing all of the character changes that haunt Vinny.  Mira Sorvino is a very talented actress and this performance is no exception. 4/5 is the rating of her incredible performance.  You care about everything that happens to her and she gets 100 percent of your emotional support.  the other roles such as Adrien Brody (3/5) were left almost half baked.  You dont gain too much insight on the morals and actions/motivations of his character. Jeez this is a hard film to review.  So I'll cut to the finale of this review.  Very flawed film (The music is pitiful, complete ommission of punk culture), but what does this matter because this is still a wonderful film. Lee chases SUMMER OF SAM in so many directions that, even though it fails on some plateaus, it still achieves on others.  The acting is splendid. Keen direction and cinemtogrophy.  Actors do wonders with a  convoluted script, but sadly lose a battle to the lethargic editing process. In short this film earns a 7-10 in my book and is a must-see entry in Lee's repetoire.  This film is rate R though NC-17 would be a safer rating. There is a vast amount of violence some graphic and gore.  The language is strong, pervasive and at some times (as a staple in Lee films) racist. There is a great deal of sexuality (heterosexual and homosexual) in this picture.  Some of it is graphic and there is some nudity also.  Because the pervasive language, violence, and sex this film is correctly rate R and shouldnt be seen by children under the age of 16 or 17 (hence NC-17).  It was one hell of a show and for that I award it either 3 stars or a 7/10. It could of earned more if it had more developed characters and a slimmer running time, although it was never boring. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've ever seen.","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam is one of the greatest movies I've seen, and I recommend it to everyone (except if you do not like violence and dark themes, in a way). Otherwise this movie is excellent, as well as the soundtrack's disco music that actually goes perfectly with the backdrop of murders and that very violent summer (you'll understand when you see it). The movie doesn't hold back and let's it all out, it isn't fake. A very very good movie! ) "},{"Title":"Pretty Cool-Amusing and Interesting.","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer Of Sam was actually a pretty cool movie which was based on a real life New York event.  I was wondering if  the characters featured in this movie actually existed or portrayed real life individuals who acted the same as shown in the film.  For the most part, this movie was pretty wild I couldn't always understand what the massive amount of sex had to do with the events that occurred during the summer of 1977(which took place 9 years before I was born).  I didn't really know all that much about this period when the son of sam went on his killing spree, however I've heard enough about the events which occurred in the summer of 1977 to know what kind of things would be going on in the film.  Spike Lee created the film and made it seem as real as I could have imagined it to be.  John Leguizamo gave an awesome performance.  For the most part, I guess I could say that I liked this movie even though I wasn't around when the real thing happened. 2 1/2 stars  "},{"Title":"Teenage wasteland.                                *SPOILERS*","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really disliked SUMMER OF SAM when I first saw it in July of 1999, but it's become one of my all-time favorites. Maybe I now like it because a) I now live in New York, b) I now like The Who, and c) I'm now obsessed with the Yankees (there's a Red Sox joke in the movie that cracks me up every time I watch it). Well, thinking back, I never really hated SOS; there were just a few flaws that at first distracted me from its overall brilliance. The moment when the dog speaks is a really bad laugh, there's way too much use of the F word, and who told John Leguizamo he could convincingly play an Italian? But I now appreciate Spike Lee's accomplishment with this film; it's by far his most risky and ambitious work to date, and the scope of the project just blows me away.So what if most critics slammed SOS? (Except Roger Ebert of course, whose yet another spot-on review validates my respect for him.) Who cares that it was a commercial disappointment? Sex, drugs, punk, disco, baseball, porn, the Mafia - yep, everything that makes America America is in SUMMER OF SAM, a film that gets better every time I see it. "},{"Title":"It's a shame so many people have missed the point","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After reading some of the reviews of this film, it seems to be a shame that so many people have so badly missed the point.Summer of Sam is not a thriller.  It is not Copy Cat.  To be expecting a regular by-the-book Hollywood serial killer movie is to be watching the wrong film.  Summer of Sam is a drama, focussing on the lives a group of disaffected young people in the Italian American community of the Bronx, set against the backdrop of the sweltering summer of '77 and the fear created by David Berkowitz's murder spree.  The main element of the film is not whether the police will catch the Son of Sam and when he will strike next, this is merely the scenery.  The important plot elements of the film are John Leguizamo's marital problems with Mira Sorvino, and Adrien Brody's rebellious submersion into the punk ethos.Summer of Sam should be avoided by anyone who likes their serial killers homogenised with all the glossy Hollywood packaging, and those who just want a fun romp in which no one really gets hurt and the best time can be had in persuit of a quirky killer.  Yes, go watch Copy Cat again.  Summer of Sam, however, is a brilliant, subtle and explosive piece of film-making that sets Spike Lee up to be one of the potential greats of his generation. "},{"Title":"Top knotch crime drama...","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably the first Spike Lee Movie I've seen, and it definitely opens up this new field of perspective. The acting is amazing, a brilliant capture of the heightened tension and suspicion of the time in which this movie takes place. Leguizamo is an amazing actor, a wonderful depicter of emotion and awesome reality presenter. Sorvino I'm not too familiar with, which is strange seeing as how she has apparently won an Oscar some time back. Her acting was excellent as well, and the entire supporting cast were all just as strong and talented. The movie demonstrates neat techniques of blending real footage into a greenish fog that probably symbolizes the stress and confusion of the time. Some scenes are mature in content, but are only depicting exactly what was going on at the time. A top knotch crime drama, a definite winner. "},{"Title":"incredible movie","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie about the Son of Sam is not really a horror movie, as was HenryPortrait of a Serial Killer, the pseudo-biography of Henry Lee Lucas. Instead this film focuses more on the paranoia and hysteria that he brings towards New York City in '79. But the movie basically revolves around Vinny, a sexually frustrated man who cannot think of his beloved wife as a sexual being. So he does the dirty with whatever woman he can hook up with, leaving the sex life in his marriage pretty dull. When Vinny is out cheating in an area where the Son of Sam strikes, he believes not only is the Son of Sam after him, but it also is a sign of some sort that he should be faithful to his wife, which in turn sets the stage of his actions and motives during the rest of the film. Check out this movie. "},{"Title":"ONE UGLY 2+ HOURS","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  THIS MOVIE WAS REALLY so brutal to watch. it was about everyday people, which is nice, but never made any sense. reason when it doesn't happen to you(i.e. murder by a santanic nut..er, patsie for what really happened) people all of a sudden become worse people. some of the movie made sense, but it didn't deserve two hours of work. what does the son of sam have with orgies? if these asses were so worried about death, why do they have time to screw multiple people. i can understand the paranoia about who is the son of sam, but spike lee's information as a remorter sounds so fake. really, it is. my friend jose ans i were severly bored over this film, and we're not exactly idiots. the only thing worthy in this film is the sex. it gives some good footage on som of sam, but spike is too narrow in how he handles the real story. son of sam was a cult. the horror is that it was exactly that. not one person. not mira sorviro  and husband getting it on. can't go wrong with sex, but can go wrong watching a film that should be more than sex and paranoia.i guess spike was too little to know the difference.  "}{"Title":"A visceral masterpiece","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's incredible how the construction of a soundtrack can contribute to a movie's power. Here, Spike Lee (in his first white movie) takes us to the hot and wild New York summer of 1977, which reached temperatures beyond normal, had its biggest power cutout ever and, most specially, was the stage to one of the most brutal serial killers in the history of the Big Apple 44. Killer, self-named Son of Sam. The main character is Vinny (John Leguizamo, in an essential role), an italian-american who's married to Dionna (a perfect Mira Sorvino). Vinny is found among all kinds of problems his mobster friends are making a search for the serial killer themselves and they start pointing names without thinking about the consequences, his best friend suffers an identity crisis and himself can't prevent from having sex with every woman who's not his wife. The heat rises, the spirits revolt, and the mayhem is cut loose. I was talking about the soundtrack since there are all kinds of sounds and music which make part of this world, and if you're gonna see it, make sure you see it loud in a stereo system. For this movie is as crafted as they can get, diving totally in a world of smell, colour, sound and sight. The 70's never looked so real like we see them here. I have to add that all the actors are perfect on their roles, the real star here being Adrien Brody, who finds a role which lets him reveal his true potential. The film is thouroughly accomplished, and there is definite blood pumping on its veins. Spike Lee reveals himself as a great director, after the triumph of He Got Game. A must-see. "},{"Title":"a surprise from Spike","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***contains spoilers***I can't believe this film isn't more highly rated than it is.  It's one ofSpike Lee's finest achievements, and one of the best films ofrecent years.Granted, if you were expecting a serial killer movie, a sort of NewYork Hannibal, you were going to be disappointed, but then youprobably deserved to be, ya ghoul.  Instead we get a gripping,character-driven drama which is set against the backdrop of thesummer of '77 in New York, in which the Son of Sam killings werea major factor but hardly the only one.  As usual, Lee does abrilliant job of creating a sense of time and place, with detailsabout the weather, the Yankees, and the music all contributing to agreat realization of the setting.  But the real achievement in this film is the fascinating and even, inthe end, poignant story of Richie, an Italian-American kid whodesperately wants to get out of the neighborhood, his friend Vinnie,who loves his wife but can't seem to get his life under control, andhis wife, who wants nothing more than to please him.  Fantasticperformances all around, and contrary to what a lot of people say, Ifound the direction to be pretty restrained.  Look at Richie'scharacter  you sense that he wants to transcend his upbringing,that what's behind his obsession with punk is that it offersacceptance to someone like him who feels alienated from hisbackground (and who is unsure of his sexuality).  In a lesserdirector's hands, however, this would all have been told to us viacorny speeches about wanting to get out, wanting to makesomething of himself.  Here, Richie never articulates what it is thatdrives him--we just pick it up from the performance, from the story. In fact, there's a lot of inarticulation going on in this movie.  In onesense, it's a study of characters who are unable to converseexcept in shouts and profanity, who don't really know what they feelor why and couldn't explain it very well even if they did.  Vinnie's likethat  his problems largely stem from some fairly confusedattitudes toward sex and gender roles, but he's never able to bringhimself to examine these attitudes he was raised with, much lessdiscuss them with his wife.  Which is ironic, because we get thefeeling all along that she's much smarter and would probably haveunderstood him.  But by the end, we realize that sex isn't his onlyproblem--by the end he's not only lost his wife but out-and-outbetrayed his best friend.  Catch the last shot of his face as helooks at Richie and realizes what he's done  it's the look of a manwho completely loathes himself but doesn't know how to change.Watch Mira Sorvino's performance as Vinnie's wife, too  greatacting, and this should quiet all those critics who say Lee can'twrite for women.  The part is sensitive, nuanced, and deep, and inthe end she's the strongest character in the movie, the one withthe most sense of who she is and what she wants.Great performances all around.  A fantastic film.One thing confused me, though, and I think it confused a lot ofpeople.  This was a film by Spike Lee, but it had no real blackcharacters, and except for the Willie Mays-loving detective, all of thescenes that featured African-Americans were extremely  unflattering.  Brilliantly done caricatures, to be sure, with Leehimself as a black anchorman for a white network, confronted byresentful residents of Bed-Stuy (one of whom has one of the truestlines in the movie  that if the Son of Sam had been black, the citywould have been one huge race riot).  But then later we get all thatfootage of the looting during the blackout.So what is Lee doing here?  Did he just have a great idea for amovie that didn't happen to involve black characters?  After all, Leeshould no more be confined to making movies only about blackcharacters than Ang Lee (Sense and Sensibility) should beconfined to only making movies about Chinese characters.Or is he making a subtle comment about how white America likesto see their movies?  After all, the absence of black characters isonly conspicuous because it's a Spike Lee movie--if another,white, director had made a movie with the same color ratio, mostwhite people probably wouldn't even notice.Maybe that's what's going on with the looting, too  remember, it'sshown to us through a news report--a white-controlled mediumshowing white people how black people were behaving.  In otherwords, Lee is showing us what white New Yorkers were being toldat the time about black New Yorkers.Still, I think there's more going on even than that.  Notice thecontrast Lee sets up in the blackout scenes between the way thelooters were behaving versus the way the local mob boss controlshis neighborhood and turns it into a block party.  Outsiders getbeat up, but everybody in the neighborhood is safe, andcommunity is affirmed.  Is Lee criticizing the black community fornot pulling together in the same way?  I don't know.What I do know is that, like every other Spike Lee joint, this one willmake you think.   "},{"Title":"I hated, hated, hated this awful film","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst films I've seen in the past Five years. It had little to do the David Burkwitz .45 killings, and was mainly focused on a group of druggie, womanizing lowlifes. I am a pretty big fan of Spike Lee, Malcom X was superb, Clockers was great, Do the Right thing was also great, and he's had a couple other films but this one was plain awful. This film should not be watched by Anyone. I still to this day wonder, what was he trying to do, focusing a story around the worst possible people of NYC, which would put them pretty high on the running of lowest form of life worldwide. It had little to no point. The character with the fake english accent was both gross, and annoying beyond measure. I warn yu, if you're thinking of seeing this film, DON'T! vote 1/10 "},{"Title":"Summer of Sex","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All of Spike Lee's movies are no good and he makes another bad movie. The worst was the sex in the movie what is with that! Some of the scenes in the movie have noting to do with the story, in fact the movie does not really focus on the Summer of Sam. It does focus on alot of sex so instead of calling it Summer of Sam call it the Summer of Sex.This is to me the most PORNOGRAPHIC movie I have ever seen and I have even seen porn film. I think the MPAA (Motion Picture Association of America) the people that give the ratings for the movies, are giving all of Spike Lee's movies R-rating because he is black know matter what he puts in his movies and that is not right. The fact is that all black movies that come out are to me NC-17 rated movies that are given R-rating why is that?So if you want to see porn than Summer of Sam is the movie for you.                  Carlos D. Montemayor "},{"Title":"Great...","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You can always trust Spike Lee to give his audience something a little different. But I cannot understand why so many people hate this film, I found it to be a griping study of a society on the brink of overload. Spike re-creates the pressure-cooker intensity of his Do the Right thing but this time he has the added value of a serial killer. The film has so much to say about loyalties and friendship, about the time the crimes took place and the people involved, every actor does a great job and there are some fantastic moments when the actors don't do anything but JUST act, sitting back and allowing what they are saying to carry the film.Spike uses music too, to show the disintegration of the neighbourhood, at first we are treated to the soft disco sounds of Abba and the Bee Gee's, by the final real we are in the realms of Punk, with standout uses of The Who and the Clash. His concentration on characters becomes tighter and tighter as the film draws to a close, moving in on the suspects and possible villains, creating a tension that drags us right up the climax.There are also some moments of true draw-dropping spectacle, the montage of shootings, the dog that gives Michael Badalluco's killer his messages, Adrien Brody's punk Ritchie's confrontation at the end, everything remains with the viewer long after the final credits have rolled. A truly great, underrated film&#133;  "},{"Title":"Nine.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is good, because it, like Grand Canyon and Magnolia, isn't really about anything. It's just a story, taking place over some time. You meet some people, and you follow them and leave them. They all have demons, and problems, but not all of them get's redemption/resolution.Summer of Sam shows many things. And although it's long, it is the type of film, you're going to want to see again, if you like it, that is...S.O.S takes place in the late 70's, where David Berkowitz thought his neighbours dog was commanding him to kill people, thus making him protégé of the devil, or the serial killer Son of Sam. But we don't really follow him. We follow John Leguizamo and others (Comeon people!! There's a credit-list you can read, or something!!), and the way they live in a italian-suburb-neighbourhood-thingie in N Y. And by having five different stories, we get to see Madness, drugs, sex, mafia, murders, punk, disco, riots, realationships and so on and so forth. And that's really more interesting than it sounds.Take Mr. Leguizamo's part for instance. He's a married guy, who takes every chance he get's, to mess around with other girls (And in wierd positions and stuff). As he's close to a murder of S.O.S., he's convinced that it's a sign from God, telling him to stop doing other girls. Convinced. But that doesn't even remotely stop him, as these people live with sin, as a constantly bad consience, but they don't ever use it to change themselves.And that's just one out of many small, suttle points made in this film. And that's all this film is really about. Small, interesting, funny, scary points. Like Magnolia, this is a film for thinkers. And I don't mean that in a bad/good way, you know. I'm just saying that if you love Die Hard-movies, or dramas with intense action/reaction, this film ain't it.It is the best film I've seen about the 70's. No doubt about it. It's violent, absurd and some times vulgar. But it is also very true to it's subject. Something worth to admire.Oh. and for animal-lovers there's a talking dog-scene.Mr. Lee. I give you a 9 for this smokin' cigarret. "},{"Title":"One of Spike's occassional good ones","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never have much hope for Lee's films, but for the third time he has surprised me by making an excellent movie (previous surprises were Do the Right Thing and Malcom X).  This is really quite a fascinating movie.  The film has been criticized for being plotless and that's true, there's no real story.  It's a study of life in a Bronx neighborhood.  The Son of Sam himself is not even a strong plot element, he's more one instrument in a cinematic symphony.  Well acted, well written, overlong but always absorbing, this is one of the few plotless, slice of life movies I've ever truly enjoyed.I must say though, I'm pretty surprised to see Lee make a movie with no black people.  Of all the black directors in the world, he's the one I'd have said was least likely to make a movie that wasn't concerned with race and wasn't concerned with being black.  Maybe he just wanted to let the world know he really doesn't think about being black 24/7.  Perhaps the most shocking this is one of the few times you see blacks is when they're looting during a blackout.  I think a white director that only cast blacks as looters would have got in some trouble. "},{"Title":"An incredible story based upon the frightful Son of Sam murders.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer Of Sam is a beautifully told story, visually as well as regarding content. We meet a group of young people in the heart of New York going through their own link of problems. In the middle of this;  a crazed, confused and mentally discharged serial killer calling himself 'Son of Sam', ravages through the silent night obliterating young brunettes. The directing, lighting, music, and above all, the acting that this movie has to offer is top notch. John Leguizamo and Adrien Brody exceptionally distinguishes. Not to mention the setting; the seventies look is convincing to the max.Summer Of Sam drags you inside the screen and makes you follow it's destination to the very end. Two Thumbs Up. "},{"Title":"Captivating","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As he does with all of his films, Spike Lee delivers powerful themes in Summer of Sam.  Within this film, Spike captures the consequences of mob psychology, vigilantism, mistrust, insecurity, and infidelity. What I most enjoyed was how the plot of the film did not focus on David Berkowitz and the victims that he murdered.  Rather, one was instead able to examine how Berkowitz's powerful presence during the Summer of '77 affected the lives and the relationships of the main characters. Especially standout were the performances of John Leguizamo, Adrien Brody, Jennifer Esposito, and Michael Rispoli. "},{"Title":"Very good movie that didn't get a chance...","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very smart movie that did not get nearly the attention that it deserved. I only wish people had given it a chance and seen that it was very well done and needed to be thought about. If you want to see a great movie that did not only follow the Son of Sam story but rather the time that it took place see this one now. "}{"Title":"I should have walked out on this movie.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam is by far the worst and most unpleasant Spike Lee movie I have ever seen.  I'd even go so far to say that it is just about the worst and most unpleasant movie I have ever seen period.  Spike Lee's earlier work from the 1980's was so much better.  For me, the single high light was that Mira Sorvino was in the film.  That is why I even considered seeing it in the first place.  Spike Lee filled the film with unlikable characters, the F-word, violence, and strong sexual content. Any quality visual content or good acting was overshadowed by the unnecessarily harsh content.  Some might say that murder is a harsh subject, but that was only a background subject in this film.  I could have watched a movie about the Son of Sam murders had it been well produced, but Summer of Sam was not that sort of film.  It seemed as though Spike Lee was trying to make up for lack of good film making by pushing the borders of the audience's ability to take images of violence and orgies.  This movie really needed to either never been made (the best solution) or to have been given an NC-17 rating.  That way I would not have had to waste my precious time and money to have seen it in the theater.  Spike Lee seems to be getting worse with age.My recommendation  Don't waste the time to see this film even if somebody was paying you big bucks to watch it. "},{"Title":"The interplay of reality with delusion","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this near flawless film, Lee creates a stark reality as a backdrop from which his characters generate their own worlds of delusion. Many directors create movies in which the play is a projection of the character's delusions, but by anchoring Summer of Sam in the real events of 70s New York, the play acts on the characters, who respond as humans, making the delusions that drive the action very real indeed.  "},{"Title":"Last years most underrated movie","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Last year, everyone was talking about American Beauty, Fight Club, The Matrix, Being John Malkovich, Three Kings and The Sixth Sense. But you never hear many people talking about Spike Lee's flawed masterpiece, Summer of Sam. SOS is a great movie, because it shows how the Son of Sam's murders influenced the behavior and the lives of the characters, instead of just deciding to take the easy way out, and turning into a detective movie. It has it's flaws, the profanity reaches a record 300+ 'f' words, and the film's length sometimes drags on bit, but SOS, flaws aside is a great movie with many interesting turns and some excellent performances from the whole cast. 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Almost a good movie.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"    In the beginning, the story about Son of Sam is one of eight million stories about New York City in 1977.  Isn't that too many stories too fit into one movie?  I'm unsure what director Spike Lee was thinking at the time, but Lee deserves some credit for trying this idea.   The story focuses on a few people in one low class suburb; Vinnie (John Legizamuo), Dionna (Mira Sorvino), Ritchie (Adrien Brody).  Vinnie and Dionna seems to be a happily married couple even though Vinnie flirts with other women.  Ritchie is Vinnie's best friend who sports a spiked hairdo and a British accent that drives the other friends of Vinnie absolutely nuts.   Enter David Berkowitz (Michael Badalucco of the TV courtroom dramaThe Practice), a man who struggles with his sanity and is driven mad when a next door neighbor's black labrador dog barks constantly.  In Berkowitz takes a black .44 pistol and he goes out a vicious killing rampage, targeting mainly women who have brunette hair and their boyfriends as well.  Berkowitz soon calls himself the Son of Sam   A police officer (Anthony LaPaligia) comes to a friend of his when he was a child, a local mobster (Ben Gazzara) for help.  The mobster refuses to help the cop, but later on, the mobster and his men join the police and Vinnie's friends in the search of the elusive killer.   The second half is fairly okay and the roller coaster pace that it takes baffled me at times.  The sex scene that Sorvino and Legizaumo have in the room with the other people making out with others wasn't as unpleasant and appalling as Annette Bening and Peter Gallagher had in American Beauty.  Enough said.   If there are a few strong points that the movie has, it has the right cast which give solid performaces all around, the production design and cinematography is excellent, and the details are neat.  The movie's two big mistakes are the stereotypes and the constant swearing.  This movie has more profanity than the South Park movie did.  Then again, that's New York.                       "},{"Title":"Smashing!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Really groovy movie. Although you pretty much knew who the murderer is I couldnt do other but wonder who it could be. Altogether a good movie. And I just LOVE the way the credits are showed on the end btw. "},{"Title":"Beyond superb.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an outstanding film and marks the passing of a significant film-making talent to the level of a master, the way Raging Bull did for Scorcese or Vertigo did for Hitchcock.I was in the palm of Lee's hand for over two hours, not questioning for a second the twists and turns of the various plots but frequently knocked out of my seat by the arresting images, scenes and performances contained in this amazing piece of film-making.I rate this this up with Mann's The Insider as one of the best recent examples of how to make the absolute most of your subject. This film contained all sorts of unique and very cinematic moments and great performances, all marshaled beautifully into a whole film. The characters were an extremely mixed bunch, coming from all sorts of backgrounds within New York, and Lee's approach to them is uncompromising but very human and compassionate. I was particularly impressed by his perceptive portrayal of Ritchie the punk, his unusual and yet understandable lifestyle, and the prejudice he suffers.At the end of this film I felt like I had lived through the summer with these characters, and really experienced all of their ups and downs. I was by turns impressed, sad, amused, thrilled, disturbed and downright squirming at this stunning film.The first thing I did when the credits rolled was pick my jaw up off the floor; the second was to shout the house down at how good a film it was; the third was to kick myself for waiting until this came out on video instead of queueing in the rain to see it in the cinema. Never again. Umbrellas at the ready for Lee's next. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, brilliant","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam is, according to me, Spike Lee's best film to date. That is to say it is a brilliant film. Funny, entertaining, and sometimes sad. Very stylish, beautifully edited. Adrien Brody is fantastic as a punk-rocker. See it as soon as possible! (8/10) "},{"Title":"Spike has issues","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If this were Spike Lee's first or second movie, it would not bother me nearly as much as it does.  It has excesses upon excesses and Spike's personal agenda is evident on the screen in almost every single scene.  The acting is also pretty horrible - I am not sure Leguizamo is a great choice for this movie, and Sorvino is worse. Lee casting a Hispanic as an Italian is ANOTHER sore point that is inexcusable. The best acting was from Adrien Brody, of course.  All in all, a very unpleasant movie with a killer (sorry!) soundtrack. "},{"Title":"brilliant Spike Lee film","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam deals with the Son of Sam killer, but is mainly about how it affected the people in the city at that time. 1977 was a wild year in New York. Disco was at its peak, there was a brutal heat wave, Reggie Jackson had the Yankees in contention again and a man was terrorizing the city, killing young brunettes with a .44 caliber revolver. In this film, Mira Sorvino and other brunette girls are seen dyeing their hair or wearing blonde wigs. Vinny, played by John Leguizamo, is the main character. The movie shows his interactions with his wife (Sorvino), and his friends as the summer of '77 unfolded. His friend Richie, with his wild punk mohawk and fake British accent, rubs Vinny's macho Italian friends the wrong way and they start to suspect he might be the killer. Vinny has problems staying faithful and uses drugs. His marriage starts to fall apart. David Berkowitz, the Son of Sam, is played by Michael Badalucco from The Practice. Adrien Brody is brilliant as Richie. The very sexy and talented Sorvino and Jennifer Esposito are the female leads. This film captures perfectly a wild and scary time in the big city.  "},{"Title":"DIVERSITY, PREJUDICE, MEDIA POWER IN A HOT REAL SUMMER","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Surely one of the best Spike Lee's movies (joints) because it grows with the heat of that summer, the seventies music in the air and suspicions towards everyone who's different or at least not normal. An entire neighborhood in New York felt threatened in its integrity facing a serial killer (son of Sam) that puts everybody in search of a  just strange or eccentric suspect. The gang that controls the area is convinced that the killer is one of the neighborhood, so they write a list where every person who doesn't get in line is mentioned a veteran from Vietnam, the reverend and also an ex-member of the group charged with having changed and turning into a punk. On the other side the media built up the case of the serial killer, creating tension and mistrust among  neighbors and friends too. The Lee's message is well conveyed, the editing is perfect and his charges against Media and prejudice are clear. Superb is the development and the unfolding of the plot on at least three different levels Distrust among friends, random people and neighbors; Diversity as division amongst races, people and even baseball fans;increase of tension as increase of material heat, faster film editing and more names on the suspects' list. The resultignorance as weakness and threat. Special mention for Jennifer Esposito.  "}{"Title":"Definitely the worst Spike Lee flick I've seen.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Over a course of 3 evenings, I tried to watch this movie and finally gave up after about an hour into it.  The beginning was pretty cool but the acting was awful as was the plot.  I couldn't figure out what in the world was going on and some cuts just didn't belong at all.  What a letdown. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of 1999(spoilers)","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I truly believe this was, despite its bad reviews, still the most overrated movie of 1999 and among the worst movies I've ever seen.  I'd love to see some sort of organization devote a roasting to this movie, like MST 3000, just for independent directors who attempt to make it with mainstream hash.  For those who call this Spike Lee's Greatest Film(shudder), please defend the Italian stereotypes.  Or the dog disrupting the flow of the movie to talk to us, which had me in laughing fits for five minutes.  Or the dead end sign(wow, blatant symbolism at its lowest).  Or Spike Lee's self-indulgence with his role commenting on current attitudes.  Or leading an audience to believe that the movie would focus on social trends within a sporadic and absurd time and instead making the movie into the glorification of a serial killer blowing people's brains out over and over again.  This movie is only valuable to make fun of, and should be shown to every college film student so they will never attempt anything closely resembling it.   "},{"Title":"Different, violent, profane, but one of Spike Lee's best","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer of Sam is a fascinating story.  The murders, the love triangles, and the time period all come together to make a story not just about the Son of Sam.  This is Spike Lee's first movie that really doesn't have much to do with the black community, or that has black characters.  Instead, the main characters are Italian, living in the Bronx.  It is an interesting blend of ideas and it works well on screen.  The insanity shots of the Son of Sam are haunting and excellently portray an image of chaos, fear, and confusion.  There is however, graphic violence, sex scenes, and profanity, as well as disturbing murders, fights, and male strip club scenes, so I wouldn't recommend this for anyone under 14.  Spike Lee rose to new heights in making this movie, and any fan of his would enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Electric","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee creates the perfect mood and tension as the summer of 1977 is brilliantly replayed through some fictional characters.Leguizamo, who cheats on his wife Survino, sees one of Sam's victims in his neighborhood. As a result he feels that the killer is after him, and goes through a guilt complex that haunts him.  Is he next??  Did the killer see him??  Is this all happening because god knows he is a sinner and this is his punishment???Other people in the neighborhood have their theories on who it is..  Is it his weird friend who has gone punk??  Even one person believes the .44 caliber killer is Reggie Jackson.  After all he wears the number 44!!!Great visuals and a well done captivating story where you stay interested even though you know who the real killer is..Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have been waiting for a year to see this movie and, now that I have seen it, I am so disappointed.  The movie to me seemed more about sex than about a serial killer.   All I remember from this movie is a scene of a couple doing it doggy style, a man's continuous conversations about forbidden sex with his wife, and couples getting their heads blown off.  I don't remember anything much about the killer (of course, I fell asleep half way through the movie).  From a Spike Lee fan, skip this one by Spike. "},{"Title":"DO THE SAME THING","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer 1977 and New York City is in the grip of a stinking hot heatwave and also an atmosphere of panic as a psychopath wanders the streets, shooting couples in parked cars.Summer 1999 and director Spike Lee is still in the grip of what appears to be a creative fallow period.A string of uninspired outings have helped make Do the Right Thing 10 years ago look like his finest achievement.So much so that this is almost a (lesser) remake, an Italian version if you will, with hardly a black face in sight.Is this really a Spike Lee joint?Actually there's no such thing as a dull Spike Lee movie and this throws in all sorts, from a blast-from-the-past disco soundtrack to a swinging sex orgy to some interesting stylistic touches, notably regarding the serial killer himself.His encounter with a talking dog is a particular case in point.But entertaining as this hodge podge is, it's still little more than a hodge podge, with little flavour of a heatwave, the disco-ridden 70s or even of Do the Right Thing. "},{"Title":"A film for all seasons","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee is undoubtedly one of the most refreshing and original of all the Hollywood directors. What makes this film so engaging is Lee's superb direction and a genuinely compelling story line which is carried off by an impressive (and relatively unknown) cast. There are several performances which stand out, particularly Leguizamo as the protagonist Vince, Mira Sorvino as his ever suffering wife and Adrien Brody. Set in New York in the summer of '77 the film centres around the affects of the .44 killer on the Italian community. With an excellent sound track and an evocative setting the audience is transported into a world of sex, drugs and disco, where truth and lies become indistinguishable.   "},{"Title":"Excellent movie..Especially if you lived through it.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Upon reading all the negative publicity this movie received (which is par for the course for Spike's movies) I just had to see it for myself. Let me tell you, for me at least, having been 10 at the time I could vividly remember my mom telling me to come straight home after school...this movie captures everything about this event....the paranoia, the atmosphere, everything is painstakingly recreated to make you feel as though you are there all over again..High marks for everything...the acting, the sets and especially the music!!!! "},{"Title":"Spike Lee shows the dark side of the society around a serial killer plot","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  1977 New York. One of the hottest summers in New York. And a serial killer, who calls himself Summer of Sam. However the film is not on how the cops would catch him, or who he is, or why is he a serial killer. It's a film on prejudices. It's on society's tendency to start a witch hunt. Spike Lee is master of his camera and cinematic language. The video-clip like plans and the use of music, in fact i should say that the lyrics and the dialogues complete each other. You feel the atmosphere of end of the 70's. So when the setting is NY end of seventies you can't skip the disco/sex culture. And it is in S.O.S too. You should see it...  "},{"Title":"Flawed film, great ensemble performances","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As he often does, Spike Lee has crafted a movie containing moments of brilliance, offset by moments of self-indulgent excess.  The Son of Sam murders are graphically violent, but well-filmed (particularly in the case of the victim who tried in vain to shield herself with a book)...which would be an admirable achievement, if this were based on fiction and not fact.  These are young people who really died, and it disturbs me that the cinematography and editing of their murders was more involving than the tragedy of their fates.  The victims remain anonymous...even the closing credits offer no more identification than Woman in Car, Woman Victim, etc.  (And with so many of them, these vague descriptions don't even help the viewer distinguish which actress played which victim!) Donna Lauria, Christine Freund, Virginia Voskerichian, Alexander Esau, Valentina Suriani, and Stacy Moskowitz, as well as the survivors of Berkowitz' attacks, all deserve better than that.That said, the performances of the ensemble cast are consistently excellent, with Adrien Brody a standout as the young man whose punk lifestyle makes him a suspect in the eyes of his friends.The vigilante squad subplot is interesting...although it's not spelled out explicitly, it seems clear to me that these guys are not so much interested in catching the killer as they are in using the murders as an excuse to harass anyone they don't like.  A fascinating depiction of mob hysteria. "}{"Title":"It was . . . well, it just WAS.","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a rabid fan of both independent film and punk ('77 was the year of the Sex Pistols) I was practically hyperventilating to see this movie. When I actually got to see it (with my parents,which in itself was an interesting experience...) I was paradoxically intrigued and disappointed. I'm not sure what I expected, but it wasn't that. I'm pretty sure it was the scene with the dog that killed it for me. The scene was entirely overplayed and overdramatic to the point where I was snickering into a pillow. It was good. It was bad. I liked the punk who listened to the Who, even if they are a mod band. I liked the blood. I liked the smokey drug-induced orgy. I liked the cheesy oversexed Italian men with their little sweat stained wife beaters who carted their daughters to drug deals but were disgusted by crazy hair. I didn't think it was as bad as most of the people commenting bitched about, but I don't think it was as good as I expected. Some of it really was, for instance, the music uses throughout the movie was perfect. So. Yeah. The end.  "},{"Title":"A very poor film","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I invited a few friends around to watch this film and the general consensus was that it was the worst film that anyone had seen for at least a year (Including wild wild west). The characters were unbelievable and misplaced. The story was labored, too long and the most laughable scene involving a dog and the worst special effects since Slugs punctuated a boring film that had a general lack of humor. I have never been embarrassed to have recommended a film for a group of friend to watch until I hired this, please don't fall into the same trap. "},{"Title":"A hugely entertaining film.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee is back on form with this hugely entertaining ensemble piece about ItalianAmerican New York in 1977. It's not really a very important film, and it fails as a study of the psyche of a serial killer, but it is very well made, nicely written and acted with naturalistic flair by a huge cast.It's a complex film, and you sense that Lee is overreaching. There's no way that he can keep his eye on so many different stories, and inevitably some of them get lost. I would have liked to see more of Ben Gazzara's oddly polite mobster, and Bebe Neuwirth's slyly funny hairdresser. But the film works beautifully when concentrating on the punk, played by Adrian Brody in what should be a career-making performance, and on the disintegrating relationship between John Leguizamo and Mira Sorvino. Thankfully, there are no happy endings and nothing is really resolved for the central characters. Yet, it's also romantic and optimistic. There is real loyalty and love here, and a sense of life and joy, best expressed in the scene where Brody plays Baba O'Reilly by The Who. Yes, the film is violent and sometimes shocking - but whoever said the sex was gratuitous is missing the point. The film is truthful about sex, which is something we haven't seen in a while.This film has some excellent dialogue, much of it scatological and all of it completely convincing. Lee directs with energy and style, without losing the audience in the process - compare this with the tired tricks that Scorsese uses in Bringing Out The Dead. If Spike Lee can still make something this enjoyable, I am looking forward to his next movie - and I haven't said that in a long time !  "},{"Title":"Spike back on form","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top movie. Spike returns to the kind of form that saw him create She's Gotta Have It, Do the Right Thing and Malcolm X (a v. underrated movie).SoS sees the long, hot Noo Yoik summer of 1977, the time of heatwaves, power cuts, punk and serial killer (and a kind of  psychotic Dr Doolittle) David Berkovitz. However nobody knows of the identity of the .44 killer, and the residents of one neighbourhood are awful antsy and suspicious...Spike Lee, like any decent director worth his lens, has transcended the world he knows and made a film about the experiences of a group of people outside his own community. And he still has time for those cameos of his that we all know and love. Just don't get me started on how superb the soundtrack is... "},{"Title":"Absolutely barking","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this the day after seeing Fightclub for the second time and it made me appreciate the former even more. I'm not a fan of Spike Lee but went to see this on the strengh of the previous comments saying there would be endless sex scenes. At least if it's bad then bonking is always fun to watch. But you let me down guys, there really wasn't a lot and most of it was off camera. This stupifying film left me puzzled. Was he trying to make a spoof of serious films or is it just plain bad? Certainly the notorious dead end sign seemed like a lampoon. No one is that crass, surely? American films are always obsessed with style as if needing to 'sell' themselves to an audience as they're watching. Clockers had that feel which is inamicable to art, I think, but this film went too much the other way. As a whole it was dully shot and boring too. The scene where a couple are murdered to a baseball commentary was spectaculally tasteless. I don't blame relatives for being offended by the film. Also we only have Berkowitz's word that a dog was talking to him. Those scenes were phoney and the talking dog, while initially quite demonic, ended up making me double up in mirth for ten minutes. The scenes where the Italians suspect the punk were never remotely credible. Maybee it's just one of those one off turkeys that crop up occasionally from top directors. "},{"Title":"Absolutely barking","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this the day after seeing Fightclub for the second time and it made me appreciate the former even more. I'm not a fan of Spike Lee but went to see this on the strengh of the previous comments saying there would be endless sex scenes. At least if it's bad then bonking is always fun to watch. But you let me down guys, there really wasn't a lot and most of it was off camera. This stupifying film left me puzzled. Was he trying to make a spoof of serious films or is it just plain bad? Certainly the notorious dead end sign seemed like a lampoon. No one is that crass, surely? American films are always obsessed with style as if needing to 'sell' themselves to an audience as they're watching. Clockers had that feel which is inamicable to art, I think, but this film went too much the other way. As a whole it was dully shot and boring too. The scene where a couple are murdered to a baseball commentary was spectaculally tasteless. I don't blame relatives for being offended by the film. Also we only have Berkowitz's word that a dog was talking to him. Those scenes were phoney and the talking dog, while initially quite demonic, ended up making me double up in mirth for ten minutes. The scenes where the Italians suspect the punk were never remotely credible. Maybee it's just one of those one off turkeys that crop up occasionally from top directors. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so this is not the best movie that I have ever seen. However, It is much better than most people give it credit for.  The many different characters and story lines make the film interesting. The actors for the most part, especially Adrien Brody do a very strong performance. All together Summer of Sam is a great movie! "},{"Title":"Summer of Sam is a daring, original masterpiece.","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike's new joint is probably his most ambitious project to date. The film journeys into unfamiliar territory for Lee, an Italian American neighborhood in the Bronx during the summer of 1977. The film tackles a plethora of subjects that most filmmakers are just too scared to go near. The main character, a hair dresser named Vinny, played by Leguizamo, is a very interesting mix of old prejudices and beliefs at odds with a basically sensitive (but totally confused) personality. He is the middleman, torn between loyalty and fascination with his childhood buddy, Ritchie (who is the punk rocker/misfit on the street), and the group-think of the racist and boorish guidos in the neighborhood. That conflict, combined with his Madonna-whore complex and all the complications that it create within his marriage, make him a particularly interesting character. His sexual issues are not specific within his ethnic culture, but are ones that are prevalent throughout American society. Lee's sex scenes were done with a realistic tone. He wasn't trying to create some sort of magical ambiance, he was displaying the beast with all its warts. His intention wasn't to create soft porn that is so rife within film of the day. So many otherwise noteworthy directors feel like they have to give their sex scenes a touch of class. Lee, admirably, shows it for what it is, a down and dirty, instinctual behavior that is corrupted when outdated religious beliefs and social mores enter into the picture. Ritchie is portrayed correctly as the liberated punk who has risen above the neighborhood intolerance (with a notable backslide in one scene). The fact that Ritchee listens to The Who does not suggest that the punk scene of the time was poorly researched by Lee. If one were to peruse the influences of many of the punk icons from that era, the resulting discovery would be that many rock and roll acts not typically associated with punk rock weighed in heavily as influences within the scene (check out some of the reverential covers of sixtees rock and rollers put out by renown punk acts of that era - e.g. THE RAMONES' Acid Eaters, etc.).  Ritchie was a well thought out character. One could only wish that he figured more predominantly in the film.Vinny and Ritchie alone make the movie. They are fresh visions of Italian Americans - contrary to the suffocating body of film that has chosen to focus almost exclusively on this particular ethnic group as mobsters and thugs (which runs contrary to the assertions that this film is nothing but a stereotyping piece of trash). The attacks on this film for stereotyping are thin. Spike Lee holds forth ugly realities, and some just aren't prepared to accept them.In response to the criticism of Lee being sloppy with lighting and editing I say this don't be so anal retentive. Spike Lee has a unique, creative visual style that on the whole works. No one is completely original, we all work within a framework of experience. He is not just imitating his mentor and hero Scorcese, but creating a film language that is fresh and engaging. Just because he makes mistakes should not diminish the fact that he is one of the more daring and resourceful directors out there. Lee is an iconoclast whose works will remain important long after some of his more squeamish (and pretentious) peers fade into obscurity. Time will vanquish Lee's prudish and narrowminded critics as puritanical snobs and Lee will be remembered as a forward thinking social commentator who bravely wrestled with the issues of ethnicity and sex within a complex American society.  "},{"Title":"An open letter to Spike Lee...","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dear Mr. Lee, When did you decide to rip off Oliver Stone by skewing recent American history just to make some money?  I know very little about the Son of Sam killings, but I also know you prejudiced my viewing my prejudicing 1970's Italian-Americans.  Did everybody act like this?  Doubt it.  Would your script have been more intelligent if you had even one character in it with a brain?  Yes.  The killings in the film were brutal, but you decided not to show the consequences on the victims' families.  You decided not to show how Berkowitz slowly went insane, or explore the recent charges that there was more than one killer.  Instead, you give us a bunch of drugged, sexually deviant Italians reacting to the killings in a way no humans ever would.  Good job with your cast, big names.  Although, after Patti LuPone's completely needless topless scene, I will never watch Life Goes On the same way again.  It is sad when the caliber of talent you were given has to resort to such debauchery just to make a critics group happy.  Sincerely, Videoredux. "},{"Title":"Save your money!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure if this was an attempt at a remake of ''Lords of Flatbush'' but if so it failed.  That movie made you care about the characters a bit. The only thing I cared about in this movie was having it be over sooner.  The characters were pretty much unsympathetic, foul-mouthed and annoying.  I'm glad I only rented the video and didn't pay full price.  "}{"Title":"The Most Misunderstood Movie of the Summer??","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Take the Summer of Sam for what it is!!! Nothing more nothing less.  It was a fun, thrilling, and exciting movie.  The Music was loud, the women were fast, and the gun shots were loud and fast!!!  Ok so there were a few scenes in this movie that can be described as over-the top....but maybe that was Spike's way of capturing the hysteria of that era----New York City in the summer of '77.......you kept me on the edge of my seat with this one. "},{"Title":"In 1999, the summer belongs to this movie....","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee's brilliant Summer of Sam is indeed the best film of the summer. A film of high voltage energy and glorious filmmaking. Once again, Lee has made a film that has been unfairly criticized for it's sex and violence. First of all, an account of a real life serial killer is not exactly intended to make us feel good. Also, in 1977, lots of people were having sex, particularly in New York City, where the film is set. Once you know that, you are likely to be enthralled by this masterpiece.Lee's disco dance numbers are some of the best ones ever shot for film. His musical numbers are some of the best I've ever heard in a film, particularly the use of The Who classic Won't Get Fooled Again during the film's intense climax. The film is brilliant in the way it shows the Son of Sam comitting his sinful acts, while at the same time revealing that the characters from the Bronx commit sins of their own. As the summer of 77 belonged to Sam, the summer of 99 belongs to Spike Lee and his latest film triumph. "},{"Title":"um vomit?","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i have NEVER walked out on a movie until now. suppressing my vomit reflex was driving me insane i could not feel any emotion for a single character in this movie  not to mention the awful acting that was in this atrocity. my friends and i could have done better with a super 8 and a $100 budget "},{"Title":"Sprawling and powerful","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie really packed a punch, as has practically every Lee film I've seen.  Visually stunning, with wonderfully rich dialogue and interesting characters.  While many were written in the language of stereotype, I felt each was stamped with well-drawn individuality.  And a sense of place--well we're so used to Spike creating one so well that we probably take it for granted.  But once again, we're drawn in.  A very very good film. "},{"Title":"Spike Lee is the best living director","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Behind Stanley Kubrick my favorite director is Spike Lee.  Only Spike Lee would take the subject of a serial killer and make it a fresh and fun movie. It reminded me a lot of BOOGIE NIGHTS the way the music and the club scene. Come into this movie with and idea of what it is really about and you will love it.  My favorite movie of the year after EYES WIDE SHUT.  Warning the serial killer is only a subplot. 10/10 4 stars "},{"Title":"Summer of Sampling","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, Spike Mr. Derivative Lee returns once again with his ongoing homage to Scorsese, this time lifting direct lines from Goodfellas and Casino.  Summer of Sam is more interested in sticking it to the guineas than telling a linear story.  Violent and profane, the only saving grace is that Mira Sorvino looks nice having sex.  "},{"Title":"What a disappointment","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie was supposed to focus on Mr Herschowitz a relatively good looking brown haired blue eyed Killer, who has some problems I might add. The story takes place in 1977 in the 5 burroughs of NY. Not only was there about 5-10(pushing it) minutes of this killer and his story, But the rest of the story just lacked. Don't even get me started on how poor the dog was brought into the movie!!! How many movies do we have to sit through and watch some Drugged up man cheat on his wife. Oh that's right it was in the 70's so it's different, No it's the same recycled movie, that just so happens to take place during 77 in the summer in NY. Don't waste your money!!! "},{"Title":"Why not SEE a movie before judging it?","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee's latest masterpiece, Summer of Sam, is not, I repeat NOT about Spike cashing in on real people's pain and suffering! Period! This movie deals with the paranoia of the locals during a time when everyone was living in fear. It makes it that much better that he chose a real situation as a backdrop. That's what it is, a backdrop!!! Spike is a story teller telling a story. No more, no less. And why single this movie out and pick on it when hundreds of other movies DO exploit real victims? The real Son of Sam said Spike was wrong to do this movie. No, it was wrong to kill innocent people. "},{"Title":"Sex, Drugs, Disco, Punks, Homosexuals, Blacks, Whites, Italians & Murders","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most intelligent movies I have seen in some time.  I'm not a big Spike Lee fan, but I must saw this film absolutely entertained me and sparked my interest all the way through.  Mira & John have the potential for Oscar Nominations.  Powerful, captivating, historical correct and intense - the movie does not focus on Son of Sam and the murders, but more how the social actions of a mad man allowed people an excuse to be ignorant and the hate crimes surrounding sex, drugs, disco, punk rock, homosexuals, whites and blacks.  The soundtrack was amazingly chosen and in a sadistic way added to the atmosphere of the movie.  I strongly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys political intense dramas with humor.  Keep your eyes on the Ruby character - there's a lot to her than first impressions lead. "},{"Title":"A brilliant, engrossing study of urban paranoia.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Spike Lee takes his audience to New York City, summer 1977, you can actually feel the 104 degree heat. He captures all the lunacy and desperation of the Son of Sam murders, and, even more impressively, the tension that they created in the city that never sleeps. A great story, great performances, and a prefect sweaty atmosphere. "}{"Title":"Intelligent, Fast-Paced Genre-Breaker","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee has been tagged for so long as a 'black' film maker that he has received a lot of advance criticism about SOS. Don't believe the naysayers. This is an intelligent movie that surveys the New York crazes of 1977 against the backdrop of the exploits of the serial killer, Son Of Sam. Excellent acting, and a convoluted plot line that will keep you awake. It's loaded with Lee's trademark stunt photography, and by US standards, pretty candid sexual scenes and raunchy dialog. You might have a couple of minor quibbles about particular scenes (one at CBGBs isn't very authentic) or polemical intrusions (some of the 'interview' footage in BedStuy), but overall, I think you'll be impressed by this little time capsule. "},{"Title":"Great Film, Sad Events","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee comes out fighting with his new film Summer Of Sam, which was almost 100% perfect. Like most Spike Lee pictures it was a tad too long, at 140 minutes, if he had shortened it by about ten to twenty minutes it would have been absolutely perfect. John Leguizamo gave a stellar performance as Vinny, the repeat philanderer, completely unfaithful to his wife Dionna, played by the lovely Mira Sorvino, In the midst of all the hoop-la surrounding the son of sam murders, Vinny tries to give up on cheating and go straight, but the pressures become to much for him to handle so Vinny starts doing more drugs and has more trouble with his associates when they try to get him to help set up their buddy Ritchie. They have reason to believe that Ritchie, played by Adrian Brody, is the son of sam. But the truth about this film is that it is not about the son of sam murders, but more about the people and the atmosphere during the time. People were scared out of their wit and Spike Lee captured that in this film, not to cash in on the horrid events that David Berkowitz bestowed upon the Bronx. Berkowitz seems to be outraged by the film, well, my friend's sister said it best. When you go out and kill a bunch of people, your opinions just don't matter anymore. This film is most definitely recommended by me, though it should not be viewed by children. "},{"Title":"Lee trying to do a lot of things. Fails at all. (spoilers)","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw this in the cinemas in 1999 I loved it. The killer being the side attraction to the interplay of a Italian community sounds a nice angle, and the underlying tone of sex sex sex was a nice theme to a teenage guy. Revisiting it 14 years on Summer of Sam is a pretty painful experience. Admittedly there are some scenes that really pop. The talking dog out of nowhere is especially creepy, but also sadly undone by Michael Badalucco's hammy wailing of master masttterr like a 30s B grade horror. Also, pretty amazing is the scene where the baseball commentators are playing in the background and the killer is walking around as if the commentators are talking about his movements. So yes, not a complete write off. On the down points though is pretty much everything else. Cinematic clichés and to be honest just cartoonesque characters, none of which we really feel for in any great depth. It's like Mean streets Disney-fied..By Lee jamming in everything from the emergence of the counter culture punk culture at CBGB's (by the way mohawks didn't exist in the Punk culture until later on) to club 54, he's showed us every 1977 NYC cliché possible. Rather than taking us down and dirty on the streets of NYC and the fear in the neighbourhoods he's gelled over it by scattering a bunch of gems, none of which are explored in any great detail. I have pretty huge objections to some of the scenes as well. The biggest of these is when the Italians go to the punk bar, look at all the patrons with nose piercings etc (once again this didn't exist in early NY punk bars till 1978 on) to hunt out Richie. At this point their reasoning for Richie being the Son of Sam is that he's a weirdo. Once they saw there's 100's of others that look just like him, shouldn't they have re-evaluated, or at least there be a scene where they are questioning their train of logic before deciding otherwise?The interludes of Michael Badalucco placing children's blocks to spell kill and murder, is just corny and all in all the best parts for me is the bookends. The reporter who investigated the Son of Sam killings summing up the tone of NYC at the time is a nice touch.Far from getting me into the mindset of what it felt like to live in an Italian neighbourhood at the time of the killings, the direction of the film completely removed me. Very surprised this has a 6.6 rating. "},{"Title":"Superb movie all around","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This brilliant movie uses the Son of Sam murders as a backdrop to a riveting tale about the lives of ordinary people struggling to get by when an entire city is held hostage by terror. John Leguizamo is amazing in the lead role, adroitly capturing all facets of his character. The audience is forced to love and hate the character, pity and admonish him. He's a good person who makes stupid choices and gets in way over his head. Sounds like the perfect everyman to me!Adrien Brody is likewise magnificent. His character's tortured intellect is both striking and foolish; a difficult dichotomy to carry off so well.I watched this primarily to see Anthony LaPaglia, but unfortunately, he's not in it that much. His brief scenes are good, though.  "},{"Title":"Seriously underrated film","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say that I was very impressed with this film.  John Leguizamo's performance was outstanding as well as Adrien Brody's.  A lot of people might be put off by some of Lee's skewed portrayals of whites/blacks in his past films, and although this film uses some of those cliches they didn't ruin what I found to be a very good film.  I particularly like the disco scenes, as well as the video montage to the Who's Baba O'Reilly.  Can be frightening (because of the this really happened realism of Berkowitz's stalking) as well as funny (Reggie's the 44 killer!), graphically sexual (Plato's) and violent (throughout).  All in all, it's a vivid portrayal of late 70's New York and the tensions of that hot summer.  Kinda reminds me of Boogie Nights because of the 70's thing, but also because it looks closely at the interactions and human weaknesses of the individual characters. Leguizamo got robbed, I seriously think that he turned in an Oscar calibre performance. "},{"Title":"A Personally Twisted Re-telling of History","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Neither my husband nor I liked Summer of Sam.Every scene is too long. Spike Lee has said he makes long movies because the studios let Oliver Stone and Kevin Costner make them and it would be racism if they didn't let him too. Too bad he doesn't take Sayles or Woody Allen as better models of crisp editing.The music video scenes are the best, especially the Who songs and he does capture the look of the period. Though one character is an erstwhile punk rocker hanging out at CBGB's that music isn't featured as well as disco and pop.While this is co-written by Italian-Americans, including Michael Imperioli who also has a bit part, as the light keeper in the male strip joint, and who co-stars vividly in The Sopranos which really uses one ethnic group to examine American society, this is a caricature of Italian-Americans as hung up on kinky sex.These are not full-rounded characters. This seems to be Lee's revenge that Crooklyn and his other movies just about blacks didn't do as well at the box office so this is how he does a movie about whites -- nasty.Facts in the case are manipulated to fit Lee's vision - two murders took place down the block from us in Forest Hills, Queens; we moved in right afterwards. He makes it seem like they were in the Bronx mostly, justifying the craziness, and in Brooklyn, his turf, with that silly Bed-Stuy interview reaction scene. This location issue is significant because it was NOT clear the suspect was white. In fact one of the horrific fall-outs from the case was that as the hysteria built witnesses more and more claimed the guy looked black or Hispanic--even though such a person would clearly have been spotted in Forest Hills in 1977 where the early murders were.Because the black-out riots reflect badly on blacks they're shown then referred to only briefly at the end, though the ramifications of it rattled around for quite awhile after. My husband asked if Lee is so intent on showing how the Italians are really primitive tribalists, why, in this black-out scene does he show the African-American neighborhoods being torn apart in mindless anarchy, while he shows the Italian neighborhood organizing to protect itself and maintain order? Does he envy their tribe which, admittedly screwed up as it is, at least functions to protect the interests of its members, as opposed to his tribe, which does not? Is that why he is accused in the news clip of not liking black people? The Ben Gazzara Capo character is a bit silly, though I'd believe it more if this took place in Ozone Park as that is how Gotti operated in South Queens. At least Mira Sorvino's character is left with some shreds of dignity, as Patti LuPone's nude scene is gratuitous.The cinematography is wonderful.(originally written 7/29/1999) "},{"Title":"What a god awful mess....","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I cannot believe my eyes. I've just read another review that commends Adrian Brody for portraying the uprising of British punk rock - was that sarcasm so subtle that most people have passed it by as a genuine comment? What's this film all about? Who knows - other than a hugely dysfunctional few blocks of degenerate's somewhere in the Bronx. What should the film be about? Son of Sam - or at least one would imagine it would be from the title... Adrian Brody is a joke. I couldn't quite tell, but I'm guessing that he's supposed to be a local American Italian character that becomes interested in the punk movement and begins trying to put on a god- awful British cockney/chav type accent and copying some of the punk fashion styles - pretending to be some sort of quasi punk-rocker. At least I hope so - if he's supposed to be a British punk character living in America, it was embarrassing beyond words. It was pretty bad - no matter which way you look at it. That's when he's not being super-camp in little denim shorts on a stage appearing to be some sort of stripper... how very punk rock. What's the majority of the film about? Well, as far as I can recall, too much of the film is actually a soft-porn effort for John Leguizamo's character - whether he's having his end away with his wife, a hairdressing customer or someone else from a club. What's the relevance of this sex? Who knows - it has nothing to with Son of Sam, the murders, the hunt for him or his arrest and conviction.The film really drags on. Really drags on. Wait until the black dog. That's a laff. Was I on drugs when I saw that? Phew - it's over. I started this as I was watching it... It's just finished in a totally underwhelming, but entirely predictable conclusion. Idiots - is all I can say about the characters. Idiots. I'd avoid it if I were you - watch Zodiac instead (Gyllenhall version) - it's a far better film about a serial killer and the hunt for him. "},{"Title":"Deadening and Endlessly Offensive","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A Stylish, Stupid Movie full of Faddish, Fake Characterizations in a Cartoonish Way that Feels like a Rotoscoped Ralph Bakshi Exhibit without the Humor. There is some Humor Here but it is Unintentional. It's quite a Mess and Meanders Everywhere around NYC during that Summer of Sam.The most Unappealing Characters are Placed in some Very Unappealing Situations and the Audience is Forced to Watch. This is Sadistic Filmmaking. It does Look Splashy but Looks aren't Everything. Everything in this Total Misfire is Gut-Wrenching and made Intentionally Hard to Swallow. Wallowing Away in Stereotypes that are not only Ill Conceived but Inaccurate and are more False Memory than Historical.Overall, it is a Badly Conceived and Badly Acted and Worst of all, Badly Directed Disaster from a Sometimes Effective Social Commentator. But here His Commentary is a Jack Hammer of a Jack-Off and is so Self Indulgent that it is an Odorous and Stench Filled Film that is Profane, Gross, and Grossly Overrated. "},{"Title":"Flat Out Horrible","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This horrible excuse for a film claims to be based upon the Son Of Sam murders, which took place in the mid-70s. But it doesn't not by any means. In fact, this movie has so little to do with the actual Son Of Sam killer that I was enraged that Spike Lee used it as the title of his film. Naming this film Summer Of Sam is about like making a golf movie and naming it Helter Skelter. Okay, I will try to stay serious while writing this review, but it won't be easy because I am still in extreme disappointment and shock from the horribleness of this movie. I keep my expectations pretty low when I am watching a new flick just so I am not disappointed, but you have to draw the line somewhere. Nobody rents/buys a movie thinking it is a horror film and expects to get THIS.First of all, the movie is way too experimental. When all of the experimental stuff begins, it is very interesting. However, once you get further into the movie, and you realize that it is going NOWHERE, and then eventually all of the experimental stuff becomes boring and completely unnecessary. Even the few scenes of blood and nudity didn't save it. It is a wacky film that can't keep up with its storyline, and in the long run has no real point to it. After viewing it, I felt like Spike Lee was trying to take advantage of the fact that most horror fans will watch any horror movie at least once. One thing I know for sure is that when Lee was making this, he was not trying to make a real horror movie by any means.The movie is basically some kind of crime/sex/drama film with a bunch of thug characters in mid-1970s New York. To keep the title from being a complete lie, Lee would show random shots of the Son Of Sam killer going out and doing his thing in between scenes, and then we would just cut back to our cast of characters. All of the scenes that involve the killer are great Awesome lighting, creepy atmosphere, and lots of blood... But unfortunately there are very few of them. The bottom line was that this movie was not about the Son Of Sam killings by any means.I really don't know what Lee was trying to accomplish when he made this movie. The cover art looks like the cover art for a horror movie, and the trailer insists that it is a serial killer movie. It is neither. If Lee was going to make a movie like this, then he should have let his audience know that he was making a movie like this. In the long run, I think he was just trying to draw attention. I think that he thought that by making a really weird and off-tone movie it would be widely talked about and lots of people would see it out of curiosity. Which, in my opinion, is nothing but wrong and misleading.The movie's only strong point that it manages to maintain throughout the entire movie is the great acting. But, if the script is terrible and the directing is less then great, then great acting does you no good. I'm sorry, Mr. Lee, but this film was just a complete failure. Next time, I suggest you try deciding what kind of film you are trying to make BEFORE you make it.Pretty horrible, not worth watching. A complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"A good ensemble cast but not used that well","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the summer of 1977 in New York, the temperatures are rising and the streets are nervous as a serial killer preys on couples as they sit in their cars.  Against a backdrop of fear and tension within the various communities, Vinny's life of cheating and disco begins to change with the return of his friend Richie to the Bronx as a punk and his wife beginning to cotton onto his affairs.Returning to form with 25th Hour, Spike Lee has had a mixed career critically.  I'm not sure what the critics thought of this film (nor have I read any reviews here yet) so I may be totally off base on this film but I did find it a little rambling and over stretched.  Although the film appears to be about the Son of Sam murders, the key word to pick up on is `background' as in `against the background of the murders'.  The real story here is about the tensions within the community and, more locally, within the life and marriage of Vinny.As a result of this I felt pulled in several directions unsure of what I was meant to be getting from the film.  I was interested in the murders but they were almost sidelined by everything else.  To the fore from this, I was also pulled between the main characters &#150; unsure of who I should be following, the film tries to do a good job with them all but can't quite pull it off.  Despite this I still found it interesting as an idea of place and people, the stories were all interesting and it was only annoying that so many characters are not followed through on &#150; I was left with too many questions at the end of this.As a director, Lee shows that he can deliver style and uses different stocks well on top of his usual repertoire of tricks.  He keeps the film moving with energy but I didn't feel that he did as good a job managing the substance &#150; allowing strands to wander and not be as powerful as the finished product should have been.The ensemble cast are all pretty good.  At times there are characters who fall easily into goomba stereotypes but the materials manages to rise them above it for the most part.  Leguizamo is average which surprised me, as I usually hate his performances but he does so-so in the lead.  Brody is also impressive as the punk misfit.  Sorvino has less to do but is good.  The support cast is deep in well known faces for anyone who has seen more than one gangster movie or episode of the Sopranos.Overall this film is stylish but it's material is a little too stretched to be as compelling as it should be.  Too many strands distract from one another &#150; the end product is still interesting but it leaves too many holes the more it gets expanded. "}{"Title":"Forget the bad reviews; one of the better films of 1999","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee has made a good film here, very good . Not the best he's ever done, but actually when I reflect back on it it's even better in retrospect. True, John Leguizamo may be slightly (though not entirely) miscasted as a Italian American when he should be Puerto-Rican, but I think the only reason Lee used Leguizamo, aside from their bond formed for Lee's 1998 film for HBO Freak, Leguizamo is able to get inside the character of the God-fearing/loathing cheater and hairdresser. It's an inspired performance that could possibly go into overkill, but it doesn't. And Leguizamo gives what he's got in this film. Also, Adrien Brody gives his best performance (up until 2002 that it) as the Italian/American/Britain punk rocker who is into the Who and is mistaken for the Son of Sam killer in 1977. He is the counter-point, of the character who may also be flawed, but is truer to himself than anyone else in the neighborhood, and- as with some of the characters in Do the Right Thing- has to pay practically the ultimate price. One of the small near-genius things about Summer of Sam is that this film is NOT necessarily all about the Son of Sam killer David Berkowitz (though there are scenes with him hearing the dog in his run-down Bronx apartment and him killing the brunettes of New York, one of which involving a letter that is really masterful). It is about a community who already have a rigid way about them, and are as paranoid as Richard Nixon on pot. They believe anybody is a suspect (even Reggie Jackson of the Yankees because his uniform number is 44 and the caliber gun is 44), which leads then to Brody's character. It's really an underrated, terrific drama about the psychology of a group of people who can't cope, with the environments and pressures closing in, but free will getting kicked around like Sam's dog let loose in a poor neighborhood. There's also some very good ensemble acting and other good things make this film better than everyone else (i.e. many of the critics) who say it is. Sweet soundtrack, too, plus the usual visual strokes with a powerful DP at Lee's side. "},{"Title":"Ambitious Lee","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely Spike Lee fears nothing. If he believes in something he goes for it no matter how complicated it may seem. Summer Of Sam is a 143 minutes long movie about the summer of 1977 in the city of New York, the summer that psycho-killer David Berkowitz put in check the whole police department, the summer of the big blackout that ended up in such of a riot with assaults a robbings all around, the born of punk-rock, disco music, and the days of glory of CBGB's and Studio 54's, it was also one of the most hot summers ever in the history of New York City. Now you know why Summer Of Sam is 143 minutes long. There're 3 main argumental lines in SOS the story of Vinny (John Leguizamo), a sex-addict guy who feels guilty for cheating on his wife (Mira Sorvino) but he can't stop doing it. The story of Ritchie (Adrien Brody), Vinny's best friend, a punk rocker who dreams about being a punk rock star, and has to face the prejudices and mistrusts of the people in his neighborhood (italian-american, mostly old-fashioned) because of his punk-rock look, and his punk-rock way of life. And last but not least, the terror and the paranoia that David Berkovitz provoked in the city and, especially, in Bronx. Of course this three stories get crossed. All this adorned with an outstanding soundtrack with songs from The Who, Marvin Gaye, Barry White, or Frank Sinatra. The main problem with Summer Of Sam is, obviously, its length. Maybe Spike Lee should've reconsidered that story line about Vinny and his sex conflicts, maybe he could've made another different moviegoing deeply in that line, because some Vinny's scenes slow down a little the rhythm of the movie. Ritchie's character it seems much more interesting for me; and he hasn't half the attention that Vinny's has.Spike Lee displays his huge talent behind the camera, and his special skills to write natural, street dialogs, and his lack of complex when he has to film sex scenes, or violent scenes. He selected a nice cast mostly consisted of young Hollywood actors, that made a GREAT job. I couldn't say who did it the best, 'cause all of them did a superb job. In short one of the most ambitious Spike Lee's movies. A tribute to a very special time in a very special city.My rate 8/10  "},{"Title":"A Spike Lee Out-of-Joint","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This mess of a film seems like the work not of the accomplished Spike Lee but of some new director just out of film school, who wants to imitate Scorcese (from the Mean Streets milieu down to the bumper's eye shot of a cruising car right out of Taxi Driver) while throwing in every theme he can think of, and randomly trying out exotic tricks with camera and lighting.  It starts out as the story of serial killer Son of Sam, but soon switches to a group of Italian-American characters living in Brooklyn at the time the killings took place.  These characters may or may not be stereotypes, but for sure none of them is very interesting.  Lee cuts back and forth among the Italian-Americans and their various problems and every so often goes back to the Son of Sam story, without bothering to make any connections (did Lee have anything in mind?).  The scenes are without a unifying style or look.  The acting is generally good, especially Adrien Brody and Mira Sorvino.  But it is wasted in a story that fails to gain the audience's sympathy or interest.  Even the steamy sex scenes fail to involve.  Footnote Lee should not encourage his actors to improvise.  They seem to think that when portraying lowlife characters, the goal of improvisation is to use the word f**k as frequently and in as many parts of speech as possible.  "}]