[{"Title":"Boy meets boy.  Oh boy!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"34 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" It's hard to imagine a gay themed film where the main characters aren't drag queens, don't have AIDS, aren't bitchy, catty, flamboyant, tragic or shallow. As it turns out, gay people, like non-gay people, can be all those things (and aren't we all tired of it) and so much more. In fact, the most distinguishing characteristic of gay people is that, for the most part, they are virtually indistinguishable from non-gay people. Isn't it about time a movie just allowed its central gay characters to be a couple of cute young guys whose casual meeting teeters over the course of a hilariously frustrating evening on the verge of becoming more than a one night stand?Gabriel, played by Christian Campbell, Neve Campbell's older brother, is a shy, aspiring composer with dimples to die for. Mark, J. P. Pitoc, is an outgoing journalism student who earns money as a go-go boy and has the body to prove it. Pitoc and Campbell, who appear together again in the Thank You, Good Night, gel beautifully as the put-upon would-be lovers. In a world where meeting and having sex can be a rather common and often all too impersonal event, they meet, and like most people their age, they want to have sex. But the story that gently unfolds is not at all common. It's tender, funny, and much more romantic than it sounds.Tori Spelling, it hurts me to even write this, is terrific as Gabriel's oh-so theatrical friend. She maintains a drama in her life that can be endearing, but is often times more annoying, the latter which Ms. Spelling portrays with great comic success. The rest of the cast is fairly unremarkable, with two notable exceptions. Steve Hayes is brilliant as a friend from Gabriel's theatre class whose hilarious Como te gusta mi pinga is the funniest cabaret number since Priscilla. Clinton Leupp as drag queen Coco Peru, delivers a delightful bathroom soliloquy that will have you in stitches. Even more amusing is the fact that Miss Coco looks distractingly like Ms. Spelling's character, right down to the overabundance of drama.Trick is an uplifting and life-affirming look at being young and gay and almost in love. Surely you were at least one of these things once. "},{"Title":"Sweet and Sly Gay Romantic Comedy","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Did I see the same movie as some of the other folks who have posted reviews for Trick?  My lover and I just watched this last night in New York City, with a predominantly gay audience, and we found it a delightful, unpretentious little comedy.For starters, this is a romantic comedy, making full use of all the cliches and conventions of the genre (i.e., our lovers meet cute on the subway and endless complications keep them apart).  None of this is new, but when I see people complain about these plot devices I wonder just how many movies these people have ever seen?  All this groundwork was laid down long, long ago in the silent era and certainly in the golden age of screwball comedy in the '30s.  So, the idea today is to see how well a filmmaker uses these conventions, not to wonder why none of this isn't terribly original!  In the case of Trick, these rules of film comedy are applied very well.This film is also, obviously, a comedy of frustration in that our two lovers want each other but can't have each other.  Events and people conspire against them.  Again, none of this is terribly original, but it is well played and diverting.  I especially enjoyed the absence of any stupid heart-felt, sentimental and unmotivated moments that mar so many contemporary Hollywood movies.  For instance, the relationship between Gabriel (Christian Campbell) and his best gal pal (Tori Spelling) was quite realistic.  She was a difficult-to-get-along with old friend, the kind you find hard to move on from. And the relationship (dating, we are told, from high school days) was convincingly complicated.  Yes, she was self-centered, neurotic, even ridiculous.  But, then some women are (as are some men).  This is misogynistic?  What, was she supposed to be some drippy, supportive, self-effacing female saint of a best friend offering her shoulder for Christian to cry on?  I liked her better as played by Tori Spelling.  Incidentally, Spelling has a marvelous scene of hysteria when she goes off in the diner about the cheese fries!The acting in this film was uniformly good, and quite high level for an independent film.  Far from being a numb skull, I thought J.P. Pitoc gave the go-go boy character real depth and sympathy. He was beautifully subtle in the first scene in Gabriel's apartment when you can see his interest in Gabriel come alive beyond a casual sexual attraction.  This deepening flicker of interest easily explains Mark's staying around through a frustrating evening  he sensed there is more to Gabriel and he wants to find out what.  Made perfect sense to me. Also (duh!) if he didn't stick around we would have no plot!The drag queen (Clinton Leupp) has a very funny monologue, also.  His presence in this film was perfectly logical  they are in a gay dance club in Manhattan for gosh sakes!  Drag queens do hang out in such places!  Further, his entrance into the men's room is also well set-up; he sees Gabriel dancing with Mark and follows him into the john to give him some dirt.  Motivation  jealousy!  I cannot understand anyone faulting the screenplay on this note.All-in-all, this is a slight, but very entertaining little film that tugs at the heartstrings a bit.  And it certainly is a crowd pleaser!  To hear a jaded NYC audience hooting and hollaring at any comedy was refreshing.  Trick is a carefree delight! "},{"Title":"This is beautiful!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I was a little wary of a movie about two guys trying to find a place in New York city where they can be alone and have some sex. A comedy? I thought it could be very boring. I'm so glad I went to see this one! It is funny and romantic, and it ends in a smart way, and I can only say Thank you, guys! That was fun! "},{"Title":"Sparkling romantic comedy is a sure-fire hit","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Gay romantic comedies seem to fall into two different categories either they deal with AIDS specifically, or they don't.  TRICK falls into the latter category.  Films in the former category tend to be too heavy-handed to be good (save JEFFREY and LOVE! VALOUR! COMPASSION!).  Here, screenwriter Jason Schafer focuses not on AIDS whatsoever.  In fact, it is never mentioned once.  Instead, we watch as two men (wonderfully played by Christian Campbell and John Paul Pitoc) try to have a one-night stand.  The only problem they have no place to go.  As these two men desperately try to find a room, fate interferes, allowing them to get to know each other before consumating the relationship.  Tori Spelling is terrific in a supporting role, but it is the two leads who must manage this film, and they do with astonishing realism.  It's a modern-day, gay fairy tale.  It's the type of film that makes you laugh, cry, and feel good in the end.  Hollywood could learn something from this small independent feature.  "},{"Title":"The sweetest movie, hands down, that I have ever seen.","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  As soon as you finish watching it, you'll want to rewind it and watch it again.  The sweetest, most refreshing movie I have seen.  Something about it (maybe the thoroughly funny and romantic love story) leaves with the greatest feeling in the world.  And I go around for hours after I've watched it singing Enter You.  Funny, engaging, sweet, romantic, and (I know it's the same word the critics used, but they were absolutely right) magical! "},{"Title":"All-American boy meets stud-hunk","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  After a leisurely start, we get some great comic  sequences. My favorites are ones I'd call intimate  piano, drag queen fury, and coffee shop  confrontation.Like other recent gay-themed films such as BEAUTIFUL  THING, OBJECT OF MY AFFECTION, EDGE OF SEVENTEEN, and GET REAL, this film is very personal and doesn't get caught up in homophobia or AIDS. It doesn't even give us coming-out angst. It is just a sweet, old fashioned romance but with gay characters.I highly recommend this film. It may become a mainstream charmer. I certainly hope so. "},{"Title":"Trick or treat","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Not having seen the film when it was originally released, I caught up with it on IFC. The film is surprisingly light, as the director, Jim Fall, has avoided the usual cliches when dealing with the subject matter.Mr. Fall was very lucky to find this cast, indeed. The three principals, Tori Spelling, Christian Campbell and John Paul Pitoc play very well together. It's a fun film to watch anytime at all. All types of audiences will enjoy this tale of romance, missed opportunities, and fulfilling a dream. All this, and N.Y.'s Greenwich Village in the background, who could ask for anything more? "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I saw this in the theater and bought it as soon as it was available for home purchase. Tori Spelling plays an excellent campy character and the love interest in this story is played beautifully by John Paul Pitoc who while in real life is straight did one of the best acting jobs for this genre since Nick Scotti in Kiss me Guido. If you like laughter, love and want to feel great at the end of a film this is a must have to watch. "},{"Title":"AWESOME ADVENTURE","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  One of the best movies I've ever seen - a real life experience between two people wanting each other and want to be alone without sex and nudity really being needed to tell a real life adventure. The way Gabriel and Mark noticed one another at a strip club and in a subway car was beautifully done. Gabriel wanting to look at Mark sleeping in the subway car was spotted by a woman watching him watching Mark - Gabriel's eyes slowly looking back at Mark was so beautiful and sad and funny one of the best scenes in the movie. To Christian Campbell who plays Gabriel, John Paul Pitoc who plays Mark and the production crew for Trick, THANK YOU.  "},{"Title":"The Go-Go Boy Of His Dreams","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Trick is a story of a late 20 something gay kid played by Christian Campbell who has been going through a breakup and after a bit of a drought is not having any success. Right now he'd settle for a one night stand of hot passion.Especially after seeing J.P. Pitoc up on the stage of that gay bar doing the bumps and grinds, it's the man of his dreams. Fate is seemingly kind to him when he leaves the bar and he winds up on the same train as the object of his affection. Pitoc gets off at the same stop, eye contact is met and it's off to Campbell's place.Which he shares with his straight roommate Brad Beyer and has a female friend played by Tori Spelling who just bounces in whenever she needs to use or borrow something. When they go to Pitoc's world, Campbell is a bit put off by the partying world of the go-go boys. Will they ever get down to the slap and tickle?Despite the emphasis on sex and one night stands, Trick is really a delightful romantic comedy with a gay twist. Tori Spelling by dint of her name recognition from 90210 is top billed though she's really in a supporting role. She's very funny in the role of the gay man's best straight woman friend who really wants to dominate the lives of the gay people around her. Also a bit sad.Both Christian Campbell and J.P. Pitoc have gone on to some substantial careers on the big screen, small screen, and on stage. Pitoc made his film debut here in Trick. Both of them are cast well and I do love the eternal theme of the film that people can be quite a bit deeper than original impressions may make. "}{"Title":"A touching, acutely well observed 'romance'","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Contains some mild spoilers This is a brilliantly observed romance, with some great performances (even by Tori Spelling).  A big part of it is about the two main characters getting to know (and like) each other, and Gabriel realising that he's misjudged Mark just because he's a go-go boy.  This is cleverly done, following a line of 'don't judge people by their appearances', and Gabriel's realisations are projected onto the audience in a very effective manner- just because Mark dances half naked on a bar for money, it doesn't mean he's not intelligent or romantically inclined/trustworthy. JP Pitoc is superb as Mark, and has some of the best lines in the film, my favorite being in the late night restaurant where he answers Tori Spelling's denial of being a Lesbian in a very eloquent way, which surprises everyone (and the audience too).Well worth going to see, or getting on DVD if you're keen on the genre.  All my straight friends have enjoyed it, so it should appeal to a wide audience.And besides, its worth watching just to lust over JP Pitoc. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" The movie Trick is a light-hearted comedy/romance ... refreshing in that it did not stray from true-to-life gay characters, situations and dialog. Many great quotables.Also, many enjoyable characters and funny scenes.J.P. Pitoc is gorgeous. Christian Campbell is highly believable as an inexperienced, gay nerd. Clinton Leupp is flawless, (and dressed like Tori Spelling from Beverly Hills 90210 for those that did not notice.)Steven Hayes' character is a bit of a stereotype, but funny nonetheless, particularly as a singer. And of course, some of these stereotypes come from somewhere in real life... *ahem*There is one particularly funny scene with Tori Spelling in a diner. It's so funny, I nearly pee'd myself. And yes, she clearly has issues.I highly recommended it just for fun. Nothing downer about it. "},{"Title":"Simply Excellent","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I've watched it several times now, and still enjoyed it each time. The movie is very light and if I am to pick one word to describe it, I would choose Simple. The storyline is simple. Yet in its simplicity, it is very entertaining. The location is simply gorgeous. The two lead actors (Christian Campbell and JP Pitoc) are simply excellent - kudos to JP Pitoc on his excellent debut. Tori Spelling and Ms. Coco Peru are simply outrageous (FUNNY!!!!). I watched the movie in slow motion in fact, trying to pick oddities in Christian's and JP's acting (being straight individuals playing two gay boys so convincingly). But I couldn't spot any mistake. The body language, facial expression, eye movements, voice, hands movements, and all. The characters and scenes were well portrayed and delivered. Congrats to Jim Fall for picking and directing the casts. And to Jason Schafer for writing a simply beautiful script. The movie is simply excellent. "},{"Title":"What's wrong with a sweet gay romantic comedy?","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  It's a shame that so many bitter drama queens couldn't enjoy this movie for what it is -- the kind of movie that makes you go home, hug your pillow to sleep, and hope that life is really like that for someone out there.Is it realistic?  Not particularly.  Who cares tho?  The main characters are both adorable (I wish Pitoc would get some roles in bigger movies...I, for one, thought he did a great job!).  The supporting cast does a great job in roles that, while perhaps a little stereotypical, add a great deal of humor to the storyline.So, bitter drama queens, take note there is plenty of room in the cinematic gay milieux for fun, feel-good gay romantic comedies like this one. Lighten up, and try to remember that life isn't all about pain and sorrow. "},{"Title":"Great Gay Romantic Comedy","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Jim Falls applies the mainstream Hollywood romantic comedy genre to a gay situation and the results are delightful. The film is a breath of fresh air and in some respects groundbreaking because it shows us that stories are stories and people are people no matter what their sexual orientation. The film traces a few hours in the lives of a couple of young men who meet and are attracted to one another but can't find a place to be alone and have sex. In the process of a few episodic situations, they actually get to know one another.Some day maybe this will be trite stuff, but based on prejudicial attitudes that exist in society today, it's a fairly important film. The drag queen in the restroom scene is priceless. And those cute ears on J.P. Pitoc! "},{"Title":"I could watch this movie over and over again!  VERY ENJOYABLE  I voted 10 STARS!  TRICK","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" The movie has humor and good actors and actresses.  I loved the plot it kept my interest.  I want to buy this for my collection.  It is enjoyable story with a nice ending.  The music and especially ENTER YOU... lyrics are great. The move was light hearted about 2 gay young men meeting in a NYC and have an immediate attraction for each other.  One happens to be a GoGo Dancer and the other a writer for broadway shows.  The acting is incredibly good and believable.!  I give it thumbs up with 10 STARS!  ENJOYABLE!!! LIGHT HEARTED!  HUMOURS!  EXCELLENT ACTING!!!   "},{"Title":"charming romantic film","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  As a genre still virtually in its infancy, the `gay romantic comedy' (a term that sure doesn't mean what it used to) unquestionably has a long way to go to catch up to its heterosexual equivalent.  With `Trick,' this process takes a few giant steps forward.  This may not be the crossover film many right-minded people might wish it to be, but it goes a long way towards showing that there is actually a benefit to making gay-themed romantic films.  Viewing romance from a gay perspective, in and of itself, helps to refresh some of the staleness that has inevitably seeped into the genre over decades of straight variants on the subject.  Even though the particulars may be different, the universals remain the same &#150; yet, somehow, it is those very differences that make us take a second look at the conventions in fresh and exciting ways.  For instance, I defy anyone to come up with a more purely romantic and emotionally uplifting scene than the final extended tracking shot of this film.  No film in recent memory has more beautifully captured the pure, life-transforming moment of dawning love better than this one does in that special extended moment at the end.  It reminds us of just how intensely straight love stories used to move us, long before they became tired and we became cynical.As in most movie comedy romances, the plot of the film is a very simple one.  Gabe is a shy, almost socially backward young musical comedy composer, living in Greenwich Village with a straight roommate who makes Gabe sleep outside while he, himself, entertains, seemingly on a nightly basis, a parade of willing young ladies.  Though Gabe frequents gay bars, he seems unable to find a comfortable niche in the high-speed gay world he finds there.  Then, one night, Gabe meets on the subway his virtual opposite, a muscular hunk named Mark who works as a `go-go boy' at a local bar and who exudes the kind of raw sexuality and high-stepping confidence that makes him attractive to many of the area's men including, not so incidentally, Gabe as well.  The hook of the film is that Gabe and Mark, once they acknowledge their mutual attraction to each other, are constantly thwarted in their attempts at finding a place to consummate their one-night-stand &#150; and, that, as the night wears on and a new day dawns, they both discover that their feelings for each other have deepened considerably beyond mere casual physical attraction and immediate sexual need. One of the factors that lends depth to this film and makes it more than just mere romantic puffery is that it does not deny the reality of its context.  It deals head-on with the issue of casual sex vs. committed relationships while remaining lighthearted and non-judgmental in the process.  Moreover, writer Jason Schafer and director Jim Fall demonstrate an ear for naturalistic speech, often finding humor and poignancy in the very same line of dialogue.  They have surrounded the two main figures with a bevy of offbeat, slightly quirky characters who make up Gabe and Mark's worlds in the form of best friends, roommates, former lovers, business associates etc.  Tori Spelling does a delightful turn as Gabe's ditzy ex-girlfriend and current best friend who feels conflicted over her own romantic feelings for this man she knows will never love her as she would like him to.  The women are not brain surgeons in this film (Gabe's roommate's girlfriend is another case in point), but they sure are likeable.In fact, likeability is probably `Trick's biggest selling point and in no area of the film is this quality more beautifully captured than in the performances of Christian Campbell and J.P. Pitoc as Gabe and Mark, respectively.  Campbell conveys the goodnatured shyness and sexual awkwardness of Gabe with a warmhearted subtlety that is truly infectious.  Pitoc also manifests the sweetness and intelligence that initially lie hidden beneath the veneer of his sexually-assured, almost dumb-jock exterior.  It is the ever emerging depth in Mark's character that wins Gabe over to his side &#150; and us as well.And then we have that great closing scene!  It reminds us all &#150; gay, straight or whatever &#150; just how transcendent that moment of burgeoning true love can be.  As Gabe walks towards the camera, smiling and peering out at his world with that look that tells us that the objects in it have suddenly been transformed into magical sources of wonder, our hearts go with him.  We care about how this relationship will turn out &#150; and, if that is not the mark of a successful movie romance, I don't know what is. "},{"Title":"Slow Start, Promising Finish","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" In the first, I'd say 20 minutes, of this film, I was not entertained much at all. It all seemed slow and almost painfully awkward when Gabriel and Mark first started their evening. However, I am glad that I didn't stop watching. It turned into a movie about more than just a one night stand. Instead it was about a one night stand turning into more.There were some very nice, touching moments in there as well as some good comedy.But I still could've done without Tori Spelling. But that's my own thing.Definiely worth the watch, you just have to get a bit into it. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie-Watch it","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A fun movie to watch. It's not one you have to think about but can enjoy. Sometimes the harder you try too make something happen, the more things just don't seem to fall in place for you.  This is a movie about a gay couple trying to make it work, at least for one night.  But, look past the gay couple and it can be about any ones life!    "},{"Title":"Wow, wow and wow again...","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Everytime I catch this movie on at night, I HAVE to watch it. It's great in so many aspects. I think it definitely is real because it gives you a larger spectrum of the different types of gay men there are... just like straight movies usually do. Im tired of seeing the in your face gay people in movies. This gives you a very real (well, as real as movies can get) look at what normal gay men are like... they aren't all flamboyant, womanly, drag queens etc etc... Im sure you know the stereotypes. But on top of focusing on the gay community in a good light, it's a very romantic comedy. You can sense the nervousness and attraction between the two lead characters, and you can definitely see the progression of the relationship between the two throughout the night... without the script/writer/director shoving it in your face. A good movie on all fronts, even for people who are straight. And yes, I hate to say it just like everyone else, but Tori Spelling did quite well in this... bitchy and a faghag who's confused about her sexuality, was I the only one who thinks that part was just made to be played by her (typecasting!!!)? "}{"Title":"This movie is a must see for the gay males population.  Some hetero women might enjoy it as well.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, although it's seems to only be on during the extreme late nights.  This film has great casting.  Tori Spelling, although I don't usually like her, is great as the mostly annoying best-friend, and John Paul Pitoc and Christian Campbell are great together on-screen.  For a person who is gay and shy about it, I smile all the way through this movie. I'm simply glad movies like this are being made by companies that have the caliber that New Line does. "},{"Title":"A Fine Romance","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I am not gay.  I am married and a mother, but my husband and I had gay friends in our youth. I thought you should know that so you will know that this is a sweet romantic story.  In fact, my husband liked it so much, he watched it twice in the same day.  Although it's the story about two men trying to hook up for sex only, the way the eventually connect with each other, you'll forget you're watching two men and just end up rooting for them to know they are meant to be together!  The side characters are great (although there is a bit of stereotyping).  And Tori Spelling, whom I don't like as an actress, was very good as his fag hag.  The writer, I would like to add, is very talented.  He has won several local theater awards here in California before he turned 20.   "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie definatly deserves a lot of credit. The acting dialog and music were excellent!!! Christian Campbell as Gabriel gave a stellar performance along side of John Paul Pitoc. They work excellently together and form the type of relationship on screen that is awe inspiring. Not only is this movie hilarious but it also gives a good tug at your heart strings. You dont wanna miss this one. "},{"Title":"A boy-meets-boy story for everyone","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  OK, it's not An Affair to Remember.  So what?  Christian Campbell would make a terrible Deborah Kerr anyway.  You say the story line isn't real? You want real, go see Schindler's List.  For me, Trick was a very funny, moving film.  No gratuitous sex, no in-your-face messages, except maybe that gay love is just as awkward, just as unplanned, and just as rewarding as straight love.Stereotypes?  Yeah, there were some, but they were so well done.  You laughed with them, not at them. And for me, the final two minutes through the ending shot was worth the entire wait. If you want some good laughs, a warm, all-is-right-with-the-world feeling when it's over, I highly recommend Trick.Finally, Trick of Fate, the song heard over the closing credits, is beautiful and poignant.  The music branch of the Motion Picture Academy blew it big time by not nominating it in the Best Song category.  "},{"Title":"A once sad story","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I honestly didn't think I was going to like this movie once that I had gotten it from the local library I had thought What the heck! I had watched it and was pretty amazed at what a film about two people that truly don't know each other can turn out to be a film about true love and what last for one night. Although, the film does take a small twist in being a gay oriented film, it gives a warmth feeling about how love can last more than just one night. "},{"Title":"Delightful romantic comedy played beautifully","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  TRICK is a tasty surprise with a delightful twist on what could have been handled uneasily by insensitive direction.  Essentially, it creates a mad little romantic situation in which a gay pick-up, which might usually result in a one-night stand, becomes a zany screwball farce in which the involved young men face a goofy evening in which they attempt - with failure upon failure - to find a place.  The resultant is a deeper commitment from the two men, and the film relies heavily upon two remarkably deft comedy performances from Jean Paul Pitock and Christian Campbell....and with a daffy turn by, of all people, Tori Spelling.  Some of the subsidiary characters and situations seem a little forced, but the two male leads carry the whole thing into a new realm of romantic comedy fun. "},{"Title":"An adorable movie about new young love in the big city.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a terrific small movie about young people making first contact in the big city.  The performances by Christian Campbell and J. P. Pitoc and fresh, sensuous and sensitive.  This should be enjoyed with popcorn and friends. Lots of fun.  I would like a sequel, but will probably just have to watch it over and over.   "},{"Title":"I just can't believe it.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Finally, a movie about gay men that is not about dying or someone getting bashed or whatever.  This is truly a great film.  I just can't believe all of the negative reviews.  This was a shy and cute movie and it should happen more often that two people should get the hard part over with first - you know the getting to know you part.  Everyone is so hyped up with getting off instead of wondering who this person is I'm about to *^ck.  I thought Mr. Campbell was beautiful, from his dimpled checks, to his twinkling eyes.  And Mark, well - I'm a true ass fan, so - seeing his round little number did it for me.See this movie with a date, or better yet, that person you've been in love with for all of those years.  It will remind you of yourself and the day you met your mate.  It's funny, I met my lover over 13 years ago at a bus stop and it started out pretty much like it did in the movie.  Like Mark's answering machine states in the finally scene - Hi it's Mark - you got me.  "},{"Title":"Hopeless romantic","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I know this film got mixed reviews from both the critics and the commentators at this site. I tend to agree that it would not play well with straight characters and that the minor character's scenes were a bit overdone, but be that as it may I was entertained despite the believability of the premise(they could have rented a room) and I cared very much for the main characters. I didn't want the movie to end. I wanted to see how their relationship developed further. I really wanted to see these two guys together. Guess I'm just a hopeless romantic! "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  My boyfriend and I want to see a sequel - where the story continues and we get to see more of what happens to Gabe and Mark.  I've been singing Como te gusta mi pinga constantly since I rented this movie last week ) Steve Hayes... what a great song!  Tori Spelling is hilarious as Katherine. Maybe Scottie Epstein can have a role in the sequel too - woof! "}{"Title":"Coitus interruptus","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The coitus interruptus in Trick is coy.  At one point, you want Gabriel, a gay would-be musical-meister, to tear into his inconsiderate straight roommate and get him to play fair.  But he's tolerant to a fault, and he doesn't really like gay people as a rule, and he doesn't like the bar scene, and he spends a lot of time with his ex-girlfriend (maybe to avoid any contact), and his choice of roommate is just his way of saying Hands off. He puts up with the impositions, so when he finally finds someone he likes, he can't find any privacy.  The entire night with his trick, Mark, is spent searching for a place, but they never do.  What each finds is something better a sense that they really like each other's company and that the sex is not as important as the companionship they'll enjoy in the long run.Trick doesn't have much to offer beyond this.  Christian Campbell is charming, and John Paul Pitoc is sweet, but the movie doesn't have much more to say than that homosexual men have as many insecurities as straight men, and maybe that they are more star-struck than their heterosexual counterparts.  The supporting cast make respectable impressions, but the movie never goes beyond being mildly pleasant.  Tori Spelling tries too hard to be engaging which means she's mostly annoying.  The freshest moments belong to Lorri Bagley as Gabriel's roommate's bare-breasted girlfriend. She has returned from an extended stay in Paris and returns with the intention of becoming a sex therapist, and considering what she is able to do with Gabriel and Mark, I'd say it's not a bad career choice.  "},{"Title":"Not a gay film, this should be considered a mainstream ROMANCE.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Not even knowing of the existence of this film before being handed it to watch, I must assure the reader of how shocked I was that this film was not noted in any mainline publications that the writer knows of.  I found the film totally appealing and not truly a gay film.  This writer feels that the film has an appeal beyond the gay viewers it was probably intended for, and should be seen by many for its' true movie type of romance. "},{"Title":"Charming romantic comedy","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This film has genuine laughs, romance and good acting.  Following Gabriel and Mark from place to place looking for sexual refuge, and the miriad of characters they come upon is the true charm of this film.  It has no in-your-face sentimentality or melodrama, just plain old human realism.  The range of emotions and feelings Gabriel goes through (at first thinking this will be a quick release and on-with-your-life then being forced to spend time with this stranger and become closer) is heartfelt and true to the fact; I am sure many at one time or another have felt such pangs, doubts and excitement.Like in most films, the supporting cast is superb.  Clinton Leupp as Coco (the token drag queen), Steve Hayes as the older friend (and always wise) Perry and Lorri Bagley as the dippy (yet very profound) sex-therapist wannabe Judy; all shine bright in their comedic moments. "},{"Title":"A real howler...one of the funniest, best movies I've ever seen.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Trick was such a surprise!   HILARIOUS!  At least 4 scenes were so hilarious I was laughing loud enough to make my neighbors get mad at me.It also has  the sweetest young romance I have ever seen. The ending is glorious.  At last a GREAT movie FOR US!!!Trick does NOT disappoint.  Who knew Tori Spelling could be this funny? She is a HOOT!  Great performances all around. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Yet","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  When I first seen it (Trick) on the shelf of the rental store, I thought eh, maybe a good movie.  But After seeing it (Trick) I can honestly say that it is one of the Best Gay movies I've ever seen!  No doubt about it.  I Loved it and both Christian Campbell and John Paul Pitoc are gorgeous looking and awesome actors.  "},{"Title":"I had a wonderful time","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A Gay Romantic Musical Comedy This film reminded my of the movies of the 50's, a good basic plot. It seems that the cast expertly played their roles, appearing extremely realistic. The romance factor was excellent, showing how two men can interact in a real way. The music was extremely entertaining. The time flew by. I hated to see it end. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've ever seen with a gay theme!!","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion, Trick is the finest movie ever made (of which I am aware) with a gay theme.  It avoids almost all the cliches of gay-themed movies, such as men dying of AIDS, display of sex scenes, gays who have sex but don't care about their partners, one-dimensional gay characters, and much more! The cast is uniformly excellent, and the two male stars are not only very pleasant to look at, but they are delightful and heartwarming to listen to. The writing is superb, and the direction worthy of an Academy Award. Great care and love has been taken in ALL aspects of this fabulous film, and it should be seen (in a theater if at all possible) be every gay man and woman, and all those who care about such people (which really SHOULD be everyone, now shouldn't it).  If I had my own film rating system, this film would receive my highest possible rating, without reservation! Rojay. "},{"Title":"Great film for straights and gays","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Trick is a wonderful romantic-comedy that, I think has a mass appeal. It is the sweet story of two men that meet and are looking for a place to be alone. Of course this is easier said than done. Tori Spelling is great as the best friend. She even does a song and dance number. Christian Campbell is excellent as the main character of Gabe. He is realistic, charming, and sexy in his performance. I definately reccommend Trick to anyone looking for a wonderful, sweet romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Fun film breaks the rules.","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This funny romantic film is well worth a repeat viewing.  The two lead roles are wonderfully acted by Campbell and Pitoc, eschewing the cinematic gay character cliches and giving their characters real emotions and hangups. Their characters are bombarded with outrageous situations and side characters who work on the opposite extreme, working mostly as the broad comic landscape behind Gabriel and Mark's quest.This film doesn't sacrifice the couple's story for gay or straight politics, which is a refreshing change that is appearing in some gay films lately. The movie dares to be comfortable with being gay. "},{"Title":"A Romance that takes one back to the first amorous stage","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  After watching trick, I somehow hate this world. Well, at least how my world turned out to be.  Am I bitter? Absolutely. Though it may seem that a relationship between a drama producer and a dancer is not very realistic, as pointed out by many reviewers, I do believe in its compatibility. If there is theoretically someone out there for each and every single person, then who  cares about stereotypes on social standings and crap etc. True love is not defined by those inflexible  rules that run society; it is by following where one's heart leads to.  Too bad reality sometimes doesn't let us live our dreams the way we want them. I have enjoyed watching trick (several times, actually, cause various friends want to see it at different times), and I gained a deeper understanding of what director Jim Fall was trying to expand on with each viewing. Luved it. Btw, the soundtrack is great. Give it a shot.  "}{"Title":"Trick - One of the decade's best gay films","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie last night and I must say that it was the best gay movie I have ever seen. The cast was fantastic. Tori Spelling is just amazingly funny. Her face contortions are just so hysterical, and so her, you would think that they wrote the part with her in mind. The movie just takes you through a whole set of emotions that any and every gay man, and human being for that matter, has gone through when finding a special bond with someone else.  "},{"Title":"A delightful comedy!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A really charming film, very delightful romantic comedy with a gay theme. Standout performances by Tori Spelling, Christian Campbell, John Paul Pitoc, and the others.  Reminded me of the off-beat film After Hours. "},{"Title":"A Trick of all Trades","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Trick is a wonderful movie.  It will appeal to all tastes regardless of the subject matter and has the traditional Hollywood ending.  Yet, there is so much life in the material (original yet universal).  The performances are very true to life and Tori Spelling deserves special credit for bringing a thankless role to new comic heights!  Campbell is sweet and endearing. Very realistic! "},{"Title":"Miss Coco Peru is a star!","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I highly recommend Trick, a well written, well acted heartfelt comedy. While all the performances were topnotch (even the normally unwatchable Tori Spelling as, well, as I imagine she really is), one actor needs to be singled out.Clinton Leupp as Miss Coco Peru give a movie stealing, bravura performance. Rarely have I scene a performance with such a diversity of emotions.  The best way to describe it is as subtly over-the-top.  Picture Bette Davis at her Baby Jane Dexter best.  Now picture her on amphetamines, with makeup done by a blind narcoleptic using a caulking gun and shovel.  Now picture eyes so bugged out they make Marty Feldman look positively Asian.  Now picture pin-point-perfect timing and lighting.  Now picture it all taking place in the men's room of a gay don't bother even looking at me unless you work out ten times a week club.It was spellbinding.Miss Coco Peru is a star!See this movie now! "},{"Title":"Overall enjoyable but the central relationship drags it down","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Gabe is a somewhat shy, slightly nerdy, aspiring show tune writer while Mark is an attractive go-go dancer at a discotheque. One night on a crowded New York subway their eyes meet and Mark decides to pursue Gabe for a hookup. However, they find themselves all dressed up with no place to go as they are thwarted by inconsiderate roommates, needy BFFs, spurned drag queens and flirtatious club kids, not to mention their own insecurities and burgeoning feelings for one another.Trick is somewhat low-budget but manages to work well within its limitations. The most recognizable name will undoubtedly be Tori Spelling, though most everybody else does a good enough job that the story is at least engaging. Christian Campbell as Gabe gives a terrific performance, really getting across his insecurity, shyness, and fear that the gorgeous hunk he managed to land will slip through his fingers if they don't do the deed soon. Spelling does pretty good playing a shallow, self-centered, struggling actress (meta-casting, anyone?). Clinton Leupp is also another standout, playing every campy drag queen trait to the hilt.Steve Hayes (Perry) gives the best performance, managing to inject genuine pathos and feeling into a character that could've ended up an uncomfortable stereotype. It helps that he gets one good scene where he sings a hilarious song in a piano bar. It also helps that he gets another scene where he tearfully reunites with an ex. He was so good that I sometimes found myself wanting to see a movie about him instead. The worst performance belongs to Jean Paul Pitoc, who's nice to look at and that's it.The shots of New York are well done and the city is shown as in a positive light which is certainly a welcome change from other movies even if the musical cues that accompany them sound like they come a different movie. Shots of the WTC towers will instantly date this movie but that's not something that can really be helped.Not all the music is bad though. The two original tunes the movie showcases, Enter You, and Como Te Gusta Mi Penga, have just the right amount of silliness to be charming. My only complaint here is Enter You gets horribly overused throughout the film, even playing during the credits. I would guess that the reasons for this are that Enter You was probably meant to be a metaphor for Gabe and Mark's relationship and the film's budget didn't allow for much original or licensed music.The first big problem with the movie comes from several plot inconsistencies. Perry is introduced as though he is not a main character and not somebody Gabe knows. He comes across as just another anonymous casting director at Gabe's audition but later Gabe calls him for help when he needs a place to be alone and watches him sing in a cabaret. Conversely, another character that Gabe talks to in the bar where Mark dances seems to be given some importance despite the fact that he never appears again.The movie violates the Show, Don't Tell rule in the scene where Gabe gets angry with gal pal Katherine in a diner. While his outburst is justifiable since Katherine does nothing but talk about herself, her rebuttal about Gabe pressuring her to experiment in lesbianism doesn't seem reasonable because we are never shown this. Even though Spelling gives the monologue her best it ends up being hollow because we don't see it. Maybe they ran out of money to shoot it? The biggest problem of all comes from the fact that I just don't see Mark and Gabe having a happy ending despite the movie wanting me to think so. It's stated, and in Gabe's case, shown, many times that they have no place to be alone which can be a drag on even the best of relationships. They both live in shoebox apartments without a nickel between them. There's a scene where a man checks out Mark as he walks by the stoop of Gabe's building and Mark appears to be checking him out too, right in front of Gabe, I might add.There's also the fact that Mark makes a living dancing in a thong and loves to dance the night away shirtless in a club. There's an offhand mention of Mark majoring in journalism, which suggests there might be more to him, but it's casually mentioned and forgotten. Mark seems to instantly fall for Gabe only after he plays his song for him. Mark ends up being as shallow as a kiddie pool and I think this movie could've greatly benefited from character development for Mark.Gabe is painfully insecure and a bit of a doormat who won't stand up to his best friend mooching off his computer or his heterosexual roommate hogging the only bed every night for his routine conquests. At the dance club he runs off taking the word of a catty drag queen over Mark to say nothing of the fact that watching Mark bumping and grinding against other guys would only exacerbate his feelings of inadequacy.I would give a couple like this a month in real life. If anything Perry and his ex-boyfriend seemed like they had more of a chance than Gabe and Mark. The whole movie comes off as the screenwriter wishing they could've had a meaningful relationship with a hot, young stud like Mark and deciding to commit their fantasy to film.I don't know. Maybe I'm just too cynical to truly appreciate this film. "},{"Title":"The Movie Trick, 1999","Date":"17 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This movie was a real trend setter for members of the gay community. People who were in the closet for so long and felt inadequate out in the dating world got a real boost to their confidence from this movie. Christian, a regular guy, average as many in the gay community would say, gets with a muscle guy like JP? REALLY? Damn!! It never has happened for me, but he beauty of the movie is that it could. That there are guys out there who will accept you for who you are and see beyond that physical thing. I love it. Thanks to the guys who played it so well, JP and Christian.... you go guys! Thanks! And why not do another one 16 years later? ) "},{"Title":"I want to see more!!!!!","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Oh my gosh, I honestly didn't know 'the' Tori Spelling can actually sing and dance. She was incredible like I've never seen her doing this before. Boy , her hairstyle looked way different back then. I suppose I'm use to seeing her blond and short haired in most projects she does today. She's just so talented as an actress!The character Mark looked very gorgeous looking for a big butch guy. He was just so right for Gabriel. I can see in his eyes that he really wanted him for the rest of his life. I say he doesn't care about his job of being a go-go dancer, he just wants his man and that's that lol.I thought Christian Campbell just looked so adorable playing as his awkwardly Broadway obsessed character Gabriel. He has like such a little boys face that you just wanna squeeze him lol. Honesty like, when both guys properly kissed near the end, my heart just melt. I wish Mark didn't have to go back home and left his lover Gabriel behind.((Also can I just add to this, wasn't Christian Campbell such an excellent singer and the best piano player ever?! Crikey, you have to see this film to see this man perform and of course, see Tori Spelling everybody D "},{"Title":"When Was the Last Time a Movie Made You Feel Courted?","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This film has been on my radar for 14 years and I finally saw it. Now I understand why there is so much affection for this film. It's really a bundle of contradictions. It's a gay movie, but its flavor is ultimately very much old-fashioned rom-com. It is sexy and very out, but surprisingly chaste and tasteful. It is not focused on AIDS, coming out, or angst, but acknowledges these things without being defined by them. The comedy is effective but largely because all of the actors play their emotions totally straight-faced, drawing humor from recognizable human reactions under pressure, not because of one-liners or gags. The cast has unknowns and at least one star, but the casting doesn't feel lopsided as they are all terrific and have great group chemistry. Coco Peru would threaten to steal the movie as the evil drag queen if the rest of the cast were not so uniformly stellar. The iconic Tori Spelling and the fabulous but unknown Lori Bagley seem to be two flavors of screwball adorable. The two male leads are just knockouts. The director has coaxed two very memorable performances out of them. One thing that must be said is how fully the characters have been directed to use their bodies and inhabit them (or not inhabit them) to make us feel their unease or their confidence. Just look at hand acting in this film. When Gabriel doesn't know where to put his hands whenever they are not set at a piano keyboard or when Marc peels his shirt off with one unthinking hand as soon as he enters the club, it says volumes about their back history so economically. This is outstanding acting and outstanding direction. SPOILER AHOY Finally, the interesting thing about the film is that it is structured as a brutal series of instances of coitus interruptus. The boys keep getting sooo close to finding a place to hook up and keep getting interrupted so cruelly that an hour and a half of this should feel intensely frustrating. However, instead, it feels like the most exquisite foreplay and the most skillful teasing. By the lovely end of the film, which ends in just one chaste, but soulful kiss, you don't feel cheated, you don't feel teased, you feel COURTED, and when was the last time a movie made you feel like that? EXEUNT SPOILER So anyway, go rent it or buy it. You're welcome. "},{"Title":"A pleasant 90 minutes of fluff.","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" The story was nothing special, but the movie was enjoyable because of the two main male actors, Christian Campbell and John Paul Pitoc. I could not stop thinking how easily Christian Campbell could pass as the twin brother of the Northern Ireland actor Michael Legge (http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0377701/) who appeared in Cowboys & Angels and Angela's Ashes.For the most part the story is simply a series of sitcom-like frustrating situations that arise as Gabriel and Mark try to get alone together, along with the requisite set of misunderstandings that seem to doom the budding relationship.It's a pleasant piece of fluff. Watching John Paul Pitoc especially makes the time spent well worthwhile, although some of the supporting characters tend to be annoying ... but then that's life, of which this is meant to be a small slice. "},{"Title":"Even a go-go boy can have a heart of gold.","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Sweet office boy Gabriel (Christian Campbell), a wannabe Broadway musical writer, is forced to spend a night out on the town when his selfish straight roommate keeps monopolizing the apartment for flings while his girlfriend is out of town, and ends up meeting the handsome Mark (John Paul Pitoc), a quietly charming dancer who entices him for a fling. The only problem is neither of them have a place to go, and when they do manage to find time alone in Gabriel's apartment, they are interrupted by his comically neurotic friend (Tori Spelling) and later the girlfriend of the roommate. So while trying to find a place to successfully do what the boys do, they find they share more than just a desire for sex, being tricked by fate (as the theme song reveals) as they possibly head for more than just being each other's tricks (a slang term for pick-up).Taking another gay tale of the naked city, Trick ends up being a sweet and likable romantic comedy, taking the viewer into the nightclubs of Chelsea, an Off-Off Broadway theater, a piano bar, a late-night village diner, and finally to the corner of 7th Avenue and Christopher Street as the two new acquaintances part. What kind of a girl do you think I am?, the confidently macho Mark asks when Gabriel inquires about their initial plan for sex. Along the way, there's a visit with Gabriel's older effeminate friend (Steve Hayes), who sings a dirty song in Spanish, a truly hysterical intentionally bad performance from Spelling as she sings one of Gabriel's songs at a musical theater workshop, and views of various types of gay and lesbian characters, some naughty, some nasty, a few nice, yet all identifiable to anyone who has ever ventured into a metropolis gay ghetto. Campbell and Pitoc share a sweet chemistry that has you really rooting for them, and you will laugh until you cry at the obnoxiously over-demanding character that Spelling plays. There's also a fabulous cameo by Miss Coco Peru who is not afraid of allowing the camera to get a little too close to her face to parody the drag queen image which only serves to show that there's more beyond her than what you see on screen.As far as this one's place in the over-emergence of gay cinema in the 1990's, it certainly is one of the more interesting, because it really explores the desire to find love while de-emphasizing the physical nature of the stereotypical sexually needy gay male. Even its title is a metaphor, the first impression being that it is all about the pick-up, then raising that flag in the viewer's head that indeed, it was about something else all the time. "}{"Title":"VERY slight but sweet and charming","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Gabe (Christian Campbell) meets hunky Mark (J.P. Pitoc). They're attracted to each other but find it impossible to find a place to be alone to have sex. The movie chronicles their adventures and growing attraction to each other.The plot is virtually nonexistent and nothing much happens but I still love this movie. It has sweet and mellow feeling about it. The script is also very good with some truly funny one-liners. The acting really keeps this one going. Campbell is incredibly sweet and charming as cute Gabe. Pitoc is VERY muscular, handsome and sexual as Mark. He's introduced in a jock strap dancing to Dream Weaver. It's VERY hot and sexy. There's also plenty of other hot muscular guys in a bar sequence. The only debits are Tori Spelling (rightfully cast as a no talent actress)and some clumsy direction by Jim Fall. Still I recommend this movie. The R rating is for some explicit sexual talk and casual female nudity. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Yes, cute. That's about the best word I could use to describe this lite and fluffy little movie. As far as gay films go, this one doesn't offer up anything particularly new or exciting. There are no in-depth character analyses and no groundbreaking revelations. No heavy drama here, except maybe a drag queen carrying on about a failed romantic tryst.Christian Campbell and John Paul Pitoc are charming as the leads. Tori Spelling is, well...she's Tori Spelling. You either like her or you don't. Steve Hayes is great as the older friend of Campbell's character...his scene where he reconciles with his ex is very funny. Miss Coco Peru...what can I say? Her entrance in the film is more memorable then anything else. Doesn't she look like Tori Spelling? Was that deliberate? I don't know, but it offers a weird, creepy twist to this movie. Her scene in the bathroom is terrific.Not the greatest movie, and yet, it's still a cute movie in its own right. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Gay Films Ever","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The only problem I had with Trick was the casting of the always terribleTori Spelling (that role should have gone to Parker Posey or RoseMcGowan). I also wanted to see the sexy as hell Christian Campbell getnaked but I will save that for my XXX-rated dreams (lol).  Its so niceto see a gay film portray gay men as people who are interested in loveand romance and not just one night stands and promiscuos sex, this filmis in my top three best gay films ever made (the others being Get Realand The Sum of Us).................................. "},{"Title":"gay film I wanted to see","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Two lead characters are great, they did good job. I want to see this again. It is represent some of our experiences. And from scene to scene are not boring, except Christian Campbell's sissy friend, as a joker. And nice music.watch this film, you can find this one of a good gay film of the year. "},{"Title":"We All Need A Trick Like This One!","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  If you are gay-friendly, then you will enjoy this fresh film. Many laughs along the way. Such suspense!  Loneliness is a difficult emotion to deal with.  It is very real and heartfelt.  We look and hope to find or stumble upon that one person that will be a loyal friend for the rest of our life. Even if it is a trick...or is it?  There is just one more scene I wish they would have filmed between the time the two gentlemen were in the cafe bathroom in the evening to the next morning. You know what I mean.  I enjoyed the sensitivity and emotional value of this film.  John Paul Pitoc's character plays a very patient stranger/soon-to-be-new friend.  Don't we wish they all could be patient?  I think that John Paul Pitoc is an upcoming actor we should watch for.   "},{"Title":"And What A Trick It Was","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I stumbled upon this film at a local video store and the packaging seemed interesting so I rented it. I was very glad. This is a great film. It's a nice escape on a weekendnight. Great acting by minor characters (especially by Miss Coco Peru) and good looking eye candy throughout (especially by Scottie Epstein). Tori Spelling and Christian Campbell gave good, solid performances. As far as JPP, he wasn't all that hot to me performance wise. It was a semi-magical romantic comedy about two gay white men looking to make it. I mean hey, it's cool and all, but can we please see some alternative-alternative films. How about showing a gay interracial couple? Or -- god forbid -- a movie with two gay non-white characters involved in a meaningful relationship or just a decent story line. I know, in Hollywood, gay movies aren't really considered a hot commodity but at least offer some sort of alternative to all these white-centered gay movies. I'm not being prejudice, I'm just someone who knows that there are other ethnic groups out there that are out and their stories need to be told as well. Overall, good film to rent on a weekendnight with your darling angel or just your peeps -- whether you're gay, straight, bi, doesn't matter, expand your horizons.By the way, the song during the credits by Valerie Pinkston entitled Trick Of Fate is very beautiful and concluded the film very well. You should listen to it. "},{"Title":"It happened one night.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  At last, a film with a romantic view and with charming, hilarious, characters.  This is a comedy full of good performances with a staff of professional actors that capture the nature, attitudes and way of life of different persons that are lovers, friends, neighbors.   John Paul Pitoc as Mark resembled a gigolo, but was an adorable go-go boy; his non-verbal communication was excellent too.  Christian Campbell as Gabriel is a sensible, timid and sympathetic, but insecure boy. His heterosexual room-mate is a sexual-addict not bringing Gabe space in the small apartment they share.  Katherine (Tori Spelling) is hysterical in all senses,(a misogyny author?) she suffers a panic episode only of thinking to become a lesbian, as a singer she must suffer equal but not recognizes it. Steve Hayes as Perry is fabulous singing  Como te gusta  mi pinga, his theatrical encounter with his ex-lover is somewhat awkward.  I can't forget the Woman on the Subway with her wide eyes opened in a homophobic attitude to Gabriel when she observes him to make eyes to Mark.  Clinton Leupp as Miss Coco Peru, the drag queen, seems as captured from Priscilla Queen of the Dessert, that delicious comedy.  Its performance as the gossip, frustrating old drag, but exuberant queen is one of the best of the film. The romantic music is excellent, so you can be sure to enjoy! "},{"Title":"warm good feeling movie","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I had to own this movie on DVD. It was great, its the first time I have seen a movie about a gay couple that they were not trying to teach you something. No one was sick and no one died in the movie. It was very open honest and at the end your heart races for them... "},{"Title":"Cute, Sweet, and Funny.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie can be explained with tree simple words; Cute (and I don't mean just the story), Sweet (again more than just the story), Funny (who would have expected it from Miss Tori Spelling).. "},{"Title":"Unexpected Pleasure","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"    This film moved me.  Trick follows such a realistic tone in the performance of the actors which grows more true to life as the story progresses.  Like several young gay men, Christian Campbell's character is somewhat of a wallflower and then meets a really cute go go boy.  As the story progresses, we see it turn into something more of a romance quite perfectly punctuated with comic relief.  Tori Spelling's kooky Katherine was stunningly entertaining (Bravo, I for one didn't know she had it in her).  The character of Miss Coco Peru, the obligatory, though hilariously tragic drag queen was probably the funniest interlude in the film.  It's a unique indie hit that is sure to be an instant Gay classic.  Make sure you see this film.   "}{"Title":"A sweet romantic comedy","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching Trick for the second time. I originally watched it after a friend recommended it, and enjoyed it enough that I picked up a copy of my own. I dropped into IMDb to check out more info on the cast and ended up perusing the reviews as well. Those are what got me writing this. It seems as if a lot of the reviews either fell into the loved it or hated it columns. I think Trick has its flaws, but that it's, overall, a nice solid film that sits somewhere in the middle.Christian Campbell's Gabriel is awkward and nervous when dropped into situations he doesn't know how to handle--and it seems to happen to him a lot. This is especially apparent when J.P. Pitoc's hunky go-go boy, Mark, takes an interest in him. While Mark's (and Gabriel's) initial interest was for a quick sexual encounter, the evening's misadventures--usually courtesy of Gabriel's best friend Katherine--give the couple a chance to find out about each other, and particularly, that they actually like each other for more than just sex.My main gripe was that a couple of parts that seemed overplayed. Gabriel's roommate came across as too obnoxious for words. His perpetual dominance of the apartment space for his nightly tricks wasn't believable. Maybe you've had a roommate like that, but I haven't heard about it. The drag queen, Coco, was a bit too melodramatic in her toilet conversation with Gabriel. They were the only ones in the room so she could have dropped the persona to make a point. Tori Spelling went a bit over-the-top with Katherine in a few places. Or, perhaps, I was just getting annoyed with her.Trick is a sweet romantic comedy that just happens to revolve around a couple of gay men. It spends a frustrating evening bouncing from mishap to mishap, but when morning comes, you know that this was just the beginning for them and that everything will work out all right. "},{"Title":"As a heterosexual female...","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  As a heterosexual female, I think two guys getting it on is incredibly hot.Trick was a quaint little ditty by first time director/producer Jim Fall.  A little inconsistent at times but acting performances (or maybe just their aesthetically pleasing looks, it doesn't matter much) by both Christian Campbell and JC Pitoc compensated for it.  Dialogue and plot development could have used some improvements, but for a first feature film, it's understandable. As for Tori Spelling as Katherine, she was fairly good.  Though, I must apologize Tori, you'll forever be typecasted as Donna from 90210 and be the butt of many nepotism insults.  In my humble opinion, I thought the role could have been best played by Parker Posey.  Posey with her sarcastic sort of wit and humor could have brought a bit more to Katherine.All in all, this was a fairly good movie, especially because it was a feature debut film.  Great quoting potential by Judy (played by Lorri Bagley), for what she said as a 'heterosexual female.'   "},{"Title":"A delightful non-bedroom farce!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Gay commedies too often revolve around AIDS, couple relationships, or the difficulty of commmitting. So rarely do they deal with the first night meeting! When Gabriel, a choirboy-looking non-gay-acting musical-loving youth, runs into Mark, the stereotypical hunky centerfold gay man of his dreams, and Gabriel is too nervous to take advantage of the first possible chance for a quickie, the movie takes off. The two search for a place to be alone but in the process, they both realize there is more than just a one night stand at stake. The straightest characters in the whole film are Gabriel and Mark. It is the supporting cast that supplies the comedy An egocentric lady-killer room mate, his breathy Marilyn Monroe wann-be sex therapist girlfriend, a fag-hag girlfrind who has designs on Gabriel for herself, a surly waitress, an obnoxious dog, a drunk pretty-boy, a middle-aged piano-bar queen, and best of all, an ascerbically-witted drag queen that can say IT BURNS like nobody, make this endless romp through Chelsea and the Village a hilarious quest for sex, and eventually love.Its a must-see for the gay man who was never very good at the one night stand thing. All those memories of hope and hormones will come flooding back! The part of Mark is underwritten, and perhaps he's not the best actor in the world, but Tori Spelling comes through with flying colours as an annoyingly bad actress (on purpose). Well worth it! "},{"Title":"Very well done!  A nice change of pace.","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Most Gay-themed movies deal with the AIDS epidemic or a coming-out story. This was a pleasant change!  There was no inner-turmoil on being Gay - it was nice to see the sometimes awkward, sometimes misunderstood, first steps of a romance.  All the actors are excellent in their portrayals.  This movie might be taken as a bit soapy but  there is nothing wrong with that! After all, even Gabriel, a songwriter/lyricist for Broadway musicals said he was writing music for an artform which has been waning since Gypsy.  Mark, the muscle-bound go-go boy shows he has a heart even though no one believes that possible when first meeting him.  It's a fun, enjoyable movie with many familiar, humorous, slightly embarrassing moments we all remember.  Very nice musical score, too.  You can show this to Mom although there occasionally is some strong language. "},{"Title":"Very Refreshing","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  With many films depicting gay men involved in loveless, sex-drenched relationships, Trick is a quite refreshing find. Although the film starts out about two guys looking for a place to have sex, it evolves into a story about two characters who learn to appreciate each other as people, rather than objects of pleasure.Gabriel is a wonderful character.  He is a gay man who does not buy into the cheap gay scene, but who is also not perfect in his resistance to fully recognize himself as a gay man.  One does not need to identify with every aspect of the gay community in order to accept and identify him/herself as gay.  Gabriel is written wonderfully and, in the end, he still holds onto his values, doesn't cheapen himself, and still finds love.  This may sound like an ideal situation, but it gives gay men like me who do not get into the seedy aspect of the gay community hope that they, too, will find someone someday.Quite sentimental, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is amazing.  It is a hilarious romantic comedy.  Most movies about homosexuals revolve around how they fit into the straight world, assuming of course that the character isn't relegated to a supporting (often stereotypical) role.  Here is a movie that shows being gay is no different from being straight; love is still a mess!   "},{"Title":"Cool Romantic Fantasy","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This cool story of two lovers meeting at the right time with no place to go has been seen many times in straight romantic films, but this time it was very naturally translated to it's gay equivalent. Gay night life is very well depicted and the true to life characters allow one to enjoy the always-refreshing feeling of young love. Both leads are very well cast and give very persuasive performances. Supporters are not as good (with the exception of the exceptional drag queen and the OK Perry). Straight roomy is terribly cast. Altogether - a joyful event for viewers of any gender. "},{"Title":"Really good romantic gay movie","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  There seemed to be many copies of this movie on display in Tower.  I had originally went in there to get a totally different movie but looked at the pictures and read the back of the movie carton and rented it instead.  I was wondering how a movie about a one-night stand could go on.  I was pleasantly surprised that the movie wasn't really about a one-night stand at all.  It was really about 2 guys who were perhaps looking for  something but not really sure of how to get it.  Gabriel is on the subway and just has to stay at this beautiful guy sitting across from him.  I would have done the same thing.  It is hard to resist such beauty.  What is even more weird is that this beautiful hunk, Mark seems interested in Gabriel also.  They get off the subway and just sort of start talking.  It seems at this point that they are just going to go up to the apartment and screw around but something keeps getting in the way.  Perhaps it  is analogous to real life.  Perhaps we all want to get closer to other people that we see and like to be with. Maybe it is just easier sometimes to just have sex and leave.  Even though the guys don't really know each other, there is an emotional attachment between them as soon as they get off the train.  I don't know why this is but I feel it myself sometimes when I meet someone who seems to think and feel like I do at the time.  In this movie it seems as if sex is just an excuse to get to know one another and it works.  Perhaps that is why sex exists in the first place not just for pleasure or making babies but as another excuse for getting out and knowing and caring for other people. Anyway, what seems at first glance as a shallow, self-centered movie, turns out to be a caring, provocative masterpiece.  Unfortunately, all movies have endings and this one is both sad and happy.  I almost didn't want it to end. I guess I was sorting wanting the same thing to happen to me. "},{"Title":"Oh for a spare bedroom or empty hallway!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Gabriel (Christian Campbell), nice young clean-cut gay aspiring writer of musicals, meets hunky go-go dancer Mark (J P Pitroc) for a one night stand. But can they find peace and quiet, let alone a convenient spot to get off with each other? Of course not, this is New York.I was reminded of the light bulb joke about New York. How many New Yorkers does it take to put in a light bulb? Answer, 102. One person to put the bulb in and 101 to do the musical about it. Apparently every second resident of the hugely crowded Greenwich village area aspires to be in show biz, and in this film we seem to meet a good many of them. Talent, alas, does not always match aspiration, and we get a demonstration of this from Tori Spelling as Katherine, Gabriel's friend and aspiring actress. Actually she does a good job as a bad actress, but of course she's had some practice.This film opened the recent Sydney Gay Film festival and your correspondent caught it at a commercial screening flanked by two female companions in an audience otherwise consisting of people who could be described as designer gay. The torsos were tributes to the personal trainer's art and as for the clothes...I'm sure some of them had spent more on their outfits than I spend in a year. The audience laughed in a lot of unexpected places. This emphasised to me the movie's approach. Gay is seen as normal and it is the heterosexuals who are seen as peculiar. Gabriel's straight roommate for instance is a self-absorbed lothario who hogs their tiny studio apartment for his philandering, leaving Gabriel in the hallway. Gabriel on the other hand is looking for something more meaningful - picking up Mark is an aberration. Katherine is another self-absorbed bimbo, blissfully unaware of her lack of talent. Mark himself is initially a puzzle. A hunk with the nickname beercan (took a while to work that one out), he is content to tag along with Gabriel all night, putting up with the problems of finding somewhere to Do It, yet he reveals a ready wit in a street encounter. It transpires that he was looking for something a bit more meaningful than a one-night stand. Ah, romance!This was a lively and entertaining movie - Bedrooms and Hallways goes to New York, or rather off-Broadway. I didn't care for the length of the singing scenes and for a moment feared that the dog abuse of  There's Something About Mary was about to repeat itself. Yet there's an engaging freshness about the film that makes up for the occasional fumble. I particularly enjoyed the scene when Gabriel and Mark try to realise Gabriel's fantasy of being gone down on while he is playing the piano (I can't think of what to play). There's also a wonderful encounter with Ms Coco Peru, a drag queen (and former lover of Mark's), in the gay disco lavatory and some good one liners. As Mark leaves the disco after Gabriel he is distracted by another bare-chested hunk admiring his physique. A pick-up? No, he just wants to know where Mark works out.    "},{"Title":"A movie well done, with a great cast!!!!","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  At first the movie seemed to be another one of those gay flicks with a little hardcore (XXX) to it.  But as the movie progressed I realized that it was not that type of movie at all. I enjoyed the entire movie and loved it so much that I went out and I got the soundtrack for the movie.  Love the songs too!  Me and my boyfriend really enjoyed it and hope to see more gay films that capture our interest and are really enjoyable to watch. Because he is not usually that amused to the point where he is laughing aloud and really expressive toward a movie.  And this movie brought that out of him and in me.  Keep up the good work!!! "}{"Title":"Cheerful light romantic comedy","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Two young New Yorkers, each somewhat awkward in his own way, get to know in other over an evening that does not go as planned.  Don't expect anything profound or moving.  However, the two central performances are very appealing and Tori Spelling makes fun of her own annoying persona by singing campily and wigging out in a very funny scene in an all-night diner. Only the scene in the club goes on too long; an overall gentle sweetness, about middle-aged and physically ordinary gay men as well as young beauties, pervades.  What kind of a girl do you think I am? "},{"Title":"A Romantic and Funny Film Indeed","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The combined elements of romance, biting wit, angst and frustration work supremely well in this situational comedy, from director Jim Fall. Centering itself upon a chance sexual encounter, the story grabs the viewer and takes them along for a topsy-turvy ride, and therein lies the foundation of the film. The two protagonists, Gabriel and Mark, attempt to follow their desires for a sexual rendezvous. From there, they run into every conceivable roadblock, with hilarious and nerve-wracking results. In and out, we meet Gabriel's best friend Katherine (Tori Spelling is terrific in this role), and assorted characters that make this picture so entertaining.The screenplay's criticisms, sly and some loudly overt, concerning gay stereotypes are direct hits, courtesy of the writer, Jason Schafer.                  Think Kafka meeting the Dating Game, and you'll have somewhat of an idea of what to expect. A sterling, solid motion picture. "},{"Title":"A GREAT movie, and, for me, very close to home! (CAUTION CONTAINS A BIT OF A SPOILER!)","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Trick was wonderful, and one of the few gay movies I've seen as of late that left me satisfied with its ending!Christian Campbell is absolutely adorable, and he reminds me SO much of myself in the way that he acts...he seems to know what he wants, but is unable to get it!Tori Spelling was her usual annoying-self (maybe even a little more-so), but it was great to see her finally SNAP at the end of the movie.  Her line about the cheese on the fries was BEAUTIFUL!  I'm STILL laughing!Truly, it's worth the few bucks it costs to rent this movie if you haven't (and even if you have) seen this movie!   "},{"Title":"Funny, sweet, and frustrating","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Trick is a sweet, light romantic comedy. The hunt for love, and the frustration that goes with it is as universal as anything in life. If you ever saw someone and felt your heart pound, you'll love this movie, whether you're gay or straight. If you've every felt the fates throwing obstacles in your path, you'll love this movie.There's no explicit sex here - at least no gay sex - but there's frustration as love tries to triumph but is defeated (or at least deferred) by the fates. That, to me, is one of the major charms of Trick.The leads are all cute. If the male leads don't seem to have fully developed personalities, well, that goes with youth. And if you're getting frustrated by the story's path, the ending will resolve all, and do it well.Trick deserves a nice quiet evening with your loved one, a bowl of popcorn, and the ability to relax and watch the story unfold. Be warned You will be frustrated at the twists and turns. But at the end, you will smile and admire this movie for what it is - a sweet love story with a happy ending. "},{"Title":"Sweet fun movie with a heart.","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Like last year's BILLY'S HOLLYWOOD SCREEN KISS, this is a delightful warm gay comedy - well acted, directed and written, about the realities of lust vs. romance.   The leads are very appealing and the film leaves one with not only a warm feeling but with hope for the future of gay depiction in feature films. In searching for a night of lust the two thwarted protagonists manage to get the hard part over with - that is, getting to know and care for each other.    The parting kiss and Campbell's Guilietta Massina-Nights of Cabiria final tracking shot, slowly growing in both happiness and hope is just lovely.  Pitoc is a doll with a body to die for (only one portion of the anatomy is open to speculation).   I would have liked the director to pepper the plot with clinches, escalating the lust/desire as each attempt at coupling privately goes awry - it would have kept the tension better as well as entertained gay audiences - but all in all, this is a delight.   Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Have a good time","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I went to see a feel-good movie and that was what I get from Trick. It is always a little tricky with romantic comedies. Some of them are awfully boring. However, when the acting is good (which it is in Trick) and the story is sweet but still somewhat related to reality (which it is in Trick, just remember the ending!) then I like to see them.Campbell was great and the whole audience was on his side and suffered for him. Still I did not understand why he fall for Mark at all. Pitoc has little variety to offer when it comes to mimic and gesture. All of the supporting actors where excellent. Even Spelling was great. What I liked about them was that they did not only exist to support the story about Gabriel and Mark but had their own stories to tell. I especially liked that part about french breasts and prudish America.Isn't it nice to sit in the cinema and see on the screen sweet sweet love? If you do not like that don't go to see Trick. Isn't it nice to be in sympathy with the main characters and hope for them that they will find each other? Again, if you do not care for that, don't see it.I don't care whether this story is a realistic story about two gay men or whether it only shows a clich of gay men. Show me a entirely realistic romantic comedy about a man and a woman!It should be seen as a step towards normal behaviour when a story about gay love is allowed to be as sweet and unrealistic as Hollywood used to show love between man and woman for decades.  "},{"Title":"It's A Good Time","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Trick is a good time.  Though far from perfect, it has a lot of laughs in it.  All of the actors do a good job.  The story line is a bit contrived at times, but the actors and situations are life-like.  Tori Spelling is surprisingly fun as the main character's best friend. Trick does not claim to be a great big movie, and it's not.  It is, rather, a diverting couple of hours watching an ages-old story being told in a new setting. "},{"Title":"Great fun, very entertaining","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a lot of fun to watch.  The lead characters are very cute and sexy, and both acted their parts out quite well.  I realized it was John Paul Pitoc's debut film, and he didn't do a bad job.  i wonder how much they paid him to do all those go-go boy dancing scenes... unless he *really* is a go-go boy...Tori Spelling actually did a good job! Gasp!  Overall, I really enjoyed the movie, and think that it was nice to see a gay romantic comedy that's not focused on all the issues in the gay community... It was intended to be fun, and the audience should watch it with that in mind... "},{"Title":"When Harry Met Sammy VIIThe Go-Go Boy","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This proves that it takes more than a gay relationship to make a boring film interesting.  If they were a hetero couple, no one would even care about this movie.  I just didn't find the characters believable - they meet on a subway and decide to have sex, but somewhere along the way they find love? Please. There was no romance or anything.  The acting was pretty decent, even Tori, but nothing special.  The writing and directing were horrible. Go rent Jeffrey instead. "},{"Title":"Funny, Capra-like romantic/comedy offers hope for gay films in Hollywood.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Every once in awhile, you go see a nice, romantic comedy.  The couple meet, the have that great mutual attraction, although it's sometimes unclear as to on what level, and they start, in one way or another to fall in love.  A good, old fashioned romantic comedy throws in a few complications to make it that much more difficult for them to get together, and then there's always the meddlesome friends or ex-lovers that get in the way as well.  Oh, and let us not forget a great comic monologue or two, some really sappy tear jerking scenes (perhaps of heart breaking abandonment, or something like that), and, if it has some music - well that's even better!  And, even better (at least in the late 90's, as sort of a Millennium bender), let's make almost all of the main characters gay.This, in a nutshell is what Trick has done.  It has given us the definitive, fun hetero-friendly gay romantic comedy.  Sure there are scenes of guys kissing, and some very beefy beefcake.  But not once do we actually see a penis, or a bare butt (well, an almost bare butt, and some very funny bare breasts).  And while there are drag queens, they deliver some damn funny moments and monologues.  Any cliches that my be placed within the context of this smart script by Jason Schafer, are far from gay stereo types and only act as a homage to the great Capra-like comedies of the 30's and 40's that only wished they could actually portray gay couples as real people.An ultra-low budget independent directed by Jim Fall, Trick has a slick bigger budget feel due to the sharp, street smart cinematography of lenser Terry Stacey and some great performances from a basically no-name cast.  The one name, if one can call her that, is Tori Spelling, who tosses away the entrapments of being daddy's girl in B.H. 90210, and turns on a surprisingly strong comedic performance as Katherine, perhaps the worlds worst musical comedy actress.  You go girl!  She could easily become one of those indie queens.  Not wanting for the cash of the big budget Hollywood films of many other T.V. stars, she's now flexed her acting muscles in a couple of low budget performances (The House of Yes), and proved herself a strong contender to Parker Posey and Rose McGowan.Let us not forget our lovely lovers, Gabriel and Mark, played respectively by Christian Campbell (Neve's brother), and John Paul Pitoc.  Both generate considerable charm as the frustrated couple trying to make it in the big city, as the films tagline would have it.  These boys should be watched, because they both have looks and talent that should shine through even stronger in future, less cliche driven performances.And one would be remiss not to mention Clinton Leupp's hysterical performance as a drag queen driven by jealous revenge.  This guy is a hoot...and he sort of looks like Tori at 45 (should I actually say that?).It's refreshing to see a film with gay themes so very much aimed at the main stream market.  Perhaps, with the dawning of the year 2000, Hollywood will take a nod from such strong willed film makers such as Jim Fall, et al, and begin offering us more cinema that touches our heart with understanding...that often we can fall in love with a person, not a gender.  And that we often do. "}{"Title":"Charming performances!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Christian Campbell and John Paul Pitoc give charming performances that make this rather slim story line very enjoyable.  Campbell is especially appealing, while Pitoc is wonderful eye candy. Tori Spelling, always underrated, gives a great comic turn.   "},{"Title":"There's a trick to watching Trick.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I saw Trick today and enjoyed it immensely, probably because I didn't bring a lot of preconceived notions to the movie.  The lead actors don't play retreads of a generic romantic comedy, avoiding the worn-out cliches of extreme opposites finally attract, have sex, and fall in love and gay lovers must have hot sex, above all else.Christian Campbell fleshes out his character Gabriel nicely with a jumble of hopes, insecurities, and some sparks of lust that jump out now and then almost against his better judgment.  He is no longer a teenager, but he is no Casanova, either, and he knows it all too painfully.John Paul Pitoc starts out as the veneered go-go dancer Mark and slowly peels off his layers of defense (to Gabriel) as he becomes more attracted to Gabriel.  Pitoc develops his character deftly by dropping that defensive barrier and raising it back up again as each situation requires, while always studying his date and quietly opening himself to possibilities beyond a one-night stand.You can miss all these subtleties if you are waiting for something else to happen.They have taken the straight romantic comedy and changed its conventions to fit the change in circumstances.  Of course it won't look the same, and I am thankful for that.Trick is funny.  Trick is not a polemic nor is it soft porn.  Trick is actually about two people rather than what the title implies.So go watch Trick but leave the baggage at home.  "},{"Title":"You leave the theater with a smile and a good feeling of at least wishing you had been there, done that and wanting to share your joy.","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  It was great to see straight actors doing so well in a gay role.  The writing and directing were flawless.  Any gay man will be able to relate to being young, in lust, and no where to go.  Casting was right on the mark. Don't know how they found such great supporting characters! "},{"Title":"The sweetest romantic comedy of summer 99'","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The major movies released this summer were all either horror, animation or cartoons spin offs. In addition, they usually featured an actress from Dauson Creek. In one word What-a-bore.I was really depressed about all this, until I saw this beautiful little film. Trick is all about real people, real relationships and real humor. It is cleverly funny, sweet, optimistic and romantic - something so rare these days.For a change, this romantic comedy features two guys, and the straights here have the more comic parts (instead of the usual boy meets girl and girl's hilarious gay best friend shtantz). This formula works wonderfully with brilliant acting by Christian Campbell, J.P. Pittoc and (surprise!) Torry Spelling.However, this is not a sectorial gay film - I took my (straight) best friend to see it he just loved it and said he'll take his girlfriend to see it. This, I think, isn't merely an anecdote. I strongly believe that this movie can and will cross over to bigger audiences - it certainly deserves to. "},{"Title":"Trick's a Treat","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Like Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss, Trick is another refreshing addition to recent queer cinema the simple romantic comedy.  Charming performances by the two boy leads - one angelicly named Gabriel, (just as in Billy's) but that's as much a message as Trick has up it's sleeve - make this light and tender night of following one's bliss a joy to behold and never less than some enchanted evening.  Supporting parts are a bit less even with Tori Spelling's best gal pal alternately hilarious and horrible.  Another pal named Perry (yet another name from Billy's - do I smell homage?) is played by a Nathan Lane wanna be.  Drag queen cameo Miss Cleo is a memorable standout.  Music is all smartly chosen and makes a trip to the CD aisle a must.  Light script and other holes are patched neatly by all the above.  See this one - no trick!    "},{"Title":"Sweet and light gay romantic comedy","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Boy meets boy on the subway and they spend the rest of the night trying to find a place to do it.  That's the whole plot.  What it is, is a sweet, light, likable gay romantic comedy.  It's not perfect.  Some jokes don't pan out and there are plenty of dead spots.  When the script is funny it's hilarious.  When it's not, it's sort of painful.  What carries the movie through is the acting.  Campbell is sweet and believable.  Pitoc is handsome and has an incredible body (the scene where we see him dancing in a G string to Dream Weaver is incredible).  His acting doesn't seem too good at first, but as the movie goes on, I realized he was underacting very nicely.  As for Tori Sepelling...well, the less said the better.  However she is perfectly cast as an untalented actress.  There's a great monologue from a drag queen, some really funny moments and a very sweet, happy ending.  A good movie, but no great shakes. "},{"Title":"A good movie that everyone can enjoy!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a good and amusing movie starring Christian he looks like his sister when he smiles Campbell and newcomer John Paul Pitoc as two young gay males who meet and decide to spend the night together, yet they can't seem find a place to....you know.  So, they venture out in NYC, in search of a place, and the plot takes an interesting twist.  This is basically a night out on the town movie, which is cool if you're in the mood to see a movie about generation xers and some of their middle-of-the-night adventures.  What I liked about it most is that amid all of the funny and surprising moments, you'll wonder will they or won't they (find a place)?  Interestingly, Tori Spelling (who plays Campbell's best friend) really stood out in this movie.  I really loved her monologue during the late-night restaurant scene.  I (along with everyone else in the theater) thought it was hilarious!  The drag queen in the movie is also amusing, and what's even more amusing is that the drag queen looks like Tori Spelling!  In fact, when he first appeared on screen, it looked like if he was doing an impersonation of Tori Spelling. )  Anyway, I'd like to point out that this is not just a gay film--anyone who watches this film with an open mind will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Pleasant film, with a few surprises","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  As many people have commented, Tori Spelling gives a fun, over-the-top performance as a not-too-talented actress trying to make it in NYC. (Having never seen 90210, I must admit that I have enjoyed every other performance I've seen her give, and love her ability to laugh at herself  witness this performance and her cameo in SCREAM 2)   JP Pitoc is a wonder as the go-go boy, giving an intelligent, subtle, sexy performance.  I would normally find such a character uninteresting (similar to Billy's love interest in BILLY'S HOLLYWOOD etc -- yawn!), but Pitoc shows us how he takes a *real* interest in Gabe as the night progresses, and he is so comfortable in his sexuality that he sends sparks off the screen in a big way.Not an earthshaking movie, but I had a great time.  Take a date. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Gay Slap Stick Comedy!","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  If you love Slap Stick Comedies, and a gay one is OK You will love Trick; Tori Spelling is very funny!This could be called the Trick from Hell or the Date where everything goes wrong, I mean everything!Very Funny! "},{"Title":"Charming and Sweet and Why Not?","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Will this film change the industry?  No.  Will it change your life?  No.  But it might change your opinion of Tori Spelling who is surprisingly hip and aware of what her character needs to play and even summons some real emotion in the end.  This film was entertaining and positive and makes you feel good about being gay.  I'm not very good about writing reviews and this is the first time I've chosen to do so on IMDB, but I hope people will see this movie.  It is worthy of support from both gay and straight audi "}{"Title":"Terrific fantasy, wonderfully acted","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is an extremely funny, cleverly written, and wonderfully acted film. The plot is simple...two guys cruise each other on the subway, meet, then spend the evening trying to find a place where they can be alone together. Christian Campbell (a dead ringer for his sister Neve) sensitively handles the role of Gabriel, an introverted young gay man who decides to take a chance on a romp with a gorgeous - but slightly vacuous - go-go boy played by Jean Paul Pitoc in a star-making performance.  But the biggest and most pleasant surprise here is Tori Spelling, finally finding her comedic niche as Gabriel's neurotic best friend.  Tori really goes over the top here, but she makes it work.  Watch for a brief and hysterical monologue by drag queen Miss Coco Peru, all dressed up to look just like Miss Tori Spelling herself. This film is fantasy, plain and simple, but you'll leave the theater with a big grin on your face, just like Gabriel and his trick. "},{"Title":"A smart, funny romantic comedy...","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This film is a terrific date movie.  Though a boy meets boy story (a go-go boy who picks up on a musical theatre composer), the film quickly transcends it's gay premise to becomes a simple romantic story--a story that could be about any two people, about any budding romance.  Campbell and Pitoc are both natural and charming, and Tori Spelling reveals her gift for screwball comedy.  Miss Coco Peru is acerbic and delicious.  This is a sweet, witty comedy. "},{"Title":"Finally a gay-oriented film that has great crossover appeal.","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  TRICK ranks among the best romantic comedies to hit the big screen in a long time.  It has everything humor, warmth, great performances, and well rounded characters.  The twist is that it features gay characters in the lead roles. Christian Campbell plays a young composer who falls in lust with the sexy muscle go-go dancer boy he sees on the Subway.  The rest of the film centers on the two trying to find a place to be alone. In a supporting role, Tori Spelling is surprisingly good as Campbell's loud friend. This is a film that may be gay-oriented but is perfect for anyone who enjoys a well written comedy. "},{"Title":"Sophisticated and magical TRICK","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  TRICK was without a doubt the most sophisticated and joyous experience of Sundance for me.  Finally, a movie that assumes the audience is smart and is eager to see something fresh.  What works so well about TRICK is its appeal to gay men, gay women, as well as straight men and women.  The writer and director treat these very real and colorful characters with dignity and respect and a lot of love.  The audiences at Sundance went nuts over the movie - tons of applause and HUGE laughs.  This is a gay movie that doesn't apologize for being gay and at the same time acknowledges that gays know something more in life than tragedy, rage, and pain. There is real magic in TRICK.  "},{"Title":"a great romantic comedy that makes you fall in love with falling in love","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  One of the best movies I saw at Sundance this year was a small-budgeted feel-good gay romantic comedy called Trick.  Set in picturesque NYC's downtown, the film has so much honesty and heart that it reminded me why I like to watch films in the first place - for their beautiful simplicity and great storytelling.  The charming script and subtle performances are sure to please people of all ages and sexual orientation.  Oh, and did I mention it was hysterical?  I haven't heard an audience laugh so enthusiastically in a movie theater in a long time.  It's just a great romantic comedy that sucks you in and you enjoy it so thoroughly it's over before you know it.  Don't miss it!  "},{"Title":"Insipid and misogynist","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie at Sundance and fully expected to groove on what I thought would be a frothy gay farce. Instead the movie was contrived and clunky. Virtually every joke fell flat. And the filmmaker's obvious hatred of women was nothing short of astounding. EVERY single female character was stupid, selfish or predatory. I'm a gay man and I felt like taking out an ad in a major paper to assure the world that we are NOT all like that! "},{"Title":"An unforgettable night.","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I probably have seen this movie a few years ago, I kind remembered a few parts of it. I just watched it again, I wonder why it didn't leave me a good impression the first time. It is sweet, warm hearted and romantic.Unlike some other typical gay movies that has some bad jokes with a lot of almost naked male bodies, this one is beyond that level. Even thought it was filmed in 1999, but in the year of 2008, it still can touch people's hearts.It all happened in just one night, yet it showed us so many people's lives in such a short time. And I wonder how long it actually took for them to shoot this film. Casting director did a good job, most of the people can really act. Even the dog is super cute, it is especially creepy and funny when the dog was looking through the window while the roommate was having sex with his girlfriend.There are a few scenes that I like, Gabriel secretly checking out the go-go boy in the subway train, he was truly acting with only his eyes; the conversation among those two guys with the girl who came back from France, the romantic moment of those two guys holding hands in the restaurant, and the monologue that Tori spelling did in the restaurant, I was surprised by her good performance.I also like the soft piano background music, that makes the movie less sexual, more emotional. I am surprised that those two male actors actually kissed right on a New York street in the early morning. They are probably both straight, and they had to do that scene right in front of everyone, in public.The cinematography of the ending scene is excellent, I can almost smell the warm summer air, and feel as if I was standing right inside the city. I felt as if I was right there ready for another new sunny day.One thing that I did not like was about Terri spelling telling the story about the Asian guy who is fascinated with feces. They can still tell the story without mentioning the person's ethnicity. Or was it an subtle racist comment about the Asian people? Then she made another comment about a girl with sexual problems, which she can't tell if that girl is native American or Filipino, was that necessary at all? I don't remember seeing any non-white person in this movie at all. If they spent the time to talk about other races, why can't they at least hire those people as extras? After all, it all happened in New York, non-white people are not that hard to find. "},{"Title":"Refreshing, like a tall glass of cool water in the desert","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" It is refreshing to see that not all gay related films have to be centered around sex scenes. I felt as though I could relate to the character of Gabriel. A shy and somewhat awkward man that finds himself staring at a Greek godlike looking Go-Go Boy (Mark). The two find themselves in various stimulating and not so comical situations as the night unfolds and dusk becomes dawn.I found this film to be a breath of fresh air in the way that, although, Mark and Gabe are trying to find a place to be alone, the movie focuses more on the possibility that love can be found where we sometime would least expect it. The film doesn't over dramatize any gay related issues or make it a point to critically analyze what is wrong with the world. It is what it is; a romantic-comedy that will find its watchers reacting with the characters and secretly hoping that Mark and Gabriel will, in the end, find what they are both secretly hoping to find. "},{"Title":"Sweet, romantic, and funny. Could you ask for more?","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I knew this movie existed for some years, and after a while I decided to give it a chance, and I'll never regret it. It's one of the sweetest, most romantic, and funniest movies I've ever seen.Some people complain about the credibility of the storyline, but it's not supposed to be credible.The whole story makes you believe that it's possible to meet the one by a trick of fate, as the end credits song says.Definitely it's worth watching several times. I own the DVD and watch it every once in a while, and I always get a biiiiiiig smile during the last scene. "},{"Title":"A Warm Hearted and Funny Movie!","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I really like to watch a lot of gay themed movies and was kind of suprised I hadn't seen it the first time around. I rented this on a slow Friday night for me and was pleasantly surprised. I figured this movie was only going to be about one thing, getting laid. It actually has a lot more going for it. The scene between Mark and his friend Katherine was really nailed down great. You could see in a way he hated to be so harsh with her but it had to be done. Gabriel and Mark also made a nice looking couple. I hated the fact in a way that their problem wasn't solved at the end of the movie. But at least in a way you see Gabriel more as a person with heart and not just some kind of floozie. I wholeheartedly recommend this movie even if you don't regular watch gay themed movies. "}{"Title":"wonderfully acting,beautifully directed independent feature","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best movies about gay men I have seen in a long time.All the actors did very good jobs,especially Tori Spelling as the aspiring actress.Her role was A+.The guys were just as good as the couple trying to find a place to have a one night stand.Most gay-themed movies just talk about AIDS and other diseases.This movie was just about people trying to find a place to spend the night.I was so amazed just how much this film pleased me.I recommend this movie to anyone(gay or straight) who enjoys wonderfully talented actors and a terrifically told independent feature. "},{"Title":"A Disappointment","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER ALERTWhile a funny, sexy and charming and romantic movie could have been made out of `Trick's premise, this film isn't any of those things. COMEDY  The marketing makes one believe that `Trick' is a funny sex farce about two guys who grow increasingly desperate to find a place to do it.  But there's no desperation here.   There's no escalation of tension as the film goes on.  One could re-edit the film, placing scenes from the second half in the first, and no one would notice any difference. SEXY/ROMANTIC  Neither guy seems truly in the grips of a sexual passion.  And there's no payoff.  (I don't know if the actors were straight and refused to do a gay love scene or what.  But the end is a let down.) CHARMING  While Gabe seems sympathetic, he's not very interesting.  Mark's motivations seem hard to understand as well.  Is he supposed to be mysterious, or just underwritten?  There's not many laughs here, because there's nothing funny about the way these characters connect with their world.  I regret that the gay audience is so poorly served by filmakers.  It would be difficult to imagine this film ever being made if the characters were straight.  I hope gay filmakers will aspire to higher standards than this in the future, and not simply cast attractive actors and leave it at that.  "},{"Title":"Trick?  Definitely","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  After reading all the great reviews and the positive word-of-mouth praise for this film, I'm extremely disappointed.First of all, the characters aren't characters.  They are cardboard cutouts with no depth and you never truly understand who they are.  Especially the go-go dancer!  His acting was awful, not to mention he had about as much charisma as Dolph Lundgren.  He was great to look at, but you never get to know him other than a few VERY small details (or one large one as the camera was desperately wanting you to learn).The movie is padded with dance and singing scenes.  If you took those out, you'd have about 60 minutes worth of movie left.The romance between the two leads is just pushed out there without any motivation.  Why do these two people like each other so much?  The only clue is the go-go dancers interest in the songwriter's talent.  But that's about it.  We never learn about the go-go dancer other than what his body looks like and that he lives with his mother.  Other than that, he is just there staring around letting Campbell's character lead him around like a dog on a leash.Also, within 30 minutes, Campbell's character learns what a sleazoid his new friend is by a Drag Queen. Then he gets all upset and runs off.  PLEASE! He has hardly had a conversation with the guy and he's getting upset that he's not the only one he's ever done?!  This guy picked him up for SEX for heavens sake!  That was the ultimate turn-off for me.Maybe that scene would have worked better if this story had gone on for a series of days and these two got to know each other better....but in this very, VERY rushed (it's over already?) film, this makes their relationship so unrealistic that I just couldn't feel anything for these two characters.There are much better films to see than this one.  Go rent Parting Glances, Jeffery or Prescilla Queen of the Desert if you want gay characters and romance.  All trick does is show us that gay people are way too accepting when it comes to gay cinema. "},{"Title":"Coolest Love At First Sight Movie","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This is the coolest 'Love At First Sight' gay movie with a plot out there in the world. This movie is the best. Christian Campbell and JP Pitoc did a excellent, excellent job in this movie. The portrayal of the cute nerdy guy that doesn't work out (much) meeting the sexy hot go-go boy was superb. Tori Spelling did a good job too with the singing and dancing to Christian's character piano playing. The funniest part of the movie was the roommate Rich, played by Brad Beyer. He was the roommate from HELL. This movie was filled with some common things that normally happens when a guy tries to pick up another guy from a club or bar and these guys portrayed it well. I loved the cameo of Joey Dedio (Captain Planet) in this movie also. All-in-all the movie gets TWO thumbs up from me. "},{"Title":"beautifully simple","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  people who dislike this movie often make comments about it's simplicity and dreamlike plot, but that's exactly what sets this movie apart from most romantic comedies. this movie is a non-animated fairy tale for everyone and that explains it's cult status between homosexuals AND heterosexuals.the heart of the movie is bigger than any movie you have seen. after watching this film you will smile. guaranteed. "},{"Title":"One more for the stereotypes","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Just plain awful. Saw it at a recent gay festival and, sure, it's an audience crowd pleaser, but most gay audiences are like lemmings when it comes to this kind of film. Cardboard cutouts for characters, stereotypes, jokes that have been made a hundred times before, and (surprise, surprise) a drag queen thrown in for good measure. I mean, what's a gay flick without a drag queen clouding up the area. Critics (most of whom have their heads shoved up their asses when it comes to this kind of thing- hence the good reviews Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss and Kiss Me Guido got) say this is a breakthrough gay film, in that it doesn't rely on issues. Well, that's just fine, except it relies on good old fashioned stereotypes.I watched this film and didn't see one real person. We have the musical theatre writer, the go go boy, the queened out to the hilt cabaret singer who sounds less butch than wayland flowers, the fag hag secretly in love with her gay best friend and let's not forget that drag queen, who makes one of the most forced, inexplicable appearances in a film I have ever seen. (Plus, I have never seen a drag queen who does Anne Meara before, but I can give his performance no other explanation.)Where are the real people?Story wise, we are supposed to buy that these two guys who are looking for a place to have sex are going to fall in love with each other in one night when in real life, they wouldn't have a thing in common. Pitoc plays the go go boy as a tweaked out numbskull and Campbell is so full of nervous tics that you would abandon him after 15 minutes, no matter how cute he is. And after repeated shots of Pitoc looking bored and annoyed with the whole mess (just like some of the audience) he then turns around and tells us he thought this evening was supposed to be something more than casual sex???? There's no character development, no progression. We're meant to take enormous leaps of faith because the filmmaker tells us to, without giving us one reason why we should care about these people or want to spend time with them.It's a real shame that the wool has once again been pulled over critic's eyes. This kind of film would never fly if it were a straight love story. Why should gay audiences be willing to settle for such poor quality? "},{"Title":"Not one shred of realism","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is fascinating because it is so awful.  I didn't believe or care about one single character.  It was torture to sit through and I love a happy ending, but in this case, I was just happy it was ending.  There was never a moment when it approached anything having to do with real life or real people.  I am so sorry I saw this movie. "},{"Title":"Average Comedy","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Interruptus plots are basically not my cup of tea.  I find them too frustrating two potential lovers trying to get on, with all sorts of obstacles popping up before their final clinch.   Trick tries hard, and introduces some appealing looking characters.  However, the camera tends to linger on sideline matters too much.  Thus we end up sitting through an entire singing audition, lengthy bedroom discussions, and a number of minor character monologues--all the while waiting eagerly for the main characters to rescue the proceedings.The wait's rather in vain, however, for at the core of Trick is some pretty flimsy stuff.  We end having to settle for surface packaging--and something better next time round. "},{"Title":"Fun Romantic Comedy","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a good one. Oh yes. Parts of it reminded me of the movie After Hours where the characters endure a night in New York City where everything that can go wrong, does. The plot has been discussed to death here, no real reason for me to rehash it again. Great performances all around, Tori Spelling plays the self-obsessed actress friend and if you have spent much time at all around a theatre crowd, you have seen her type again and again. Christian Campbell (Brother of actress Neve Campbell, by the way) plays his part well as Gabriel, a writer of musicals trying to make it on Broadway. He hooks up with Mark, played by John Paul Pitoc who has a resemblance, in my eyes, to a La Bamba era Lou Diamond Phillips. Steve Hayes is amazingly funny as the older friend Perry. It was sweet to see his romantic scene. Seems like you really dont see that age or physical type played romantically in any movies, gay or straight. Miss Coco Peru, the drag queen in the bathroom was fantastic, if she looks familiar, you have seen her before in To Wong Foo... All in all, a short and sweet romantic comedy. Very highly recommended. "},{"Title":"i am desperate to see Trick's sequel","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  this movie is so refreshing and reviving. there are people out there who are like that. i have been brooding over my loneliness because i am still in the closet. but this movie has inspired me to just hold on and wait till God has given me an answer by giving me someone whom i can spend my time with. i really like christian's acting here. it's as if i have known him for a very long time. and i think that my personalities are just like gabriel's although i don't quite like music and fashion. in terms of look, of course gabriel's dimples can make you weak in the knees, i am not as good looking as him but hey that's not the point. after seeing this movie, i know who i am and not to regret what i am. so in conclusion, i really like to see the sequel of the movie. if not, i'll just not be convinced. i feel that although both gabe and mark have come to a happy ending, the story's still hanging. thx. "}{"Title":"tacky piece of garbage","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  corny, tacky piece of garbage, the humor is all based on cheesy gay stereotypes. the crazy drag queen, the faghag, the gogo boy with a heart, the nerdy boy whos gorgeous but doesn't know it. how dumb! i wish movies with gay themes could be made that have at least something to do with reality. "},{"Title":"It's a sweet movie, any gay boy will understand.","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Always loved this movie. Not necessarily a good movie, but it does capture the ambiance of the gay club scene going to a place risking yourself not picking anyone going home alone then finding a hot piece on the way and getting in (memorable) trouble. Stupid rules are stupid.Incidentally, the word defence is correct, in spite of what your retarded spell checker may suggest.We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America. "},{"Title":"Best Performance by Tori since 90210","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Tori Spelling as Katherine is captivating in her supporting role in this terrific Gay romantic comedy. I have always loved her since her breakout role as Donna in the hit TV series Beverly Hills 90210.To me her relationship as the close female friend to Gabriel (Christian Campbell) has more development and drama in it than the Gay romance between Gabriel and Mark (John Paul Pitoc). The late night caf scene is both dramatic, comic, and touching... every character is memorable in that scene (Where are those cheese-fries!!) This was such a great cast... everybody from Steve Hays as Perry, Brad Beyer as the sex starved straight room-mate, and the unforgettable Clinton Leupp as Miss Coco Peru dishing her dirt to Gabriel trapped at the urinal in the Gay nightclub.That unforgettable piano music when Gabriel and Mark kiss and the sheer satisfying ending .... This is one of my favorite movies... Enter You!! "},{"Title":"A fairly lame comedy, that really doesn't quite fly.","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the lamer gay films that I've seen.  It's 1950s straight approach to sex would have even been  out-dated in the 50s anyplace but in America.  The story is supposed to be a comedy about a young gay guy who isn't completely comfortable with his sexuality (although he wouldn't really pass as straight anyway), who sees the man of his dreams at a gay strip club.  While riding the subway, the two lock eyes, and the stripper makes a play for this guy.  In real life, they would have found someplace to do it, a car, a park, the subway... But for some reason, they just can't quite seem to get it on.  Even when they're alone in an apartment together, the timid one breaks out in a piano musical rather than have sex with the man of his dreams.  It just wasn't at all believable, and their naive attitudes never really did exist in this country, except in the movies and on T.V. "},{"Title":"The one night stand that isn't...","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Like the summary says, the story is about two guys who are all dressed up (well, down, but appropriately for a club) with no place to go. The good part is that Trick handles that pretty well; the film finds humor in their plight, and they have some good conversations along the way.The bad part is that it feels too much like a plot gimmick that the filmmakers chose just to make a gay male love story that would be acceptable to mainstream audiences - one where the men never actually do anything. It's not just that they don't have anywhere to go for sex; there is a remarkable lack of physical affection between men in this film. The only people you ever actually see doing much of anything are a heterosexual couple (the roommate of one of the main characters and his girlfriend).The sad fact is that the filmmakers were probably right in their assessment of the audience. Trick probably wouldn't have been even the modest box-office success that it was if there had actually been sex scenes in it, even the non-explicit dreamily-shot kind usually found in movies. "},{"Title":"Not really","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I believed Trick to be something like a screwball comedy, but the movie just hasn't enough drive to be one. Nice acting, though, but also boring music and far too many lengths. And sore with that American kind of morality which disgusts Europeans ever since the public response to Clinton's affairs. "},{"Title":"I Want My Eight Dollar Back","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is an execrable, dumbly executed romantic comedy---I feel more than dissatisfied; it's so shoddily put together and the writing and dramatic execution is so slapdash that I wanted my money back after it was all (finally) over.First off, this thing violates the basic rule of a romantic comedy; that you must present two characters who seem so right together that you root for them to the end to come together.and in order for this to happen, you must absolutely present a convincing set of obstacles, whether physical or psychological, which keep the two characters apart and which give the film dynamism or dramatic juice.This movie asks the audience to buy the ludicrous notion that two young gay men cannot find a place to have sex in New York City---a ridiculous notion which defies logic and practicality (yes I know it's impossible to find a sleazy hotel room in NYC).  Even giving the movie the benefit of the doubt and buying into its central conceit, it comes off more like a plot device than anything terribly convincing or compelling.Even more aggravating is the movie's total lack of dramatic development of its characters the go-go boy character comes off like a blank slate that offers himself sexually to the lead.  There is in all romantic comedies what might be called The Moment---when the characters finally decide to break through whatever contrived obstacles were keeping them from walking into the sunset together.  Trick indeed does have a Moment when the characters decide that they want more than sex with each other, but the characters are so underdeveloped that when this finally happens in the film, it doesn't register.  It comes out of nowhere, mostly because the go-go boy (J.B. Pitoc's character) doesn't seem to have gone through any sort of emotional or dramatic development the entire time the two characters were running around looking for a place to consummate their encounter.I sort of understood what the film was going for that when gay men look for sex, a lot of times what they're really looking for is a little intimacy and love.  A valid observation, but Trick does its audience a great disservice because it's too shallow and chickenhearted to truly offer any biting, observant or satirical critique of its characters and their mores.  Even When Harry Met Sally, a cinematic marshmallow if there ever was one, offered some pointed observations about the way men and women perceive love and friendship between the sexes.  Trick is so soft-headed and lacking in edge that it can't see beyond drooling over the big pecs of its go-go boy lead to truly examine the source of his loneliness (whether is was an acting, directing or writing deficiency I can't tell---most likely it's all three) that when The Moment comes it falls flat on its face and isn't in the least bit moving.  Trick is symptomatic of why so much of modern Gay cinema is a travesty; so afraid of critiquing the bourgeois values of its core audience and so busy pandering to the sensibilities of a gay middle/upper class perspective that it winds up offering no insight or dramatic drive which is the least of what a romantic comedy requires.  A brief scene in a gay bar, when the go-go boy gets to confront his shallow cohorts, had potential but the writing and direction pretty much blow it and there is no satisfying resolution to this encounter, which is a problem with the film as a whole.  A truly good romantic comedy probes the mysteries of the heart; Trick is doubly offensive because it pretends to do such a thing but is so preoccupied drooling over gorgeous bodies and campy humor that it never gets beyond skin-deep.  Trick is right.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable film about an unbelievable night","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This film is about a shy young man going out of his closet by picking up a go go boy. However, they don't have a place to go to, and the next few hours become a chaotic mess.This is a linear film that concentrates on the events that happen on one unbelievable night. The story is simple and straightforward, but convincing. There are a lot of scenes with great music and eye candy scenes. The acting is mediocre, and the only person to have stood out on acting skills is Tori Spelling. She successfully portrays this annoyingly enthusiastic woman who cannot stop talking.The good thing about this film is that it is funny and entertaining. It does not play on the stereotypes, and does not show anything gross or degrading. It is a rather enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"A fun, uplifting gay movie.","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I had made a list of gay films I had wanted to see, and this was on the list. I saw this airing on Logo yesterday, so I watched it. For a gay themed movie, it was pretty good. Normally, if a movie has gay characters in it, it's a depressing story all about how they have AIDS, and how they deal with it, things like that. But this was a gay movie that was actually fun to watch. I was a little worried about it being a comedy, because they might stereotype the characters, but the only character in this movie that was a queen was Perry, but some gays are actually like that, so I guess I shouldn't complain. I'm not a huge fan of Tori Spelling, but she was tolerable in the movie. I thought it was sweet when she finally came to terms with the fact that she was a lesbian. But the one thing I didn't like was that I had a hard time getting into the characters because honestly, they weren't that deep. I mean c'mon. Timid music writer meets hot guy, and they fall in love? Not very easy to feel for them. Another thing was that it seemed like they kept avoiding a kiss. I mean, they tried to kiss what, like 3 times in the movie and they kept getting interrupted? I know this movie was made in 1999, before people were so accepting like they are now, but c'mon. But at least they kissed at the end. I would recommend this film for a rent if you feel like watching something uplifting. But unless you are making a detailed collection of gay films, then I wouldn't recommend buying this one. Overall, it's a fun film, but falls short. 7/10. "},{"Title":"From this GAY perspective..","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  They call this crap a romantic comedy... I fail to see what is so romantic about a couple of guys trying to find a place to have a one night stand. Nor do I feel it's funny. Unbelivable is a better word to describe it. If it wasn't for a drag queen (CoCo), the straight guys girlfriend, and an obnoxious Tori Spelling stealing the movie away from the main two guys, I would have walked out of the theatre... This stuff doesn't happen in real life.. I suggest the writer's get out and experience how life really happens once in a while. "}{"Title":"Slimy and stupid comedy","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is just another one of those comedies that put men who like other men into disgusting stereotypes. Of course, the story about two such men is put into the slimy musical showbiz full of sissies. I hate this stuff. Why is there never a film with real guys who are  factory workers, hardrockers, etc who like other men? I also can't stand daddy's darling Tori Spelling. Also, it's really terrible realistic that two people can't find a place to have sex in NYC. Go see Jeffrey instead.  "},{"Title":"Cute... but not to be taken seriously...!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Yes it may be full of eye candy (jeez... and HOW!!!), but TRICK is not exactly a film that you should take seriously. After all it does filter around the life of a Musicals writer. Don't get me wrong here, it is a gorgeous script... a little 'bouncy' though, but a good script nevertheless. I loved the awkwardness of the initial meeting between Gabriel and Mark. The tension was so thick I was under the covers screaming with laughter (I watched it in bed ;) )I personally cannot stand Tori Spelling, and think she should have been put down years ago, but alas... I have to bite my tongue here and say... *sigh*... she does deliver a very good performance. Who could ever forget the annoying little third wheel waiting for her resume' to print off. A little dense... but funny to watch all the same.I think this is a good movie to watch with 'someone' *wink* that you like... because this is most certainly one of those 'awww... sweet... how romantic!' plots that would probably end with the video playing through to the bitter end of the tape... and probably straight through to the static as well!It's a soppy laugh type movie... nothing more... nothing less. I'm glad I downloaded it though.PS and that eye candy... OMG! *swoon*7 flaps out of 10 "},{"Title":"Trick Treats A Bit!","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I am not gonna trick you now. If you suffer from a case of homophobia, then pass this one over. There are so-called gay films that are geared for a mainstream audience- Philadelphia  The Birdcage, and  In & Out. However, Trick isn't one of them. The movie stars Christian Campbell as a shy gay boy in his quest to bond with another gay boy who at first resembles a trick. There are many gay issues that are brought into the plot line that might not coincide with a conservative audience. Christian Campbell, Neve's brother, does give a fine performance but nothing to scream about. Also, Tori Spelling's neurotic performance was very lively. However, Tori don't lick your chops yet. You still have a ways to go before you could join the female acting elite of Beverly Hills. Now it is up to you to find out if Trick to you is a trick or a treat. *** Average  "},{"Title":"Lorri Bagley's Marilyn Monroe Imitation","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I sort of liked this, but I don't believe in actors/actresses trying to get by imitating other actors. Lorri Bagley as Judy, has studied Marilyn Monroe and is trying to pass this little girl voice off as her own it's Marilyn Monroe's. Everything she did here was Monroe.I just wonder if she thinks that she can have a career doing this? I was in a drama class once (HB Studio in NY) and this girl was imitating the young Bette Davis popping eyes, snatching cigarettes out of her mouth, the staccato speech, even the Bette Davis strut. Our acting teacher, Steven Shrimpell, stopped her and said, you are NOT Bette Davis, stop it. That's what I'd like to say to Miss Bagley stop doing Marilyn!I wanted these two to get together and found Tori Spelling's character, very annoying. As a matter of fact, everybody was annoying in this except the two leads. "},{"Title":"Train wreck.","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Where do I even begin with this crud? It reeks of cliche and has a flashing pink neon sign to boot. A wannabe Broadway musical writer, a go-go dancer, a little dog called Trixie, the melodramatic girlfriend... there are your warning signs right there.Throw in some of the worst acting I have ever seen, terrible, stilted dialog and drawn out scenes that play like a train wreck. Cute? Yeah, like one hundred pins in my eye! Seriously, there was nothing classy about this film, technically or otherwise. One star simply for the soft porn eye candy. One extra star because there is worse out there. But there is so much better as well. "},{"Title":"A gay Richie Cunningham attempts to get lucky...","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Uptight, straight-laced, arms-folded-across-the-chest gay working-stiff in New York City gets picked up by a hunky go-go boy...but they can't find a place nor an uninterrupted moment to make out. Christian Campbell plays the closet case, and he is so unnaturally talkative and self-conscious that one hopes the director will ditch him and take the party elsewhere. Campbell, who smiles like a TV infomercial pitchman after reading his lines, has probably been coached into being a drip since this is the kind of delayed-intimacy picture today's filmmakers are most comfortable with keep the two gay men as far apart as possible--that way, there are no issues over showing homosexual coupling on-screen. Midway through, our white-bread hero gets cornered by an angry drag queen in a men's room, and it's one of the ugliest scenes in a gay-oriented movie that I can recall. So, will the would-be songwriter and the unassuming stud with the six-pack finally get it on? I'd rather see a picture about the older gay couple who reunite on the street and walk off into the night. * from **** "}]