[{"Title":"Still the man...","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"46 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this movie expecting to see a big-budget remake of the original Shaft, and I got it.This version is a lot more violent than the original, it didn't seem to be in Shaft's style. The pacing and editing in the first half of the movie were fast and smooth. John Singleton did a great job in establishing Shaft's character and the plot.  During the second half of the movie (when the action really begins), however, the movie starts to lose it's original slickness.Samuel L. Jackson is truly a great Shaft, he's probably the only actor out there (besides the great Richard Roundtree) who could pull this off, and he does an excellent job.  This time around, though, we don't really see Shaft's Ladies' Man side, except for a couple of innuendoes with minor characters.  Like I said, Jackson's Shaft is a little too violent (even for a desensitized, Tarantino fan like me). Christian Bale, after playing a cold,rich, psychopathic killer in American Psycho, plays a...cold, rich, psychopathic killer.  He's perfect in his ability to make us feel absolutely no compassion for him. It's impossible not to mention Bustah Rhymes in a small but great role as Shaft's driver/assistant.  He provides some of the comic relief, taking some strain off of Jackson.I thoroughly enjoyed Isaac Hayes' Oscar-Winning theme, which plays throughout the movie.This Shaft is a great movie for anyone who's a fan of the original, Sam Jackson, or great action movies in general.  "},{"Title":"Unoriginal but entertaining","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Thirty years is a long time to wait to make a sequel, especially when no one is clamoring for one.  Director/Writer/Producer John Singleton decided it was about time.  The result is a solid, but undistinguished crime drama.  The elements of this story have been told so many times that they are becoming hackneyed.  A tough, no-nonsense cop fights evil and corruption to bring justice to the streets while often disregarding the law.  A spoiled rich kid is trying to get away with murder by hiring a drug dealer to snuff an eyewitness with the help of a couple of dirty cops.  This is not vanguard material.Singleton's direction is good in the action sequences (of which there are plenty) and adequate in the dramatic scenes.  In this film, he doesn't bring much innovation to the screen, with very straightforward shots and mundane locations.  In an overly reverent gesture to the original film, he brings back Richard Roundtree (the original Shaft) as the current Shaft's (Samuel L. Jackson) uncle and mentor.  There is also a cameo appearance by Gordon Parks, the director of the original, and of course, Isaac Hayes theme song is back.The film is elevated from mediocrity by the acting.  Samuel L. Jackson is an outstanding actor and slips on the character of this tough, streetwise cop like a tailored glove.  When he's bad, he's very very bad and when he is good, he's almost saintly.  Christian Bale also gives a fine performance as the despicable rich kid who thinks his wealth puts him above the law.  Jeffrey Wright is explosive as the egomaniac drug lord.  The supporting actors are also excellent.This is an entertaining film despite its lack of originality.  I rated it a 7/10.  Action junkies add a point or two.  This film is extremely violent with a high body count. "},{"Title":"Ahhh....pretty good!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this one alot-fast moving, funny, crude, violent at times, has the same old 'sphagetti Western' shooting style where the baddie can't hit the broadside of a barn with 400 rounds while Shaft takes'em out one shot at a time, never misses. Enjoyed Jackson in this mucho, this is some fine work by a kinetic actor in his prime. Vanessa Williams is easy on the eyes and a smooth actress in her own right, plus you have to give this Jeffrey Wright guy credit for doing a bang up job as a Puerto Rican(!!) villain(with a heart, sorta...). Bale as the Menendez Brother from hell is effective too. I liked Richard Roundtree, Pat Hingle and Gordon Parks' cameos(look fast for him, as Mr. P in the bar!)  This one isn't meant to be taken too seriously, the car chases and shootouts are right outta anything Dirty Harry has done-but you know, John Singleton sez he intended for this to be a popcorn movie, and I agree, he has hit the bullseye with this.And that Isaac Hayes score, gotta love it!*** outta ****, go see it and have fun.  "},{"Title":"Amusing but really nothing special.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"33 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An enjoyable but nevertheless quite silly and average remake of the classic television show has the new John Shaft (Samuel L. Jackson) beating up a white racist (Christian Bale) and getting booted off of the police force. Everyone in this film is a racist - primarily the whites - and this whole idea is way too forced. The language and violence is rough, yet the film itself is quite goofy, with not many good scenes and only a few mediocre action sequences. The moral is somewhat depressing if someone wrongs you, or someone of your race, then beat them up and kill them once they reappear. Richard Roundtree's cameo helps a bit, but regardless, this SHAFT is still only good at best.2.5/5 stars. "},{"Title":"Just give it a chance","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This review is written as a defence of John Singleton's 'homage' to the 2000 edition of Shaft. The majority of people that I know (6 in all) use similar terms when referring to it average, mediocre, I-hate-Busta-Rhymes etcetera. However, it actually isn't average or mediocre at all (although Busta Rhymes is indeed a complete tool.) Sure, the story is linear, predictable and doesn't bring anything new to a tired genre (Racial injustice! Rogue cops! Black attitude!) but one has to see past that to the performances, because that's where the real gold lies. Well, three performances to be precise. First, Samuel L. Jackson. Though his roles may lack a certain amount of vicissitude, they are always entertaining. And he seems to restrain himself as the sex machine to all the chicks. He doesn't actually have sex at all throughout the film, which I see as a good thing. As Shaft, he receives most of the animated and colourful dialogue, kills the most bad guys technically murder seeing as he resigns from the police force at the beginning), and gets to wear nine different varieties of the same jacket, all the while looking effortlessly cool. Plus he throws a police badge into a wall... really fast! Second, Christian Bale. It is no secret that Bale is now objectively the best actor of his generation, but come the dawn of the new millennium he had yet to present himself to a wider audience. Unfortunately, Shaft failed to do so too. However, is performance is superb. Following on from his equivocal turn as Norman Bates in American Psycho (2000), Bale continues his villainous streak as Walter Wade, Jr, a truly horrible character whose racial attack in a restaurant provides the basis for the story. Really the only word that can describe Wade is a$$hole and Bale plays this role perfectly. It is rare that one could despise a character this much and that is what makes him so fun to watch.Third, Jeffrey Wright. If Shaft had had a better storyline and been more popular, Wright's portrayal of drug dealer/gang leader Peoples Hernandez would have been his magnum opus. His type of method acting is similar to that of Bale's, and to see them square off against one another is THE principal reason for watching, especially when Wright stabs Bale in the hand. Exciting and bloody. Wright provides entertainment in every scene, whether through his exaggerated walk, his bastardisation of the English language or simply a facial movement. Plus, he induces an element of sympathy for Peoples after his brother is killed at the hands of Shaft (of course) and provokes the audience into wondering whether his eventual demise was really justified. Really, the film should have been called 'Peoples' and he should have had three sequels.So there it is. A short and unconvincing advocate of Shaft based on three exemplary performances. Oh, and it features Lynne Thigpen, who played the DJ in The Warriors (1979) and as The Warriors is an excellent and highly realistic depiction of New York in the seventies... that means Shaft is also worth watching? Yes it does. "},{"Title":"lively homage","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson seems to be having the time of his movie acting life portraying the title character in `Shaft,' John Singleton's take on the groundbreaking classic that, on its release in 1971, served as the blueprint for all the `blaxploitation' films that filled theatres throughout the early and mid 1970's.   Unfortunately, the concept of a rogue black cop, defying the rules and doing things his own way, is not as fresh as it was back in the time of the original film, so this new version of `Shaft' has less to recommend it.  Still, it is an efficient police procedural, filled with crowd-pleasing moments of adrenalin-pumping melodrama, hissable villains and a wisecracking, kickass hero who seems virtually indestructible &#150; just the way we like our heroes to be in a movie like this.Singleton pays affectionate homage to the original film in many ways. Jackson actually plays the nephew of the original Shaft and, indeed, Richard Roundtree makes a cameo appearance early on in the film as Jackson's seasoned mentor.  Singleton wisely uses the original Isaac Hayes recording of the hit song as background for the film's opening credit sequence and backs up many of the action scenes with an impressive instrumental interpretation as well.The story offers little that is new for this particular genre whose films often rise or fall based on the quality of the foils against whom the hero must ultimately contend.  Luckily, the filmmakers are blessed with not just one but two impressive villains &#150; Jeffrey Wright as Peoples Hernandez, a tough talking thug who wants to expand out of the little neighborhood kingdom he has established into the big time of upper class drug dealing, and Christian Bale as Walter Wade, Jr., the racist, spoiled-brat son of a New York City magnate whose hate crime killing of an innocent black man sets the plot in motion and serves as fodder for Shaft's personal vendetta. Bale proves definitively that the quality of subtle, soul-cringing evil he brought to his role in `American Psycho' was no fluke and that he can be as effective in a big budget extravaganza like this one as he is in a smaller scale, far more quirky work like `Psycho.'  Vanessa Williams, on the other hand, who plays Shaft's partner and who is almost unrecognizable buried under a dark beret, fails to distinguish herself either in her role or in her performance.Then we have Mr. Jackson himself.  Here is a man who slides so effortlessly into the role that, despite the absurdity and incredibility of much that is going on around him, we never question the film's veracity for a moment. Whether tossing off wisecracks, shooting at unarmed criminals, pounding defenseless suspects into insensibility or consoling distraught witnesses, Shaft remains forever a hero, acting out the impulses we in the audience feel but are never able to fully act upon in our daily lives.  Thus, this new `Shaft' works best as simpleminded good vs. evil melodrama &#150; and even the most sophisticated movie watcher can use a bit of that once in a while.  "},{"Title":"Light weight but entertaining","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was surprised that I liked this remake of Shaft as much as I did. It has a wonderful ensemble cast, which included Toni Collette, Christian Bale, and the terrific, Jeffrey Wright. All of them are allowed to bring their considerable acting chops to their roles, especially Bale as a Hateful Rich White Boy from central casting, and Wright as a simultaneously hilarious and scary gangster. Samuel L. Jackson plays, well, Samuel L. Jackson, this time cast as Shaft, a tall, tough, elegant black dude who looks like Samuel L. Jackson &#150; not that there's anything wrong with that.Don't expect deathless art here but do expect to be entertained. It's one of those movies that is so politically incorrect it makes you gasp while you are laughing. There are lots of explosions, gore, and chases, both afoot and in cars, and it all happens in little more than 90 minutes. It's a lot of fun, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Unadultrated racist garbage","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"21 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" While the trailers and commercials for this movie made it look really good, this movie itself is a POS that is openly racist against white people and the plot itself is nothing more than African American revenge. Samuel L. Jackson's worst role ever. 1) The villain is a loser white guy who everybody, throughout the entire movie, hates and pushes around, be it the common drunk in the bar, his dad or his partner in crime. In one scene, a black man enters the bar (with a bunch of white chick sycophants no less) and everybody cheers for him. Then our villain white guy makes some vague racist comment and everybody, I mean, every single one in the bar, boos him and try to sooth the black guy whos been insulted. Nothing wrong with that but that way its been portrayed in the movie is so un-subtle, so explicit and is ridiculously intentional. Then the black guy approaches the white guy, almost as if hes gonna beat him up, instead makes two holes in a napkin and puts it on the white guys head as in KKK! YuK YuK YuK. Then everybody, I mean, everybody, once again starts laughing so hard and cheering for our black hero for his oh so innovative come back at the white racist. The white villain is so humiliated that he kills the black guy and absconds.2) Shaft beats up the villain's white ass and takes him to court. Bad guy uses influence to get bail. Everybody, I mean, every single freaking one who can be seen, cries and boos in disappointment. Shaft resigns by embarrassingly throwing his badge at the judge.3) The rest of the plot is about Shaft trying to locate an eyewitness, brotha style, beating up white boys along the way.4) The white guy is shot in the end by the black martyr's mom. More attempts at drama gone bad.I'm not even white myself but this movie is so explicitly racist that anyone of any race would find it an utter embarrassment to watch. All the drama of blaxploitation is so fake and so insincere that it makes me want to puke. There are no redeeming qualities about this movie too. The action sucks and the dialogue, trying to be badass, is utterly embarrassing. One of the worst movies ever made.0/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Oddly mainstream for a blaxploitation flick, but Jackson is great and the total is fun and solid","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft (2000)This comes so far after the original Shaft in 1971 you might hesitate to call it a sequel. It's more like a revival, or a nostalgic time trip. Except that it's all been updated nicely, with a feeling of the original sassiness intact. And the Isaac Hayes music is central, and terrific, making this a legit Shaft movie. Samuel Jackson plays the role perfectly, not pulling back and not overdoing it. The idea of a black cop in a city that still has racial biases, in this case emphasizing the rise of Latino drug lords as part of the fracturing, is mainstreamed here. It's not as daring or shocking to see this pushed forward, but it's still effective. Shaft, the main character (who never seems to have a first name), is powerful, smart, and unwilling to be pushed around by authority. Even if it means losing his job (or quitting--Shaft is always the one making his own choices). The director, John Singleton, is not especially well positioned for a mainstream sequel with high production values (his one famous effort to date is Boyz n the Hood), but he pulls it off. This is a snappy, smart, well made movie. It's oddly mainstream, playing with clichés too easily, working with bad guy good guy tenets adding only the minor twist of racial or ethnic alliances, though even these we've seen before. You can't help but see Jackie Brown from three years earlier as a far more interesting, well made, and timely movie. That one was by Quentin Tarantino, which changes the score a bit, but it starred Jackson, again, and makes the most of him.You might say Singleton makes the most of Jackson here, too, but a better way to look at it is that Jackson makes the most of Singleton. He takes over the movie, and it's a good thing. He has talent and presence in a classic Hollywood acting way. The cast around him is really strong, which is nice. (There is a cameo by the original director of the 1971 Shaft, Gordon Parks, in a bar scene, if you are lucky--a white haired older black man at the table.)The other terrific actor is Jeffrey Wright, playing a drug king with enough realism and panache to make it real and glitzy both. The third main character is the future Batman, Christian Bale, who is a great bad guy and who you actually miss in the last parts of the movie.What really brings this down to earth, and too much so, is the story, which is boilerplate stuff. There is machismo, and guns, and a play of one bad guy against another, and one cop against another. You might say, hey, isn't there room for more cop and crime movies that work in familiar circles? Yes. But I again refer to Jackie Brown as a way to see out of this box. This new Shaft is good stuff--it's well acted, tightly edited, directed with professional canny (noticeable in lots of different ways), and brings up racial clichés in a fun and even important way. It descends by the last third into overused chase and shoot scenes between cops and robbers. But...it's better than its reputation, for sure. I say see it. Enjoy the attitudes. The acting. And the homage to the original. "},{"Title":"An adequate successor but still a B-movie.","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft 2000 is a reasonable successor to the original Shaft of 29 years ago. The film shows restraint by keeping Shaft big, but not bigger than life, as it tries to be a human story first and an action flick second. Unfortunately, in spite of good performances (especially by Wright) and good production talent, the story fails on the human level and hedges on the obvious alternative of exaggerated good and bad guys and a profusion of gratuitous violence, sex, and action. Worth a watch but keep expectations low. "}{"Title":"Shaft'ed","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was very surprised to read a number of positive reviews on this list.Shaft is unfortunately typical of the new modern action movie, Face off, The Rock, Con Air, etc.  Basically a ludicrously stupid plot with the beyond impossible happening, yet plenty of explosions and the good guys winning through against the odds.Before I go on, I have to mention Robert Havard's review.  To claim that Titanic and Saving Private Ryan are masterpiece's is bad enough, but Shaft, are you joking.Fortunately I saw the movie on TV, so I didn't waste any money and I actually turned off before the end, as the plot was pointless.  The problem with this movie and the others I have mentioned is you have to have some kind of realism.  Dirty Harry, although it stretched the limit slightly, it still remained a solid film with very believable characters.  Shaft is Judge Dredd, he can beat up and kill whoever he wants, break numerous laws and yet is liked and supported by the Police.  The Police who help him, for some bizarre loyalty, obviously have no other crimes to deal with, so just spend there time helping Shaft harass and murder anyone he pleases.SpoilersThe first scene, now, in front of about 20 people the &#145;bad guy' is openly antagonistic and racist, he then follows the victim outside on a major street and beats him to death.  Now, you're telling me that there was only one witness.  Anyway, Shaft then punches the &#145;bad guy' twice in front of his superiors and the TV cameras, so Shaft would have been arrested on the spot, put in prison, sued and certainly wouldn't be allowed back on the Police force.Next scene, Shaft sees an alleged criminal eating his dinner, so he then assaults this man with a basketball and arrests him for no reason.  Hmmm, lawsuit, discipline procedures.  Now if I tell you both these incidences are just the tip of the iceberg, you can see where the film goes from there.  Shaft then goes on to murder a number of other people as a civilian, with the backing of the local Police force.  I think a riot would ensue.Anyway as I said I didn't get any further.I can only assume the people liking these types of movies, just violence and eye candy, no story or plausibility, are 14 years old and under or people who are much less demanding than me.  "},{"Title":"Smooth as silk","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I love this 1980s-style action flick, and watch it every time it is pops up on TV. Sam Jackson plays Shaft's nephew, a big-city cop trying to track down a reluctant witness to a racially motivated murder. The killer, played by a sinister, pre-BATMAN Christian Bale, is modeled on the New York preppie rapist (remember him?). He hires a low-level drug dealer (Jeffrey Wright) to track down the witness, a waitress (Toni Collette), and kill her. Shaft must find her before they do. Jackson is silky smooth, the action is right out of a DIE HARD or LETHAL WEAPON flick, and the landscape is populated by some great supporting players including Dan Hedaya as a corrupt cop and Vanessa Williams as a cop who has Shaft's back. The original Shaft, Richard Roundtree, even pops up a couple of times. This is one wild and funny ride that plays the way we prefer our action films to play. At times, it is a little thin on plot, but it keeps moving. No blood to speak of, just action, action and more action. And keep a close eye on Wright, a noted stage and screen actor. His soft-spoken drug lord tenderly holds a newborn baby at one moment and in the next pokes a knife into the neck of a terrified woman. He steals every scene he is in. "},{"Title":"Over-the-top but still not bad","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Singleton's homage and modern day Shaft is an entertaining movie. Its not perfect, definitely flawed, from Wright's hilarious performances as People Hernandez, to the lines Samuel L. Jackson uses, to the whole feel of it, at times it did feel like a long sitcom. However it is always entertaining and exciting, and thats more than i can say for some other movies. I thought the cast did well, and basically saved Singleton, as the film seemed put together kind of lazy and rode the reputations of those involved. Still, it was a good movie, and i think its worth a look. Jeffrey Wright has some hilarious lines like this is Italian leather, worth more than half your shitty paycheck to the cops. hahaIMDb Rating 5.9- MY Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Terrible Movie","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one terrible movie, in an attempt to make all white people as racists, the cop called 'Shaft' gets upset if someone uses the wrong word to describe black negroes.  This is silly because he himself is hateful and uses violence to beat up people that don't agree with him.  The plot, or the simplistic story, deals with some white guy who is stereotyped to the extreme by the black director and the cop Shaft loses his job because some black kid he knew was killed.  It just goes down hill from there, this isn't even worth watching. "},{"Title":"Fascist remake of a once beautiful film.","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Contains spoilersthe original SHAFT was a beautiful homage to the Hustla; the slick superman having his own way with things, women and the law. The original Shaft, played by Richard Roundtree was so cool he even taught the italian mafiosi how to drink espresso (You know what this is? This is an Expresso (sic) tell'em to put some garlic into it,you might like it)Sam Jackson's SHAFT bears no resemblance to this smooth original. He's an old fascist cop making his way through the ghetto like Charles Bronson's controversial vigilante from the Death Wish films. BUT - SHAFT is no vigilante. He's the law. His violence is institutionalized. And the film celebrates it. Although the main plot is a classic blaxploitation one  Black cop chasing a white sonofabi*ch (in this case a nazi murderer) ;  it always gets mixed up with the subplot;  SHAFTs personal war on a quite peaceful coke dealer named Peoples.  The final showdown is NOT with the Nazi bad guy;  but with Peoples  the only character that bears any resemblance to a classic blaxploitation hero. And Peoples gets killed, cold bloodedly by the avengeful Shaft. His last remark  made; before Shaft guns him down is.  I am not your enemy. I'm Peoples  He's the people; and Shaft's at war with it.  Do see this film; and hate it. "},{"Title":"a low down dirty shame","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" a low down dirty shame - that's the name of the movie this movie was based on, originally directed & starring Keenan Wayans (1994). But that film is as much comedy as action film. This is... well, obviously, Samuel Jackson wanted to show that he could play black; but I don't know who ever doubted that.The original Shaft suffered from a lack of proper pacing, due largely to the editor's uncertainty as to where that film was going.This film suffers from the fact that - being a borrowed story all around - the story itself isn't sure where it's going.Well, it's nice to see Richard roundtree on the big screen again - a wholly underrated and type-cast actor, he deserves more and better roles. "},{"Title":"I know cats who'd take out whole zipcodes for that kind of cheese.","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Remakes do work occasionally, case in point Shaft, John Singleton's update of the 1971 Blacksploitation movie that starred Richard Roundtree as the title character. Roundtree gets a part in this one as well, playing the uncle of Samuel L. Jackson's title character, John Shaft.It's the perfect role for Jackson, lashings of cool and menace, on his bulky shoulders dose the film easily rest. Plot finds Shaft turning in his badge after the law proves useless to let racist murderer Walter Wade Junior (Christian Bale a sneering villain but awesome looking in a tux) out on the streets. Shaft vows to bring Wade to justice, by any means necessary. Though he also has other things on his plate, namely Latino drug lord Peoples Hernandez (Jeffrey Wright a riot) and some less than honourable police officers.The screenplay is a little trite, but as an action movie, one with the coolness and sparky humour, it really hits the required spots of those just after such easy minded fare. The support cast is a roll call of sound performers with the likes of Vanessa Williams, Dan Hedaya and Toni Collette fronting up, while the awesome ebullience of Busta Rhymes is very infectious.Isaac Hayes gloriously famous theme tune is still in place, pumped up by composer David Arnold, which ensures the feel of the original isn't lost, and Donald E. Thorin's photography is pin sharp and in turns gorgeous (night shots) and streetwise gritty. Shaft, the 2000 version, still bad-ass and sadly under appreciated. 7/10 "},{"Title":"What is this?","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" You know, it doesn't matter if this movie is a sequel, a prequel, a follow-up, a satire or a shot-by-shot remake. Shaft (this one) succeeds on it's own level because it rests in the hands of a skilled director. John Singleton cares about his characters, his story and has a sense of style.The story A young black man (Mekhi Phifer) is murdered outside a local bar by a rich white racist (Christian Bale). A waitress (Toni Collette) witnesses the crime but is afraid to testify. John Shaft (Samuel L. Jackson) knows that she can be valuable to the case but she runs away and the kid goes free on bail.Frustrated, Shaft quits his job and becomes a freelance vigilante. He tracks down the waitress but finds more resistance. Meanwhile the rich kid tries to pay a local drug lord (Jeffery Wright) to find her and kill her. That's just the beginning. The story keeps adding on until we feel that the gunfights and the chase scene are well-deserved and don't feel tacked on. These are the very things that I looked for and missed in 'Mission Impossible 2'.The movie drops itself somewhere between 'Boyz N the Hood' and 'Out of Sight'. It is exciting, the action scenes are done well and most of the actors seem to be having a good time. Sam Jackson fills the role previously played by Richard Roundtree (who plays his uncle) and it's no surprise to say that Jackson is as fun to watch as he is to listen to. He is always fun in the right role and this script gives him lots of dialogue to play with.What I noticed first about this film was Singleton's refusal to have the whole movie focus on the central character. There is a gallery of interesting characters here especially Jeffery Wright as a Latino drug lord named Peoples. His accent and his mannerisms must have come from studying Al Pacino in 'Scarface'. It is crucial in a movie like this that the actor playing the villain is having a good time. His gestures, his voice, his delivery are all wonderful.There are a few lulls in the script, I was a bit disappointed by the ending but that doesn't matter. Singleton takes a formula cop story and surrounds it with a lot of fresh dialogue, good characters and of course that great music. "},{"Title":"Talk About Getting the Shaft!","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If Paramount Pictures plans to produce a sequel to the new Shaft, then they need to develop a stronger storyline and provide a bolder villain who can go the distance with the cat who won't cop out when there is danger all about. Were it not for its blazing gunplay and blistering profanity, this second-rate but serviceable update of Gordon Park's Shaft would resemble an average episode of NYPD Blue. The action scenes in director John Singleton's Shaft lack the bravura of the Richard Roundtree originals. Aside from an occasionally memorable one-liner, the dialogue pales by comparison with the lingo contrived by the late Oscar winning scenarist Ernest Tidyman. (Not only did Tidyman forge the Shaft character in a series of novels and two scripts, but he also penned the screenplay for director William Friedkin's The French Connection!) The bankrupt quality in the creative storytelling process with Shaft (2000) boils down to its half-baked premise. No, Samuel L. Jackson doesn't replace Richard Roundtree as the seminal black private eye. Instead, he plays Shaft's nephew! Sounds like an urban contemporary alternative to The Mask of Zorro! Basically, Shaft focuses on hate crime. The racist son of a white real estate tycoon beats an unarmed African-American, Trey Howard (Mekhi Phifer of Higher Learning), to death outside an elite New York City restaurant. A white bartender on a cigarette break, Diane Palmieri (a frumpy Toni Collette of The Sixth Sense), witnesses the murder from across the street. Walter Wade Jr. (creepy Christian Bale of American Psycho) threatens her about testifying against him in court. When Detective John Shaft (Samuel L. Jackson of Pulp Fiction) shows up in his stylist Armani leather trench coat, he punches the despicable Wade in the face twice, then devotes himself to tracking down the scared barkeep. He wants to sink Wade Jr., with Diane's testimony. Initially, Singleton characterizes Samuel L. Jackson's Shaft in one illuminating long shot that shows him striding up a street against on-coming traffic. Although Jackson's Shaft is the nephew to Roundtree's Shaft, he handles himself more like Inspector Harry Callahan's half-brother! Unfortunately, for Shaft, once Wade makes bail, the obnoxious anus skips town for sanctuary in far-off Switzerland. According to Wade in a telephone call to his nemesis, he made bail because of the two blows that Shaft dealt him that broke his nose. Meanwhile, in a move reminiscent of the Burt Reynolds' classic Sharkey's Machine, Shaft finds himself reassigned from homicide to narcotics. Singleton reinvents Shaft as a volatile loose cannon on deck. After one of many drug busts, our reckless hero confronts a pint-sized Scarface wannabe, Peoples Hernandez (the impeccable Jeffry Wright of Basquiat), and locks the ice-pick toting drug dealer up on a technicality when the witless thug touches his bullet-proof vest.Two years elapses, and Wade tries to sneak back into Gotham, only to be nabbed as he gets off his plane by Shaft. Shaft is not the only person who cannot figure out why Wade returned. The Shaft scenarists never furnish a reasonable explanation why such a worthless prick like Wade Jr., would come back to stand trial. His father and he tolerate each other, and he despises his old man's mistress. Such an obvious oversight reflects poorly on Singleton and his scripters. When the Honorable Dennis Bradford (Pat Hingle of Hang'em High) releases Wade for a second time, Shaft savors a Dirty Harry moment. Defiantly, he hurls his N.Y.P.D. shield like a kung fu weapon so that it embeds itself in the wall inches from the judge's head. Easily, this is the beset single moment in Shaft. Quitting the force (like hundreds of other renegade Hollywood cops) Shaft resolves to find Diane.Christian Bale and Jeffry Wright make convincingly reptilian villains, but they emerge as narrative welterweights that don't stand a snowball's chance in hell against a heavyweight like Samuel L. Jackson's Shaft. What Shaft desperately needs but cannot conjure up is a bold adversary like the villains in Gordon Park's Shaft & Shaft's Big Score and John Guillermin's Shaft in Africa. When our villains argue, Singleton exposes how essentially weak they are compared to Shaft. Neither Wade nor the vertically challenged Peoples pose much of a threat to Shaft. Eraser heroine Vanessa Williams registers credibly as a tough-minded police woman who backs up Shaft in a tight spot. Dependable Dan Hedaya plays another crooked cop in the vein of the devious policeman that he portrayed in Norman Jewison's The Hurricane. Ostensibly, Shaft unfolds as a gritty, authentic, but incredibly prosaic police procedural thriller with no romantic diversions. Everything in Shaft has been done before and done better. The filmmakers break no new ground dramatically or in terms of action stunts. Writer & director John Singleton of Boyz N the Hood and his scenarists Richard Price of Clockers and Shane Salerno of Armageddon let two banal subplots masquerade as the main plot. Action mystery thrillers are defined by the greed of the villain. The Shaft villains are mindless miscreants. Singleton combines them but together, they fail to substitute for a sturdy villain.Credit the Shaft producers for having the good sense not to tamper with Isaac Hayes' immortal theme song. British composer David Arnold of Tomorrow Never Dies reprises elements of Hayes' Academy Award winning music throughout the action for maximum effect and succeeds without having to alter the tracks. The Shaft producers should be applauded also for giving the original Shaft&#151;Richard Roundtree&#151;a few scenes to recreate his groundbreaking blaxploitation character. Nevertheless, compared with the earlier Shaft epics, the new Shaft struggles lamely to make up for its dire lack of romance and larger-than-life villains. Jackson delivers an abrasive, often ballistic performance as the title hero and is very convincing. Ultimately, the premise that the new Shaft has to have the same name of his uncle and be a cop (even an ex-cop) shows how short-sighted the producers were when they decided to revive the Shaft franchise. "},{"Title":"YET ANOTHER REMAKE...","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Is it better than original?Frankly, I don't know, since i missed the original, so I can only rate this one by enjoyment i got during the watch.Sadly, there was very little enjoyable parts. Firstly, the plot is very weakly...Sincerly, I couldn't get rid of a feeling that's all about the black&white racist issue and the fact that the problem could be solved without blowing half a New York doesn't count here. O.k. forget that and go to more enjoyable parts... ...First the music. The sound theme is one of the best I heard and really helps this movie. Secondly, some strong roles. Jeffrey Wright (a.k.a. Peoples) is great and almost steal the show from Samuel L. Jackson (a.k.a. Shaft), also is American Psycho Christian Bale (as Walter), at the end almost likable character, for which you almost fell sorry.But, all in all the con's are bigger than pro's, especially because of above mentioned racism, that's why a weak 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"good movie","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie almost as much as the first. I thought Samuel L Jackson did a terrific job in the title role.  He gave you the impression he could take care of anything that needed to be done.  Lots of good action scenes.  Richard Roundtree makes a guest appearance and acts as a mentor to Jackson.    "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me? I FELT SHAFTED!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  First an apology to all you loyal Shaft fans, I am not a fan of the old Shaft but I can appreciate a good film for it's time. I am sorry to say that this was very much a disappointment for a Sam Jackson film  made in year 2000. Frankly I was expecting a lot more from the movie as a whole and I was expecting more from the plot even half way through the movie.A racist killer who killed only one person and while trying to convict him about a dozen more were killed... logic people? I can see the point of an eye for an eye but this is more like 12 eyes for an eye. Sam Jackson was pretty cool at certain moments and Christian Bale played a good, though a little beat of a déjà vu role. But the negative parts of the movie far out weighed the positive. I feel like I should like it, you know, if nothing else for the fact that it's a remake of a classic and the fact that I've liked all Sam Jackson's work. Maybe it's the expectation factor, perhaps one would enjoy it more than I did if he/she had read my review first and expected the worst. "},{"Title":"He is a smoooooooth mutha!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A 6 out 10.  I found it entertaining. There were lots of big holes in the plot. Sam L. Jackson is about as cool as they come. This movie lives and dies upon him and sucks the life like a leech on a gator's belly. He can handle it! If you like action and don't mind muthaF.%$&#* talk then watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Well could be worse...","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen worse, but also something a lot better! The plot is just as thin as one would expect. Jackson is okay, but overall, a rather boring movie. See it if there is no choice, but if it is action, then I would choose Snatch, Fight Club, The Matrix, American History X long before this one... "},{"Title":"A good movie - if it had been made for TV","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  For me, the old bad-attitude-cop-turned-investigator routine is getting boring.  Shaft is just this, it doesn't provide any new twists to an old character.  The movie could be good for TV not for theaters.  However, it was entertaining. "},{"Title":"A &#145;guy movie' stretched past the max.  Just who is the psychopathic killer here?","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft is portrayed as a testosterone-blown, bull-in-a-china-shop killer who got stuck in the 70s somewhere.  I vote we leave him there.His actions *are* aimed at justice for the underdog in some way, but this is a great example of the hunter becoming the monster he hunts.  It's pretty hard for me to see this guy as anybody's hero.  Well, maybe a very confused, very angry adolescent&#133;.  "},{"Title":"See it and judge for yourself.","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Like you know by now, the new SHAFT is not a remake, but a SEQUEL of sorts.SAMUEL L. JACKSON proves he can carry a movie, kick booty and take names, and even get girls...and look cool while he is doing it.I found the cast to be rock solid-except maybe for VANESSA WILLIAMS, who has a weak role, though, I appreciate the LACK of sexual tension between her and JACKSON. It would have been all too cliché-and the script and story are quite decent as well. BUSTA RHYMES is hilarious and CHRISTIAN BALE and the actor who played PEOPLES,Mr WRIGHT, were excellent villains.And as for SHAFT JR... SL JACKSON is not RICHARD ROUNDTREE, just as ROGER MOORE and PIERCE BROSNAN are not SEAN CONNERY. That does not make their portrayals worthless. SLJ's SHAFT has the same sense of justice and right and wrong as the original SHAFT. Maybe not as suave, and not as jaded...But definitely a bad mofo.Solid summer entertainment, that pays homage to its source material.(Unlike MISSIONIMPOSSIBLE)   "},{"Title":"This movie is both disappointing and disturbing.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Mainly the movie is a stylish mess, reflecting a casual disregard for plot logic. It might have been fun, however, had it not been so blatantly racist -- indeed, race-baiting. Most disturbing of all is the trumped-up ending which defines the underlying anti-social message of the film. A similar story by a white director with the racial roles reversed would never have received distribution, and rightly so. Shaft is sloppy work,which is bad enough; but it also sends an irresponsible message.   "},{"Title":"Average effort.","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Based on the original 1970's film of the same name, the nephew of detective John Shaft is out to find the eyewitness of a racially motivated murder, but has disappeared without trace.  After Walter Wade, played by Christian Bale, jumps bail Shaft must find the witness to have justice prevail.  This is maybe not the most original concept and the film suffers slightly because of it. Director, John Singleton does a fairly good job of recreating the feeling of the original, particularly in the first half.  However it lacks the edge that is needed to compliment the typically good performance by Jackson as the nephew of original star Richard Roundtree. Partly due to this the film begins to lose the slickness of the original in the second half and the plot appears to take second stage to the excess violence and action.Shaft isn't a classic by any means and it makes for an average action crime flick. It's main saving grace is Jackson's cool performance as John Shaft. 5/10 "},{"Title":"It's Between Us","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Warning! This film actually contains this dialog at the predictable end `This is between you and me, let her go...mano et mano, let's go.' This film also has the excecrable acting of Vanessa Williams. That might be all you need to know.For a film to be good for me, it should transport me to a place that stretches my mind. I had high hopes for `Shaft;' it has a relatively intelligent director, several competent actors, and enough money to do what they want. It builds on a recognized, presumably accomplished Black art. The stretch for my mind would be to enter a world of Black style, communication, semiosis. In other words, because these people are genuine, I was expecting something culturally genuine instead of the slick packaging one gets from the hiphop fashion and record businesses. I was looking for style and intelligence. When I dipped into `Kings of Comedy,' I saw something artificial which will embarrass us all some day for laughing at it. Sadly, `Shaft,' is just the same old Hollywood drek with the thinnest of Black wrapping. There is a plot line that involves a racist, privileged killer, but in action films, the plot doesn't matter, only the style. And here there is no distinctive style, except the brief scene where Peoples (Jeffrey Wright, last seen as the gravedigger) first walks out of the building. And that's thin stuff. We've lost Singleton. Who's left? Forest Whitaker? Certainly there are a few interesting notions of Black cinematic vocabulary out there waiting to be lived. "}{"Title":"What's my name ...?","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Shaft!Samuel L. Jackson is a top actor, and brilliant as ever in the remake of Shaft.  His strong characterisation could probably take just about any story and make it watchable.Supported by a competent cast, this is a very enjoyable film that doesn't exactly challenge you intellectually! "},{"Title":"Bad, Bad, Bad!!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In this case the theme song is right on the money - Shaft is one bad - m ovie!!  This movie boils down to one thing - race.  You see everyone white) in the movie is a racist (what a surprise coming from Singleton - SO different from his other films (please!)) and Shaft is the defender of justice against it.  Mind you I am not white and thought that was quite ridiculous.  Other than that the movie is basically garbage action with weak action sequences and a thin plot line.  Not even the so called surprise ending could help the film in any way.  The only bright part of the film was of course Samuel L. Jackson, who's acting was the only thing that prevented me from walking out of the movie theater.  Other than that, Shaft should be shafted up Singleton's rear end. "},{"Title":"Sloppy Movie with a terrible message","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Did this black director have to create a white villain whose villainy was essentially racial hatred? Couldn't he have been a little more creative than that? Would it have been possible to have at least two good white guys in the movie? Does Singleton really believe that justice in America is unavailable to people of color? This movie joins a parade of films recently that endorses anti-white, anti-establishment vigilante violence. It ain't cute and it ain't funny. In the end it sows the seeds of ongoing racial alienation and hatred. But I'll bet John Grishom loved it. "},{"Title":"Mindless Black Revenge Drama, Boring","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Racist cop John Shaft (again the over rated Sam Jackson) thinks that he can break all the rules and beat up innocent people, well, this movie is a bit of something absurd.  The direction is terrible, the action sequences are cliched and the black brother message doesn't really make sense because it falls flat.  I would avoid this mess unless of course you are someone who feels that violence is necessary against innocent civilians..... "},{"Title":"Anachronism","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Entertaining, I guess. Samuel L Jackson is naturally urbane. Richard Roundtree gets a role, rather than a cameo. Christian Bale is a high-calibre baddie - Jeffrey Wright is always watchable. Just like the celebrated blaxploitation films of the 70s retribution comes through a conflict of charisma.I found myself wincing at the screen though. You can take or leave the homeboyishness - I think it's actually diluted for a mainstream audience. What's less comfortable (given this mainstreaming) is that Shaft's unorthodox methods, not only rule-breaking but invariably threatening people with violence, meet no resistance. He's no anti-hero, he's just a hero - even when he's knocking out a riot-act reading superior or nipping a youthful drug dealer in his bud. Not only is it morally questionable, it's also a bit boring. There's no danger to it, no frisson, if everyone thinks it's OK to pistol whip a teenager for the sake of a woman's smile.A simple film. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Christian Bale and Jeffrey Wright","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I can't talk about Shaft without talking about two golden performances Christian Bale and Jeffrey Wright.This was the first movie I'd ever seen Christian Bale in and his performance was so good I positively hated him. I didn't simply hate Walter Wade Jr., I actually hated Christian Bale!! I can remember only one other actor playing the antagonist so well that I hated the person, and that was Rebecca De Mornay in The Hand That Rocks the Cradle. Of course, Christian Bale went on to be incredible in other movies such as The Machinist, Equilibrium and the Batman franchise, but it took me some time to get over him being Walter Wade Jr.Then there was Jeffrey Wright as Peoples Hernandez. You mean to tell me he's NOT Latino??? No, he's not and that is amazing. His performance was stellar. He did such a good job that I wanted to see him in other movies.Shaft was superbly written and the acting was even better. The story was good and I only neglected to write about that because it was secondary to great performances. "},{"Title":"A Bit Silly, Interesting Role From Christian Bale","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" New York City police detective John Shaft (nephew of the original 1970s detective) goes on a personal mission to make sure the son of a real estate tycoon is brought to justice after a racially-motivated murder.This was a strange film. First, there is no way to make Shaft without having the actual Shaft playing the character. However, Samuel L. Jackson is probably the only person who could have attempted to fill the role, so at least they cast as good as they could.But the movie is strange in general because of Christian Bale's character. His racism is so over-the-top that it almost makes no sense. The movie seems forced. There is no doubt that racism is alive and well, but the examples here were so exaggerated it was almost comic. (In retrospect, I am glad it was Bale... always nice to see an A-lister doing something corny.) "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Pretty good. Good action and reasonable plot. The vigilantism is not overdone, unlike some movies with similar plots. Samuel L Jackson is great in the lead role. However, almost stealing the show Jeffrey Wright and Christian Bale, who play the bad guys. Both are excellent in their roles - Wright is particularly funny.Good support from Busta Rhymes, Vanessa Williams, Toni Collette and Dan Hedaya. The original Shaft, Richard Roundtree, makes a cameo appearance.Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Shaft This Film.","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft (2000) Dir John Singleton / Cast Samuel L. Jackson, Christian Bale, Toni Collette, Vanessa Williams, Jeffrey Wright Mindless exercise in retaliation and violence. It is a remake of previous material starring Samuel L. Jackson as John Shaft whose methods of problem solving evolves around punching people out. Christian Bale plays a racist who murders a black male. Due to an error in the system Bale is released. Shaft quits the police force and decides to bring Bale in his own way. Plot is constantly sidetracked by a gangster named Peoples and an ending handle to the lowest degree. Directed by John Singleton who is much too respected for material such as this but at any rate, in lesser hands it would be a far worse film. Jackson is an effective lead who desires justice to the point of quitting his job. His methods of obtaining justice draws to question. Bale steals his scenes as a criminal gone free but resurfaces only to be arrested by Shaft again. It is interesting how he receives his just deserts. Toni Collette gives a decent performance as a suspect whom Shaft searches for. Vanessa Williams becomes more or less a potential romantic prop for Shaft. Jeffrey Wright plays a drug lord but again, the role is standard issue rubbish. There isn't much in this film that hasn't been done before, therefore this film should be shafted down a toilet. Score 4 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Shaft is back! And arguably better!","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" An homage to the blaxploitation films of the late '60s, early '70s, Samuel L. Jackson stars in the title role of Shaft. More of a sequel to the successful earlier series that starred Richard Roundtree than a reboot, it follows the exploits of John Shaft, the nephew of the original detective John Shaft, who is once again portrayed by Roundtree. Shaft is a New York City cop who arrests a racist rich heir (Christian Bale) who beats a black restaurant patron to death for no reason. The heir gets bail and skips town, but returns to years later. Shaft makes it his business to hunt him down. He also is hunting down the sole witness to the murder, who doesn't want to be found. When he finally catches the heir, he is once again given bail, which causes Shaft to quit the force and take measures into his own hands. The heir enlists the aid of a local Hispanic drug lord to hunt down the witness to silence her. This film is VERY relevant to today's ills of society, and the tension between the races that exists today. It also is a throwback to the old series, with MUCH better acting, as Jackson and Bale both command the screen. Good turns by Vanessa Williams as Shaft's partner and Toni Colette as the witness, and a great, over-the-top performance by Jeffrey Wright as the drug lord makes the movie much superior to its predecessors. Great flick for action movie fans. "}{"Title":"Does Samuel Jackson ever turn down a script?","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie should really rock--John Singleton juicing up the classic '70s Shaft vibe with Samuel Jackson set in modern day New York. Throw in Christian Bale and quite a few cameos from the original Shaft, Richard Roundtree, and how could you have anything other than a winner? Sorry to say, the only '70s vibe this movie captures is that of an utterly mediocre '70s made-for-TV movie. Unfortunately, being set in modern day New York, you don't even get the nostalgia of '70s cars and stuff. This movie is just a total disappointment. I was watching this misfire with other people and kept hoping in vain that it would get better as it went along, but if I were alone I would have stopped this ordeal midstream. (I should be honest and note that the two other viewers who had no prior knowledge of Blaxploitation films, Shaft and Richard Roundtree, etc., and thus had no hopes, expectations, or preconceived biases considered it passable entertainment.) My take is, ask yourself if you want to watch a totally run-of-the-mill vintage made-for-TV action movie, basically just updated by adding a whole lot of swearing (although I doubt this bothers too many people nowadays, and I could personally care less)--I really, really don't. I would much rather watch old Columbo or Rockford episodes. When I think how well Quentin Tarantino did with Jackie Brown, a similar project, this movie just looks lame, lame, lame. "},{"Title":"I am going to rate this film a 'T'","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I am rating this film a 'T' for Twaddle! in fact change that to a 'UT' for Utter Twaddle! Angelina Jolie is poncing and pouting away utilising her usual class A acting skills and those are the believable scenes. The film is filled with excuse after excuse for over played action scenes and the story line jumps so much you don't know where you are or why half the time. Granted there are twists that you don't see coming but sadly you literally don't care due to there being little to no depth to any of the characters. Clearly this has cost a huge fortune to make and if you like action films that make no sense then this will be right up your alley. Be careful not to fall down a huge plot hole though as this is riddled with them. One of the most ridiculous moments was when Jolie grabs a Russian style fur hat as she runs past a hat stall in order to disguise herself and in the next shot she is on a ferry unexplainably wearing a perfect matching cloak - oh well at least she looked like Nikita from the 80's Elton John track! Although having out of sheer nosiness just watched the Nikita video on you tube noticed Nikita looks rather like Jennifer Lawrence but perhaps I am just talking twaddle! "},{"Title":"Shaft is a so-so remake of a Classic Action Film","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft (2000), starring Samuel L. Jackson, is a John Singleton-directed film and an update of the Ernest Tidyman literary character.This viewer was disappointed in the Singleton/Jackson film. Singleton is a valuable director and Jackson is deservedly a marquee actor, but this project wasn't especially enjoyable, especially based on the pedigree of the concept. The script just wasn't there. Maybe the paper script had more depth, but on-screen, there wasn't a compelling main villain in Christian Bale's bigoted trust-funder. Jeffrey Wright's Dominican drug dealer stole the show in comparison.Jackson's Shaft is robbed of the relative independence that his predecessor enjoyed in the previous Shaft films. Mainly, Jackson's Shaft starts off the film as a New York City police detective, who quits the force halfway through the film to be a vigilante after being frustrated with how the court systems deals with Bale's criminal blue-blood.Another aspect that can't be ignored here The film has a literal throwaway non-dialogue credits scene where Shaft throws a candy bar at a woman he just slept with, and along with a provocative line said to a woman at a bar, that's pretty much it for the Bond-esque ladies' man quality that the first Shaft displayed.This was another reason that Jackson's casting doesn't work, because it kind of assumes up-front that this character is not going to be portrayed as any kind of sex symbol, compared to a Wesley Snipes or Will Smith (or whoever else might have been in the running circa 1999-2000.) Jackson's Shaft has a chaste relationship with a fellow detective played by Vanessa L. Williams, but that's it.About the only other part this viewer enjoyed was Richard Roundtree as the real Uncle Shaft showing up in key moments. (It is observed that because the age difference between Roundtree and Jackson isn't that dramatic, the character is Uncle Shaft rather that his dad.John Shaft's original screen adventures (the first, directed by Gordon Parks) were imbued with the evolving social politics of urban American in the early 1970s. In the first film, Shaft was caught in between the criminal underworld of NY (Bumpy's Harlem operation and the white Mafia), the police, and the activist militants of the neighborhood. Shaft would navigate dealing with all of those elements, but refused to be co-opted by any of them.This Shaft film is a competently shot, competently acted, by-the-books actioner, but it just doesn't have a satisfying narrative for repeat viewing. Stick with the originals. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The hardest part about being a black cop is not getting shot by white cops when you pull your gun.The honkies in this action movie, however, know better than to mess with Shaft.When rich white boy Wade Jr. (Christian Bale) is accused of killing a black man (Mekhi Phifer), no nonsense detective John Shaft is assigned to the racially charged case. But the accused is allowed to flee the country when the only witness (Toni Collette) goes missing.Unrelenting, Shaft spends the next two years searching for her.When he finds her, Wade Jr. serendipitously returns Stateside with a sadistic drug lord (Jeffrey Wright) on his payroll.John Singleton's much-maligned reboot of Shaft isn't as blasphemes as perceived, with Sam Jackson serving as a worthy successor to Richard Roundtree.Besides, young African Americans need to be exposed to influential Black icons before the CIA assassinates them all.Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Good case building amid the lighter mood of a crime story","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The story builds it's crime case well, keeping the mystery element existing while revealing new details and small surprises along the way. Yet it kind of throws back at how the focus character seems to be so resourceful and calm at what he's doing. I think the movie should have a more solid backgrounder on how he can do these things. The action side is not that good at all, having too much close up shots and cuts from shot to shot just don't seem to add to the suspense. The acting side also doesn't really offer something. Samuel L. Jackson's acting is surprisingly slightly a bit his own standard here, grinning too much at the wrong times. Christian Bale's upper lip definitely wrecks up his expressions all the entire time. Vanessa Williams can add a color to the story but that's just it. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly uncool remake","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" You'd think Samuel L. Jackson starring in a remake of Shaft would be the coolest thing ever. Seeing as Jackson and the character are two badass mother-shut yo mouths. But the end result is disappointing.The plot revolves around Shaft, played by Jackson, seeking to take down the son of a wealthy and powerful man. The son is played by Christian Bale, and the reason Shaft is after him is because he murdered a black man out of racial hate. But he managed to escape prison time and fled to Switzerland. Shaft gets sick,of the injustice and hands in his badge, taking a vigilante approach. His only hope is finding the lone witness of the murder and convince her to take the stand.Here's the film's main problem. The actions he takes are not protected by the law. The cops are even helping him, and no consequences are paid. True, you want him to win, but you can't overlook he is breaking the law. The original Shaft was more of a lone wolf. Shaft here can't seem to do anything without help.The films villains are forgettable. As good as Bale is, he's hardly there and is out of the majority of the action. Jeffrey Wright as a Hispanic gangster emerges as the main villain and is utterly uninteresting. A great villain should make you like him, even if you hate him. I don't even remember the character's name.But I think the biggest downfall is casting Richard Roundtree in a reprisal of his original Shaft role and waste him. He's pretty much a cameo and the film ends with a promise of the original badass mother-shut yo mouth kicking some ass, but we don't get to see it.The one thing this film needed was to be cool. It's unfortunately not.Shaft 4/10 "},{"Title":"John Singleton got the right Shaft and the right tone but ...","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" NYC police detective John Shaft (Samuel L. Jackson) is confronted by a cocky racist Walter Wade, Jr. (Christian Bale) son of a rich and powerful real estate tycoon who is charged for a murder. He skips out on his bail. It's 2 years later. Walter Jr is back in town, and Shaft arrests him once again. However Walter gets bail once again. Now he's hunting down the waitress witness (Toni Collette). Shaft quits in frustration. Walter enlists the help of drug lord gangster Peoples Hernandez (Jeffrey Wright) to find the waitress.Samuel L Jackson as Shaft is exactly as everybody expects. Director John Singleton got that part right. He cast the perfect Shaft. However the story is a poor mess. There isn't any mystery or thrills. Christian Bale is ridiculously over the top evil but ultimately a weakling. He needs to be a super villain so that Shaft can oppose a worthy opponent. Then they have drug lord Peoples. If he's the super villain, then it should be him to start off the movie, not Christian Bale.I rather have a cleaner straight up fight against the drug lord, and forget about the racist white boy. As far as I'm concern, the dirtier and grittier and the more realistic, the better. If they truly need a white boy antagonist, let him be a drug dealing rich boy. The whole Christian Bale murderer storyline is a diversion from the truly fun parts. "},{"Title":"A game of two halves","Date":"28 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When it's got these three leads, it's got to be worth checking out, right? Well, yes and no. The first half was really good, with snappy dialog, crisp performances and a potentially decent story. Then, it went downhill, with clichés galore, a ridiculously over the top storyline which turned into a car chase gun fest for no good reason I could think of. Samuel L. Jackson is terrific as John Shaft, and enjoyed the original Shaft making a reappearance as the uncle. As for the Latino bad guy - he was a cartoon character - I felt it was insulting for him to be directed to speak in ridiculous pidgin English in a ludicrously over the top gay Latino way (it was borderline racist, in my view).Still, the film was fun at times, but ultimately a failure. "},{"Title":"serious, comical, yet entertaining","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Samuel L. Jackson is here in one of his best roles ever as the black no-nonsense NYC detective John Shaft who's mean, yet good-hearted and caring in his own strange and rough way; he's especially kind toward the scared bar waitress, played well by Toni Collette. He didn't mind being mean toward the Hispanic Peeples Hernandez, the part Jeffrey Wright played so convincingly. It was, to say the very least, extremely refreshing to see Vanessa Williams who portrayed Carmen Vasquez. Christian Bale, a very versatile actor, was the smart-aleck Walter Wade, Jr, for whom no sensible person could have any sympathy. Also, the unforgettable Richard Roundtree made a surprise, yet not-surprising, appearance as the original John Shaft, here John Shaft's uncle. Naturally, Isaac Hayes' musical contribution was a mind-sticker. And too, it is obvious that the director John Singleton made a great accomplishment. But while it was allegedly a serious drama, because of the filthy persiflage on the part of Jackson toward Wright and a few others, I was led to laugh, and did. They did for sure get carried away there. And yet, it was a story about a serious detective who hated injustice with a passion. Samuel L. Jackson, again, made you believe here that he was the man who would risk his neck for fellow-man for sure. "},{"Title":"Lets all celebrate the justice system.","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I will not say anything about actor/actress performances about this movie. Because one particular part of it, is by far more important. OK, so like all action movies, there is a murder. Then there is a running witness. Shaft tries to find the witness, so that one individual would pay for his crime. During this chase, many people gets hurt, brother of the witness dies. Herself almost dies. For what? To deliver one individual to the justice system. Also another note is, even after her brother dies, the witness does seem to care more about the murder she witnessed and apologizes for running from civil duty, but does not seem to care very much about her own brothers death...Really...! Oh and at the end, Shaft seems pretty happy with himself. Go figure. "}{"Title":"The unlikely remake where the source material hurt the new version.","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft was the man in the 70s. He rocked a bad-ass fro, carried a big gun and chose his funky words carefully. He also stuck it to the man and many ladies in equal proportion, but in differing methods.Then he apparently took some time off.Then in 2000, he came back, using one of the better reboot/remake rationales &#x96; the remake of the 70s low budget film. (If having access to CGI is your only reason to remake a good film, history has shown us don't bother&#x85; unfortunately the box office hasn't backed it up.) The funny thing is that if this was released as Sam Jackson messes up a bunch of people' it might have been a bigger hit.Samuel L Jackson is the Shaft 2.0 (I assume that wouldn't be an accurate measurement&#x85;), the original John Shaft is still working as a private eye and catches up with Sam occasionally, but new Shaft works in his own way &#x96; but thankfully is backed by the same immortal Isaac Hayes theme music.Shaft 2000 is a cop, a cop who does things his way; and as always 'but dammit he gets results (You stupid Chief!)'.In the film Shaft is on the case of the race-related death of a young black man allegedly at the hands of a rich white man named Walter Wade Jr (Christian Bale).An open and shut case is stymied when the one key witness &#x96; a waitress named Diane Palmieri (Toni Collette) goes into hiding once she realises that Wade will use whatever means necessary to ensure she doesn't talk.Wade Jr is the son of a rich property developer, he is aloof, pompous and arrogant. Bale doesn't even try to give him a redeeming edge or worthwhile qualities, which is a plus and a brave move. At one point Wade Jr basically throws offers of assistance back in his wealthy Father's face&#x85; When Wade jumps bail and skips the country Shaft momentarily loses his famous cool, getting busted back to working the streets as a result.This brings him into the radar of a vicious small time kingpin named Peoples Hernandez (Jeffrey Wright). Peoples is organised and ambitious and aspires to owning more than the local neighbourhood &#x96; he also steals the movie, but more from him later.When Wade inexplicably comes back to America and is immediately nabbed it looks like the whole thing is done with, but the trial doesn't go according to plan, and with eyewitness Diane still missing it looks like Wade may walk&#x85; &#x85; and you know Shaft ain't having that! Shaft 2000 is far more intricate than it probably needed to be, but that isn't a bad thing because it resulted in Peoples being in the film. Wright plays Peoples supercool but with a menacing edge and a thick accent, all he wants is to move on up into new territory and to look after his peoples. While Wade is a strong character and played well by Bale it is Wright that is really the yin to Shaft's yang in the film.With three distinct 'sides' now in play &#x96; Shaft, Wade and Peoples &#x96; the middle third of the film brings them all into each other's orbit. It also shows that there are shonky operators on all sides, and that is seems nothing will go the way anyone plans.The last third of the film degenerates a little, with the true motives of all involved out in the open, gone is the complex posturing and positioning of the various sides in favour of car chases and shootouts with the usual 'bad guys can't shoot straight &#x96; good guys don't miss' rules.It's not important but I can't not mention Busta Rhymes as Shaft's off the books man on the street. He didn't really need to be in the film other than to provide a loud and lively counterpoint to Shaft's low key cool, but it proves Busta can act &#x96; a good thing because his hip-hop career has been abseiling a little in the last 5+ years.Shaft isn't great, it is a little too convoluted at times and I could have used a little less of the forced race-related 'humour', but it is better than I expected and Shaft is indeed The Man.The film made some money, Sam Jax is always a solid box office draw and a fair indicator that the film will be entertaining &#x96; so I guess I'm flummoxed that this film didn't warrant a sequel. And now Sam is in his 60s and pumping out Avengers flicks I guess we'll never get to see another 'black private dick who's the sex machine to all the chicks' until Hollywood runs out of remakes and starts remaking the remakes.Final Rating &#x96; 8 / 10. A solid cast, an intricate storyline and some bang-bang to end proceedings. The result is a film that is better than it probably deserved. "},{"Title":"Racist Crap, and not a Singleton thing more","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie can be summed up in two words Racist Crap. Well, make that four words Intellectually Insulting Racist Crap.I am old enough to remember the '70s and the original Shaft movie and the Blaxploitation period. This movie is purported to be a nostalgia trip to that era, but it is really a caricature of the very worst movies made in an era when a high percentage of the movies that were made were just garbage. A caricature of garbage cannot possibly hope to be anything other than garbage.It was perhaps five minutes into the film when it was made apparent to me that this was going to be a very stupid, intellectually insulting movie. Why would anyone want to make a movie that is this intellectually insulting, and what is it about a movie of this sort that appeals to other people? I don't get it. Can it possibly be that even at this stage in our cultural evolution that there are enough black people who still deep inside are so bitterly angry with white people that a movie of this sort will have an audience? Evidently so. According to IMDb, this piece of racist garbage has grossed over one-hundred-million dollars.Everything about the character played by Christian Bale is engineered toward the purpose of arousing the audience's inner hatred of racist white-supremacist jerks. The only people in the audience who could not react in that way to this character would be white-supremacists jerks who, like that character, suffer from an obvious psychological affliction. The movie is much more about this character than it is about the character played by Samuel Jackson. The character played by Christian Bale is the main character in this movie. Yet, this character is not so much a character as a caricature, that exists for the same purpose that the movie exists to manipulate and exploit black people.Now here is what I find especially disingenuous about this movie, and about John Singleton's making of this movie. It isn't so much a nostalgia trip back to the era of blaxploitation, as it is a blatant example of the exploitation of blacks! It is as if it is permissible for John Singleton to exploit blacks in the way that he has done, because this was commonly done in a far less skilled and far less insidious manner several decades ago, and because he can consequently make the claim that it is a nostalgia trip back to that fond era. Well, perhaps there is some nostalgia to it, but people, this is just a bad, bad trip. There is nothing good about this sort of exploitation of blacks, not back then, not now, and especially not when it is done with this level of insidiousness. This movie is just plain old racist crap.John Singleton ought to be ashamed of himself for having made this movie. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft is modern day exploitation movie, when had their time in 70. The story follows John Shaft tough and honest cop. He is an investigator in homicide case in which young black boy was beaten to death. He arrests the murderer but he is a son of wealthy real estate developer and this case gets shaft into a lot of problems. Now this film is not a detective story, it is an action film. Culprit is known from the beginning only question is how Shaft will get him. Story of this film is nothing special and sometimes it is a little bit flimsy. Acting is solid especially form Jackson, Bale and great Jeffrey Wright playing Hispanic mobster. The film is shot quite well and action scenes are fun to watch. Overall a little better than mediocre film which will reach its goal &#x96; entertain you. One interesting thinks this film is a bit of sequel to the film Shaft and subsequent series. Which were about a cop Shaft. Actor who played original Shaft is in this film in the role of hero's uncle. "},{"Title":"Are you depressed? Then consider watching this","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have not watched the original, or the other sequels(not for a lack of trying), but I honestly imagine that this just about matches them in pure awesomeness that has not been watered down in the least. While I will grant that the 70's stuff in this probably fit better and looked more inconspicuous back in the actual decade, this still completely works. You probably already know the basic concept; Shaft is a P.I. who especially works to ensure that his fellow African-Americans are not treated unfairly as far as justice being served goes. I can see Roundtree having nailed that role 40 years ago, and I'm not necessarily saying that Jackson is a better choice, however, he certainly is spot-on for the role. The plot is genuinely engaging, and it holds surprises without being difficult to follow. This is nicely filmed and edited. The film is immensely entertaining throughout; I wasn't bored for a single second, and the pace is marvelous. With shoot-outs, fights and chases, this has cool and exciting action. No, it doesn't go anywhere new for the genre... so? It's a well-produced and really *fun* entry, and that deserves recognition, as well. I love the music of this. The characters are well-written, credible and thoroughly developed. Acting performances range a tad, the leads are great. The dialog is clever, delivered well and natural. There is constant strong language, a lot of bloody violence, and very brief nudity and sexuality. I recommend this to anyone into the idea behind it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"You know me. It's my duty to please that booty.","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" We are not talking classics here, but guilty pleasures. I've watched it three or four times. I am surprised I haven't written it up.The Richard Roundtree role of John Shaft is taken by none other than Samuel L. Jackson. Christian Bale is his nemesis as Walter Wade, Jr., who is a racist, spoiled rich kid.Wade hooks up with Peoples (Jeffrey Wright) and Shaft has his work cut out for him trying to find his witness (Toni Collette). He doesn't know he has crooked cops to deal with also.The action ramps up hot and heavy after People's little brother gets killed. Bullets fly and lots die while cars get shot up and smashed in a run through the streets.With Vanessa Williams backing up Shaft, this is worth a couple of watches. "},{"Title":"Good Better Best -- try Good","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sam Jackson plays an acceptable enough SHAFT, actually the nephew of the original, and Uncle Shaft himself (Richard Roundtree) is around for a bit here and a bit there. Shaft has been expelled from the police force, and is hot on the trail of a maniacal killer (Christian Bale in his American PSYCHO mode). Busta Rhymes is along for some comic relief. Actually, the best performance is given by actor/playwright Jeffrey Wright as a fancy-pants drug lord who learns soon enough it doesn't pay to play with Shaft. Unfortunately, the movie lacks enough hard action, and in the end, everyone -- except maybe Wright -- appears to just be going through the motions in this quasi-remake/quasi-sequel to the 1971 cult favorite. A better director might have helped, but the story is so tired. A better film, however, might have resulted in a followup. Too bad. Imagine Jackson in a franchise. "},{"Title":"the new john shaft","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sam L Jackson plays john shaft the nephew of the original shaft who even appears in the film. I haven't seen the original shaft movie so I don't know witch one is better but this version is certainly good. Samuel plays john shaft a tough but cool detective who is out to stop a racist killer played well by Christian bale who is also working for a Latino gangster and drug lord. With the help from his friends shaft will stop at nothing to enforce justice. ghetto films are not normally My kind of film but I really enjoyed shaft it was a fun and well crafted film Samuel does a good performance as ultra cool john shaft and Christian bale makes a good villain even Busta Ryhmes is good as a sort of comic relief character.Direction is done well by John Singleton and good action makes shaft an enjoyable ride 7 out of ten "},{"Title":"so Pity","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'll be short againthe good  Samuel; Christian bale and above all Jeffrey Wright... what a performance, I didn't know him at all but he's a great actor I think. I also like the soundtrack very much, as a big disco-funk fan I never realize it could fit as a good soundtrackthe bad I thought shaft was a bit more gun -ho -)ugly for me the movie was a disappointing;I think one could make a better movie with this story and cast also the end was cheap not to mention the ultimate stand-off between shaft and peoples ( that was just lame) and it felt like if injustice has been done to you its alright to take justice in your own hands... bizarre "},{"Title":"Quite weak","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft is a weakly done action thriller. Samuel L. Jackson's portrayal of the Shaft-character never reaches that level of coolness his character had in Pulp Fiction. The story is somewhat tedious and never really captures the audience. The Peoples Hernandez-character, played by Jeffrey Wright, never manages to become the menacing bad guy it was intended to be, throughout the movie it appears comical partly due to Jeffrey Wright's physical appearance, which is very non-threatening. I also noted that several times during the shoot outs in the film the characters were discharing their weapons despite the slide being locked back, indicating that the weapons are our of ammunition. On a big Hollywood production like this, something like that should be corrected. All in all I would not bother with this film if I were you. "},{"Title":"Very dull story with poor acting","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I can tell by his performances in Pulp Fiction and Jackie Brown that Jackson is a good actor. And although he tries his best he is unable to give Shaft a good story.He stars as the lead detective and with his quick wit, sharp dialogue and racist jokes he captures the spirit of the infamous black icon perfectly.The problem throughout is Jackson's supporting actors and mostly the story.I have no idea why Busta Rhymes was chosen because he simply cannot act and Jeffery Wright is unable to pull off a decent performance which downgraded me liking for him which was a shame because I thought he starred well in Ali.The story is the main problem. Even though it is brilliant in capturing the crime genre perfectly the story never gets itself off the ground, is slow, inconsistent, predictable, unfunny when it tries to be but more than not it is sheer Boredom.The beginning engaged me and had me interested right from the off but after the murder scene was finished it became increasingly dull.It has no interest to it, the stories contained have probably all been done before and therefore lacks something interesting for the audience.Captures the crime genre well and Jackson does his best but it is a disappointment and not really worth watching. If you like crime and racist jokes then I recommend it but its not the best one around, watch Bad Boys or Pulp Fiction 6/10 "}{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I've never seen anything related to the original Shaft, but I'm pretty sure that this tribute/remake doesn't do it justice.Shaft obviously wants to be a cool action movie, but ends up being very mediocre in every aspect. The story is dull and predictable, and there doesn't seem to be enough of it to fill an entire movie. The characters are extreme stereotypes, and come across more as loud and obnoxious than as cool (as was probably intended). The action scenes are awfully predicable as well, and lack any kind of creativity or suspense. You've literally seen this kind of action sequences hundreds of times before, and often done a lot better.And finally, the movie seems to take itself way too seriously. If you have such a crappy plot and such lame characters, you'd better insert some humor to put it all into perspective. But that doesn't happen here.Shaft is loud and violent, but lacks any kind of creativity, humor or suspense to make it even remotely interesting.* out of **** stars  "},{"Title":"Another film where the supporting cast steals the show.","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jeffrey Wright. Man, Jeffrey Wright! He's the man and always will be at least as far as this film is concerned. It's a miracle that this film worked out as good as it did, because let's face it John Singleton is a hack. I haven't seen Boyz N the Hood, but his other films haven't impressed me at all. 2 Fast 2 Furious was a glass of water when it should've been scotch on the rocks. Higher learning had potential, but ended up being corny. The list goes on. Now Shaft.. it works.Samuel L. Jackson is no doubt good in the title role, but Wright gives such an energetic performance as Peoples that it casts a dark shadow on everybody else. In a world with justice he would've been at least nominated for an Oscar. But no. Also Christian Bale turns in a great performance as the stuck up racist rich kid. Sparks fly when he and Wright share the screen.Shaft is a good and entertaining little actioner. It didn't make me regret spending 90 minutes of my life on watching it.**** / ***** "},{"Title":"The Shaft......","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, of all the African American actors out there I was delighted to see Samuel L. Jackson cast in the lead of this 'remake.' He's got all the cool and attitude that Richard Roundtree's Shaft had. Unfortunately, this cool and attitude is only found in his other films and not this one. Shaft 2000 is a decent film if you've never seen the original. It's just too serious. The originals were perfect for their time and place and the best thing about them was the fact that the films never took themselves too serious. Why do we like the Shaft movies/TV series? 1- John Shaft is a vigilante fighting to break down the stereotypes given to Blacks in poverty stricken neighborhoods. 2- He's arrogant, confident and proud of who he is and can hold his own with the police and the mob. 3- He's a lover and every woman wants to jump in bed with him (especially white girls) and he knows exactly how to handle it. 4- The movies are effective in their portrayal of 'ghettos' and just how bad areas can get, thus the ability to relate to the struggle.and on and on....I believe Shaft 2000 didn't fulfill any of these aspects. Granted, these are different times, but I think more could have been done with this character considering the Shaft image. I was hoping for more of Pulp Fiction, Last Kiss Goodnight and Die Hard With a Vengeance rolled into one. Instead we got an angry cop with a chip on his shoulder coming off as more of a villain. Also, Richard Roundtree was unnecessary and just thrown in for the retro-generation. He must have just done this for nostalgic purposes. With a better script, this could have been wonderful, because both Jackson and Roundtree are fantastic. **Hopefully I've not made too many generalizations in this or offended anyone racially.**  "},{"Title":"Funny and nice crime film","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Enjoyable to see the policeman-detective, Shaft, the way he fights against a crime committed against an innocent young black man. Good acting of Samuel L. Jackson and Vanessa Williams, That low society of New York is also here well described. Those acting as latino smugglers, I could not identify exactly where they were from, either from Venezuela or Puerto Rico, did a very good work. A young white man who murdered another young black one, escaped the sentences several times owing to the money and influence of his father, but a woman who witnessed the murder disappeared and never declared about this incidence. So Shaft decided to capture her and to convince of the need to declare what really happened. He did it, but it was not necessary because the mother of the killed young black man shot the guilty white young man before he was to enter the court for the third time in his life and for the same reason. Once again the corruption of part of the police is shown in this film.               "},{"Title":"Excellent and Underrated","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great movie that is 'shafted' (wink ) ) by some people who either A) Compare it to the original or B) Look too deeply into the story.While the plot is important in the movie, you don't have to watch attentivly to enjoy it. There are more than enough car chases, gun fights etc. to make the movie an enjoyable experience. The plot is fairly simplistic but good A white, racist rich kid named Walter Wade(Christian Bale) murders a black man outside a bar in New York. After his father pays bail and he skips country, Shaft (Samuel L Jackson) vowes to track him down and bring him in. Unfortunatly for him, Wade allys himself with a local drug dealer (Jeffery Wright). Diane Palmieri (Toni Collette) is the only witness to the horrendous crime, and is sought after by both sides. That's all you really need to know to have a good time watching this movie.The acting in this movie is supurb. Although it's been said so many times, I'll say it again Samuel L Jackson OWNS the role of John Shaft. If they ever make a sequel (and I believe they should), they'll have to sign him. Bale works as the rich, spoiled brat that everyone hates. Wright is excellent as the mid-level dope dealer who is trying to rise above his position. The rest of the acting is great, aside from Busta Rhymes (not bad, but could have been better). There is only one tune that I can remember from this movie, the great theme from Issac Hayes. I mean, you can't hear it enough. It personifies this movie. The action sequences are great, well paced, etc. Although there were quite a few, I think there should have been more, but that's just a minor quibble.Just about my only complaint about this movie is the lack of sex - I'm not a pervert or anything, but the original Shaft was a fighter AND a lover. While I don't know much about the original (I'm only 18) I do know that much. If they would have included some T&A they probably would have got more teens.Overall, a great movie, a sequel-worthy movie. James Black Wolf Johnston "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson is the man.","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie quite a few times and I loved watching it every time. So it wasn't like the original but who cares? Shaft takes place in New York I believe and Samuel L. Jackson did a good job of portraying Shaft. He was a bad ass cop who wasn't afraid of anyone. The movie is mostly about Shaft trying to find a witness on the run named Diane Palmieri (Toni Collette). He has the help of Vanessa Williams' character, sorry if I don't remember the name. I liked the scenes where Shaft just played the boss and kicked some ass. He ruled the streets. There were a few moments in the movie that made me laugh for quite some time. John Singleton did a good job and he has a trademark of making a cameo appearance in the movies he directs. He played the bored police officer drinking the coffee outside the prison. I don't have much else to say but Christian Bale was good as well as People's Hernandez (Jeffrey Wright). I give this movie 9.5/10. I'd definitely rent and watch this over and over and over again. "},{"Title":"great remake","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The remake of the 1971 original is in fact, in my opinion, better than the original.  There is definitely more action, the plot makes more sense, and you actually know something about the bad guys.  Samuel L Jackson dominates the film from the moment he enters the screen, and Christian Bale is solid as the bad guy.  The ending shootout and car chase is exciting and fast paced.  Highly recommended, for anyone who likes police thrillers. 4/5 "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much from this film but I was pleasantly surprised. The plot may be a little predictable but it was otherwise entertaining due to the sharp script and strong performances from Samuel L Jackson and Busta Rhymes etc. It was a little cliched at times but this was what I was expecting - overall it was better than I expected and I'm sorry I didn't see this at the cinema.  "},{"Title":"Has Samuel Jackson, but that's about it...","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Have you ever seen the movie Cobra, starring Sylvester Stallone? Probably not much of it, as it's a horrible movie. This is pretty much a modern version of Cobra. Okay, the plots a tiny bit different, and there's a race bit tacked on, but it's pretty painfully cliched. (It also bears a resemblance to Action Jackson starring Carl Weathers, now that I think about it.) It's saved somewhat by the natural charm of Mr. Jackson, one of the best actors around. But still painful to watch.I would also say, it's Shaft in name only.  The real Shaft would have thrown the racist slimeball/villain of the movie off a building or something, and said something cool. "},{"Title":"My Thoughts","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Although I only saw about the first half-hour of this movie, it became clear to me that swearing, cursing and sexual innuendos took up at least 50% of the dialogue. Now, a few days ago, I heard this movie was going to be broadcast on TBS (The most censored station in history). I figure the people who censor for TBS will be up nights trying to fix all the swearing. There will never be a bigger hack-job.Oh, what's that? The movie? Uh, 5/10. The plot was just too confusing.  "}{"Title":"Peoples Hernandez steals the show","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft is enjoyable movie for anyone interested in action/ detective movie. Although plot is a no-brainer, acting is superb (usually that is reversed) Christian Bale delivers brilliant performance, and although he is an antagonist of the film, by the end of it I felt compassionate to him. Samuel delivers his usual emotionally over charged, overdone (but still good) acting; but Jeffrey Wright is absolute star of the movie - his character is developed so well - that if it was for me I would of placed him in main role - surprisingly he has more catchy lines then Shaft himself for those who know Tiger wood, Tiger wood, I like him, he's phat, among others Good action sequences, no boring scenes, from my opinion, unlike in originals.  7/10 "},{"Title":"..And to think I passed this over to see Scary Movie(2000)","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   Not that I didn't like Scary Movie, because it was good for it's own reasons. The big difference is that Shaft was a vicious, hard-hitting, action-packed movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat, if you pardon the cliche. But at the time of the release of both of these movies at my local multiplex, they were the only movies I was interested in seeing. Having no money for both of them, I chose Scary Movie. When I rented Shaft, later on in the year, I realized I made the wrong choice.(Warning****POSSIBLE SPOILERS)First, for those who are even vaguely familiar with the 1971 original, starring Richard Roundtree, not only is this not a remake, Samuel L. Jackson's character isn't even the same Shaft. So don't expect to see anything derivative of the original except the Isaac Hayes theme, and Roundtree in a supporting role. Second, while they may say that Roundtree's Shaft was a bad mother...(yeah, I know, shut my mouth!), in reality, he was nothing more than a hard-boiled 1940's noir-type detective, who just happened to be black. Jackson, on the other hand really IS a BMF, because his method of law enforcement crosses the line. Some people think Dirty Harry was a fascist reaction to Blaxploitation heroes, but compared to this Shaft, Harry Callahan goes by the book. Third, there's the storyline; Roundtree had to track down the kidnappers of an underworld boss's daughter, while Jackson has to protect a barmaid(played by Toni Collette) who witnessed an attack on an interracial couple by a spoiled rich kid(Christian Bale), who teams up with a notorious drug dealer(Jeffrey Wright) to go after both the barmaid and Shaft himself. Two other aspects of this movie are derivative of earlier ones. One is the line where Jackson makes Wright's friends doubt that not having a badge makes him less dangerous, is similar to a scene in Out for Justice, where some mobsters try to convince Steven Seagal that he's nothing without his gun and badge, and proves them wrong. Another is Wright's reaction to the death of his brother which I saw parodied in The Hollywood Shuffle. While I never saw a scene like that in the original version of Shaft, I'm sure the Robert Townsend spoof based it on some real blaxploitation flick. Finally, I want to say something regarding the showdown between Wright and Jackson at the end, specifically Wright's line I'm not your enemy. I'm Peoples. As Hernandez, Wright is about as much the people as the original bolsheviks, the Red Guard, the Stazi and the Khmer Rouge were. In other words it's pure b.s., and anyone who believes it should feel sorry for themselves.    "},{"Title":"What movie delivers? Shaft","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a decent popcorn movie.  I remember being all pumped up to see it when it was first released in theaters.  Samuel L. Jackson was wonderfully BADASS in the role of the nephew of New York's baddest mutha, John Shaft (Richard Roundtree), who makes a cameo as the still-womanizing private eye.  Busta Rhymes, while obviously not a good actor, put in some welcome energy into his performance as sidekick Rasaan.  Christian Bale and Jefferey Wright were wonderful as the villains and Vanessa L. Williams looked beautiful. "},{"Title":"Too bland for what it's pretending to be; barely worthwhile","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Saw Shaft last night not so much a revival of 70s blaxploitation flicks as perhaps an attempt to revive the film noir detective format of the Forties. Not much of anything anyway too politically correct for words. Removes the Seventies stereotypes, but doesn't seem to put anything in their place. Even the title song sounded tired, as if they just dubbed in the recording from the old movie. Samuel L. Jackson just seems to grab any movie role that comes along. Christian Bale does an interesting variation on his villain character from American Psycho, but he apparently has the luck of the English in accepting scripts. He's this close to becoming the next Dudley Moore.  "},{"Title":"An allright film with a basic plot","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The films Ok, it isn't a great and certainly not Jackson's best. Thesound and theme tune (Done by Isaac Hayes) is pretty goodthough. Jackson's on top form, a little better than the othercharacters it has to be said. I was disappointed that Roundtreedidn't have a bigger part in this film, he looked as if he was good.The film sets up a good reason for a sequel at the end (I didn'tgive to much away!) I would recommend it. "},{"Title":"Cool. In a nutshell, that would explain both the movie Shaft and the character, John Shaft.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Violent would also be a good word to use. Cool and violent. There's not much else to say. The plot is paper thin, the characters aren't spectacular (other than Shaft himself). The music rocks, and the sound is very good. So basically you go to see this movie because it's cool, and it's violent.Samuel L. Jackson is John Shaft. Not to be confused with the original John Shaft played by Richard Roundtree in the original classic films. Jackson's Shaft is the nephew of the original Shaft, a relationship that has nothing to do with the story. In fact there's nothing in the original that has anything to do with the current movie besides the name. The original came out in 1971, so most of us young audience has no idea who the hell Shaft is, so why would they care that Jackson plays the nephew of Roundtree? Just something I thought about before even seeing the movie.So anyway, Shaft is a detective in the NY Police Department. He picks up this case where a white man kills a black man in a racial incident. The white guy, Walter Wade (Christian Bale) manages to get bail on the murder rap, and leaves the country for two years. Then he decides to come back feeling that he can beat the charge because the one witness (Toni Collette) has been scared away. But Shaft isn't going to play that game. So he goes out to try and track down the witness and have her testify against Wade. Along the way Shaft runs into problems with every person imaginable, including members of his own police force and a local Dominican drug lord, Peoples (Jeffrey Wright). So what's the plot exactly? I suppose it's supposed to be Shaft trying to get the woman to testify, while Wade wants to try and shut her up. I didn't think it was that crucial to have her testify, considering Wade had blood on his hands from the murder, I assume there were fingerprints on the weapon, and he basically admitted to the killing to Shaft 30 seconds into the movie. So why is it so important to prosecute him with this woman's testimony? They could have made the case easily without her, in my opinion. So the story to me wasn't all that strong, it was basically an excuse to have Shaft run wild in New York. Oh yeah, at one point Shaft leaves the police force, so most of what he does is as a private detective. Going around shooting people, threatening street punks, all sorts of things that you and I would be thrown in jail for. So get over it, you might say. This isn't a movie that's story driven, it's character driven. It's all about John Shaft and how cool he is. And there is no question about that. Samuel L. Jackson is as cool as they come. And even though everything he does would land us in jail, he looks cool doing it. Whether it's getting the ladies or beating up the bad guys, he's always got the right thing to say (`It's my duty, to please that booty'), and the right attitude to back it up. I loved Busta Rhymes as his friend Rasaan, and I think Christian Bale is a great actor. Jeffrey Wright got a lot of laughs in the movie though because of his extremely strong accent (Tiger Wooooods). But his character was very powerful and I did enjoy him. Dan Hedaya playing a corrupt cop is almost something I expect to see. As soon as I saw he was a cop, in the back of my mind I was thinking, well he's going to go bad (and I don't think I'm ruining the movie by giving that away).Vanessa Williams is also in here, although I don't know why. Her role was very small and almost inconsequential. I suppose they needed at least one strong female character in there, so why not throw her in?Then there was the violence. Now I personally am a big fan of movie violence. Give me a good shootout or fight scene and I'm a happy camper. And there was plenty of gun violence in this movie. At almost every turn someone was getting shot. Hell, by the end of the movie I don't think there was anyone that hadn't been shot. Besides Shaft of course. He's a bad mother... Shut your mouth! Sorry, had to be done sometime... So if you love shoot em ups, you'll dig this flick. And lastly there was the music. If there's one song that can stand the test of time, it's Isaac Hayes' classic theme song. His new version is a very simple remake of the original. No guest stars, no tweaking of the formula, just a straight remake. And having that music play over certain scenes just makes you smile. Because it's so cool.I'd say I thoroughly enjoyed Shaft. The story wasn't strong, but for this kind of movie, that doesn't matter. What matters is that it stars Samuel L. Jackson as that bad mother... shut your mouth! Shaft. Very violent, at times very funny, and most of all, very cool...  "},{"Title":"I've been Shafted","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've ever seen. I sat through it only out of respect for Samuel L. Jackson-and there were enough laughs to keep me stationary, but I don't think they were intentional. Some great lines from Pulp Fiction that made me feel nostalgic for a real action movie.  Then there was Vanessa Williams who has apparently done a Kathleen Turner to the point where you hardly even recognize her. And the bad guy from American Psycho with another bad guy that went to Amherst but can barely speak English....you know what I'm sayin? Pitiful 4/10 "},{"Title":"Suitable for the braindead","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While the original Shaft movies were groundbreaking and laying new guidelines to actionmovies to come this new version is something horrible.The plot (using that word is a huge overstatement) is ridicilious, something a 10 year old would cook up and think it's cool, other than Samuel Jackson the acting is poor, the movie doesn't flow it more stumbles from one place to the other, and I have not seen this kinda of bad guys cant shoot ever I think, it's just too horrible ...Easily one of the worst action movies in recent years, anyone who thinks this is a great movie must think with his testosternoe. "},{"Title":"Am I The Man or sticking it to the Man?","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  First off I find the original Shaft to be an influential and enjoyable film but primarily nothing more than an over rated cover version of Get Carter.Shaft's Big Score(it's sequel) is way more entertaining,ten times as stylish and nowhere near as pretentious.This remake,on the other hand, has to be one of the most apalling and unintentionally hilarious films I have ever had the fortune to sit through.I say fortune because after about 15 mins everyone in the room began pulling this flick to bits to the point where it began to resemble one of those friend's that everyone has who always say and do retarded things, therefore becoming the entertainment night after night.I hadn't laughed so much in at least two days.Video rental saviour of the crap movie.We couldn't work out who it was more insulting towards;white people,with it's 1 dimensional,cliched characters,or black people,by insinuating that this is the kind of retarded balls Hollywood has in mind when it thinks of it's black adult audience.(I'd like to ask Spike Lee about this) In fact, if it was not for it's po-faced seriousness and hardcore violence you'd think it was a spoof.It appeared to be written by 12 year old white boys who think that being black is all about kicking ass,nailing chicks and sticking it to the man( everyone kept saying Shaft was The Man,but i thought he was supposed to be sticking it to the man, so does that mean he was sticking it to himself? I'm confused.I suppose that's why Shaft is a detective and I'm not, he has the answers to things like this)In the original Shaft was a Private Dick,in this he was just a Dick. It's my duty to serve this booty Hilarious.Who comes up with corn like that?The acting was the funniest I've seen since David Hasselhoff played his own twin brother,especially Jeffery Wright's embarassing Benicio Del Toro/Tony Montana rip-off,Busta Rhymes's first and hopefully last foray into acting (jesus,there must be thousands of black actors struggling for work out there,you've got one job Busta,give a brother a chance) and Christianone trickBale's...what? bad guy? comic relief? stupid,rich,white,patricidal,black man murdering scumbag? I have never seen a movie villain as thick and pointless as this man,ever.The plot(?)was sub Starsky and Hutch and seemed to serve no other purpose than to tenuously link a series of otherwise un-related scenes, in which Shaft made everyone else look like an idiot,which was no great feat for The Man as they WERE all idiots.Most importantly of all for a Shaft movie though,it had no style to speak of what-so-ever.But what did you expect from the man that gave us the visually sonambulistic Boyz in da Hood? Man,Menace2Society destroys that bland,apology of a movie in every way imaginable and it didn't foist Cuba Gooding JR onto us either.All in all watch this movie with friends round,drink,smoke and talk through it.How funny and enjoyable it is depends a lot on how funny and enjoyable your friends are. "},{"Title":"SAMUEL L JACKSON IS THE MAN................SHAFT!!!!!!!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites with Samuel L Jackson. The whole plot is about John Shaft (Jackson) who plays a frustrated NYPD cop where the system is corrupt and justice is never served for those who need it.  A young black man is killed by a rich white college student (Christian Bale) and his rich fathers money can buy his freedom.  Shaft is frustrated by this and bends the rules and the law to get his form of street justice.  Then along comes Peeples Hernandez, a big drug baron, who crosses Shaft and gets involved in the action.  Jackson plays the role of Shaft beautifully. He is cocky, tough, charming, and flambouyent (sp).  He wears all black and is bald, looking more like a mobster than a cop in NY.  Shaft is a man of the city as he knows the streets as they were his back yard.  He is not afraid of anyone or anything in his quest to make sure that justice is served here.  Lots of racial name calling in this movie, but in Hollywood....what else is new?This movie is pure action, but has it's humerous moments too!  Richard Rountree (the original Shaft from 1971) is in the movie too as he plays Shaft's (Jackson's) Uncle Shaft.  The music is great as is the action!  This one is a must see. "}{"Title":"2 out of 5 stars","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There are few movies that are as racially charged as the original `Shaft.'  But this version, made 3 decades later, now takes the cake.  John Shaft (Samuel L. Jackson) returns, this time as a detective in the New York City PD working inside a system he loathes as racist and conformist.  After a rich (white) millionaire real estate developer's son (Christian Bale) murders a black man and is let out on bail (and escapes the country), Shaft quits the police department and takes on the establishment in his own vigilante way.  Everything in this film is about race; there is not one glance between characters of different races that isn't charged with spite and fear.  Every white man is corrupt, every black man has an ax to grind, every Hispanic man some drugs to sell.  Plus, Shaft, who was a sexual god in the 1970s, barely touches a female, perhaps in a nod to a more gender-neutral era.  The original is better in almost every way, especially in its depiction of race, crime, and sex.   "},{"Title":"Black man's Dirty Harry","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I remember when I saw the legendary Shaft in Africa (1973) when I was just a little kiddie - the 3rd Shaft-flick of the adored original trilogy that was made in the early 70's. I was absolutely stunned. I know it's easier for young children to feel enthusiastic over anything at least slightly exciting but no matter what it was an experience I can recall for the rest of my life as truly a thrilling one. I hope I don't have to see it again nowadays - it could break the magic. I didn't expect much from this new film, I guess mostly because I read couple of reviews that didn't actually praise it. Original movies are nostalgic cult entertainment but how can you make a blaxploitation film with nostalgia in the year 2000? Who cares if this is not as good as the actual Shaft's back from the 70's were? I'm sure some do but then they take this all way too seriously. This was definitely not even meant to be a better movie. This is just Shaft for this millennium, striking action movie that's fun to watch - the usual violence and humor mixed together-combination, that's all.Even though Samuel L. Jackson is John Shaft he is not the original character who fought against criminals in the old flicks. He's the nephew of the original John Shaft played by Richard Roundtree. Therefore it's not possible to claim that Jackson stepped into his shoes. Nevertheless, he's perfect as younger John Shaft and I wouldn't be a bit disappointed if Jackson chooses to return in this role. Actors are well-chosen all the way. Jeffrey Wright's performance as Peoples Hernandez was one of the nicest surprises and I have to give some credit to Busta Rhymes too. This re-make, Shaft's resurrection was lots of better than I thought it would be. Speedy, hot, stylish, cool, smooth - just like the supercop, Harry Callahan of the black neighborhood John Shaft himself is. David Arnold's superb score and Isaac Hayes' classic theme song adds the finishing touch. John Singleton will have to try real hard if he's still going to direct a movie that's better than his amazing debut Boyz N the Hood. Shaft will be a runner-up but it's a good number two. I'll give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"not much logic","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The latest version of Shaft is slickly directed, well-acted, and at times funny, but credibility is tossed out the window. Perhaps they were trying to make the character of John Shaft so smooth that they forget to add realism. Regardless, enough violence, action, and humor to pass off as entertainment. Jeffrey Wright steals the show easily. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Great entertainment, Samuel L. Jackson steals the show.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson is not so much on fire as burning down whole blocks in this film. Okay, the plot isn't anything special, and the story isn't fabulous, but the acting and the presentation make for superb entertainment. Vanessa Williams and Toni Collette do a good job next to Jackson, but he really does steal the show as the original Shaft. His one liners are very cool, and you can't help but smile, and when justice is metered out you could almost cheer. Great entertainment. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is just amazing, Samuel Leroy Jackson rules! and he is going to kick some butt in Star Wars episode 2!  and he is 53 in December!! this movies has its funny moments and some cool shoot outs. if you haven't seen it then watch it now! "},{"Title":"Disappointing white vs. black plot","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In 2000, they are still making movies about the evil white man.  Now of course there still are people who are quite racist, however, this is so exaggerated that it's not even borderline realistic.  Christian Bale is great in this, because he is a very skilled actor and he already played this part once(American Psycho).  American Psycho is a much better movie so skip this one and just see that.  On the other hand, when Bale says, See ya slick to the sloppy, impetuous Shaft, it might make it worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Its OK to kill people if they are bad.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  You cannot take away the Samuel L Jackson is the meanest looking black guy on the planet at the moment.  His portrait of Shaft as a good cop i a bad society is great. I have not seen the original so I judge his performance from this movie only. What I did not like about Shaft(2000) is how it shows justice.  As long as the person who is shot is a criminal it has no consequences. I saw one person,  the brother of a female witness,   who was an almost innocent bystander getting shot,  and he got away with at flesh wound. Shaft on the other hand does not getting as much as a superficial wound.Shaft(2000) is good action with a bad message. "},{"Title":"rough, forceful, original, a bit clip-like","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is original in many ways. The itself not that much. But filming, acting and music add to this movie a lot. The filming method is clip-like, music is jazzy somewhat but is works fine with this movie. There is a lot of violence in it, but it is not disruptive. Samuel L. Jackson did a good job as the lead and Vanessa Williams as his female co-star was not bad either.The only thing I do not like on this movie was the plot simplicity which portaits Shaft as a invulnerable superhero in some waysMy final thought It is a solid entertainment, I did not regret watching it, but it is not a movie that makes you think and remember it for a long time. "},{"Title":"Really great and intricate story line.  The acting was brilliant!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The story line of Shaft, I felt, was really unique.  Samuel Jackson was great but I give the credit to Walter Wade Jr. (played by Christian Bale) and Peoples Hernadez (played by Jeffrey Wright).  Those two characters would have never met but due to circumstance they met and developed a relationship that was utterly intriguing.I must say, Jeffrey Wright really blew me away.  You couldn't help but feel utterly appalled by his character Peoples and at the same time you become fascinated, almost mezmerized, by him that you hate yourself for being so intrigued.I was surprised when watching him on the DVD interview to see he had absolutely no accent and is actually african-american (maybe only half), apparently John Singleton said he almost stole the movie and I certainly can see why.I have watched this movie over & over again and enjoy everytime just because of the superior acting.I discovered that Jeffrey Wright is very well educated and when he did Shaft he hardly had any acting credits to his name - now I notice he's a busy boy and I really look forward to seeing him in upcoming movies and hope he does very well for himself! "},{"Title":"I liked this movie, and I'm a white boy","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think my race made a true impact on my enjoyment of Shaft.  However, i was the only Caucasian in the theater that day.  This African-American gave me an odd look.  Anyways. . . Samuel L. Jackson is the best (and only) choice for the role.  He's relatively young, charismatic, and black.  He was born for the role.  Jackson is multi-talented and versatile, enabling him to take on several kinds of roles.The plot elements are logical and true to life.  We have a rich boy who is allowed the chance to escape, due to his family, wealth and a moronic judge. The witness that can get him convicted is too scared to talk.  Rich Boy puts out a contract on said witness.  Even the end of the movie (which I will NOT spoil) is satisfyingly accurate.To all you Samuel L. Jackson fans-- see him at his cinematic coolest.  I am right about that!   "}{"Title":"Getting the Shaft A Painful Waddle","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I admit it. I saw this move over a year ago. And although I may not remember every continuity error or plot lesion, as a paying customer who was screwed without a kiss, I have the right to complain. That or give me back my $7.50, which I don't see happening anytime before I go to heaven, or hell. Wait, no, don't send me there. I've been there. It's cold in there. Most people won't believe that. Hell is hot, they think, hell is hot. But this is wrong. Book burning wrong. Hell is as cold as liquid nitrogen applied to bare flesh on a windy arctic night. Hell is fraught with evil and torment and contrived plots and, yes, Samuel L. Jackson giving the performance of an overpaid middle school thespian on bad cocaine. But enough about me. On the serious side, although this film was intended to entertain through action and drama, I didn't find it to do that exactly. As an eternal optimist, instead of adding to my winter insulation by stuffing my face with gallons of orphanage-grade popcorn, I sucked in my gut and decided to laugh at this one. And laugh I did. Until the cinema heads behind me asked me to shut up. Yeah, said one girl, That rich dude is like so on fire. Shut up you erection! So it wasn't until after the film that I (remember, born-again optimist) asked her what she thought. Why did the rich guy wipe the Negro's blood on his hand? And she said, Samuel was like the Pulp Fiction guy without a black suit. The blood was for him to know. "},{"Title":"****  Even better than the original!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson rules this film update of Ernest Tidyman's cool-as-sin cop, first filmed in 1971 with Richard Roundtree. John Singleton brings Shaft to the nineties without losing the slick seventies look that made the original so much a piece of nostalgia, even including themes and the main song from Isaac Hayes' original Academy Award-winning score. The plot involves a snooty heir (Christian Bale) who thinks he can get away with murder, not realizing that Shaft is on the scene and ready to take him down! Toni Collette, Vanessa Williams and Jeffrey Wright all lend able support, but it is Jackson who takes the cake here. Incidentally, Singleton originally wanted Wesley Snipes for the role, but producer Scott Rudin stated that he wouldn't make the film unless Jackson played it (Snipes later said he wouldn't have taken it even if they begged him, and made The Art of War instead). Roundtree makes a cameo appearance and is a very welcome sight. Great action flick.  "},{"Title":"Stylish and empty","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A mediocre film, worth only because of the three leads Samuel L. Jackson, Jeffrey Wright and Christian Bale. The scenario never helps to really get inside their confrontation, but they perform well for what they've got. Style, style, style and again style. The air of coolness that carries us away, while we get to see the Man, disappears after the first minutes and we're left with a lot to be desired. I would say it's enough to see the trailer. "},{"Title":"Shaft, redefined ?","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Let's face it.. SHAFT is COOL. Shaft doesn't get nervous. Shaft walks and dresses with style. It's Shaft, still the man..Shaft 71 vs Shaft 2k this may be a spoiler to some of you .. The character is similar, also really cool, still I think that Richard Roundtree's Shaft was better on the talk aspect, and that Samuel L. Jackson's Shaft is more action related.We don't see Shaft (1971) going around beating everybody out. We don't see him draw his gun in the middle of the street and beating kids up.We was more smooth. Really smooth. Some GREAT one liners..In Shaft 2000, John Shaft is seeking revenge and loses some of that smoothness that made Shaft what he was.. He talks nice and cool, but some of the lines are kinda outdated.. And he is definatly an action man.When I saw the first Shaft, I was aspecting to see a movie with more action than it was.. I guess that I was waiting to see what I saw in Shaft 2000 .. still, both movies rocked..I think that Richard Roundtree's part could be a little more relevant to the movie, he just shows up with some kinda 'mentor like' status to his nephew Shaft .. He could have been more active.This movie is a nice action movie, with some really cool dialogues and action scenes, but it could have been better.The actors were nice, Samuel L Jackson did a really good job in this redefined Shaft.I hope to see another Shaft in a near future, maybe with Shaft and Uncle Shaft working together to pull out some cool action scenes with COOL all over the place ..I'll get the Shaft's Big Score soon, I want to see if it relates nicely to any of the 'Shaft' (71 or 2000) .. "},{"Title":"This was a Great Movie","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had only seen the original Shaft on Video so I waited till the film came out on rental and I loved every second. Superb performances from American KKK Christian Bale, the drug dealers, Sam Jackson, Q-Tip, Vanessa Williams. This was star studded, sure, but it still rang like a real ring side bell of a movie.If you see it you will NOT be disappointed, the Shaft movies were always action movies, with a tangible moral undertone. This is the same and as good as Richard Roundtree's stuff. My only beef is with the soundtrack. It could have been a lot better. Mr Isaac Hayes, you rushed this one out. "},{"Title":"what really was the point?","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  well ive seen the original and despite the fact that this has loads more money on the budget and had a fine actor in samuel l jackson there really seems no reason for the existence of this film.the first was a great blaxploitation film which had something to say and was relevant to the time in which it was made. here we have cardboard cutout racists and a samuel l 'feeling' the pain of the victims while at the same time beating up anyone who gets in his way. it just feels so standard and by the numbers that it just feels like a hundred other films. and it would appear that the racism that was in the first film has been twisted ever so slightly but remains in the second. little has changed. but a lot should have been changed in this film. like the script...and the plot. to begin with "},{"Title":"That Ol' Shaft Magic","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Singleton is an excellent director. Samuel L. Jackson is a great actor.When I heard they were doing Shaft, I thought great, must see that..The end result,however, is a routine but well-made thriller and 'Shaft' is merely used as a brand name. The plot is simply daft but no worse than any of the Lethal Weapon movies and there are enough thrills n' spills to entertain.This movie plays better on video/DVD than on the big screen. also it is great to hear the updated version of Isaac Hayes' theme.Surely one of THE all time great movie themes.     "},{"Title":"Yeah he is the man, la-la-la-la-la-la-la Shaft! Shaft!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The 70's was a time of peace, love, disco music, variety television and blaxpoitation. Blaxpoitation is a term used to categorize cheap movies made in the 1970's that featured black casts, people shooting each other and nudity. Shaft is one of the most famous movies made in that era about a policeman who pleases and kicks the booty. It starred Richard Roundtree as Shaft, had a kickass theme song sung by Isaac Hayes and in retrospect, reviewers look back fondly at it and give it good reviews. (In retrospect.)This Shaft is remake by John Singleton, the acclaimed director of Boyz N The Hood. It stars Samuel L. Jackson as John Shaft. Shaft is a policeman, as in the original. One evening, Shaft arrives at the scene of a crime where a young black man is dying of a head injury. Witnesses say that a rich white kid (Christian Bale) attacked him after Bale had made racist comment to the boy. The snotty white kid doesn't even care and everyone knows he did it. However, they have no witness to the crime and therefore cannot do anything. Shaft knows and Shaft hits the snotty punk. Fast forward to two years later. The punk has come back from two years in Switzerland for his trial. He only has to pay money for committing murder. Shaft gets really pissed and quits the police force. He's gonna take down that punk alone.I never had so much fun describing the plot to a movie because I know that this time it's not too important. The plot is okay, and it serves its purpose well. Yet, this could have been a TV movie with that plot. Samuel L. Jackson is super-cool in this movie, he makes grown men whimper I wanna be Shaft.... Sporting a shaved head and a beard straight out of the latest comic book, Jackson takes his gutsy, no-holds-barred style to the character of John Shaft and makes it very, very worthwhile. Christian Bale has the perfect snottiness to play the murderer and his face is so.. slyly annoying. You wanna bash his face in, but that's a good thing because that's what he's trying to achieve. Toni Collette (of the Sixth Sense) plays the barmaid who witnessed the crime. While her performance isn't anything to write home about, she is the perfect choice for the role because she looks the part. When you think nervous witness to a murder who's really scared, you think Toni Collette, right? The rest of the cast consists of Busta Rhymes, Vanessa Williams, Pat Hingle, Daniel von Bargen and other actors whose names I don't remember. (Sorry.)When you talk about an action movie, no matter how good the acting, you wanna know if the action is any good. And Shaft's action is good. There's a lot, at a brisk pace, but it's not like the whole movie is people shooting at each other. (There's hitting, and car chases too.) Shaft is a movie with style. Shaft has some great scenes. However, there are a few problems that I had with the movie. First of all there are some loose ends never fully explored. Next there's the fact of the vapid plot and there are a couple of supporting roles that aren't that great (Busta Rhymes). However, Shaft is more compulsively watchable than crap like Gone In 60 Seconds, and with good reason. It's a good action movie. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Gotcha!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Shaft (1971) was one of the most important and at the box-offices successful heros of blaxploitation cinema in the 70s. These films were made from black for black people to find their own niche. Blaxploitation movies were normally packed with much more sex and violence than the white did, just to create their very own style. For the first view, John Singleton´s Shaft (2000) is nothing more than the typical mainstream cinema. But as Richard Rountree was Shaft for the 70s, Samuel L. Jackson is the man for the new millennium. Jackson seems to be born for this role! His great performance and his coolness are unbeatable! The original soundtrack is featured once more (thank you!) and the whole film is casted with brilliant supporting actors (Williams, Bale, Wright, Hedaya, Busta Rhymes....), what makes Shaft being above the average of normal commercial releases produced by Hollywood´s film industry. Although the story isn´t full of any good ideas and the end is simply too sudden and quite disappointing this film is never boring in any way! Just don´t think about what Quentin Tarantino would have made out of this... (7.5/10)  "},{"Title":"A review","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have never seen the original Shaft. This version is good up a to a point. The acting is fine, Sam Jackson plays a great slick guy. Although Jeff Wright is hard to understand sometimes. The plot is okay for an action flick. The only problems I have with Shaft is the action. The bad guys couldn't hit a cow with a machine gun and Shaft seems to be the greatest aim in the history of the world. This reminded me of the old western films. John Wayne could stand in the of the road with four guys shooting at him and never get hit. But the four well covered guys are gunned down in four pulls of The Duke's trigger. That is what Shaft is like. And some of the plot twist seem a little forced. Overall, not a bad action flick, but there have been better, 6 out of 10 (would've been 5&1/2). "}{"Title":"Shaft 4 still hits a Big Score","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft is back in one of the few quality action movies of summer 2000. This was better than Mission Impossible 2, had more heart than Gone in Sixty Seconds, and did not rely on Special effects like Hollow Man.It was good to see Shaft 4 finally some to fruitation and hopefully the planned Shaft 5 and 6 with be equally as good.Richard Roundtree of course is still Shaft and he still has his harim, as does the original director of Shaft.It was also nice to see that this movie was actually a sequel and not just a bloated remake because that would demean the value of the earlier Shaft films (Shaft, Shaft in Africa, and Shaft's Big Score).The action in the movie is good, the plot is interesting, the revenge on multiple sides is good. However, the idea of the police is interesting. In a way it makes sense as Shaft has always been his own man and has not been in with the police. However, it just seems to leap boundries to much.Even so, Shaft Scores and is recommended.Viewed in theatre (35mm) Rating 7 "},{"Title":"Not bad, though big gaps in logic","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you want an escape movie, with cops and violence, this is it.Samual Jackson's Shaft is more violent and less sexy, but that's OK. The best part of this film is the drug dealer Peoples and the rich kid who goes to him to arrange a hit. Jeffrey Wright is terrific as a slightly effeminant drug lord who can talk about boats and ruling the block through violence all in the same sentence. The way he and the rich kid (Christian Bale) approach life is eerily similar even though they live in two very different worlds.The ploy quickly grows nonsensical and in the end, several major plot twists are almost inexplicable. But for sheer fun, Shaft was a 6. "},{"Title":"I was very disappointed.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a good example of what happens when you try to make a good A-movie with a script that has elements worthy of a good B-movie.  What happens is that you get a bad A-movie.Packed with cliches, the story can never decide whether it wants to seem plausible (happening in the real world), or fantastical (suspend disbelief) -- the result being that I never felt comfortable with the world in which the movie was set.  It often took elements of the original 'Shaft' (1971), and transplanted them as-is into the current-day.  Example  The It's my duty to please that booty line -- it was funny, I laughed, but I couldn't help thinking that there wasn't a man on Earth that could get away with saying that to a woman in the year 2001.  1971 was thirty years ago, strides have been made.The villains  They were well-acted, both Bale and Wright do a good job of coming off appropriately dislikeable, but they didn't seem that dangerous to me.  They both seemed like rookie bad guys, who should pose no threat to a stud like Shaft.The film was also shot with many scenes occurring in the daytime, and the indoor sets were well-lit and looked new.  If there were more darkness and grunge in the movie it may have helped to promote a sense of danger and added a sinister, threatening quality that I felt was completely lacking.Samuel L. does what he can with the role.  I believe that had someone (anyone) else played Shaft, this would have been a truly terrible movie. Jackson's bearing and delivery give the Shaft character credibility, but the story fails him.There are some good one-liners, but the original has better.Overall, I'd say it's worth watching if you don't have to spend any money to do so. "},{"Title":"Worst ending since Sliver.","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If there was anything good in this film, the hideously anti-climactic ending blots it from my mind.  Samuel L. is undeniably cool enough, and an actor whose work I generally seek out as quality material, but this was not good. I think that the original Shaft was an important work for the African American culture.  He was a hero when Hollywood mainly used African Americans as criminal elements, and I believe that using a cultural icon as a cheap way to try to make a profit on a poorly done action movie is offensive.  In this I may be wrong as I am white and do not truly understand the African American viewpoint, but the ending of this re-make was horrendous.   "},{"Title":"An entertaining enough film if you're in the mood for an urban crime tale.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ** 1/2 out of ****I've never been a big fan of the original Shaft movies (or urban crime films in general), and it'll probably anger a lot of people, but I never truly did like Richard Roundtree as the cool cat who won't cop out when there's danger all about.  Thus, when I heard an update was going to be made with Samuel L. Jackson-a magificent actor-in the title role as the original Shaft's nephew, I was quite excited by the prospect.  Jackson is as good as ever, and the movie is pretty good, too, though still quite flawed.John Shaft (Samuel L. Jackson) is the detective on the case of a racially motivated murder, committed by a spoiled and rich young man named Walter Wade, Jr. (Christian Bale).  Wade, Jr. is arrested for the murder, but is granted bail and escapes to Switzerland, thus avoiding trial.2 years later, Shaft is working in a new district and working mostly on narcotics.  Then he hears news that Wade, Jr. has actually returned to the country, and with the help of some connections, Shaft has him arrested again.In the preliminary hearing, Shaft is shocked that the judge actually grants the man bail again, and he decides to quit the force and get Wade, Jr. in his own way.  He remembers the one witness to the crime, a waitress named Diane Palmieri (Toni Collette), and both he and Wade begin to look for her.  With her life on the line, Shaft must also contend with the hitmen assigned to kill her and the wrath of a druglord (Jeffrey Wright) who is out after Shaft.Shaft has the elements of a summer crowd-pleaser, but the story here is a bit weaker than usual (and also smaller-scale, too).  The script from Richard Price features a story that seems all-too familiar and not exactly worthy of big-screen quality, either.  The story really adds nothing new to the urban crime genre.  That's not to say the script is terrible, of course.  It has its good share of winning moments, particularly the dialogue, which is often clever and hilarious.John Singleton's direction is competent, nothing truly masterful, but he gets the job done well.  Singleton adds a lot of interesting themes in the movie, most notably the issue of racism, though he never fully explores the issues, but it's addition still is interesting, nonetheless.There are a few things that place above most movies of its genre.  They are  Samuel L. Jackson's terrific performance, the decent action scenes, and the high humor quotient.  Jackson is truly Shaft, breathing life into a great character.  It's just that I find it quite hard to believe that he would just quit the force over that court ruling.  It would have made more sense had the victim been close to him, rather than just being a complete stranger.The action scenes don't really come into effect until the last half hour, with two shootouts and a car chase.  Action fans might or might not be satisfied, it's a bit hard to say, and while Singleton shows genuine ability to craft a shootout (despite its near over-the-top manner), his car chases lack genuine excitement.  If there's two thing consistent about this film, it's Jackson's performance and the humor, which is often hilarious.  This is mostly due to the great lines and the actors' delivery of them.  The humor works, and is also at times rather self-mocking.Speaking of the actors, aside from Jackson, the rest of the cast is pretty good, though none of these characters are substantially developed, another flaw.  Christian Bale and Jeffrey Wright are appropriately snaky and unlikeable as the villains.  Toni Collette is solid as the witness but I truly wish her character was more well-developed.  Vanessa Williams as Shaft's former partner is okay, but gets little screen time, and I honestly felt it best if she wasn't in the finale, which featured way too many characters in that one car.  Busta Rhymes gets some of the movie's biggest laughs as the comic relief, while everybody else is adequate in their roles.Shaft is an interesting mixture of a few genres, and some work better than others.  It's not particularly novel or innovative, but it's above average entertainment and Shaft is truly a larger-than-life hero, thanks to Jackson. "},{"Title":"A sanatized version of the old blaxploitation Shaft.","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not as tepid as I thought it would be.  The two villains are good--one, topnotch (Wright).  A movie is as good as its villains, as the old saw goes--and for Shaft II, this is true.  Jackson is very good--in almost every role, he cruises along with convincing authority, and this is true as Shaft the nephew. The movie is hamstrung by not deciding whether to be angry or not--to have an edge, or not. I'm guessing the producers knew that there was money-to-be-had in playing to all the white boys out there; therefore, except for the killer, and a sprinkling of bad white cops, black-angst was quite couched. I mean--the name >shaft<, suggests that the movie should have an attitude.  I think this can be done with intelligence and wit, and Singleton is a director who could have done it.  Yet, I feel that because of its essential African-American roots, this action movie was dragged down a bit in the IMdB ratings, which is in the low 6.3's or so when I rated it. Viewable, with good performances by all.  "},{"Title":"Action with style","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I recently saw this movie again at a late night movie marathon and its still as good as the first time I saw it. I don't know why people say this a remake of Shaft, it's much more of a sequel than anything else. The setup for this film is simple Rich white boy Walter Wade Jnr  kills black youth and is arrested by Detective John Shaft. However, the case falls through in court and Walter Wade Jnr goes into hiding. Two years later he reappears and is again caught by John Shaft, who is now working in a different precinct. Once again the case falls through. Enraged, Shaft quits and begins a one man vendetta to bring Walter Wade Jnr to justice. This movie is full of good old action movie fun. In a year were we've  seen movies ranging from aliens invading earth to tired old teen slasher flicks its refreshing to see an action film from the old school. Gunfights, car chases and humorous quips are what this film promised and it delivers ten times out of ten(!) Plus Shaft's clothes are so stylish! This movie also has some of the funniest hispanic drug dealers I've ever seen in any movie.  Couple that with a top-notch performance by Samuel L Jackson as Shaft(he makes Shaft seem so cool)  and you've got yourself one of the better action films of the year.10/10 "},{"Title":"sam the man is THE man","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film three days ago at the local cinema and I knew before the film that Sam Jackson was a cool fellow but now he is more than that. He is an icon for coolness. I mean, who else can you see doing this part. 1.)Will Smith (don´t make me laugh). 2.)Wesley Snipes (I like Wesley but sorry man). 3.)Denzel Washington (now we are talking stoneage). 4.)Ving Rhames (well...no)In the other parts there are deffenitely some misstakes. I don´t think Vanessa Williams qualifies as an actress and Chrsitian Bale is not exactly my first choice as a villain. I would have taken a better actor like Gary Sinise, Kevin Bacon or why not Clancy Brown from Highlander.The soundtrack is the same from the first film except for some cool remixes. Singleton is a great director and he shows that with this movie. I was afraid that Sam was gone, when he made Deep Blue Sea but now he is back and I´m just looking forward to see Unbreakable "},{"Title":"Interest-keeping action film.","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm only in my late 20's, so I was too young to enjoy the original Shaft films on the big screen. Actually, I'd never even seen any of the Shaft films  until last month.  Having just watched the new film, I'm very pleased.  The story was compelling, the action was constant - it's a great film and I'll be adding it to my DVD collection soon.  Can't wait for another Shaft movie! "},{"Title":"Cliches and violence - Save your money","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What good can I find to I say about this one? It was technically well done. That was perhaps the only thing that kept me from leaving the theater before it was over.Stupid cliché after stupid cliché. Not a single interesting idea. Everything as you have seen it a thousand times, especially in old repeated b-pictures you see late at night on TV. Every bullet of the hero hits, but his enemies miss him every time even with machine guns. He kills a bunch of people during he solves his case, but has no difficulties resulting from that afterwards. And so on and on.And violence is the answer to everything. A young criminal bothers a child? Well, just hit him in the face and he is going to behave, don't you think so? And don't forget to wear a cool face while doing it.I am not against violent movies as a principle. For example, I liked Matrix or Braindead. But this one is a waste of time and money.  "}{"Title":"Cool Wardrobe and Movie Effects, Poor Story Line","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  For starters - greattt cinematic and audio experience. Groovy music, wild colors and smooth effects. Nice script too - Sam Jackson always gets the cool lines doesn't he?One obvious problem - I suppose I'd be too critical if I were to say that the movie lacked cohesive direction.. but actually, my real problem with it was with the plot - in a phrase out-of-date. Another word would be predictable. Somehow, good black cop chasing rich white boy is out of fashion to me. You've got to have more twists and more character development than that to make a cop-chasing movie worth watching.. such as betrayal, revenge and perhaps some romance gone wrong.. that would have helped.My fav characters in the movie was the Shaft (of course), and Peoples - his character was the most well developed next to Shaft's. Vanessa Williams was there simply for show as her role is hardly significant. You probably wouldn't even notice her if she weren't a big singer star like Vanessa Williams. Toni Collette has had her days.. and being in this movie wasn't one of them... Her role was near annoying.However, as always, Sam J graces the screen with a wonderful performance.. I think anybody else would have left the movie with little more than a special-effects remake of an out-dated wannabe. Sam makes the character come alive again into the millenium. I think he's on his way to being type-casted or stereotyped.. his Pulp Fiction type coolness is starting to get old as well..Nevertheless, I would watch it for the experience... BIG SCREEN is best! Enjoy SAM J's special line It's my duty.. to please that booty!!! Very nicely said! "},{"Title":"Who's The Man With A Homocidal Attitude SHAFT Damn Right","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  So this is the latest remake of an old good movie. For anyone who is interested the new film still has the Theme song from the old Shaft movie. The only problem this time is that this Shaft doesnt get the chicks, he gets the s#@%s and he gets them with just about everyone. This new Shaft is not a lover, he's a murderer. At the heart of this film I think this is the main problem. The original shaft was tough, smart and connected to his neighbourhood. He would get himself into trouble from helping people even people who didnt really deserve it, he doesnt kill unless in self defense, and first and foremost he was a lover of women. All of these factors combined to make him a good screen hero. A person that people either admire or wish they could be like. The new shaft is not like this at all. This shaft is just itching for a fight. He is the kind of person who is simply waiting for an excuse to attack someone for any reason he thinks can justify it. This is not the kind of person you want to spend alot of time around (especially if he is the main character of a movie). In fact by the end of the film it is hard to believe he is even a person, he's like Death Wish meets Terminator.If you have read anything about this movie than you probably know the basic plot. But let me tell you the major flaw of the film. *SPOILER* (Warning their are spoilers ahead). It is that of the three main characters Peoples, Christian Bales Character (I've forgotten his name) and Shaft only two of the characters actually have damage (Important for drama) and actually have events happen to them. Neither of these characters are Shaft. He simply walks through the whole film getting very agro and killing as many people as he can. Not only that but he instigates one of the major fights with a baddie in the film, who had previously not done anything to him. This phenomenon of the walking death machine with no heros journey is becoming more and more frequent in recent action movies. It is also a large reason why violence on film today is seen as totally gratuituos and pointless, because it is. No longer today are the hero's in movies people you can root for, or believe in. No longer to screen hero's perform brave feats like defending there family or fighting injustice against all odds. Or defending whats right over whats accepted. Todays screen hero's have no tragic past to spur them on, or moral code to determine their actions. They are just killing machines put in (well edited) situations where they can let loose with minimum fuss.I give the new Shaft a 2/10.   "},{"Title":"Fast and fun - Shaft!","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  At the time of writing this, I have yet to see the Shaft of 1971, but I doubt that it would change my point of view on this film.I loved it thoroughly. It was cool, fast-paced and, more importantly, it was very, VERY funny. A film like this would be dreadful if it were to take itself seriously. Luckily, Shaft comes nowhere near that. instead, it makes fun of virtually every cliché and every cop movie formula there is the hard-ass abide-by-no-rules cop fights against his own, corrupt colleges and a remorseless and cold blooded criminal. Here's also the crime boss, so laden with movie clichés he becomes completely unbelievable, scoring many laughters with his ridiculous mannerisms.Besides Jackson, without whom it would have been impossible to make this movie, Bale is particularly well cast as the young murderer - his face and his smirk will probably have him type-casted in the near future. He is excellent in portraying evil, even in an action comedy such as this.There are many details that make this movie worthwhile. Facial expressions, glances and little blurred words add up to a very good film - whether one despises remakes of old stuff or not. "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was awesome, I've seen the original shaft movie and it's a great movie, but samuel l jacksson really takes the character shaft to a new kind of level, Yes it is a bit more violent, but then remember that movies tend to become a bit more violent now days. Anyway, If you have'nt seen Shaft. See it, In fact, see them both. "},{"Title":"STAY STREET WISE, COOLNESS!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one flick that is so cool, man, it surpasses The Matrix in the Leather Jacket and Sunnies Costume Department.This dude is so cool, man, he pistol whips street kids across the face and makes gangsters whimper and cringe when he threatens them (that was my favorite scene). His street talk is sassy, his civilian associates are smooth operators and best of all, the bad guys are really bad (in a funny, idiotic kind of way). The murdering racist knows how to defend himself, he's one bad cat, man. This dude John Shaft blasts the bad guys off the planet after he 'hands in' his N.Y.P.D badge, for the sole purpose of becoming the new breed of vigilante. This flick is loaded with violent action, gratitious use of the F*** word, and the musical score is mostly 90's rap/hip hop (it is Shaft 2000). I don't remember the original Shaft of the 70's, so I haven't the background knowledge of the television series (or what ever it was).Portrayals of ethnic groups are stereotyped, but I suppose that was keeping in line with the original Shaft of the early 70's. I expected Samuel L. Jackson's John Shaft to be a womanizing chauvinist creep but he didn't turn out that way which was a relief. The sleazy leader of the bad guys was portrayed well by Jeffrey Wright, I loved the accent!CONCLUSION Mr Jackson's John Shaft is pretty cool, man! He's almost as cool as Morpheus and Neo from the Matrix, man! "},{"Title":"The Samuel L. Factor","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it wasn't quite as good as the original. Maybe it was. I'm not going to judge that.  But the new Shaft still rocked. Why? The Samuel L. factor.  You see, every movie Samuel L. Jackson is in carries a certain amount of funk-machismo that is exclusive to the man himself.  The plot was decent but more notably, thanks to Mr. Jackson, the Shaft character wasn't beaten into the ground, something that is typical of re-makes.  The icing on the cake was Shaft's car.  We're talking an '87 Chevrolet Monte Carlo SS...the true mark of One Bad Mutha. "},{"Title":"Nice action movie","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Seeing this movie, i remember the 80's movie like charlie's angels or TJ Hooker. The songs style in this movie bring back the memory, step by step.An excellent action movie, which story are very good indeed. The main character knows all the style and the gun fight is simply acceptable.Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Smooth Operating Flick....","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Even though I didn't bother to watch the original 'Shaft' that was put on late nite TV here, I feel it didn't disadvantage my viewing pleasure of Shaft 2000! A couple of my friends said it would of been better if someone like Will Smith had played Shaft! SACRELIGE! Sure, Will Smith would of appealed to a broader audience (those Wild Wild West pre-teens), but really, who else could fill Shaft's Shoes ? Sam L Jackson....fabulous actor. He gave the right amount of smoothness and macho at the same time. Kudos to Christian Bale playing spoilt and racist rich kid Walter Wade Jr (although I am getting frightened they will typecast him as this violent cold killer like in American Psycho....c'mon people! You remember him in Empire of the Sun!), Jeffrey Wright who plays Peoples Hernandez....the accent was just superb! Other cast members include fellow Aussie Toni Collette...I'm not sure about the accent, but she played an important character, and Dan Hedaya. I just like him since seeing Clueless and Dick!If you're looking for a Friday night shoot em up movie, go see this, but you'll also be pleasantly surprised with a cool soundtrack (makes you wanna get up and boogie!), cool supporting cast and a cool (but sometimes confusing) story line with laughs intelligently injected here and there! 8/10 "},{"Title":"What's the point?","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Hollywood remakes of European films are c**p. Hollywood remakes of Hollywood films are apparently c**p too. What is the point of remaking a film that is so 'of its time', so entwined in the cultural/social/political context of its time? Remaking one of the major masterpieces of the blaxploitation cinema in the year 2000 is a pointless money spending extravaganza.This is not to take away from the qualities of the film as a straightforward action film. It is a totally gripping, fast, well acted action film per se. Nothing less and certainly nothing more. "},{"Title":"Not THE man, but still a MAN!","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this thinking, How dare they do this to Shaft!  I came out enthusiastic and excited as one should after watching an action movie.  This really was a good film, if not a little exploitative of the past.  I suppose they needed to use the title Shaft to get it noticed.Obviously it is nothing like the original, except for a few little touches (the shot of a guy being thrown out of a window and the New York traffic scenes jump immediately to mind).  The story is good enough to stand as its own.The acting is pretty good all round, though Jackson is typically predictable (he is a big star, and that is what they do...)  Particularly good is Christian Bale, as the cold racist killer.  You just can't help but hate him.  I hope Bale hasn't been type-cast, but he does a damn fine baddie (contrast him with Doug-Ray Scott in Mission Impossible 2!).  But the real star is Jeffrey Wright, the excellent Latino dealer/gangsta.  Go and see it just to hear his drawl.This is a fine action movie, far superior to some of this years more expensive and highly hyped ones!  Don't write it off.  It is a different film to the 70's film, but still a good one! "}{"Title":"The ultimate saturday night movie.","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see Shaft Saturday night expecting a cheesy although exciting actioner.The original, although exceptionally cool at the time, has dated badly and the pacing was too slow. This revamped version works mainly for thee reasons. Reason number one, Samuel L Jackson is the man he could make the dullest movie in the world seem positively enthralling. Reason number two, the pacing is so slick that there is not one moment where boredom can set in. Reason number three, the action is fast furious and violent.The end showdown between Mr L Jackson and the Puerto-Rican (I think) drug dealer is exceptional. Christian Bale also puts in a good performance as a rich villain.I feel it is way up there with the best blockbusters of this year.  "},{"Title":"The  Next Citizen Kane","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"            No, of course not. A lot of people have missed the point about Shaft 2000. It's a slick action movie with a racial political edge, but whoever is dissing it in terms of  plot and acting has missed the point entirely.        Shaft is the ultimate Saturday night movie. Having gone through the depression of watching England lose 1-0 to Germany, Shaft instantly rose my spirits (that and news of Kevin Keegan resigning from the England job.)     If ever anything gets too silly or cheesy, Samuel L.Jackson is always there to remind you what you came to see. And Peoples Hernandez is a terrific villain (The interplay between him and Shaft is terrific.)    In context, a more than worthy 9/10. See it. You'll be glad you did! "},{"Title":"He's a bad mother...","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L Jackson is the perfect person to play Shaft.  He has a cool image earned from some of his previous roles, including Jules in Pulp Fiction.  Jackson does a great job of playing John Shaft, nephew of Richard Roundtree's character from the 70s blaxploitation flick.Christian Bale plays the main baddy in this, playing a character not too far from the one he played to good effect in American Psycho.  Bale (playing Walter Wade Jr) murders a black man after baiting him in a bar and when arrested tries to impress on the cops the fact that his father is rich.  He gets bail and flees the country.Two years on Shaft gets wind of Wade coming back and arrests him again, but soon he is back out on bail and looking for the waitress who witnessed the murder (the excellent Toni Collette).  Shaft must find her and convince her to testify before Wade find her and murders her.The support of Vanessa Williams (colleague of Shaft's), Jeffrey Wright (bad guy Peoples Hernandez who helps Wade), Dan Hedaya (cop on the take) and Busta Rhymes (as one of Shaft's informers who is just priceless in this) all add dimension to the cast and even Roundtree pops up as Uncle John Shaft!Shaft (2000) is good fun and east to watch - a typical modern day police movie.  Watch out for Shaft 2 (and Shaft 3 and Shaft 4 and&#133;&#133;&#133;.)  "},{"Title":"Still The Man?","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Any Questions? asked one of the taglines for this movie. Errrrrr... yeah, I have, actually. Like who cut off Shaft's balls and put them in a jar?For this is a Shaft who's so uptight he only gets one (off-screen) sexual dalliance, and has to be told to keep a level head by his Uncle Shaft (Played by the superb Richard Roundtree? Damn right!) A man who works for authority, and needs a note from his mum to stay out late. Okay, I made that last one up. But this Shaft makes a mockery of the theme song, because he's no longer a complicated man and no-one understands him but his woman, but a two-dimensional anger machine. A man who resolves problems not with an almighty verve and intellect but by blowing everyone away. A Shaft who has a mile-wide chip on his shoulder and lacks charm. Samuel L.Jackson is great as intensely angry, shouty, with just a little bit of humour, but wouldn't it be nice to give him something extra to do? His scenes with Roundtree illustrate perfectly what a more well-rounded, likeable character the original was. And he was his own man, too. (An interesting moment is the dodgy looks Roundtree gives to Busta Rhymes, when the rapper attempts to act. You're putting trained actors out of a job? his gaze seems to be saying).John Singleton takes the original's art-house sensibilities and drags it into the mainstream, unceremoniously ramming an MTV camera up it's rear end for a spinning badge shot. The subtlety is missed, for Shaft 2000 is packed with violent excess and profanity. A pistol-whipping from Shaft is probably the least of it's charms, while the phrase muthaf****r is used more than in any other film I've ever seen. And while the original is unfairly roped in with Blaxploitation, this version is far more race-conscious than the 70s trilogy ever was. The story is slightly less complex than the '71 vehicle and has a variety of devices to break up the narrative, including flashbacks and a two years later caption. To complete this vague air of unreality we learn that if you get blood on your right hand it can transfer to your left, and you can jump through two glass windows without a single scratch. It lacks the humour of its predecessor and what little humour there is seems curiously misplaced.But I'm making the film sound bad and it really isn't. For a film-goer that's never seen the original most of these observations will be of little importance anyway, though I can't help but feel no-one will regard this Shaft as anything special. It's just a run-of-the-mill action thriller to see when you've paid and seen the summer blockbusters. It is above average, with a pace that never drags, not even once. But it lacks the iconographic style of the original. To Shaft 71's 7 I give this 6/10. "},{"Title":"So much potential - if only....","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Great casting, great music and great anticipation when the film started. The first 20 mins or so give a good introduction to the characters and the plot - but you have to suspend all brain activity for the balance of the film, avoid noticing the lack of logic in the story, and just sit back and enjoy the experience.  Enjoyable but it could have been so much more with a bit more care in its making. "},{"Title":"more derivative than you think","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  For 25 minutes this is great.  The third best-known theme tune in history starts up even before the titles, and slides you onto a rain-slick neon-lit city street to meet Samuel L. Jackson's Shaft, a comic-book icon in a long black leather coat.  Everything is smart and cool.  There's stylish non-sequential storytelling, and slick scene transitions which preserve the comic-book feel.  It could almost be an early-80s, top-of-his-form Walter Hill action movie - 48 hours meets Streets of Fire.  This seems to be even more the case when the vaguely disgraced Detective Shaft breaks in a new posse of hard-swearing mixed-race stereotype cops taking down the tenement drug den of extreme hispanic stereotype drug dealer Peoples.The balance quickly shifts, though, and by about half-time the stereotypes have become comic grotesques, the idiot civilians are trailing after Shaft like ducklings wearing shoot me now hats and the film has become a gun-toting Tom and Jerry chase between anonymous back-street flop houses.The problem, simply, is that Jackson's Shaft is a glossy, MTV-slick superhero cop.  His signature goatee looks like it was drawn on in thick marker pen, as an unlikely homage to the late, great comics artist Jack Kirby.  The character only works in a slick teen-friendly action movie. When he strays into a 70s Shaft situation, pistol-whipping a street-corner drug pusher, it doesn't fit.  You're uncomfortable, waiting for the reassurance of the next John Woo style guns-blazing, can't-miss shootout.There's some attempt to straighten things out toward the end, but by then Peoples is a high camp, squeaking, twitching lunatic and Christian Bales's icy, take-charge psychotic racist has been completely undermined.  The two main plot threads unravel and the ending is plain lame.  In some strange kind of closure, though, I'm sure the black kid's mom also played the DJ in Walter Hill's classic action hit The Warriors, which is where I came in. "},{"Title":"It's still an excellent movie","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I heard a few critics say they left  the movie house saying What's the point after seeing the new Shaft.  I left the movie, knowing it was 29 years since the last Shaft, when I was just a kid watching my first rated R movie.  I didn't understand until later just what the original Shaft meant to the public at large.  Now I am older and maturer and so is Hollywood. Yes!  I totally agree the Shaft was history in the making.  The original has it's place in movie history but that does not mean Shaft 2000 wasn't a good movie.  Good Movie?  In Fact it was great!  Suspense, action, and you dig Shaft, once again....Now can you dig that?The movie has action, one liners, intrigue.   It was a great movie.  It will never be Shaft 1, but with it's theatrics and budget Shaft 1 will never be Shaft 2000. "},{"Title":"What's my name?","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is just a lot of hype as far as I'm concerned.  The preview (trailer) for the movie is better than the actual story.  Samuel L Jackson plays John Shaft who becomes obsessed with capturing a racist killer played by Christian Bale (who was seen in American Psycho).  There's a lot of shooting and stuff which is fine if you like that sort of thing.... and I do!  This film, however, just doesn't deliver.  It looks a lot like a James Bond movie from the start sequence of cast etc.This will entertain you, but it's nothing to write home about. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson is a bad mutha--(shut your mouth!)","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Since this is a sequel, rather than a remake, it's hard to compare Jackson with the original Shaft, Richard Roundtree. The first thing to say is that the casting couldn't be better. Samuel L. Jackson was BORN for this role. He always has had that smooth demeanor and wild look in his eye that made him perfect for the legendary loose-cannon. Jeffrey Wright is excellent as Peoples Hernandez, and Christian Bale, fresh off the set of American Psycho, is a cold, dark, truly scary killer. Unfortunately, Mr. Singleton's direction is just too over-the-top. All the gunfights, car crashes, and blatant cruelty from both the hero and the villains is just too much. It's scary and depressing to see Shaft repeatedly pistol-whip a small-time street hood just to get a favor from a neighborhood mother in a scene played for laughs, and far too many people are seriously injured or killed without so much as a second thought. Roundtree would never have played this rough with the other kids. But it's all in good fun, which is Shaft's biggest strength and its biggest flaw. Of course, the ending left it open for a sequel, so you know Shaft will be back again. Damn Right! "},{"Title":"A Pile Of Fun","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft, in itself, may not be a great movie IMHO, but I can't remember the last time I had that much fun in a theater, rooting for the good guy. I tend to laugh at inappropriate moments during movies (thankfully not too loud) and I must say I was snickering myself half to death, quietly cheering Shaft on as he goes around beating everybody up...now I think I'll go listen to Isaac Hayes' incredibly cool theme some more... (by the by, I didn't like his new version nearly as much) "}{"Title":"He he cool movie","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't seen the original Shaft don't think i will either. This movie is totally awesome not a 10 but 7-8 i think lots of bad language and guns. I laughed my ass off ;DD "},{"Title":"Wow! This one rocked!","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel l Jacksons interpretation of Shaft is immaculate. This remake is one of the best remakes ever made. The soundtrack is packed with pimpy beats and the cast is genious. Who can forgett Busta Rhymes as Shaft´s sidekick, Rasaan. That Busta cracks me up whatever he does. Christian Bale is superb in the role of the spoiled rich kid, Walter Wade. This was a great movie in every way - belive me! "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson. Shaft. Nuff said.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  OK, so that's a rehash of one of the tag-lines (Samuel L. Jackson. Shaft. Any Questions?) but it seems to sum things up for me. Kinda says it all- even if I never saw any advertising or read any reviews for the film, I've been waiting for this movie based solely on that premise.  This is probably the most fun I've had in a movie so far this year. I am a big blaxploitation fan (though I have to admit, I haven't seen Superfly or the original Shaft, I love the genre) and Jackson is an actor that I will watch a mediocre movie just to see-especially if he plays a bad-ass.I won't bother giving a plot sypnosis, except to point out that Jackson portrays not the original 70's Shaft, but Shaft's nephew, which I thought was a brilliant touch. The best part of that is, Richard Roundtree gets to reprise his role as the original, and they have some great scenes together. Some people have complained that Roundtree wasn't in the film enough. Though I wouldn't have minded if he'd been around more, I thought he had just the right amount of screen time and scenes. My favorite was when he visited a party thrown in Shaft's honor, has a nice talk with him, then leaves the Lenox Lounge with a foxy chick on each arm and a big smile on his face (not to mention being dressed to the nines). Besides, this movie belongs to Jackson, and he owns it completely. Though he's done many memorable roles, I think this will be the one he's remembered for.The supporting cast is great -Christian Bale and Jeffrey Wright both play thoroughly unlikeable yet entertaining bad guys, with Bale as a spoiled, racist yuppie and Wright as a drug dealer with an accent that makes Al Pacino's in Scarface sound whitebread. This is a pretty testosterone-filled movie (not that there's anything wrong with that )so there's not an especially strong female supporting cast, but the women in the film are great. Gloria Rueben of ER has a nice cameo that I'm sure most actresses would have played for free, short though it is-hell, they probably could have auctioned the small role she has off to the highest bidder. My only complaint is that they didn't get Pam Grier for a cameo- she would have been great in Vanessa L. William's role, but even more perfect as the bartender in the party scene.There's not enough room for me to list all the things I loved about the movie & admired the filmmakers for doing. However, some of the top ones would be the fact that they use the ORIGINAL Isaac Hayes theme and not some horrible 'updated for the new millennium' remix, the way Shaft is especially p***ed off by abuse of women and children, Busta Rhymes as Shaft's comic-relief sidekick, the fact that none of the good guys in the film ever refer to a woman as bitches or ho's, the way no theme or scene seems 'dated' (sadly, even today an interracial couple trying to have a nice evening on the town will still have to deal with racism) and the exceptionally satisfying way all the nasty characters get what is coming to them- justice is definitely served in the end. Man, I hope they make this into a franchise - the crowd-pleasing epilogue, with the theme music kicking in, definitely leaves room for one.I'm ripping off this comment from another review I read, but I have to repeat it I'd happily pay the price of admission just to see Jackson read the phone book for 2 hours as this character. Needless to say, the movie is much more exciting than that. Action scenes are great, the plot was fine, even including  twists I didn't expect, and the dialogue was perfect.  Jackson reportedly had some arguments with the filmmakers over the character, mainly over how he treats women-reportedly,a scene was cut at his request with him tossing a candy bar to a woman he's just slept with after she complains that he never takes her out to dinner. Going to see the movie, I was a tiny bit concerned- as a lot of other fans probably were- that he would turn into too much a caring, sharing watered-down Shaft, but no-one needed to worry. It would have kind of detracted from the character to see him hopping into bed with a different chick constantly throughout the movie like James Bond. One of the few referencesto Shaft's sex life is also probably my favorite line in the movie- though it was hard to pick, this is the one that made up my mind to purchase the movie when it is for sale. A good-looking female bartender, lonely not just for sex but for someone to hold her, is about to hook up with Shaft at the end of the party scene, telling him among other things that it has been a long time. Shaft gives her a nice slow smile and replies as only Samuel L. Jackson can You know me...It's my duty to please that booty.Any Questions?  "},{"Title":"didn't want it to end","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was so hardcore and such a blast that the only disappointing thing about it was that, at some point it had to conclude itself. i really didn't want this movie to end. it was a perfect fit having the rawest, most hardcore actor in showbusiness (sam jackson) playing one of the most hardcore characters to ever appear onscreen. other than richard roundtree himself, sam jackson is probably the only other actor who could've pulled it off. i would give it 11/10 if i could "},{"Title":"the casting makes this film","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft is a good example of how much good casting can help a film.  Here, you've got a pretty generic plot (if a passable one), but Samuel L. Jackson and Jeffrey Wright breath a life into the film that doesn't come from the script.  If you watch Shaft, watch it for the stylish acting; just don't expect to be amazed by the story itself.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Great non-wholesome fun!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft is just pure fun. Nothing serious. Nothing profound. Just a fun,violent movie where the hero prevails and the bad guys get theirs. What carries this whole movie is Samuel Jackson. He is having so much fun being Shaft that you can't resist going along with him.Some good action and some great lines from Shaft.Jeffery Wright is great.Christain Bale is perfectly despicable. He makes your skin crawl he's so obnoxious.A couple faults-The look of the film sometimes changes and looks low budget. But it doesn't detract too much from the overall experience. Second Busta Rhymes is kind of annoying. I wanted him to be good. I expected him to be good. But he wasn't. He kept reverting to an almost Peter Lorre sidekick impression, instead of just being himself.Still great summer fun. Go for the opening credits alone and to see Samuel Jackson saying It's my duty to please the booty  "},{"Title":"Effective style, casting, and action scenes, but lacks depth and dimension. **1/2 (out of four)","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SHAFT / (2000) **1/2 (out of four)When Shaft opened in theaters thirty years ago it provided audiences with a landmark social statement attempting to bring diversity in cinematic experiences of all kinds. Richard Roundtree was born to star in the title role then and Samuel L. Jackson was born to star in the title role now. The 2000 version of Shaft is closely similar to the original in the facets of style and action, but serves more of an entertaining purpose rather than to portray the racial aspects of society. This film works to a certain extent.Samuel L. Jackson is the assertive New York cop John Shaft, an offensive, super sexy roughneck who is not afraid to stand up to someone regardless of their skin color. As the movie opens, he arrives at a crime scene where a young black man (Mekhi Phifer) dies from critical injuries by cocky racist Walter Wade Jr., (Christian Bale), the arrogant son of a wealthy real estate executive who killed this individual after a brief conflict at a bar. After being arrested and immediately posting bail, Walter Wade travels to his European resort, leaving Shaft desperately seeking the aid of the only witness of the crime, a reluctant waitress named Diane Palmieri (Toni Collette).This opening develops the film's scenario well with our character's traditional attitude towards the situations. The character's motives and intentions are understandable. Although the characters lack development, we assume their personalities through the movie's gritty perspective and cultural defining dialogue.John Shaft and his partner Carmen (Vanessa Williams) also encounter a local drug lord named Peoples Hernandez (Jeffrey Wright) who is eventually hired by Walter Wade to dispose of the remaining witness. Shaft must also deal with corrupt cops in the area, Jack Roselli (Dan Hedaya) and Jimmy Groves (Ruben Santiago-Hudson), who betray their friends in order to earn some riches. Shaft joins forces with his Uncle John Shaft (Richard Roundtree) who encourages him to take the law into his own hands in order to find justice.Director John Singleton (Rosewood, Boys in the Hood)  approaches the production with aspiration and energy. Shaft contains full amounts of style and humorous edge; not a single scene in this movie is gruff or unappealing. The story appears with a never-ending comic book style, making this production inspiring and entertaining. The action scenes are well crafted, but the last half hour runs on auto pilot. However, even these swank variables contribute to many distractions of the plot, causing the filmmakers not to take certain events seriously. Whereas most of the important plot nuggets are still viewed upon in a solemn manner.The characters and performances themselves hit various degrees of success. Naturally Samuel L. Jackson creates sufficient sensibility into his character; he gleefully glides down the streets of New York to the beat of Isaac Hayes' famous Shaft theme song. Villains portrayed by Christian American Psycho Bale and Jeffrey Wright (Ride with the Devil) are willing to contribute more than the shallow script allows. The characters played by Vanessa Williams and Oscar nominee Toni Colette are unexamined and lack explanation, thus are seen as plot devices.Writers John Singleton, Richard Price, and Shane Salerno would not know human emotion if it punched them in the face; the element that is responsible for this film's blunder is the total lack of dimension and insightful depth. The characters feel hollow and the plot has no momentum or suspense it runs on energy and style. Shaft is a movie comparable with food that has a lot of flavor but no nutrition; a movie that is entertaining on the outside but empty on the inside. "},{"Title":"One thumb up, the other down","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft is one of those movies where many parts I loved, and because of that I was disappointed that it didn't add up to more.  It didn't really seem like a blaxploitation film to me, and that's OK.  I'm too young to have experienced the genre first hand, but looking back on movies like The Mack, it didn't seem like I was missing much.  So therefore I'm glad this movie took place in the year 2000.What is it about Samuel L. Jackson that I love?  He must write in some of his own dialogue into the script, not only for his character but for some of the others.  The dialogue in this film is lively, vivid, hilarious, and above all, complex.  I don't like movies where the characters say just the bare minimum to keep the plot rolling.  But it seems that the dialogue is intriguing in every movie he stars in, and Shaft is no exception.Much of it is hard-nosed.  They don't serve malt liquor here, Christian Bale tells the black man.  Of course, this manner sounds like something he'd say in American Psycho.  He's become one of my favorite current actors.  Not much of the dialogue is sexual, It's my duty to please the booty is actually misleading when the trailers show it.   The F-word is around every corner in this picture, keeping it from being a family movie. Lots of people get shot but it's nothing gruesome or anything any casual moviegoer has never seen before.Now to critique the plot.  There's lots of scheming in this movie, and I guess that's what happens when everyone involved is crooked in one way or another.  Jeffrey Wright gives an impeccable performance as Peoples, even better than his marvelous work in Basquiat about 4 years back.  Peoples is smart.  When asked to bump someone off for $40,000+ worth of jewellry he turns it down.  Instead he hands the customer a few kilos and tells him to sell it to his upscale friends, that way he can make an extraordinary profit for an indefinite amount of time.  Then there's more scheming.  Two cops sell out for a mere 10 grand a piece, but it comes back to haunt them. Busta Rhymes gets in on the dig too.  He could've made a more interesting character, but all he's there for is to supply the dialogue with more of the F-word.And then the movie seems to go on auto-pilot.  Instead of the characters scheming until they could scheme no more (which would've made this a great movie), it seems as if the screenwriters wanted to end it all as soon as possible.  One by one, supporting cast are picked off until the final confrontation ends in a chase scene.  Haven't we moviegoers seen this thousands of times before?  I wish Shaft would have given us a script as fresh as its dialogue.  But because of this neglection, it turns out to be just a mediocre movie.What I especially didn't like about the movie is the racial overtones. Stereotyping is galore.  We've got the snobby rich white boys, the hoodlum blacks, and the druglord Hispanics.  Can't the movie show us someone with at least one redeeming quality that isn't aligned with prejudice thinking? I've always thought that if I was racist I think New York City is the last place on earth I'd want to live.All in all, it was a movie worth watching.  It had all the elements to be a great flick, but it fails in some key areas. I'm praising it for its ability to show us acting and tension at its best.**1/2 (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Decent movie.  GREAT considering the source...","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  NOTE  The original Shaft was ancient news by the time I was old enough to watch it, so this review carries none of that 70s nostalgia factor.All in all, It wasn't as bad as I thought it'd be.  Considering the total cheese that it was remade from, I thought it was pretty good actually (notwithstanding the obligatory `It's my duty to please that booty' lines).  Shaft is an excellent marksman and Samuel L. Jackson is (as usual) still Da Man. "},{"Title":"Decent movie.  GREAT considering the source...","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  NOTE  The original Shaft was ancient news by the time I was old enough to watch it, so this review carries none of that 70s nostalgia factor.All in all, It wasn't as bad as I thought it'd be.  Considering the total cheese that it was remade from, I thought it was pretty good actually (notwithstanding the obligatory `It's my duty to please that booty' lines).  Shaft is an excellent marksman and Samuel L. Jackson is (as usual) still Da Man. "}{"Title":"flawed but satisfying","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Violence. Revenge. Typical action-vigilante plot. All white people are racist b***ards except for those pretty, young, troubled girls. So why did I enjoy this film so much?Because of the soundtrack.  And Sam Jackson.  That's it.  I'll probably never watch it again, but for one viewing it was very satisfying.  Shaft fans will appreciate the nod, but it's all very uninspiring in the end.Watch it after Scary Movie, and you'll think this is the greatest film ever made (especially if you can insert the Wayans' faces on the bodies of all the baddies). "},{"Title":"More like a Miami Vice reject","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Only for die-hard Sam Jackson lovers and Miami Vice fans (such as myself.) I think it was Jackson's worse performance, but I still enjoyed him. I also enjoyed (hated) Jeffrey Wright as Peoples Hernandez. He was really scary.The movie had fantastic action, although the script was rather lame. It reminded me so much of Miami Vice, but lacking the tongue in cheek humor that MV had.I am embarassed to have given it 6/10 because I shamefully enjoyed the movie. It probably deserves 2/10. "},{"Title":"Half Lethal Weapon/Half Bad Boys/All Fun","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft is one of the most fun movies of the summer. It's a great action movie that puts Gone in Sixty Seconds to shame. The movie is nothing like the original '70's movie as it is much cooler. Also it's not a remake, it's a SEQUEL! The plot goes like this After a guy murders this other guy, there is only one witness. But she's afraid to talk. Then the guy gets arrested and he gets a bail. Shaft is angry so he becomes a vigilante. Then there's a bunch of drug dealers and even more swearing. And then more swearing. And more swearing...And then some more swearing. It's a great movie but it is a bit racist and it is PRO-FANE! The F word is used about 5 times every 7 seconds. But it's a great movie! *** out of ****(It loses half a star due to the swearing) "},{"Title":"So good, and yet still very flawed","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you've made it this far with the reviews, you already know the basics, so I won't waste your time. Here are my thoughts, in no particular order...(*** some spoilers included ***, although I doubt by this point you haven't tread through dozens already)Samuel Jackson? A natural pick, he is the biggest reason why the movies succeeds.Dan Hedaya and the other Black guy (Ruben Santiago-Hudson? Not sure) seemed oddly cast as traitors. They were way too likeable. I knew they're gonna get it for messin' with Shaft, but I felt bad nonetheless.Vanessa L. Williams was good. Tough, but feminine.Amusing director's cameo.I LIKE the fact that Shaft's sexual exploits were not depicted on-camera. With the L.D. remarks and other incidents of sexual innuendo, it's just not necessary to show any actual nudity. If I wanted soft-core porn, I would just turn on Showtime at midnight. And by the way, I do think that the `it's my duty to please that booty' line was out of place. Shaft is sexy, but he's not sleazy. That line seemed less Shaft and more Master P-meets-Dan Fielding-from-`Night Court.'The racial polarization of this movie did get to me after a while. It's a little distressing that almost every character in this film was either racist, weak, or a combination of both. Being a progressive young Black man who likes to see objectivity and fairness in films, `Shaft' was disappointing in that regard. Especially when you think about how much police brutality is condemned in the Black community. for Shaft to go out and execute vicious bum-rush techniques with such flippance, it's unsettling. Some might even say hypocritical. Impressionable youngsters should not be watching this movie unless they have been trained to think critically. That's another reason why age-restrictions on R-rated movies need to be enforced.That's part of the reason why it's so impressive that this movie is so much fun to watch. Despite a wealth of overused crime-story clichés and a horribly unsatisfying ending (can somebody say, `New Jack City'?), this movie succeeds on the strength of snappy dialogue (a little too much of the f-word, but still entertaining nonetheless), an abundance of charisma (Jeffrey Wright is wonderful), and a gritty, pulsating soundtrack.And that's what makes this film a winner, in my opinion. Shaft is the consummate Black action hero. He shoots; he scores. What more do you need?  "},{"Title":"30 years later...","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Main Thing by nicardo@bigfoot.com Review of ShaftSamuel L. Jackson. Good Grief. If ever there was a role that an actor was born to play, Shaft is Jackson's. I don't think it will limit his career or anything, or that he's peaked, but he sure makes it look easy. He wears this movie like his fine set of threads. Since the cool, no-nonsense attitude is timeless and always in style, they only had to update the character's wardrobe for the current decade. It's just as important as the costumes of Batman, Superman, Maximus, or any of the impending X-Men. The Detective John Shaft of the 70's has been reincarnated for the present. No wide bell bottoms, wide lapels, wide ties, or wide hairstyles. He still has his trademark turtlenecks and black leather coat, only these days he has a $5000 three quarter length Armani version on his six foot-two inch frame, topped with an Isaac Hayes-esque shaved head, fashionable facial hair, and 24/7 shades. `Dressed to kill' has never been more chic. The theme song has been re-recorded by `Chef' Hayes, as well.He has the look and the attitude pulled together. Now all he needs is a script that's just as tight. This one sags here and there and could benefit from a few alterations, mostly in the police department. The obligatory crooked cops appear as screw-ups, or misfits. They're about as dangerous to the steely eyed Shaft as a windy day. We get Vanessa L. Williams also on the force. Since when is it Vanessa `L.'? Actually, there's another Vanessa Williams, the same age, and both started working in 1987, but the other one registered her name with the Screen Actors Guild first, and Vanessa L. must have just heard about it. I didn't know. Anyway, it doesn't matter. I cannot see why she should keep making movies. They just needed a pretty face, not an actor. Maybe it was her costumes, but her body seems to be encroaching on Delta Burke territory. She's not given much to do, but that's about all she can handle, I think. (I wasn't impressed with her work in `Eraser' either.) She isn't really a love interest, either. She just serves as someone to hit on. `No one understands him but his woman.' Was that her? It wasn't clear. There's also the Captain and another cop whose roles are just written and performed without adding a great deal to the whole. Alterations, please!Since we talkin' bout Shaft, we have to have not one, but two bad guys. That was cool. One you hate, (Christian Bale, as a racist murderer) and one you can't take your eyes off (Jeffrey Wright, as a drug lord). I read a newspaper story about Wright where they praised him for getting the accent right, and actually having the proper mannerisms! Well, he's an ACTOR. They can do these kinds of things. He's good at it. His performance adds a lot to the film. He previously played Jean Michel Basquiat in a 1996 film about the doomed artist. He's also done another dozen movies, but I know you will see much more of him in the future. He'll be in the next Stallone movie. Good addition. Nice fit. It is not without its flaws, and it could have been better, but if you like Samuel L. (and/or Vanessa L.) and lots of guns and violence, there are worse ways to spend a few bucks and a couple of hours. Expect another Shaft movie, too. I don't know if it will be titled Shaft 2, or Shaft 3, Shaft Takes Manhattan, or John L. Shaft, but this one made $42M in two weeks, so the next one is certainly in the works. To the producers, that's the main thing. Comments and e-mail welcome. "},{"Title":"Shaft should be embarrassed, I know I was.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I confess. I fell asleep once or twice. Sorry.  Here, you have a consummate actor in Samuel L. Jackson, full of power, charisma and sheer good looks-not to mention menace-the ideal choice for a contemporary Shaft character and he's given nothing of substance to do.I have heard that this film had continual problems with infighting-the Producers vs. Jackson and the Director, John Singleton over the story and emphasis, and it shows.The film doesn't really work as a police procedural or even as anything but a violent, disjointed tale of cartoonish ghetto characters who either talk like Rosie Perez's cousin with a set of ill-fitting braces or look like middle linebackers recruited from a College football practice.(Well, I have to admit, I DID like Busta Rhyme's character)  Christian Bale is so...um...whitebread that you really have to wonder what they were thinking. Woefully implausible as a nemesis and hardly a match for Shaft. Why didn't they show more scenes to establish Shaft's character? His...dare I say it, motivation?(other than say, frustration at the White-controlled judicial system) Is he just meant to be an elemental force? Even the hilarious Peoples Hernandez had more fleshing out.   Where were Shaft's women? Vanessa Williams is nice, but there are some really attractive babes that he could have been hooked up with. Why no scenes to establish his relationship with his Uncle? Does Shaft pay rent? Visit his mom on Sundays? Feel compassion and/or despair at a Black mother's justice? Or was he just there to orchestra car chases, gunfire between dimwits and explosions. Crowd pleasers, for sure, but... It was hard to tell. Too bad. I sincerely hope the next one-if there is one, isn't tinkered with, or fought over, or trimmed. Samuel Jackson is a winner. His talent was stifled here.     "},{"Title":"I don't dig it","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft is nicely put together but ultimately unsatisfying. Just another vigilante-out-for-justice flick with uninspired dialogue, tepid pacing, dull action sequences,a disgusting use of race baiting, and one of the worst endings ever. John Singleton's new version of an old classic has the always cool, ultra-talented Samuel L. Jackson as a violent detective who is waging a war against anyone who does anything wrong to black people. Jackson is one of the best actors around and is especially good at playing bad motherf'ckers so it was a huge dissappointment that a character that he was born to play turned out to be a hypocrite with an indifference to white people and the centerpiece of this lousy film spewing lame lines and mowing down inept bad guys. Christian Bale gave the stand-out performance of the film(in my worthless opinion) as the primary villain, even though his role was a pretty bad stereotypical character. I felt sorry for his character by the end of the movie due to everything he had to go through. Enough has made about Jeffery Wright so I just say I liked his performance too. Vanessa Williams and Toni Collette were criminally under-used in thankless supported roles. But Buster Rhymes...I couldn't stand him.I hated him in Higher Learning(another bad Singleton movie) and I hated him even more here and if I listened to his music I'd hate that too.He was such an idiot talking like, Whuuut chuuu tawwwkin bout daauwg? For once I'd like to see a movie like this where the race roles were reversed, but of course it would labeled as a racist. Anyway lots of people liked and it made money so I guess it accomplished what it set out to do. Hopefully the sequels will have good scripts, better action sequences(something beside quick cuts of Shaft and the bad guys taking turns shooting at each other) and eliminate the racial under-currents.One more thing Racial tension is not a one-sided problem  anymore!It p***ed me off how almost all the characters who weren't black were pompous bigots and the blacks were shown at heroes even if they were just as bad. "},{"Title":"Sorry, didn't see anything to shout about !!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was expecting so much from Paramount for this remake and what a disappointment !!. I am not saying it's a bad movie or anything, but there is NOTHING we haven't seen already. It's perfect for the video and cable market and that's about it. Samuel L. Jackson gives a fine performance but nothing to shout about there either. Vanessa L.Williams is almost non existent. Christian Bale is also fine but I already saw American Psycho, thank you. And to make matters worse I personally cannot stand a movie where the F...... word is standard in each and every scene. A waste of time and money.  "},{"Title":"He's a bad mother.....shut your mouth!!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sam Jackson is cool. Shaft is cool. what do you get when you combine these two cool things? a pretty bad movie. well, at least i saw it for free because it is definitely not worth my money and I'm glad I paid for food at least, because I was pretty hungry when I saw it.6/10 - for director John Singleton "},{"Title":"Lame and forced","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A big disappointment, given the lustre of the original and the talent of Samuel L. Jackson. No suspense, creaky action, lame dialogue. Christian Bale almost steals the show with only a one-dimensional character to work with. Jackson looks uncomfortable smirking, isn't nearly as cool as he has been in other films--here where it's all about being cool. Vanessa Williams flops around like a guppy with nothing to do. "}{"Title":"Awful, Scattered with a horrible plot","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What was John Singleton thinking? I don't know... First of all the original Shaft worked only because of the time period it was made in and I only realized this 1/2 way through the awful new one. The story is introduced with Christian Bale's rascist Walter Wade J.R. as the main villain in a pumped up opening scene that promises, at least, a decent action-revenge plot. But instead, mid-way through the production, the filmmakers decided that Jefferey Wright's Peoples Hernandez was a more interesting villain (they are right) but they then reduce Bale to a minor part,(eliminating an end scene which was a key to why Bale chose the part)  Bale's reduction is espcially disappointing because they easilly could have worked out a sort of partnership between the two villains. They even suggest it in the film, but never followed up on it. This leaves a week plot which gives Jackson nothing much to do other then ask a lady bartender if she wants the L.D. However much worse then anything I've mentioned so far is the completely idiotic and unsatisfying ending which looked like it was thrown together quickly so Singleton could get this crap done with as soon as possible. And in the end I felt and learned nothing more about John Shaft than I saw in the 5 second commercial on FOX. Wright and Bale remain the real stars of the movie, you almost feel bad because they are so much more intriguing then Shaft himself which I'm sure was not Singleton's intention.   "},{"Title":"I dug it","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had originally prepared to see this remake by watching the Shaft marathon on TNT.  Truthfully, i stopped paying attention about an hour in.  Since 2 friends of the family are managers at a local movie theater, the next day, I saw.... gone in 60 seconds!  Well, hey, it was thursday, and shaft came out on friday.  Saturday finally rolled around, and while my father and sister went to see Big Momma's House, i walked inside the theatre, sat down, and was knocked out of my seat.  I now know who the black private dick who's a sex machine to all the chicks actually is.  They couldn't have picked a better actor to play the part.  When Sam Jackson can talk trash, you know he'll play the part well.  The action sequences were well played, especially when Shaft turns his badge into a ninja star, and plants it about a foot or two to the left of the judge.  There is plenty of humor throughout.  It took me a second to realize that Busta Rhymes was Shaft's helper, and Uncle J. walking out of the bar w/ a girl on each arm was the perfect touch.  I give it 5 motha-shutyomouths outta 5.  Can ya dig it?the truth is in here... "},{"Title":"Unexplainable in the beginning","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Having no idea what in the blazes Shaft was coming into the movie probably hurt me.  However, it seemed to me that the plot really didn't explain itself until 70 minutes into the movie.  The action is there, though not as plentiful as I would of liked.  Sam Jackson is the man, and he will always be.  I think he caught the essence of what Shaft is supposed to be, at least I think so.  The plot is what hurts this movie, as it fails to explain itself efficiently.  The one other major gripe I had with this movie was the speech of some of the actors.  They just can't talk whatsoever, which had me totally lost.  They should of taken speech class before shooting the movie.  How aggravating. "},{"Title":"Can you dig it?","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Oh man, who else can revive Richard Roundtree's sexy black private dick John Shaft besides Samuel L. Jackson.  But the cool thing is Roundtree is still around.  This John Shaft is his nephew using the same hard tactics good old Uncle John taught him.John Singleton, best known for his brilliant 1991 urban drama Boyz N the Hood, has pulled together his writing and directing talents on this 21st Century revival.  I have to say I am not the biggest action fan in the world, mainly due to their terrible acting and poor scripts, but Sam L. just knows how to do it.  He is just that bad that it's both funny and cool and there is such a suave going on in his character that you get jealous.  Why can't I be Shaft?Not everyone can be as bad as he can but the film manages to give us just enough of what we need.  The amazing 300 bullets flinging right past Shaft as he calmly mows down the enemy one by one, the chickadees but no booty action in this film, and just an arrogant main character that is cool with the audience but doesn't dig the latino drug dealer Peoples Hernandez, played by Jeffrey Wright to hilarious perfection, or the rich yuppie murderer Walter Wade, Jr., also played to perfection by Christian Bale.  We all know him from this year's brilliant horror character study American Psycho.Well, of course, Shaft kicks the ever-loving crap out of everyone and manages to look and be cool while he does it.  But isn't that why we love this campy action stuff that was offered back in the 70's and still manages to get just the right nerve when you sit down.All in all; get lots of snacks, some friends, and get ready to watch some bad guys fly, Shaft style.7.5/10  "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Never having seen any of the 'original' movies, I really liked this one. Hearing the begin tune I felt very nostalgic and it is great how that music resonates throughout the entire movie. For the first time (this is not the first film I have seen him in) I became a fan of Samuel L. Jackson. Ultra cool! I loved the de-glamorized Vanessa Williams. I was very impressed with how Christian Bale has grown up since Empire of the Sun. What a nasty character he portrays here! I wasn't too fond of the Busta Rhymes (I'm not sure about his name) character, and didn't like the bit where 'Peoples' confronted Christian on the roof. But these were just minor glitzes in a very enjoyable movie! "},{"Title":"rebirth of cool","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, a good action movie. Shaft's marketing campaign is pretty much a gimmick. Thankfully, the sex machine, still the man campaign ends after Isaac Hayes' theme song and we're treated to an exhilarating piece of filmmaking. I don't know much about the original Shaft films or the TV series, so I won't try to compare the old with the new. All I know is that lines like, It's my duty to please that booty don't help the film, nor do they contribute to the story. On the other hand, they don't really hurt anything either. It's just good to see Samuel L. Jackson in a starring role (he'll win an Oscar some day), doing what he does best--talk smack. Is he more or less cool as Shaft than Richard Roundtree? Don't know, but Jackson's Shaft is pretty cool.Writing the lines for Jackson to deliver is the great Richard Price. Price and the equally great John Singleton start this thing with a bang, propel their story forward at breakneck speed, and finish the way they started. It all starts with a racially motivated murder by the son of an influential New York businessman. The sequence goes Black guy walks into ritzy bar with white woman, an obnoxious white guy (Christian Bale) starts taunting him, black guy makes a fool out of white guy, who retaliates violently. This was a smartly written, well-staged scene that is revisited in flashbacks throughout the film. Bale's character, Walt Williams, is released on a measly $200,000 bail and skips town. Shaft arrests him again two years later, only to watch him walk on bail again. Shaft has an eyewitness, though, a waitress at the bar (Toni Collette).Walt enlists Shaft's rival, a Latino drug lord named Peoples Hernandez (Jeffrey Wright, who will also win an Oscar some day), to help him find the waitress and silence her. What really propels the story forward is the discovering of new, darker sides of these two antagonists. Wright's Peoples is the most enjoyably over-the-top movie villain since Alan Rickman in Die Hard. As these characters become darker and more complex, so does the film, which ends up being delightfully unpredictable at times. Almost no one is what they at first seem, with everyone playing everyone else. Except for a couple of plot flaws, it's a solid piece of writing.Shaft is a bloody film that seems to suggest that the only way to counter violence is with more violence. Even Shaft's own vigilante methods are difficult to agree with, despite the fact that, for example, the guy whos face he's pushing against the sidewalk with his boot deals drugs to kids. What's special about John Shaft is that he's the black cop stuck between two different worlds. The justice system he's a part of has failed the black community at large, so what does he do? Can he affect more change as a part of the justice system, or will he be more effective outside of it, where he isn't bound by its rules? This new film explores this question and more and lets the audience draw its own conclusions (after the film's jaw-dropping ending, you'll know what I mean).Singelton proves his versatility by creating a great action film that actually has a brain. Hopefully as the franchise continues--and believe me, this is only the first of many more Shaft films--Jackson and company will keep the material challenging, allowing John Shaft to evolve and become more and more interesting. Grade B-  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly great","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Samuel L. Jackson should just change his name cause he is Shaft. His performance did give me the feel that he was a bad mother-shut your mouth. The Roundtree Shaft seem to always get the crap kicked out of him but he was the ladies man with the most.The Jackson Shaft just seems to be a different breed *SPOILER MAYBE, DON'T KNOW* He never gets beat down and seems never to get a lady throughout the whole film. I still feel that this Shaft is flawed, in fact I felt the first Shaft was flawed. Shaft never seems to match the song Shaft, Singleton had a great vision for this one. I like the beat up version rather than the get beat up version. But power to the Peoples, this character will make you laugh yourself to tears and Bale character is kinda easy to forget as he fades into the background Vanessa Williams is looking hotter than ever and the dress at the birthday party will make you stand up and cheer if your a guyOverall 8/10   SHAFT's Cousin SHAFT is better than Uncle SHAFT "},{"Title":"Great movie, only if you don't count the ending.","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I loved how this movie started, but not how it ended.  I loved the action. I loved V.Williams.  I of course loved Jackson as Shaft.  But this movie had the worst ending I have ever seen in a theater.  Not to spoil the movie. But if what happened in the end had happened in the beginning.  We all would have been saved two hours of our time. "},{"Title":"Shaft He gets the job done!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie isnt the same as the old Shaft, but it's pretty damn close. There isn't as much sex as Shaft should have, but the violence makes up for it.  It is really funny in that violent Shaft way, as in, the bad guy thinks Shaft can't touch him, and then Shaft TOUCHES him as only Shaft can do.  He makes a difference, and gets the job done.    "},{"Title":"Morally Void","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  By no means do I require a morally sound message in all movies, but in the case of Shaft I was genuinely disappointed by the moral void the film left as an aftertaste.  What I learned from the movie was It is okay to beat suspects if the cop is black and the suspect is a racist or a known thug.John Shaft takes no responsibility for the havoc he essentially creates (a de facto Batman/Joker relationship)... this sits poorly with me because he is in many ways a catalyst to the carnage, but there are no consequences for him - everybody suffers from his arrogance and violent nature.Great acting & solid action sequences has been overshadowed by a meandering, uncommitted script.  A serious shame.  This movie could have well been titled Payback 2 (or any action-packed title or character name for that matter), because the legacy of the original Shaft is no where to be seen in this film. "}{"Title":"Traditional summer flick, (*1/2 out of ****) WARNING, POSSIBLE SPOILER","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, much like all remakes that come out nowadays, I haven't seen the original SHAFT, so I can't give a blow-by-blow comparison. However, there is a comparison I can afford to make. Forget EYE OF THE BEHOLDER. SHAFT is easily the worst movie I've seen to date of 2000, and anyone who goes to movies expecting even a minimal level of substance will be nonplused by this film. With a weak and unengaging story, single-dimensional characters, dull action, and idiotic humor, SHAFT nearly had me dying of boredom while everyone else in the theater may have been dying from laughter.For about 20-25 minutes, SHAFT sets itself up nicely and brings out laughter from profanity-stemmed jokes, but there should be a point in every movie where its time to pull the audience into the story and try something A LITTLE different, which never happens here. Somehow, the simple act of Jeffery Wright's latino drug-lord speaking seemed to send audiences into convulsions, certainly due to his thick, over-the-top accent. It's impossible to care about any of the characters either. Toni Collette and Christian Bale do solid acting jobs with the few scenes each of them are given, but their characters have zero depth.Samuel L. Jackson, however, is basically the movie's only redeeming quality. With a firm handle on dangerous situations, a peltiful supply of charisma, and a glare that would frighten anyone who tries to mess with him, Jackson's John Shaft is definitely a cool action hero. Ultimately, it doesn't matter, because the contrast of him to everything else in the movie is shocking. He's a sylistic guy caught in a bland, boring story surrounded by a gallery of over-the-top but uninteresting characters. The action sequences of course, are loud and chaotic, but there's no suspense and no true sense of danger. The climactic struggle between Shaft and Peoples seems like it's been done before (the whole I've got a key hostage at gunpoint thing), and I really couldn't possibly care less whether the cliched drug lord died or lived.To add insult to injury, the conclusion is simply unacceptable. Christian Bale's character, Walter Wade, is obviously the real villian here, and despite Shaft's burning desire to bring him down, a confrontation between these two never occurs. This cheats the audience out of the genuine catharsis and triumph that always comes with a good action movie. No one at the theater I went to seemed to care though; they were too busy soaking up the laughs to stop and think for just a second or two.In the final analysis, SHAFT is one of those movies that simply makes you loathe Hollywood. This film is so full of itself that it seems to think that profanity alone is funny when timed right. Personally, I call that offensive. There's really no edge or gags of any type to go along with the cursing, which probably doesn't matter to this film's target audience. This summer, if you want intense action to pump the adrenaline, see MISSION IMPOSSIBLE 2. For an epic story with characters worth caring about, see GLADIATOR. For humor, I recommend SMALL TIME CROOKS in that arena. See anything.... anything but a movie as full of itself as SHAFT.  "},{"Title":"Damn Right","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft is back and on time.  Being a fan of the many Shaft movies, I was looking forward to seeing this one.  To all those people out there that think the original Shaft movies were great bits of film history, I say get a grip.  It is true that they showed the black man as a lone warrior that was a real sexual being.  But this Shaft is every bit as strong as a crime drama as any of the original Shafts.  This movie stands on it's own as a very good New York crime movie, showing the many layers of human interaction in New York and the violence that goes along with that.  Shaft is a very entertaining movie that is more real then most Hollywood stuff coming out.  But this cat Shaft need to get more boody to please in his next movie.  "},{"Title":"Didn't do it for me","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was sort of a cool movie and sort of not. I didn't really enjoy it as much as I thought I would but I've seen worse. That doesn't sound like a very good opinion of this movie does it? It's not as bad as the impression as I'm giving, it's just that it could have been even better.Shaft is about a New York cop, John Shaft (Samuel L Jackson) who devotes his life towards capturing convicted murderer, Walter Wade Jr. (Christian Bale). When he can't bring this man to justice through legal means, he leaves the police force to pursue this man with his own brand of justice.What was it that I didn't like about this movie? Basically poor dialogue. There were some really bad lines and when I first heard them, I laughed and thought to myself, `Did he really say that?'  I know that this movie was based on another movie series but sitting there in the theatre, it felt almost like I was watching a 2-hour TV series. Some of the action sequences were ok but nothing that I would consider memorable and definitely not anything that I would go running to friends and recommend to them.Despite the above comments, I do have to say that Sam Jackson plays a very cool Shaft. But I'm not sure how much of a stretch it was for him. He's a pretty cool guy in real life and it felt like I saw quite a bit of his real self in this movie. If the writing was better, it would have made Jackson even better. The one actor that I really liked was Christian Bale. I never saw him in `American Psycho' but I really enjoyed his performance in this movie. He plays a villain really well and makes you want to hate him with every fiber in your body. He just has to be careful that he doesn't type cast himself.Overall, this was an OK movie but not one I would run out and tell everyone about.  "},{"Title":"Who's the man? Sam Jackson is the man.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In the same way Pierce Brosnan has brought James Bond into the millennium, Sam Jackson is doing the same with John Shaft, only better. This new Shaft is a cop who can't get his man, a rich white snob(perfectly played by Christian Bale), and then quits his job and takes the law into his own hands. When Bale's character finds out that the only witness to his crime is still alive, he hires a Cuban drug lord named People(Jeffrey Wright) to find her and take her out. If it wasn't for Sam the man Jackson playing Shaft this would be Wright's film. His accent, his tone, the way he interacts, his movements, and his love for his family just make you like this guy almost as much as Shaft. I've never seen anyone get an Oscar nod for a summer action film but I definitely think Wright should get one or at least a golden globe. As for Sam Jackson, he bleeds, sweats, talks, wears, walks and looks Shaft. Other than the original Richard Roundtree(who has a small part in this film) Sam was born to play this role. But Sam shaft isn't much a ladies' man and is a much tougher, more violet Shaft. If you mess with his people he will bust your head. This film gets a 10 and in my opinion the best film of the summer. John Shaft the coolest guy this side of James Bond. This is a can't miss film. If your not in the cinema now, watching this for the third time you have problems, and need to seek help.       "},{"Title":"Right on!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the coolest movies ever.  'Shaft' has some of the best writing in any action movie out there.  Samuel L. Jackson is on auto-pilot while he enjoys the role and gives us a thoroughly convincing Shaft.  All the supporting actors give some of the most memorable characters ever.  (I will never forget Peoples and Wade.)  A great movie all around. "},{"Title":"Shaft is cool","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Shaft is one cool character. Samuel Jackson definitely IS Shaft and carries this film easily.  The story is a good guys beats the bad guys movie with just enough plot twists to make it interesting - you know for sure that Shaft WILL get the bad guys,  the good guys' bullets NEVER miss, a damsel in distress is saved and all works out great.  Due process? Fuggedaboutit! And rightly so as shown in this movie.I think it shouldn't matter that this is an old fashioned good guy vs bad guy film - you're left cheering for the good guys and it's great that good conquers evil.  The bad guys are without a doubt ALL BAD and you have no sympathy for them whatsoever.  This does not mean that they are one dimensional characters entirely though.  Peoples Hernandez(Jeffrey Wright) is really incredible and is an intense villain.  I wasn't as sure about Bale - he played his cold-blooded yuppie killer part well but I never really could figure out the motivation behind this character who was just representing the flat epitome of evil - he didn't have as much dimensions as Wright's character.Some people were bothered by the racial aspects of this film but it's not a key element and it's not just a Get Whitey theme.  It's pretty fair and realistic - you see racism on both sides.  The setting takes place in the NYC police department after all.Overall, well worth going out to see.  It's a fun, action-packed film and Jackson is mesmerizing.  I'm hoping they make Shaft 2.  "},{"Title":"Samuel L. is the Man!","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I found this film really enjoyable in that '70's Cop Show sort of way.  Rather than cast Sam Jackson as the original Shaft, this character is the nephew of the original (with Roundtree in a co-starring role), and it makes it more plausible.  The best this about the film is the inclusion of the original song as sung by Isaac Hayes, Jackson's performance (which reminded me of his Pulp Fiction character more than just a little), and the fact that it didn't take itself too seriously.  The movie spent most of its time trying to be cool, and to me, that's what made it fun.The bad thing?  The storyline wasn't that original.  It was just one of those taken out of today's headlines kind of plots (although the Los Angeles/Rodney King thing happened a few years back), and the villains weren't given as much personality as the heroes of the film.  In fact, most of the charm, whether it was unintentional or just another instance of Jackson's charisma, was left to the lead character itself.  I don't think this film would have succeeded as well or have been half as entertaining without Samuel L. Jackson's presence. A fun film that pays homage to the original series, as well as showcasing its own personality.  A great Guy's Night Out kind of flick. "},{"Title":"'Cause ju takes care of jo peoples","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Here is a summer film that shows that big budget summer action films can be fun again. They don't need to be about another boring battle with a world-threatening natural disaster that is always heroically defeated with a last second decision in the end. In the past few years, we have learned that humans are real heroes. Thank God those movies are long gone. It's time to get back to basics. Shaft has all the fun basics.John Shaft is one smooth mother! I don't really think so, but that's what the movie tells us. He's got a big case to take care of. Walter Williams, the son of a well known rich businessman, has just been accused of a racist murder. Williams is played by Christian Bale who was so awesome in American Psycho. He is awesome here again. In fact, one of the main reasons I went to see this movie was because of Christian Bale. It paid off. Anyway, Williams first mocks a young African-American with a series of racial, but funny remarks. When the young man responds in his own way and embarrasses Williams in front of everyone in the club, he makes a mistake. An enraged Williams murders the young man outside the club in the most brutal and casual way. He then threatens a witness (Toni Collette) as if it was no big deal. Shaft comes in to arrest Williams and throw him in jail. However, he soon realizes that the young man has too much money and power to be put away that easily. Frustrated with the law, Shaft quits the police force and decides to take care of this matter as a vigilante. With the help of his old friend Carmen (Vanessa Williams), who is still a member of the NYPD, Shaft searches for the important witness and other significant clues. Along the way he manages to get crooked cops and a drug dealer named Peoples Hernandez (Jeffrey Wright) involved in the plot.The situation eventually becomes way to complicated for just one murder by one man, but everyone wants to double-cross or use someone in some way. Samuel L. Jackson is really not that smooth as Shaft. He is annoying, like when he hits my man Christian Bale or like when he calls people f*****s for no reason. He also possesses a surprisingly short temper. He gets very upset over stupid things way too quickly. That's not cool Shaft! Christian Bale is the man though. He manages to be both scary and funny, while being stylish at the same time. His racist jokes are pretty funny and I don't like them because I am racist, but because they are good. He has some conversations that are both chilling and humorous with Peoples. Peoples is another fun and interesting character in the movie. He appears innocent at first, but turns out to be a deadly and dangerous criminal. One of the funny scenes occurs in jail where Peoples and Williams first meet. Williams beats up a guy twice his size because the guy wanted his shoes. As he kicks him in the face he yells You want my shoes!? He manages to maintain his slick and fearless style throughout the scene. At another time, he shows up in a ghetto neighborhood wearing nothing but Abercrombe & Fitch. Now that is funny. The guy should be killed, but he's not afraid. I just hope he won't become typecast as villains from now on. He's too cool and he's my new hero. He is the man in this movie.Shaft is too much of a blend of comedy and action to be taken seriously. Sometimes this works and sometimes it doesn't. John Singleton does a good job of making a fun film, but it is never an overly impressive effort. And I don't think it really is very true to the Shaft franchise. Although I'm not that familiar with the older Shaft movies, I can tell that this one is not that smooth. Samuel L. Jackson fits the role, but he is certainly not the best part of this film. The bottom line is that this film could be cooler and better, but it contains plenty of fun elements that make it worth seeing. Watch out for Christian Bale. This is a strong satisfactory summer flick. Overall, a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Triumph On Many Levels","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My only complaints  a little stereotyping of Cubans, and pretty much everyone who wasn't black was racist.Other than that, there is nothing in Shaft that I can complain about. From the moment I heard Isaac Hayes' classic Shaft theme start playing, I couldn't help but love every minute of this film.  The new Shaft, as one would expect is action-packed, especially in the second half of the film which will keep you on the edge of your seat.  Even more suspenseful, though, is the excellent storyline which takes many clever twists and turns. The acting is superb, most notably in the performances of villains Jeffrey Wright and Christian Bale, who are brilliant in creating a character one can truly hate.  In addition, there is a good deal of comic relief, most of which results from Shaft's clever plots to get the best of his enemies, some of which is supplied by Shaft's sidekick Rasaan (rapper Busta Rhymes). All-around, an excellent film almost anyone will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Decent movie, but nothing special.","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Who better to play John Shaft than the one and only Samuel L. Jackson? Unfortunately, Shaft is no Jules Winnfield and this sure isn't anywhere nearly as interesting or well made as Pulp Fiction. While these two movies are completely different, I can't help but compare between the two. Unfortunately Shaft just isn't that good. The movie is cliched and full of stereotypes. The bad guys seem like they could be interesting, if they had more character and weren't so unbelievably cheesy and stereotypical. With the exception of Shaft, of course, the good guys aren't that much more entertaining. Still, Shaft has its good points. The plot doesn't slow, the action is somewhat more realistic than most action movies and Shaft always gets the better of characters so seedy and low that you can't help but hate them. I'd give Shaft a 6 out of 10; it's a decent movie but nothing special. "}{"Title":"The new Shaft fails in every way","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have witnessed more intriguing storylines on Baywatch.  I've seen better character development  on CBS's Survivor.  I actually laughed harder while watching the 1992 dud, Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot.  I found action sequences more exciting than anything in this film while taking the Picture Picture Tour on Mister Rogers' Neighborhood. The new Shaft fails in every way. "},{"Title":"Who's the Man Who Won't Cop Out? Its Still John Shaft. Can you dig it!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you get a chance go see the man, John Shaft, some night.  He's still a bad Motherf***er, but not like in the old days.  There's a mix of better and not as good in the new film.  Its higher quality than the 1971 Richard Roundtree-Forest Parks blaxsploitation version.  But not as fun, or inspiring as the first. Samuel L. Jackson occasionally has some good contemporary lines, but he's mainly ultraviolent instead of being adventurous and sexy like Richard Roundtree.  Jackson-Shaft is 51 and turning few female heads in Harlem these days.  Thats in heavy contrast to the 29 year old Roundtree who played Shaft in 1971.  Roundtree cameos as Shaft's Uncle in the current film.The storytelling rocks back and forth between the straighforward tale of 1971 and some fairly artistic story-telling more reminiscent of today's art films.  Actor Christian Bale plays a racist white man only slightly like the serial killer he played in American Psycho earlier this spring. Bale kills a black man then jumps bail and heads for Europe.  The fugitive returns two years later.  With no help from his despised father Bale enlists a neighborhood drug dealer to help him find and silence the only witness to the crime, a waitress played by Toni Collette.  Jeffrey Wright plays the drug dealer with a panache that upstages nearly everyone else in the film.  Toni Collette is wonderful as the waitress, but she doesn't have much screentime.I missed Samuel Jackson's John Shaft pimpwalk which was probably done over the credits with the Isaac Hayes song pumping behind it. I came in directly afterward and could kick myself for missing those credits.  Nobody does a pimp walk like Shaft whether its Richard Roundtree or Samuel L. Jackson.Neither of the Shafts uses the Isaac Hayes-created theme to best effect. The song is so good, both films have to live up to it, and neither one does. Shaft is still a better song than a movie.I can't resist.  Here is the great Isaac Hayes singing-talking about John Shaft from the largely instrumental record Hayes Whose the blackest  private dick, a sex machine to all the chicks! Female Raelets-like Chorus Shaft! Hayes  Damn Right! More Shaft musical interlude, then, Hayes, singing Who is the man who'd risk his neck for Brother Man.! Female Raelets-like Chorus Shaft! Hayes, talking now Can You Dig It! another short Shaft musical interlude, then, Hayes Whose the cat that won't cop out when there's danger all about.. Female Raelets-like Chorus Shaft! Hayes, agreeing Right Awn! short minor Shaft musical interlude Hayes, talking You see this cat Shaft, he's a bad Mother-F*., INTERRUPTED by the Raelets-like chorus, shout-singing Shut your Mouf! Hayes, singing He's a complicated man, and noone understands him like his woman! Female Raelets-like Chorus in orgasmic unison JOHN SHAFT!John Shaft was kicking ass, taking names, and clockin' the hos while that Uncle Tom Danny Glover and Kiss-Assy Honky Mel Gibson were still in stained drawers.  To watch either Shaft- Roundtree or Jackson- pimproll down the street to confront danger to this music gives you the same rush you feel from the Four Seasons' Walk Like A Man and other ultramale anthems. The song is the baddest boogie song of all time.  It belongs on a list of Best Songs of the 20th Century even if it was a precursor of what later became Disco.The song/movie was  unique in 1971 because it conceived a black detective as a super-hero in the same fantasy realm with James Bond and the other white detective heroes played by Bogart, Mitchum and others. It was very heady stuff for black folks accustomed to seeing members of their race- excepting Sidney Poitier, of course- playing servants and field hands, in movies up to that time. The Black Power movement of the late sixties cut Sidney Poitier's career short and laid the groundwork for a Shaft who solved his problems with guns and fists.Shaft paved the way for other blaxploitation characters like Pam Grier as Foxxy Brown and Superfly Ron O'Neal.  In just two years the blaxploitation films fizzled, victims of their own excess.  There were simply too many repetitions of the same cool ghetto dude theme. It took  years for Spike Lee to arrive with a subtler black film.  His Shes Gotta Have It arrived in 1986.  Spike begat John Singleton who directed Boys in the Hood and the new Shaft. We are still playing out the latest black film renaissance today with Glover, Morgan Freeman, Will Smith, Denzel Washington, Grier and Vanessa Williams playing starring roles in an increasing number of black films.  And in white films, also. "},{"Title":"Exciting crime caper","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've never seen the original Shaft from 1971, but on the basis of this new remake, I'm going to rent it. This new Shaft movie is a very well made action movie. Samuel L. Jackson is excellent in the title role that was played by Richard Roundtree in the original (and reprises his role here). The new Shaft takes on two interesting bad guys well played by Christian Bale and Jeffrey Wright. Bale plays a rich kid who commits a crime and gets away with it, and Wright plays a drug lord who Bale asks to find the only witness to the crime that he committed. The witness a waitress (played by Toni Collette of The Sixth Sense) who disappears afterward. But Shaft intends to find the witness first before the bad guys get to her. Director John Singleton does an exceptional job on this film. The action is exciting, the dialogue is sometimes funny and sometimes chilling, and the performances are first-rate. Jackson has always been a good actor, and he's very good here. The supporting cast is also terrific. Bale, Wright, Collette, and Roundtree are perfect in their roles. Some of the other cast members (including Vanessa Williams and Dan Hedaya) are fine too (if not as good as those that I've mentioned above). This is one entertaining show.***1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Hollywood completely out of ideas","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson does what he does best. Playing himself again, this time under the name Shaft. After sitting through this mess I was left with the same question I had going in.... why would they want to do a remake of a really good seventies movie? Did they hope to improve upon it? The answer is, they are banking on the twenty something crowd who didn't see the original and don't have sense enough to just rent the original instead of wasting mom and dad's money on a bad remake. Jackson's talents are wasted in a muddled and violent hack job that grates on the nerves and lacks originality and a sense of theme or direction. Both Cuban and Negro actors play the heavies, to no one's surprise. Rent the original and save a few bucks. "},{"Title":"He's still a Baad Mutha","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this movie. I gotta say that because I was so pleasantly surprised. The new Shaft is still the coolest dude in town and big with the 'chicks'. Of course there's some shoot outs that are a little far fetched, but, it's all in the fun of the movie.  If you're looking for some diverting action, go see it. You won't be wasting your money. "},{"Title":"Funny and full of action!","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is packed with humor and action. Although it may seem kind of short, it has some good shoot 'em up action. It features the old Shaft playing Samuel L. Jackson's Uncle, and I can't think of anyone better to play the role of Shaft than Jackson. "},{"Title":"Who else but Sam Jackson could be Shaft in 2000?","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe Wesley Snipes cold have played him as a distant second choice, but that's about it. That's a good thing for Sam, but not really a good thing for African American actors. Shouldn't there be more than three or four actors that come to mind when a black man is needed for a starring role in a major motion picture? C'mon, studios, both Shaft and Big Momma's House are pulling in cash hand over fist (whatever that means), get with the times and start producing more African American stars so the audience has a choice. Remember, you won't just be doing it to shut-up minority groups if the films actually make money. But what do I care? I'm white, so 90% of the actors in movies today look like me (well, not technically. My abs aren't quite as nice as Russell Crowe's).Oh, yes. Comments on Shaft, I almost forgot. Great flick. Sam is cool, as always, but I was really surprised by the supporting cast. What a terrific group of actors, and some great performances. Everyone gets a shot at developing characters that would have been, I suspect, one dimensional in another film. Wright as Peoples is incredibly fun to watch and makes for a memorable villain. But the movie doesn't stop with one bad guy, we also have the American Psycho Christian Bale, who is almost as nasty as Wright, and just as much fun to watch. I kinda wish Toni Collette were in it more. As it is, her character is almost a mute. Williams looks as good as ever. And then there's Busta Rhymes. As an actor, Busta makes a great rapper. A little of him goes a long way. Sorry Busta, I like your music, but your acting leaves a lot to be desired.There is a lot more action in the new Shaft, but it feels unnecessary at times (never though I'd complain about too much action). And I thought Shaft was a sex machine with the chicks. What gives? It's my duty to please that booty. That's it? Is that all we get? Part of the reason that we want to be Shaft is that he's just so smooth with the ladies, but I think Roundtree as his uncle probably saw more action in this movie. Roundtree still looks good, by the way. Forget that politically correct nonsense, in the sequel I want to see Shaft get tail and plenty of it. If you're not going to do it right, then don't do it at all.Other than that, I was entertained. I wasn't sure what to expect coming in, but I walked out very satisfied. There are a lot of really neat characters roaming through this movie, and it's a lot of fun keeping track of them all as they run into each other. 8/10 stars easy. G'night!  "},{"Title":"Shaft! Right On!","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Who's the private dick that is a sex machine?  Shaft!  And also SHAFT is one of the most enjoyable action films to come out this summer.  While other Hollywood directors try to wow audiences with big explosions and fast car chases, director John Singleton uses a different approach, style.  And SHAFT has style eveywhere.SHAFT isn't a remake of the original 1972 classic with Richard Roundtree, but more of a continuation.  Samuel L. Jackson is John Shaft, a police detective who fights the corruption that exist in the city.  Shaft has been trying to convict and put away cruel and racist killer Walter Williams (Christian Bale).  The problem is that William's father is a New York tycoon, and bail is always set for the killer.  And the only person who can testify against Williams is Diane (Toni Collette) a mute witness.  But Shaft has other problems as well, there is a major drug lord name Peoples Hernandez (Jeffrey Wright) who wants Shaft dead after being placed in jail for a minor offense.  And Williams decides that maybe Hernandez can help him silence Diane, forever.  It's time for the bad private dick to set things straight. Like I said, I really enjoyed SHAFT's style.  I was so pleased that John Singleton decided to keep the original Issac Hayes classic played throughout the movie, instead of a sacrilegious remake.  And Samuel L. Jackson makes a excellent Shaft.  Jackson is pretty much like his Jules Winfield character in PULP FICTION, but just imagine that character in most of the movie, which is cool!  I also enjoyed the villains of the film, both Jeffrey Wright and Christian Bale make excellent and slimey villians.  They are more three dimensional than the typical cardboard villians.  Even Jeffrey Wright has some good lines himself, and he's a villain!  I also did enjoy the supporting roles from both Toni Collette, and Vanessa Williams, who is Shaft's partner and friend.  I was very pleased to see the original Shaft, Richard Roundtree, play Uncle John, who is indeed John Shaft! I think Singleton is a excellent director, I've enjoyed BOYZ N' THE HOOD and ROSEWOOD, and for doing a mainstream Hollywood action film, Singleton makes it different and original.  He's more into running, than car chases, and character's reactions (even villains) when someone is killed. SHAFT is one of the most enjoyable films this summer, since it delivers more than it's promised.  And with such lines like it is my duty, to protect that booty are too cool, and nobody but Jackson could deliver those lines.  This is one bad, mean, mother..... shut your mouth!  But I talking about Shaft! Then we can dig it, and so can you!  ****1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson IS the man.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. Truthfully, I only really went to see this movie for two reasons. 1 I like Samuel L. Jackson a lot, and 2 I like David Arnold the movie's score composer. I have never seen the old Shaft before, but I don't want to draw any comparisons because I thought Samuel L. Jackson did an excellent job as Shaft's cousin. (And I'm glad they put Richard Roundtree in the new one.) This movie has a lot of style. For example, inside of Shaft just handing in his badge for quitting, he throws it into a wall behind the judge at the courtroom scene. I liked that a lot. The action is very good, and I love the new Shaft theme done by Issac Hayes. David Arnold's music really goes good with the movie as well. All in all, it's a fun movie to go see. I highly recommend it. (7 out of 10 stars) "},{"Title":"He's a bad mutha . . . shut yo mouth!","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well Detective John Shaft is back, and badder than ever! This film seems to be more of a sequel than a remake of the original. Despite its roots, there is something different, new, and fresh about it. Samuel L. Jackson gives a terrific performance as the detective constantly on the edge and who doesn't take any $#!% from anyone. Jackson seems to be giving an encore to his performance as the bad-ass Jules in PULP FICTION here. He even re-uses a line from PULP FICTION when he says, Now that's some repugnant ----.The film was directed by the talented John Singleton who you might remember from his other films, BOYZ N THE HOOD, POETIC JUSTICE, HIGHER LEARNING, etc. And although he does a superb job with the material, there seemed to be a great deal of racial undertones that were just unnecessary and really didn't serve much of a purpose. I really would like to hear Singleton's response to this 'cause maybe he could clue me in.There are numerous appearances and cameos from the industry's finest as well as a surprise guest appearance from the original Shaft, or Uncle J. Rap star Busta Rhymes turns in an impressive performance in a sort of comedic side-kick role. But the real praise is due to Jeffrey Wright who played the Tony Montana-esque Peoples. You might remember Wright for his lead role in BASQUIAT. I was waiting the whole film for him to scream out a line from SCARFACE, but he didn't.Either way I hope you go to this movie with an open mind and a good sense of humor. Its a slick action/police drama that trancends its original. The most intense scene in the film is when Peoples taunts Shaft by stabbing his own chest with an ice-pick after his brother was just killed. It will stay with you for a while. ENJOY!!! ...and hey where's Isaac Hayes? "}{"Title":"A good time passer, but not quite what I was hoping for","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel Jackson was the perfect choice to play Shaft, and while he is on the screen the movie sizzles.  The problem with the movie is that too much time is spent on other, less interesting characters that not only add nothing to the plot, but actually detract from the movie's momentum.Still, there is much to like here.  I wish we had gotten to know Shaft's partner a little better, but there is a definite chemistry between Jackson and the elegant Vanessa Williams.  Richard Roundtree shows up just when he is needed (and for just the right amount of time), and his torch passing appearance adds a touch of class to the proceedings.   Christian Bale is an always interesting actor still growing by leaps and bounds, and although we've already seen his yuppie take this year in American Psycho, he makes a wonderfully hissable villain.And The Sixth Sense's oscar nominated Toni Collette, though underused, makes a very believable and vulnerable victim.The film, however, never quite adds up to the sum of its parts. The story goes off in too many directions.  Some backstory is necessary, of course, but there are too many lengthy periods when Jackson is away from the screen, and most of these only serve to slow the movie down.After all, it is Samuel Jackson's movie, and he knows it. He is a commanding screen prescence here, as tailor made for the role as Roundtree was decades ago.  Lets hope that next time (and I hope there will be a next time) he gets a script that lets him really cut loose and show his chops. "},{"Title":"I can dig it","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a lot better than I was expecting.  First of all, I don't usually enjoy these kinds of movies.  The first Shaft movie was the only blaxploitation film that I liked.  But this re-working of a new classic was great.I was sceptical about how Samuel L. Jackson could fill Richard Roundtree's shoes, but he did an incredible job.  Once again, he outdoes himself.Another character that was great was Christain Bale.  After seeing him in American Psycho, I was able to forgive him for that whole Newsies blunder. I thought he was outstanding as the villain, and I look forward to seeing him in more roles like this.This film wasn't the best I've ever seen, but I was laughing so hard, I left the theater with a really satisfied feeling.  I think people will just have a good time watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson IS the man.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. Truthfully, I only really went to see this movie for two reasons. 1 I like Samuel L. Jackson a lot, and 2 I like David Arnold the movie's score composer. I have never seen the old Shaft before, but I don't want to draw any comparisons because I thought Samuel L. Jackson did an excellent job as Shaft's cousin. (And I'm glad they put Richard Roundtree in the new one.) This movie has a lot of style. For example, inside of Shaft just handing in his badge for quitting, he throws it into a wall behind the judge at the courtroom scene. I liked that a lot. The action is very good, and I love the new Shaft theme done by Issac Hayes. David Arnold's music really goes good with the movie as well. All in all, it's a fun movie to go see. I highly recommend it. (7 out of 10 stars) "},{"Title":"Shaft (2000) is hip -- I, alas, am evidently not","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not the deepest, most thought provoking bit of celluloid ever, but very entertaining.  Wright's drug lord character is extraordinary.There was one great line that I didn't fully understand (although the meaning from context was crystal clear  Shaft is talking to a female bartender who asks him to go home with her.  He responds, Do you want the LD?  Or do you just want to be held?  She says, I want the LD and THEN I want to be held.I am not so unhip that I cannot decipher the meaning, but I am wondering about the LD reference.  What does this mean?  Long D**k?-Unashamed of being dorky "},{"Title":"And we can dig it!","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" They say this cat Shaft is a bad mutha... and we can dig it! I'm a cool black man, old enough to remember the original Shaft with Richard Roundtree. I saw white folk diggin' it then, and I see them diggin' it now. So squash all that about only blacks will like it. But I see the critics are snappin' because Samuel L. Jackson (Shaft 2000) didn't get his sexual blackploitated ass in motion on the big screen. Well all I can say is it's Shaft's Duty to please that booty. But may the next Shaft will please the critics and title the movie, Shaft's Big shaft, Show that playa'- playa' side of the sex machine to all the chicks. Shaft! DAMN RIGHT! Opening scene Shaft doggy-stylin' a hot 20yr old white honey just for sport and play, while the another, a sultry strawberry blonde honey sneaks in his pants pocket to steal his wallet. Of course Shaft pulls out his other big gun just as his the first honey screams with x-tasy. Shaft points it at the bright eyed strawberry blonde thief, she drops it and smiles like a sweet child in a candy store and says, Cream on Top?. Anywayzzz, critics! Who needs them? Samuel L. Jackson is a 20 million dollar caliber actor. Probably gettin' paid like Vanilla Ice. I like his new approach to one of the great film icons of the last millennium. He's smart, he's cool, just what you'd expect from a man whose uncle and mentor is John Shaft. Thumbs up to Singleton, you did it again bro! Yawl should check out Singleton's 1995 joint on video called, Higher Learning, starring Omar Epps, Tyra Banks, Laurence Fishburne, and Michael Rapaport. Now back to the excitement! That actor (Jeffrey Wright) the one who played the Dominican drug lord, Peoples Hernandez was mesmerizingly good, not since Al Pacino's, Scare Face have I seen such smoothness in a Hollywood depicted underworld criminal. Good supporting cast too with Busta Rhymes, and of course the sweet, fine Vanessa Williams. (Who stayed respectably clothed, I liked that too). I loathed Christian Bale as the sleazy racist sadistic rich guy too. I might just have a reflex reaction and smack him if I saw him in real life. Shaft (2000) gets 7/10 stars in my book. And yea, a more romantic Shaft would be cool too. Word up! ;-) "},{"Title":"*** of out ****","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I got to admit, when I saw the previews for it I thought it looked kind of dull.  But hey, I figure it's Shaft.  It'll be fun in the least.  So me and a few friends went to it to have a good time for what we figured would just be a descent way to waste some time.  It turned out to be much more than that.  Samuel L. Jackson is great in this, in fact he's the ultimate badass.  And it's not just carried by his acting talents.  I just saw Christian Bale recently in American Psycho whom I liked a lot and does a superb job in this as well.  Then you have supporting roles that all work well, although I didn't care for Busta Rhymes.  They also brought along the directing talents of John Singelton who has proven himself as a great director.  The screenplay also works although the language could have been toned down a bit, the F word is used so much even Quentin Tarantino would say that's a bit over the top.  But overall it does have some great moments and may just be placed on the top 10 movies to see this summer. "},{"Title":"SHAFT, One of the better movies I've seen...","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen a bunch of movies that I was disappointed with these days such as GONE IN 60 SECONDS or GLADIATOR or MI 2, but today I was happy to see that SHAFT was back, and he was back with a NEW style. I liked John Singleton's way to portray SHAFT the realistic way. The critics criticized the lack of sex in the film, but I thought the film was balanced pretty well, not making as much of an EXPLOITATION film, but rather a good solid film with a conflict and looking at it realistic way, the way Singleton handled BOYZ N THE HOOD.The storyline and the characters seemed very much believable as well as well-done acting.(BUSTA RHYMES!!) The action sequences were well-done as well, even though they weren't as realistic, but not THAT exploited like John Woo's films.(I'm not saying I DON'T like John Woo!!!) The film I think was not really a SHAFT film, but more of a just a film that dealt with the race issue. SHAFT the ladies' man and a cat who won't cop out was incorporated, but was not the main drive of the film.I liked how SHAFT was updated, not just redone. I don't necessarily believe that SHAFT needed to be redone, since redoing the original never suceeds; it requires the film to live up to whatever the original contained or exceed it. This is why sequels usually never work. In this case, SHAFT worked for its smart choice to not live up to the film and do the same thing it did before, but rather do a different film with the recipe there was in the original, and I liked it.So anyway... overall, I like the film for its smart choice not to just live up to the original, but take the film differently, and I liked its realistic storyline and its actors. So my rating is *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised by a not sexual enough Shaft","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I hate to say this but strictly judging from John Singleton's version of Shaft, he is one tough mutha, but he is far from `the black private dick that's a sex machine to all the chicks.'  Fortunately, this is its only major flaw.  Given Singleton's history since Boyz in the Hood, my expectations were minimal at best and I began to question several choices that came out of production - he should have remade the song to `liven' it up a bit, the story seemed way too contrived and I was assured that he would be too heavy handed with this objects of his affection.  Surprisingly, he didn't fall into this trap and end up creating a blaxploitation shadow.  The story was contrived, but it worked &#150; there wasn't too much character development and it didn't stray from the recipe that became apparent from the outset &#150; 1 part James Bond, 3 parts Dirty Harry, 2 parts Jules Winnfield with a sprig of attitude and black power.  It distributed evil to encompass 2 `problematic' stereotypes &#150; the `man' and Hispanics with the bold and brash negro pulling everything off at the end.  Singleton successfully took this cartoonish franchise and translated it into a compelling action flick with a relatively sexless protagonist.  My only hope is that this complicated man can get his due share of booty in the inevitable sequel.. 8/10  "},{"Title":"For the baaad mutha shut yo mouth in all of us.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In every one of us, there's a baad mutha shut yo mouth screaming to come out...this movie is for him.  i absolutely loved this movie.  going to see it again on Tuesday night.  Samuel L. Jackson IS Shaft.  most fun i've had at the movies in years.  i loved it. "},{"Title":"Nothing Too Spectacular...","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good action movie, and Samuel Jackson is pretty good in it. However, I only give it 7 1/2 out of 10 because of Jeffrey Wright's character (Peoples Hernandez). He is the only person that really stands out in the movie. Otherwise the movie probably deserves 6 1/2 out of 10. Good summer movie, though. Doesn't require you to think too much. "}{"Title":"Shaft is completely stripped of its original style and charm.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is another one of John Singleton's horror films as in horrible. The characters lack depth, the fight scenes are boring and unimaginable and the movie is framed together like a comic book.Only the clothes and Samuel Jackson are worth looking at in this movie. This is the worst movie of the year, even worse that the John Travolta Sci-fi bomb.Shaft used to be a private dick who was a sex machine with all the chicks. This Shaft didn't get laid once.  This movie was bad, bad, bad.  And I don't mean good.  "},{"Title":"I can't put the guitar riff in words. . .","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Where to start on the review of this movie is difficult.  It works, is a simple way to describe it.  Samuel Jackson has a smooth demeanor about him that plays along well with his role as John Shaft.  His wise cracking and one liners are great.  Busta adds to the comedy as well and is a perfect fit for a sort of comedic sidekick.  It is definitely a great cross over film, being an un-hip white guy, I was still able to pick up on the large majority of lines in the film.  And frankly, who can't relate to a gun-toting detective that gets the chicks and kills the bad guys?  The overall story may be considered 'controversial,' a white guy killing a black guy and getting away with it.  But, I think it touches on a subject that we all know exists in America.  And it isn't overdone.  So, in conclusion, go see it! It is well worth your 7 bucks. "},{"Title":"WHO'S THE MAN THAT COMES THRU 10 OUT OF 10 TIMES? SHAFT!!!!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Very good movie with a nice plot, well thought out action sequences, numerous humorous moments and great dialoge between characters.  My friend and I were amazed with the amount of funny quotes that we will be using for months to come. I've been hearing that critics have been blasting the movies for lack of sexual conquest that Shaft had.  Well that shows how much the critics don't know.  This was a good film that decided not to be a blackploitation film and I'm happy for it.  So go out and see a movie that I gave 10 out of 10 stars.Remember he'll put you down but he'll never let you down....Shaft!!!!! "},{"Title":"The hero is back... barely.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Following a provocative opening segment, John Singleton's film wastes no time in bringing us the main story.  A wealthy young socialite, Walter Williams (Christian Bale), murders a black man in cold blood and since Williams has already influenced the only witness (Toni Collette), the police don't have enough evidence to contain him.  Shaft (Samuel L. Jackson playing the younger nephew of the original 1971 character) won't give up until Williams is convicted even going as far as quitting the force to exact his revenge.Although the story seems simple it does develop into a very creative drama involving two enemies and Shaft's desire to set things right for the black community.  Overall though the film gets too wrapped up in itself and starts to lose its audience by the end.  It also has a hard time defining itself as an action film, a drama, or a comedy, sometimes making it hard to decide how to feel in particular scenes.  For instance, the death of a brother is forgotten within minutes after it happens, leaving you to wonder if you should feel sorry for his fate or just laugh it off.However, a very talented cast supports the film.  Bale (American Psycho) continues to perfect the role of a character you love to hate and the alternate antagonist, Peoples Hernandez (played by consummate actor Jeffrey Wright) is brilliant bringing an entirely different dimension to the art of the bad guy.Much of the old film is resurrected including the lingo, the attitude, and the award winning Isaac Hayes music, but where the original film instigated an entire genre of blaxploitation filmmaking, this new creation only reinforces the idea that Hollywood is hard up for new ideas.  "},{"Title":"Better than I expected, and I expected a lot","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw Shaft (and Superfly, and Dolemite, and Slaughter) when I was in my mid-20s, and I really dug all of these films, but I dug Shaft most of all.And why?  Because Shaft is just plain bad.  He doesn't take crap, and he doesn't back down.He was a sterotype of the 70s, but one of the few that could be admired in many respects (though the character's promiscuity leaves much to be desired, ya gotta remember what the times were like).The update of this tale by John Singleton is both an exceptional homage and a raucous and thoroughly enjoyable continuation of the story.  The casting of Samuel L. Jackson was nothing short of brilliant, and the cameo by Richard Roundtree was something that I hope continues as this series unfolds (please, PLEASE tell me that this series is going to continue!).I honestly haven't had so much fun in a theater in at least 5 years.There were some spotty moments, I'll admit...rushes of apparent over-sensitivity on the part of the younger Shaft which aren't adequately explained by any previous scenes.  But I wasn't expecting Henry V...I was expecting Shaft.And I left the theater more than satisfied.Finally, I have to commend Mr. Singleton...he doesn't glamorize violence, and he doesn't film titilating sex scenes as filler.  He had a story, brutal at moments but that was required by the story, and he didn't sicken the audience while trying to make a point.  He just made it, and he moved on.What I got vs. what I was expecting...10 out of 10, no question.Can you dig it? "},{"Title":"This movie is absolutely awesome!!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie today and I thought that it was really good.  Samuel L. Jackson IS SHAFT.  This movie had so many different layers to it and I thought it taught some valuable lessons in it as well.  For starters even though you are in a gang sooner or later you are going to get caught and that is exactly what happens in this movie.  The other lesson that I got out of it is that no matter what color you may be we all need to be respected just the same.This movie was very violent and had a lot of bad words in it but it was good just the same.  I also thought the cameo that the original shaft had in it was good and Vanessa Williams was really good and able to stand her own ground along with all of the men that were in it.  Samuel Jackson surprised me that he could be that suave and hip I thought it was a GREAT acting job for him and also for the newcomer Cuban actor who played the nemesis in it. I would definitley see this movie again.  It was that good.If you have any doubts about seeing this movie because it is a remake just go and see it because it is definitely worth it.   You won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised by a not sexual enough Shaft","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I hate to say this but strictly judging from John Singleton's version of Shaft, he is one tough mutha, but he is far from `the black private dick that's a sex machine to all the chicks.'  Fortunately, this is its only major flaw.  Given Singleton's history since Boyz in the Hood, my expectations were minimal at best and I began to question several choices that came out of production - he should have remade the song to `liven' it up a bit, the story seemed way too contrived and I was assured that he would be too heavy handed with this objects of his affection.  Surprisingly, he didn't fall into this trap and end up creating a blaxploitation shadow.  The story was contrived, but it worked &#150; there wasn't too much character development and it didn't stray from the recipe that became apparent from the outset &#150; 1 part James Bond, 3 parts Dirty Harry, 2 parts Jules Winnfield with a sprig of attitude and black power.  It distributed evil to encompass 2 `problematic' stereotypes &#150; the `man' and Hispanics with the bold and brash negro pulling everything off at the end.  Singleton successfully took this cartoonish franchise and translated it into a compelling action flick with a relatively sexless protagonist.  My only hope is that this complicated man can get his due share of booty in the inevitable sequel.. 8/10  "},{"Title":"That cat's still a bad muthashutyomouth after thirty years","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft (John Singleton, 2000)In this movie, the fifty-two-year-old Samuel L. Jackson takes on his hardest role yet playing the nephew of a man who was supposedly born only seven years before he was. Still, the versatile Jackson manages to handle the job pretty well, I'd say.That aside, this is about as much a kick back and enjoy the ride film as you're likely to see this year, and rightfully earns a notch- no matter what happens in the latter half of the year, on the ten-best list. Singleton decided not to remake the original Tidyman novel/screenplay, but instead drafted him to create a whole new plot, and a whole new Shaft, the nephew of the original played by Richard Roundtree (who, it should also be noted, was born in 1942, so he really WAS twenty-nine in 1971; and having seen the original movie as many times I have, I still can't believe he was that young). This Shaft is a homicide detective who lands a case that looks suspiciously like a race-related killing. We're handed the victim, the killer, and the witness within the first ten minutes; then the victim dies, the killer is granted bail (and skips to Europe), and the witness disappears. And we got us an action film.Jackson, his trusty sidekick Rasaan (Busta Rhymes), and a nasty organized-crime type named Peoples Hernandez (a fantastic portrayal by veteran character actor Jeffrey Wright) one-liner their way through this script beautifully. Bullets fly, people get smacked, everyone wants a piece of the killer (slimily done by Christian Bale) for their own reasons, and the audience never once gets a chance to catch its breath. Which is just as it should be.Many of the things about the new Shaft, as compared to the old, are things that the critics are knocking Singleton for, and there may be some credence to what they say, but I'm taking a different interpretation. The original Shaft was a highly-sexualized being who seemed to want to solve cases as something to do in between trips to the sack with every woman he met; Jackson's character has one seemingly out-of-place sexual encounter, and then the sexual aspect of his character is shelved. Where Roundtree's character, upon meeting an out-and-out racist, rose to the bait and came back with double, Jackson only has time for one racist, and then only after the guy does him a favor (and the mutual respect between the two, by the end of that scene, is obvious). There are other little niggling things, but those are the two main ones. And most critics see this as a betrayal of the original character; I see it as the ways in which Tidyman and Singleton wanted to show that these are two different characters with two different agendas that are reactions to the societies around them. And, ultimately, that's what both the 1971 and 2000 models of Shaft are all about; holding a man up to a society and allowing him to reflect it back upon itself.But who cares about the philosophy? It's time to let the bullets fly. And no one does that better than John Shaft-- either John Shaft. ****  "},{"Title":"A return to the glory days of 70's cinema . . .","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sam Jackson is perfectly cast as the cat who delivers 10 times out of 10, Shaft.  The film is definitely a throwback to the glory days of cops and robbers films like the original Shaft, Dirty Harry, and those that would follow.  The protagonist is deliciously un-politically correct, play-by-his-own-rules, bad mamma jamma.  The bad guy is an unapologetic criminal who thinks a little too highly of himself.  The plot is simple just like it needs to be and Singleton shows love for the 70's film and TV culture with the classic screen fades from scene to scene.  The cast is brilliant.  Jeffery Wright's mumbling Hispanic drug lord rivals Benicio Del Toro's Fenster from The Usual Suspects as the most difficult to understand character in the history of film.  Christian Bale expands on his American Psycho role as the rich, racist, yuppie murderer and Toni Collette shows her continuing versatility in a somewhat under utilized part as a scared witness.  What's the coolest, baddest summer movie in the year 2000?  Shaft, damn right! "},{"Title":"it's a very droll action-comedy","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The reviews that I read of this movie didn't prepare me for it at all. It's a hoot. The audience laughed and cheered at all the right places, so it wasn't just me. It's an action-comedy, no matter what the reviews say. And Samuel Jackson is terrific, as always. "}{"Title":"Still the man! Any questions?","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Shaft was an excellent film.  I think that John Singleton is one of the best, if not the best director out there.  Samuel L. Jackson is the man.  He played this role perfectly.  All the costars were great and I loved how they fit used Richard Roundtree.  This film was filled with action, laughs, and suspense.  I recommend it to anyone who likes a good blockbuster.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pass on this one.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Before I went to see this movie I checked my local paper for reviews and remarks. Although Shaft received one and a half stars, I figured it deserved a viewing since it has been hyped as a one of those summer movies you just have to catch. The paper was so wrong let me tell you. One and a half stars!! This film was the worst I've ever seen at the movies. I don't wish to be mean and dissuade any of my friends from seeing a film they had waited months for. The screenplay was atrocious. It wasn't funny, sexy, smart, cool or anything much more than trite. The white man was of course evil, especially the white cop. I know this was an exploitation type movie, but you must be somewhat subtle or at least tasteful. Sam was not impressive. Rich Roundtree was of course excellent and even L.T. had a nice cameo. Pass this movie up, even if you loved the original.   "},{"Title":"One word - Bland.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What a waste - it COULD of been cool, but it missed it by thiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiis much.  Very bland, dull, lifeless... I felt like I was watching a really dull late-late show on tv and was just too lazy to find the remote to turn it. "},{"Title":"Jackson is my man!!","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It was great to see a Shaft comback, the movie was superb!  Samuel Jackson was a perfect fit!  This is one movie I will store on my movie shelf.  I was in college when the first Shaft hit the threatres and Roundtree was the man back then, and still is, and I'm sure he didn't mind taking a back sit on this one.  Shaft 2000 was full of surprises and I stayed on the edge of my seat at each twist in the movie. Thumbs up Singleton, you did it again!! "},{"Title":"It fits well in the gutter of life.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft could have been one of the best Mother-f---ing movies of its kind, if it were not for all of the Mother-f---ing language.I think Samuel will no doubt get a Mother f---ing Acadamy Award for his Mother-F---ing performance. We just loved to hear every other word as a description of his sex life with his mother. A good Mother f----ing movie can carry its own without all of the Mother f---ing language.  How many Academy Award Movies that you can think of had the Mother-f--ing words in it?  Not many.  On a scale of 1-10, I give it a minus one. "},{"Title":"Shaft Is Back And In A Good Way","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The theme music begins, song again by Issac Hayes and you begin to feel pumped, feel the energy rise in you.  Then the movie begins and it begins in a great way.  Samuel L. Jackson plays John Shaft, a officer of the law and a heated one at that.  He's after a man suspected of murder, his name Walter Wade Jr( Christian Bale) a young man born with a sliver spoon in his mouth and his father picking up all his troubles.  He was seen smashing a black man over the head with a metal post by a lady across the street, her name Diane(Toni Collette).  The movie goes on from there, another villian comes into play, he's a local drug lord, Peoples Hernandez(Jeffrey Wright)that Shaft is intent on catching.  This film was directed by John Singleton and is not really a remake but a updated Shaft film, even has the orginial Shaft in there, a small role by Richard Roundtree as Shaft's Uncle.  I enjoyed this film but it isn't my favorite film of the summer so far, that has yet to come.  Yet this film is fun to watch and takes you along for a wild ride.   "},{"Title":"How can you not like him?","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft  A young man is viciously murdered and his assailant, a wealthy trust fund baby, flees the country to escape prosecution.  After spending several years in exile he returns, to the US and into the arms of John Shaft, a rogue cop with an attitude, and an overdeveloped sense of justice.  And he's one mean mutha&#133; I remember watching Shaft as a kid and thinking how cool he was - nothing ruffled him, he didn't waste his time with small talk, he kicked butt, got the women and always came out on top.  And he had an awesome theme song.  It would have been easy to try to recreate the man, whip up an intricate plot, and devote more time to character development, but then it wouldn't be Shaft. Singleton avoids any shades of gray, and keeps it simple there is no mistaking the villains, there are lots of guns, violence and a no-nonsense-kick-ass hero.  There is however one element central to the blaxploitation genre that has been left out - the hero doesn't get the girl(s) (Richard Roundtree does his best to remedy this).  Luckily, the casting is bang on, so I can forgive this oversight.Samuel L. Jackson is without a doubt the only actor who could have carried off this role  he is talented, self-assured, witty and oozes cool.  He slips into the role with such ease, that you forget he's only playing a character. I was also interested to discover that he ad-libbed some of his dialogue to make it sound more genuine. If you don't like violent movies, or require a lot of substance, stay away.  If however you want an entertaining, mindless matinee, you will have fun.  "},{"Title":"Style over Substance","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"       I had a helluva lot of fun watching this film in a crowded theater.  It managed to hold my attention and keep me interested.  I expect it will be very popular with audiences and may be the first film ever by an African American director to reach the one hundred million dollar finish line in North America.  John Singleton and company have put together a good looking, entertaining action film full of solid performances and funny dialogue.  So why am I so reluctant to give this film my full reccomendation?      I know some of you are saying to yourselves well if you enjoyed the movie, what's the problem?  Well, for starters, Christian Bale's role seems like it was added to the plot as an afterthought.  The plot is almost laughably implausible at some points.  The drug lord's henchmen have got to be some of the most inept thugs I have ever seen in this type of film.      The real discovery of this film is Jeffery Wright as the Dominican Drug lord Peoples Hernandez.  He really has fun with this role, overflowing with charisma and sleazy charm.  He comes of like a more benevolent Tony Montana.      So in the end, I give this film a reluctant reccomendation, because it manages to give it's audiences a good time.  But it could have been so much more. "},{"Title":"He's a bad mutha-Shut yo mouth.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  As a previous person has stated, this film is a cross-over film(?) and even whites would like it.  What in God's name is this person talking about? I have been in love with Sam L. since I saw him in True Romance, and that was a small-ass role.  Anyone who appreciates film will love this movie. The editing and the story are sweet.  Please, I am white, and I loved this movie.  To hell with all this stuff about whites might like it.  Just because I am white, does that mean I have to love Leonardo DiCaprio, or watch Titanic every 5 minutes on HBO 1-50???? No.  I appreciate film, and regardless of color, I like talented actors, and they all were.  Peoples Hernandez was the man!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great show","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have never had the opportunity to see the original series, cant wait for a station to dig it up and start the re-runs!SLJ is probably the coolest actor out there.  This role played on his personality perfectly, tough, arrogant.  You get a good feel for this in Negotiator, but he seemed like he was held back, Shaft lets him really open up.Jeffery Wright was able to make the roll of Peoples larger than life while keeping it believable.  Portraying a very frightening master of the street.Christian Bale is instantly hate-able from his first line of dialogue as the spoiled rich butt-head Williams.  I think the ending should have been different.The story was well developed and really enjoyable. The audience laughed openly several times. It was refreshing to see a movie that relied on a good tale and had little or none of the slo-mo, trendy special affects that seem to have taken over.  Great job Singleton! "}{"Title":"Samuel Jackson kicks butt! Any questions?","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is fun from beginning to end. Sam Jackson is flawless in the title role. He exudes attitude, sensuality, and sincerity. Jackson has long been one of my favorite actors because he doesn't just put on a character and allow himself to bleed through the way a lot of 'actors' do. Jackson becomes the character. That's rare. It's impossible to imagine any other actor inhabiting this character. There are several who could slip into that long leather duster (the sale of which should skyrocket after this picture) but only Jackson has the ability to pull off the swagger and attitude without making it a  mockery. His Shaft is a living being.The bad guys were excellent. Christian Bale turns in another powerful performance. I love his face. His portrayal of the unrepentant murderer was great. I also was blown away by Jeffrey Wright who played Peoples Hernandez. He took a throw away character and made him unforgettable. Vanessa Williams was pretty much wasted in this picture. I'm glad she was included...she just was not given much to do. The cameos were great also. Gordon Parks, director of the original movie and John Singleton popped up during earlier moments in the film. Go see this one. It's a new classic.  "},{"Title":"Shaft's nephew does good","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Don't expect this to be a remake or a sequel, but expect it to be good.It's a brand new movie where Samuel Jackson's Shaft is the nephew of the original Shaft, played by Richard Roundtree.  The movie itself takes on two storylines, involving two people from two totally different worlds.  Shaft is on it, looking for and dealing with both.  Eventually the world's collide, and the movie gets only stronger.  Jeffrey Wright as Peoples Hernandez literally steals the show as a drug lord who is trying to make ends meet in the only way he knows how.  We're not allowed to get into his world, just as the character wouldn't let you.  We see him on the surface, and Wright runs with it.I'm not a fan of John Singleton's movies, but he did well here.  I didn't come out of this thinking it was a black movie, or just another Samuel Action Jackson flick.  It was a very good film.  Vanessa Williams does very well as the cop who can ride alongside (not behind) the top officers.  I would see this one again.  The music from Issac Hayes is, as always, tight, the sound is truly in your face, and the violence is just as hard and upfront as those classic movies from the 70's. No BS, this is Shaft as you'd expected it to be. "},{"Title":"SHAFT IS BACK.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SHAFT is back.  From the original series to a couple of movies and now to the giant silver Screen.  Samuel L. Jackson plays a great role in this film. Though a lot of bad mouth comments, and a villian who needs to learn a bit more english to be understood, It was a great film.  All in all, SHAFT gets an 8 on my scale !!!! "},{"Title":"The genre is dead","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went into the movie theater expecting some excitement.  Instead I found a movie in which huge men shunned in fear of a 6'2, 160lb. twig.  Don't get me wrong.  Samuel L. Jackson is an accomplished actor and has the right moves for the role, but not the size.Beside the Jackson issue, the movie lacked...well...a lot.  It was basically a movie pulled out of the 70's, filled with current actors, and then slapped back on the big screen.  The music just didn't fit the times.  There really wasn't anything appealing to the eye and the one liners weren't that good.Sometimes its just better to not bring movies back from the 70's (ie. Mod Squad) and to let them rest in peace. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Quite an entertaining cop movie.  As with original Shaft this Shaft highlights the interplay between the races.  Good action a fairly decent story.  The biggest problem was Samuel L. Jackson's tendency to overact.  The supporting cast was very good though. "},{"Title":"Samuel L Jackson does it again","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L Jackson does it again, turning in a great performance in this reprise of Shaft!  The casting for this movie was excellent, featuring great supporting acting by Busta Rhymes and Richard Roundtree.Whether you saw the original or not, if you are looking for an action packed entertaining movie, see this one!Shaft leaves you wanting (and knowing there will be) more! I give it 9 concealed Ice picks out of a possible 10!! O) "},{"Title":"Nice But Not The Greatest Script","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this film, but I think that had everything to do with Samuel L. Jackson, Christian Bale, and the guy who played Peoples. Anyway, the actors were great, but the script was some what not on the money. Besides for out of the ordinary things happening and an utter misrepresentation of life in NY, there were so many holes and plot disruptions that it really made the movie suffer. But what got me most about this was the focus on racism. Undoubtadly racism is a problem today, but its kind of a very touchy subject in the police, especially in today's NY police force which has faced highly publicised charges of racism in a few closed incidents. A lot of it was uncalled for, such as a scene where Jackson calls a fellow cop a Nazi behind a badge for referring to a black perp in a derogative fashion. Yet no attention is paid to the way Jackson reacts toward white or hispanic characters whatsoever. I mean if you want to make race an issue, make it an issue both ways, not just one. And besides for this scene I was slightly taken back by the use of the words It's Giuliani time near the end. I can't tell if it was meant in good humor or to reinstill thoughts about the Abner Louiua case where Louima falsely accused his sodomizers with using that same phrase when they abused him. Things like this get to me when I watch a movie and they were timed at such intervals that just as I was getting into the action I was hit with another phrase or scene which calls into question recent events and/or situations. This is plain out annoying. I come to a movie to escape the everyday world, not to have it exagerrated and shoved into my face. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just went to see this film the other night with my dad and let me tell you, it was a very surprising film(even for his standards).  This film is well-planned out, good acting, great action sequences(as well as funny). Also,a surprise ending,which I will not reveal, but if and when you see this film, you will find that it's a very appropriate ending.Just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson was born for this role.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson was born for this role. He is not acting John Shaft, he IS John Shaft. If you have ever liked Samuel L. this movie is a must see. It gives plenty of visual pleasure, great acting, especially by Sam, Christian Bale and Jeffrey Wright.Everything functions perfectly and totally clicks with everything else. The score is also incorrigible. Every time you hear the Shaft theme start, you just go ohhhhh, yeah, Shaft`s gonna kick his ass ! The story is good and its modern without losing the atmosphere of the first Shaft. Richard Roundtree (the original Shaft)even makes a cameo - New Shaft is his nephew. Absolutely recommended for anyone who liked the first one, Sam Jackson or generally fun movies. it`s not artsy, it`s not even trying to be, But it`s a movie of high quality in every aspect nonetheless. "},{"Title":"The Man!!!!!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a tight update flick about the legendary urban icon! I don't need to say much about how Sam portrayed the one and only SHAFT, Let's just say if you have been waiting a number of years for the right man to fill his shoes, then your wait is over.Yet its not just Sam alone, an excellent cast supports the background under the direction of the talented John Singleton. Its good to see Mr. Singleton back behind the camera after the ultra-grim ROSEWOOD. Here he seems at home telling an action-packed  tale of how ugly and raw the city can always get. And how one man can always try and set it right for the people. Yeah, I know, that might sound like the same thing, but this film is different. It packs a harder punch than the original film and manages to be both frighteningly realistic and flamboyantly entertaining.My only problem was that Vanessa Williams didn't have much to do with her role, you would expect a better relationship to blossom  between her and Samuel. But my guess is that the writers had a been there done that thing in mind and trimmed down the romance. No big deal.Plus an added bonus (I dont know if this was intentional or ironic but..) If you take a closer look at this film, you'll notice some scenes that might look familiar. Scenes from FOXY BROWN,CAR WASH,THE MACK,SUPER FLY,SWEET SWEETBACK'S BAADASSSSS SONG, THE HUMAN TORNADO, and a bunch of others are used in this film. I won't go over what scenes they are, but if you are familiar with those classic Blaxpoitation films, then you'll see what I'm talking about -)So what are you waiting for? Get yourself a ticket and enjoy a great flick!!  "}{"Title":"same old attitude and style for a whole new generation","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft (2000) By Dean KishThe greatest blaxpolitation hero returns with a new face and that same old attitude and style for a whole new generation. The title of the film `Shaft' refers to the title character John Shaft (now played by Samuel L Jackson) who in the early seventies captivated audiences with his cool attitude, no nonsense style and brutal approach to law enforcement. In this latest film, Shaft tries to bring down a white supremacist (Christian Bale) who has brutally clubbed a black guy to death. The key to the case lies with a cocktail waitress (Toni Collette)who witnessed the murder.  If Shaft can track her down and keep her alive long enough he may finally bring the bad guy down. The only thing standing is his way is a vindictive drug dealer (Jeffrey Wright) hired by the supremacist to kill the witness. All the brilliance of the original `Shaft' is here except its been streamlined and evolved into a great looking action film. The film has great performances from Samuel L Jackson, Jeffrey Wright and Christian Bale.Jackson is perfectly cast as the attitude filled Shaft. One small problem I had with his casting was some of his scenes reminded me of the character he played in `Pulp Fiction'. Bale is amazing as the brutal bad guy who finds he there are worse evils than he can deliver. This is Bale's second key role as a devilish villain in a row. I think he has the potential to travel the route James Woods has taken with his career. Boy, has he changed since `Newsies'. Anyone remember that film? Finally I was really impressed with relative new-comer Jeffrey Wright who plays the perfect druglord scumbag. He made his motion picture debut 10 years ago with `Presumed Innocent' but has since made a name for himself on Broadway where he was awarded a Tony award in 1994 for the 7 hour play, `Angels in America &#150; Perestroika' . Wright was so believable that I had to see him on the Tonight Show before I could get that character out of my head. The way the film is put together and synchronized is really nice to see. This is the pure atmosphere that makes us fondly remember those cult films of seventies. I have always loved the Isaac Hayes `Shaft' theme song. Another atmospheric marvel within Shaft is that this film plays homage to genre by embracing what it was instead of making fun of it. Another breath of fresh air had to be there was no cliched woman love interest for the hero. Blaxpolitation is finally becoming cool. I really only had a couple problems with Shaft. One being the excessive amount of bad language but that is just a warning to the people who may be sensitive to that nature. Another was I felt was the miss use of the female leads. Williams and even Collette seemed to be dumbed down and fade into the background. I feel sorry for them and wished they were given a little more depth. Pose this question What would happen if Shaft met a 90's woman? I welcome the return to the 70s Shaft brings to me. I love his no holds barred approach. Wonder if we'll see a sequel? (4 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.  "},{"Title":"Explosive action!!!!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft is back and just in time. Shaft (2000) is definetly the best action movie, in my opinion to come out this year. But it doesn't stand alone as a straight action. It has just enough story to it, and Samuel L. Jackson's comedic timing is impeccible. Sam Jackson also plays hard as nails when he has to. Trust me if you were in this movie you wouldn't want to be on his bad side. The action sequences are a throw back to early 90's Hong Kong John Woo films. Which is great. The bloodier the better. If you're thinking about not seeing this you betta shut yo mouth. Cause I'm talkin bout Shaft. And it's my duty to get yo booty to see a good movie. "},{"Title":"Shaft is one bad.....","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The new Shaft starring Samuel L. Jackson is very hip. Jackson does a great job as Shaft but is a little on the mean side (at least to me).Richard Roundtree is still and will always be Shaft. Christian Bale was pretty good in a stock bad guy role. The real reason I wanted to see this film was because of the director John Singleton. He is a very visionary director but this time he lets the legends of Shaft work its own magic. "},{"Title":"Shaft is still Shaft!!!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Shaft is about one thing, ass. Well two things, gett'in some and kick'in it. He does and it runs in the family because his nephew does too.When I first heard that John Singleton wanted to remake Shaft I thought, there is no way anyone could do this movie today, much less do it justice. Man was I wrong, and I smiling about it because I just saw Shaft(2000). The times are different, he no longer has a fro, and the badge he carries this time is real. And with all this being different he is still Shaft. Can you dig it. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not bad at all.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the original Shaft and couldnt figure out what all the fuss was about. A B movie on a low budget with a guy thats bad ass. There just wasn't enough bad ass for my liking. Maybe I can't buy into the whole 70s vibe.The redux was far better than I expected. Sam Jackson is a badass and Jeffrey Wright is absolutely stunning as Peoples Hernadez. I think Christian Bale and Toni Collette were highly under used, but Bale does get his moments.In short, if you feel like watching a bad mutha runnin around, breaking the rules, putting criminals in their place, shooting and chasing cars, then this is the movie for you.Oh and much more enjoyable and believable action film than that piece of junk called Mission Impossible 2. Sorry Mr. Woo.  "},{"Title":"WHO'S THE BLACK PRIVATE DICK THAT'S THE SEX MACHINE TO ALL THE CHICKS?","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SHAFT!  Damn right.  Shaft is back.  Sam Jackson rocks as always but there really is only one true Shaft, Rich Roundtree.  I still think they shoulda put a decent afro wig on Roundtree and had him play the lead role himself. But still, this is a pretty good action flick, not great, good.  The Mack is still the best blaxpoitation film ever made though.  Shaft was good when it came out in 1971, The Mack was better.  Peace out. "},{"Title":"Brilliant update of a classic!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft the old version was considered a black action classic. I expected this update to a retreat of the original but weas pleasantly surprised. This update was a brilliant improved version of Shaft for the year 2000. The acting is also top notch. Especially Jeffrey Wright's hilarious but somewhat serious performance as Peoples Hernandez. Samuel L. Jackson fits perfectly as John Shaft (The original Shaft's nephew). The original Shaft, Richard Roundtree makes a great cameo as Jackson's mentor. Vanessa Williams is great as is Dan Hedaya. But to me the standout performance was Christian Bale's performance as psycho rich kid Walter Williams Jr. This is Bale's second straight performance as a nut following his great performance in American Psycho. Great Film 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"It's not as if the original was even any good","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel Jackson, GQ'd in black-on-black leather and cotton, pistol-whips a drug dealer in the face against a mural that reads INCREASE THE PEACE--the slogan made famous by John Singleton's 1990 debut BOYZ N THE HOOD. It's ten years later, and NWA's rage has been replaced with Jay-Z's gold and ice. As cynical and upmarket as any given Mariah Carey video, Singleton's SHAFT is entertaining enough--it's about at the level of one of Arthur Marks' B-minus blaxploitation movies (such as FRIDAY FOSTER or DETROIT 9000), not at the peaks hit by Jack Hill or Larry Cohen.The plotting resembles a seventies Italian policier more than a Fred Williamson opus. Taking a few clues from the movie-mag scuttlebutt on this picture, one can see glimmers of the original screenwriter, Richard Price, in the tasty villains an alternately po-faced and triumphal drug dealer named Peoples Hernandez (brilliantly essayed by Jeffrey Wright) and a slick racist blueblood (brilliantly essayed by Christian Bale). One can see glimmers of Samuel L. Jackson's rewrite demands, and the subsequent work of Singleton and the action writer Shane Palermo, in the stuff involving John Shaft bedroom-eyed, preacher-voiced, and always standing melodramatically too close to whomever he's talking to, Jackson's Shaft is the least interesting part of the movie. And there's a bit too much of PULP FICTION's Jules. Like Angelina Jolie, Jackson needs to get a tune-up on his shtik.One's mouth waters at the thought of the originally cast John Leguizamo playing Peoples--but Wright is magnificent in every little detail, down to a gustatory monologue of humiliation delivered while squatting on the pot for a terrific dump. Aside from Bale's sensational confidence, the movie has going for it the churning, byzantine, seventeen-act plot of...well, just about every blaxploitation movie. I would have to confess that this is John Singleton's best--and only decent--movie. One thing, though Singleton's movies are shot worse than seventies TV. Somebody needs to teach this guy A black man in black clothes in a black room requires you to turn on AT LEAST A COUPLE OF LIGHTS. "},{"Title":"It truly is AMAZING! The NEW and MODERN SHAFT is here!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie very much! I laughed and tensed up at moments. It truly had me by the end of my chair with all the action. Again, the BLOCKBUSTER screenwriter/ writer of Armageddon has done it again- WAY TO GO SHANE SALERNO.  Go see it, it will captivate you. Thanks for entertaineming us and always keeping us at the edge of our seats!! Can you dig it! Good. "},{"Title":"I love Samuel L. Jackson but he is NOT Shaft.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It was cool, it was tight, the gunshots were the best I've ever heard in a movie.  It was good, but it wasn't Shaft.  Samuel L. Jackson is just way too angry in this movie.  Sure, Shaft dealt with racism but it wasn't his driving motivation.  Note for the remainder of this review, the name Shaft refers ONLY to the original 70s Shaft.  Shaft was more cool than mean and SLJackson is many times just mean.  It's cool that he's mean because it's when he's punching a racist or pistol whipping a drug dealer but it doesn't have an ounce of Shaft's lightheartedness.  The music is great, but if you don't love it, it might get repetitive.  The theme still says, Whose the private dick... but SLJackson isn't a private detective, he's a cop!  Even without the previews you know he's going to leave the force but it just doesn't seem right that he's ever on the force.  The story is strange.  It works the way it's done but it's hurried.  Everything seems rushed.  Where are the gratuitous walking scenes?  About what reviews are saying, SLJackson scores, I guess.  Whatever the L.D. is-- and it is his duty to please that booty.  Please.  Shaft was so cool it was like he was doing the chics a favor and SLJackson, well... never thought of him as having sex appeal. Jeffrey Wright has a pretty cool character with great dialogue but nothing to freak out about.  Busta Rhymes SUCKS.  He has the worst dialogue and for a guy with such great flow and vocabulary why is every other word phuck or dogg?  It makes him look like an idiot.  All in all Shaft (2000) is just a good cop movie with a gimmick.  It is very obvious in the scenes with both Jackson and Roundtree, that Jackson is not at all SHAFT despite how much I like him.  "}{"Title":"OK, here's a middle-aged white woman's opinion . . .","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  of the new Shaft. This movie is definitely fresh and fun, with fabulous acting. Jeffrey Wright was a revelation. I've been a big fan of Sam Jackson since Jungle Fever and I'll see anything he's in. He's definitely the man for this character. However, his John Shaft is somewhat too reactive and jumpy, and because of this, some of his successes and escapes seem unrealistic. On the other hand, he's very human. And this could make for some interesting sequels, especially if his Shaft is allowed to develop more of the smoothness of Richard Roundtree's. Jackson is still an amazing presence on the screen whatever he does. The music sounds as wonderful as ever. The plot is gripping if you're a justice freak like me, because you really want to see the genuinely evil villain played by Christian Bale get what's coming to him. I don't want to spoil it by saying whether he does or doesn't, but I will say that what happened wasn't what I expected, and I'm not sure I preferred it this way. This, plus a few plot holes and unrealistic escapes prevented me from totally loving the movie, but I did enjoy it a lot, and I'll see it again on video to catch what I missed. There is a lot of intelligence in it, and I attribute much of that to Richard Price's script (he also wrote the excellent Clockers). Still, I find myself hoping there will be a sequel I can give a whole-hearted 10 to.  "},{"Title":"Richard Roundtree, step aside!","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It would have been easy for Samuel L. Jackson's John Shaft to be lost in the shadow of Richard Roundtree's John Shaft.  For almost 30 years, Roundtree has defined Shaft.  Not any more!  Jackson has taken the essence of Shaft and made it his own.  The result is a John Shaft who, with one foot in the 70's (can you dig it?), steps into the twenty-first century ready for all kinds of actions. Add John Singleton and his best work since Boyz in the Hood, and you have a 'sequel' that easily outshines the original. "},{"Title":"Perfect summer movie","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Everything you want in a summer movie a fast moving story with a point of view and even (some) logic. Terrific stunts and action. Great villains. Rude, in-your-face humor. High-powered cast that brings personality to even the smallest role. And a star who confirms his status as the Coolest Man on Earth. (He already was confirmed as the best actor around, in my opinion. Shaft brings SLJ to a new level of stardom.)I loved the comment about the Cuban actor's debut. That's Jeffrey Wright! He starred in Angels in America on Broadway, and played the lead in the movie Basquiat, and he's American. But he's also a chameleon, which is what makes him so effective as Peoples Hernandez.And on top of it all, David Arnold's score (adapting the great Oscar-winning Isaac Hayes theme song) sounds authentically '70s. The score makes the action ROCK in a way that has been unknown in recent action films, whose music is all synthesizers and attitude.Can't wait to see this one again.  "},{"Title":"Shaft is Back!","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SHAFT is back and in a big way.  Sam Jackson is perfect as the tall, smart-mouth, tough mother...watch your mouth!  The audience went crazy. Cheering and laughing aloud.  They loved it and so will the rest of America.It is a little too violent in my opinion.  But there are nice performances, especially from the Cuban new-comer actor who played the nemesis in it.  A nice cameo from the original Shaft.They should have left the tag line Watch your mouth as in the original, instead of what they used to modernize it, which didn't have quite the impact it could have.And that was a nice star-making role for the Cuban actor.It's actually a great cross-over movie.  In other words even white people will like it. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I like blaxploitation films like The Mack or Coffy and I'm glad that someone decided to remake (sequel) this film, though I've never get a chance to watch an original Shaft. I've noticed that they were trying to keep a spirit of 70's by making this film and I think they succeeded at this point. The movie was pretty good but still something there was missing. I liked how Christian Bale played that racist guy (pretty similar role with the one he had in American Psycho) and I also liked how Samuel L. Jackson played Shaft. The story was also interesting but I thing it was too simple for a feature film. There wasn't many action sequences and those who were wasn't very impressive. But anyways, the movie had it's own highlights only there was too little of them. "},{"Title":"Who is the man?   SHAFT.","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A good but not great restyling of the Shaft story in this we meet police detective John Shaft which was one of the biggest hang ups many people had Shaft a Cop? And Why not it works it introduces us nicely into Shaft's world he's a honest hard working cop who is not that big on race relations. The case that obessesses him is the murder of a young black man by a young spoiled rich kid. We see justice perverted and the killer get away and when Shaft does get him again Justice is denied and he quits the force to work with His uncle John Shaft(The Original SHAFT) The story is not original and the acting is pretty decent and seeing Richard Roundtree as Shaft again is a true pleasure they should of had more scenes with him in it. But the movie's main saving grace is Sam Jackson as Shaft. The man oozes cool it's as if he has cool running throughout his body instead of blood he is the way we imagine Shaft to be. And Christian Bale this man was born to play a silver spooned villain he is a man to hate he oozes arrogance and slime as well as giving his character a touch of pity when he comes in well over his head. To me the only real weak point of the movie was Jeffery Wright as peoples. Wright is a incredibly talented actor but to me his performance seems forced and clichéd and without any touch of originalty. You can't compare this movie to the original Shaft movie but people will try. The only thing I can say is they are two different movies and two different Shafts. Both are highly enjoyable if you shut your brain off for a while and watch this movie as it's meant to be as pure escapist entertainment. Shaft is still the man. Any Questions? "},{"Title":"shaft revisited","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nineteen years after the original Shaft which is often described as the first black copmovie ever, comes a remake. Luckily enough for us we don't have to see the same story twice as the only thing that this movie has in common with the original one is the hard cop Shaft. This time Shaft is played by Samuel L. Jackson, who makes once again a great job. Shaft's policy is to do the just things in balance with justice but that's often only to be done with the language of the fist. Shaft has to cope with two enemies who accidentally are meeting each other and become a common enemy. The big villain here is William Wade (Christian Bale and it looks just like he's reacting his American Psycho-character) who committed a racist murder but due to money and the right connections he can get out of it. Shaft swears that he will catch the villain and that happens two years later when he joins hands with that other bad man Peoples (Jeffrey Wright). Shaft isn't exactly the best movie ever made but from a director (John Singleton) who made stuff like Boyz n the hood or 2 Fast 2 Furious we don't expect such things, it's even more a surprising thing that he brings a more than okay film which is only spoiled by its routine. Also nice to see that we see here Richard Roundtree (the original Shaft) teaming up as Shaft's uncle. "},{"Title":"He's an angry muther!","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Slambang remake of the 1971 blaxploitation success involving New York City cop quitting the force out of frustration and anger and becoming a private detective. After the legal system fails to keep a wealthy, white racist/killer off the streets, it's Shaft to the rescue. Director John Singleton remembers that tough genre exercises can also be a lot of fun; this one is fun, as well as fast and exciting. Exceptional performances by Samuel L. Jackson(perfect in the lead)and Jeffrey Wright(as a notorious drug czar). Some of the plotting is hazy, but the movie never compromises itself--and never becomes a live-action cartoon. It stays tough to the end, especially with Isaac Hayes' updated theme over the credits. Can ya dig it? "},{"Title":"Sam Jackson rules the screen once again","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Few films deserve the honor and distinction of being called a masterpiece, so when one comes along such as Titanic, Saving Private Ryan, Frequency, Men Of Honor and Shaft it is a true privilege to watch pure brilliance at work.My definition of a masterpiece is a film that contains all the components of a blockbuster plus the performances immerses me into the film. With phenomenal casting, explosive action, intelligent dialogue and great humor Shaft has become a cinematic action masterpiece for future action films to follow.I have not seen the original Shaft movies starring Richard Roundtree but if 2000's Shaft is any indication has done its predecessor well. 2000's Shaft and Samuel L. Jackson are an awesome sight to behold and have done Richard Roundtree proud by re-inventing the character of Shaft and making him stylish.Shaft contains well-crafted action sequences that took me on a thrill ride of unimaginable proportions. However, the best part about Shaft was the fact that I was treated to top-notch and first-rate humor missing in previous action films. These are just two of many great elements that set Shaft apart from other action films and put on a pedastal high atop those films.I could not have asked for a more perfect actor to play John Shaft than Samuel L Jackson. Jackson has versatility in his repetiore of talents, he has the right moves and the right lingo to pull off the character. His suave and flare for justice were two characteristics that impressed me and proved to me that Jackson is a actor to be reckoned with. I was impressed with Jackson from the first scene he was on screen because he carried himself with a strong confidence to carry out justice at any cost.Vanessa Williams, Christian Bale, Jeffrey Wright, Busta Rhymes, Dan Hedaya and Rueben Santiago-Hudson co-star in Shaft. These are actors that are so incredible in their roles they convinced me Shaft is not just an action thrill ride but an intelligent film with superb dialogue and explosive action.Shaft was a true pleasure to watch and I hope others enjoy it as much as I did. Two thumbs way up.  "},{"Title":"One mean mutha of a time-waster. . .","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Long on violence, short on sense and entirely devoid of sex, &#145;Shaft' is now doing the rounds of UK terrestrial television &#150; and has thus, perhaps, finally found the medium to which it is best suited. For this really is small screen stuff, not so much an artful re-rendering of the original Richard Roundtree hit as a frame without a canvas, a great gaping hole of a movie into which Samuel L Jackson disappears, seemingly never to re-emerge except as a gibbering wreck in commercials for Barclays Bank.It might be thought that this is one of the few movies best experienced with eyes shut &#150; because thankfully, the Isaac Hayes soundtrack is as wonderful as ever &#150;  but unfortunately, this &#145;Shaft' is decked out with so many obligatory expletives as to induce tedium after ten minutes' acquaintance. So it's probably sensible not to bother listening to it, either.If memory serves aright, the original Shaft was some kind of &#145;sex machine'. In this version, Jackson is, er, just some kind of machine. Sex is out, and with it all the vitality of the original.Slaughter, though, is in &#150; except here, it's on such an improbable scale that the &#145;s' can usefully be dropped given the way that he survives even the densest hail of bullets, this Shaft is someone who can obviously walk through a monsoon without getting wet.The plot, such as it is, has this Shaft quitting the police force to team up with the &#145;old' Shaft. Or maybe he doesn't quit &#150; the screenplay's amnesiac qualities are such that it seems wholly incapable of remaining coherent from one set-up to the next. Still, either as a private citizen or as a cop, the new Shaft is something to see a foul-mouthed sexless mass murderer, one whose prescription for the world's ills is to beat into a pulp all those who he hasn't actually shot dead. Well, there's a role model if ever there was.. .Quite what director / screenwriter John Singleton thought he was attempting with this remake isn't clear, because a &#145;black movie' it ain't. Owing nothing at all to black culture, it's about as streetwise as a fifty year old copy of an A to Z.Rating null points. "}{"Title":"Whose the private dick so hard to whip? SHAFT!","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Plenty of action. Uncountable rounds of gunfire. Interesting story line of the nephew(Samuel L. Jackson)of the 70's private eye of the same name(Richard Roundtree)tangles with a racist killer(Christian Bale) and a Dominican drug lord(Jeffrey Wright). Supporting cast includesVanessa Williams, Toni Collette and Busta Rhymes. Loud and violent as you would expect. Wright tries to wrestle the spotlight from Jackson. Is a third SHAFT possible? "},{"Title":"Shaft is the man? Surely you jest.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a die-hard action fest. I usually like movies like this. And I did enjoy this one to a degree. The writers should have consulted a comedy writer and had him use his comic abilities to help them write a fast-paced action comedy. This film really had the plot and potential to be funny, but instead it was just brutal, violent action all the way. Samuel L. Jackson is indeed a great actor, and I am a proud fan of his work in RULES OF ENGAGEMENT and JURASSIC PARK, but here- while I felt he was the right person to portray Shaft, I also felt that this film should have never seen the light of day. The movie industry probably knew that summer audiences would crave a hard-core action fest like this, and knew that a remake (or sequel) of SHAFT would do it for sure. So, here we have it. A die-hard action film starring Samuel L. Jackson, Vanessa Williams, Christian Bale and Richard Roundtree. What to do with the print? Send it off to any movie studio stupid enough to buy an explosive action film such as this. SHAFT has what it takes to be a great, genre defying action movie, and it slipped away when the one thing about the plot did not click. That's all it needed. And while SHAFT is still a great action movie, there is something about it that just does not stick. SHAFT 4/5. "},{"Title":"Is Shaft bad or just plain lucky?","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  True, this was just another shoot-em-up, but the hero was everyman's top super stud hard ass, Shaft. With this one you get case after case of high capacity lead slinging, jive talk, tough talk, serious ass whipping, squealing tires, and Shaft's own brand of street justice. Plus, these punks deserved every hole Shaft poked in their scummy hides. This was one more fun film and positively nobody could play this part like Samuel L. Extremely violent and vulgar better than I expected. "},{"Title":"Very Good 70's show remake you futhermucker!!!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The seems to be a big trend over the last few years to make film that are remakes of TV shows from years past,Mission immpossible and Charlies Angels being two, and i am of the opinion that this is just lazy film making . Why bother trying?. Shaft is an exeption to most of these film because it is actually very good. They manage to transfer the format straight into the 21st century while still giving the feel of the Original Shaft. Ok the the story is nothing special,they never are, but this is very pleasing to the eye.Jackson is excellent as usual,as Shaft (nephew of the original)and he is accompanied by some very good acting and a brilliant soundtrack that you cannot fail to enjoy. All in all a big thumbs up for SHAFT. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Awful, awful, sacreligious, pissy piece of pickled poo","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Why? Why? WHY? What is the point? This is akin to getting Stephen King to rewrite the bible and starring Marylin Manson as The big J. The original shaft was good, not because it was good (let's face it, it was crap) but because it was what it was, it was made at a time when it was needed to be made and carried a message that we could all live by (that part is mostly bullshit). But this is a horrible rape of one of cinemas greatest heroes in order to make a quick buck (or million).  "},{"Title":"More like a sequel to the TV series","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What a total waste of time.  The new Shaft takes forever to get started (the story begins at least three times) and never really finds its way eventually degenerating into recycled action set-pieces where not one villain can shoot straight enough to hit the hero(you can actually see them waiting for him to shoot them) and cars flip over!  The clumsy writing also features the kind of lame dialogue where everybody repeatedly tells the hero how fabulous he is just in case the audience might not think so on their own, and plotting so dimwitted the climax renders pointless everything that preceded it. Where Gordon Park's Shaft offered a gritty evocation of 70's New York and a commentary on contemporary racial and sexual politics while re-envisioning the classic detective hero, the new Shaft comes off as little more than another big budget homage to bad 70's TV.  Probably the only time I haven't minded people rudely talking during a movie, it was nice to have something to pay attention to. "},{"Title":"A violent no-plot movie - No social redeeming value.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Cold blooded violence - extremely cruel killings.  There was not a plot - just chase and kill.  A waste of some very talented actors and a major waste of electricity and film. The language the actors used contained  only know 4 words and I can't print any of them here.  Please save your money.  I am sorry I wasted mine.  I enjoy action films - this is not one.  90 minutes in a slaughter house. "},{"Title":"Jackson Takes It Downtown","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT A racially motivated, cold-blooded killing starts the wheels turning in the hard-hitting, action-packed `Shaft,' directed by John Singleton.  When a young black man is killed outside of a restaurant by the son of wealthy businessman, NYPD cop John Shaft (Samuel L. Jackson) takes him down; but the kid, Wade, (Christian Bale), gets bail, then proceeds to skip to Switzerland for the next two years.  Meanwhile, the only witness to the murder, a waitress named Diane (Toni Collette), disappears.  When Shaft gets a tip that Wade is coming back to town, he makes it his business to see that justice is done, and meets him at the airport.  When Wade gets bail again, Shaft resigns from the force, to take the matter into his own hands, and to do it on his own terms.  First, he has to find Diane; without her, they have no case.  During his pursuit, he runs afoul of drug lord Peoples Hernandez (Jeffrey Wright), whom Wade has hired to kill Diane.  Making things even more difficult for Shaft are two wrong cops (Dan Hedaya, Ruben Santiago-Hudson), who are in league with Peoples.  But Wade and Peoples soon find out they have their hands full dealing with Shaft, who is backed in his play by Uncle John (Richard Roundtree), and Carmen (Vanessa Williams), another of NYPD's finest. Jackson is outstanding as Shaft, a role that it seems he was born to play. He plays Shaft as one cool, in-your-face, intimidating you-know-what; savvy and fearless.  This is one guy you do not want to get on the wrong side of. He's got the attitude, the manner, the whole package, and it all adds up to total credibility.  Bale, as well, is excellent as Wade, to whom he lends a subtle, almost psychotic bravura, which aptly demonstrates his versatility as an actor.  Another notable performance is turned in by Wright, who brings just enough menace to Peoples, without overplaying a role that would've been easy to take over the top.  A lot of credit has to go to John Singleton, who doesn't miss a beat here.  He knows this territory, and it shows; he captures the language, rhythms, and mood of the environment with which he's dealing perfectly, and keeps it all moving right along.  Collette does well with her Diane, a pivotal, but rather minor character.  She doesn't have a lot of screen time, but makes the most of it when she's on; her fear, and the anxiety wrought of her situation, is palpable. The supporting cast includes Busta Rhymes (Rosen), Josef Summer (Fleming), and Philip Bosch (Mr. Wade).  There's something satisfying about watching Shaft do his thing; a self-assuredness and lack of political correctness he employees in the pursuit of real justice that is refreshing to behold. Most importantly, `Shaft' delivers on it's promise of action, and plenty of it, and with the added benefit of having story enough to support it. Singleton and Jackson definitely deliver the goods in this one, and of course there's the familiar Isaac Hayes theme on hand to underscore the proceedings, and it's every bit as effective now as it was in the original version.  If you want to get the adrenalin pumping, check this one out.  I guarantee you'll be glad you did.                 "},{"Title":"Not Bad, not bad at all.","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've never seen the first Shaft movies, but that didn't stop me from liking this movie.  I found it interesting though, that there was such a small plot, but a huge story surrounding it.  I thought Samuel L. Jackson did a great job, along with Christian Bale and Toni Collette.  I wasn't all too fond of Busta Rhymes, but I can deal.  The movie won't be a summer blockbuster, but it is definitely worth scoping out.  Hope you enjoy it,-Cortex "},{"Title":"An average film at best, but with a nasty message about justice and how to get it (spoilers)","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  As the arresting officer on the scene, Shaft punches a rich white kid who he knows just beat a black kid to death.  Thrown out of the precinct, Shaft becomes bitter when Walter Wade flees the country while on bail.  Years later he returns to face trail, assured that the sole witness cannot be found.  When Shaft throws in his badge, he sets out to find her himself prompting Wade to turn to drug dealer Peoples to try and find her first and kill her.I had no desire to see this film when it came out a few years ago as I felt that I'd already seen three enjoyable Shaft movies and had no need to see anymore!  Regardless I decided to give it a go last night and rented it out.  The plot is very racially driven, a fact I found a little off putting &#150; I know racism exists but in many situations it is overt, in this film it was on everyone's (or at least the white characters) sleeves!  Getting past this the film is a very simple thing (find the girl) stretched out over 90 minutes by various means.  The film has no real drama to it and the threads relating to the three main characters, although they all come together, give the film a fragmented feel.The action scenes near the end are absurdly overblown and laughable at more than one point.  However it is all passable and I didn't find it difficult to watch as my brain was turned off for the majority of it.  What was unpleasant though was the film's continual theme of black justice in a racist white world, at a time where trust between the police and some communities is at a real low, this is an irresponsible message to send out.  Shaft, frustrated with the `white' system decides to get Wade his `own way'.  Likewise the end of the film sees Wade about to be taking into court and condemned by the witness but we have the boy's mother kill him on the steps!  What sort of message is that?  That even when everything is for you in a legal way that you still need to take justice!?  This scene is made worse by the film not allowing us to see her fate (is she jailed) and instead fades out with the crowd chanting `let her go, let her go'.  I found these elements of the film (and others like them) to be most unsavoury and, in such a light bit of popcorn entertainment, very irresponsible messages to be just throwing out there with no real examination or debate.Outside of this aspect of the film it was all pretty average.  Jackson plays Shaft larger than life and almost carries it off as he is very charismatic an actor.  However when he starts to look more like a black superman than the original spirit of Shaft, I started to phase out.  Bale is OK as the racist kid but is given no real character to work with &#150; even the logic's of his situation defy reason.  Colette fares no better and just runs around the place.  Wright at least seems to be enjoying himself in the only role that stuck in my memory.  Support from Williams, Busta Rhymes, Hedaya, Tergsen, von Bargen and cameos from Roundtree and Phifer add colour and depth to the cast but none of them are brilliant or ever really stretch themselves.Overall this was an average film that passed the time.  It was a shame that the race card was played with such heavy hands, but compared to the `black people must make their own justice' message it wasn't that bad.  I really don't know who wrote the film but a few minor changes would have taken this message out all together &#150; I think it utterly irresponsible for the promotion of vigilantism to be promoted in a Saturday night multiplex movie which doesn't deal with it on a mature level. "}{"Title":"Another Singleton misfire","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Singleton should stop directing movies with any racial issues whatsoever. Any time his idiot bigot mind gets to influence a plot, he manages to skew it completely in favour of black people and against whites.This movie could have been okay, it's got Sam Jackson as one of the baddest dudes of all time. But Singleton ruined it. While not nearly as bad as his extremely racist and sexist Higher Learning, this movie seems to have been rewritten by Singleton just to show how bad white guys are again.It opens with some rich white guy killing a black dude because he's one of those race traitors who has a white girlfriend and hangs around white folks, trying to be white. Everyone hates those guys.Shaft punches the guy out, and starts to go work narcotics instead. So they go for a bust on some gang. But it can't be a black gang, even though in real life it probably would be, it has to be a bunch of mexicans instead.And on it goes for nearly two hours. All white guys are racist. All black guys are super cool and we love to watch them make fun of the hapless white guys, forgetting that that's racism too.Oh, and it's got some hopeless overacting rapper as supporting actor. I think it's that skinny Busta Ryhmes dickhead from Higher Learning. So all the more reason to avoid it. Rappers aren't actors, full stop. It's funny that it was Jackson himself who said that rappers shouldn't be considered actors, that it cheapens real actors who got real training - yet here he is acting alongside some idiot like Busta Ryhmes. Oh well, can't blame him, he was obviously just here for the pay cheque.Another waste of a film ruined by racist bigot John Singleton and a weak supporting cast. "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson is the MAN!!!","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had already seen this movie twice,and I gotta say that this will be the action flick of the summer,notably by Samuel L. Jackson's emergence presence here as John Shaft. Jackson is in that Pulp Fiction mode here and he doesn't take any prisoners in getting the bad guys. I got to give John Singleton credit for reviving a classic that FINALLY gets the ultimate respect it deserves after all these years!!!! One thing that I did like here is that they brought in Richard Roundtree as the uncle and he will be the all-time action hero EVER!!!,and they did bring in its director Gordon Parks in as a cameo appearance(who directed the first two SHAFT movies in 1971 and its sequel in 1972). Rapper Busta Rhymes was off the hook as his sidekick here,and he was real good!! The audience went off when they cheer him on taking out Cuban druglords as well as the rich kid who kills a black person for no reason and gets off free,but SHAFT saids,No Way! and gets him before others do. Great movie all the way,best flick of the summer. Can you dig it? "},{"Title":"Replacing the af in Shaft with an i perfectly describes this movie","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft is a waste of money and talent and exposes Samuel Jackson as a one-dimensional, over-rated actor. The plot to this disaster is available in many other reviews so I'm going straight to just how this movie goes wrong1)) By now its apparent that Jackson chooses to play the same character in movie after movie an angry, loud and violent man. And he does it yet again. There's nothing likable about Shaft as played by Jackson, he's just a surly, violent thug. Shaft is supposed to be a lover, but its not obvious here, Jackson is just too angry and threatening to make a credible ladies man. Not to mention that there's no lovin' in this movie, apart from the title sequence.2) The film is a disturbing mix of real-life violence and racial issues (the key plot point is the murder of a young black man by a rich racist white guy) with a vigilante cop fantasy. This doesn't work because on one hand, the movie features these serious dramatic scenes that touch on current social issues, and on the other hand, it gives you ridiculous action sequences of vigilante cops breaking the laws of physics in addition to City, State and Federal laws without any consequences. They should have picked one or the other, because as it is right now, it hangs together as well as combining Schindler's List with a Rambo movie would. 3) The plot is disjointed and undeveloped. After a strong opening, showing us the murder of the young man and how the killer skips bail and then returns to face trial two years later, the movie begins to wander aimlessly with scenes and subplots that are repetitive and add nothing to the story. Add in the fact that Jackson is always angry and yelling in almost every scene he's in, and the movie rapidly becomes boring.4) The plot is stupid. Shaft goes on a vigilante crusade that kills and maims dozens of people, all for the reason that he's gonna get the killer because the killer made bail and is not in jail awaiting trial. The killer didn't evade justice, he didn't kill and get away with it, he posted bail -- yet Shaft goes on the vigilante rampage from hell. I could understand it if there was a travesty of justice and the killer walked free, but otherwise it makes no sense to do all things Shaft did. "},{"Title":"What a stupid movie","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft is a cop who is a cop or quits being cop. It's hard to know what is going on, but he keeps acting like a cop who doesn't have to follow any due process. It's a movie where you have to accept this fantasy world where Shaft can do no wrong and no bullet can hit him and he always shoots the dumb bad guys who just stand out in the middle of street waiting for Shaft to shoot them. About 60 minutes into it I wanted the entire cast including Shaft to bite the dust. There is only so much stupid crap that can be tolerated. This movie just happens to be set in a big city where you can have a 20 minute shoot out and car chase and the cops never show up. Shaft seems to be the cop/non-cop in area except for this one lady cop who is too dumb to call for backup. The death count is high but not high enough to bring this lousy movie to a satisfying conclusion. Christain Bale is a very convincing as a dislikable rich guy who thinks he can get away with murder, but then everybody here thinks they can get away with murder, but they can't get Shaft. No, Shaft is too slippery for bullets. As a final assault on my poor eggshell mind the music accompanying every scene was pure torture. I'd rather listen to birds chirping in an underwater toilet. I thought only Steven Seagal would make movies this annoying. "},{"Title":"Unnecessary remake, should have done another sequel to the Shaft series instead.","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft (2000) is an exercise in futility. What made the original film to watch is missing entirely from this film. I don't even know why they bothered to produce it. Their is nothing about this film that is worth noting. The direction is uninspired and the writing is terrible. A shame really because John Singleton is a great director. This film doesn't do him justice, I was glad that he made Baby Boy after this one tanked at the box office.Samuel L. Jackson stars as John Shaft, a bad dude with an even badder attitude. Too bad it doesn't reflect upon the screen. Christian Bale plays a version of a character he played in American Psycho whilst JEffery Wright totally hams up the picture. It seems like everyone was trying to overact each other. The trailer has scenes that aren't even in the film and after watching it I felt like I was given the shaft by the film makers and their producers.Don't even bother wasting your time and money to watch this film. Richard Roundtree makes a cameo appearance as Shaft's uncle. He even get's more play than Shaft. Lawrence Taylor makes am unwelcome guest spot. He basically played himself. I was shocked to see how good of an actor he actually is when I watched him in the Ringo Lam film In Hell.Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Sam Jackson is Shaft","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think there is another actor that could've portrayed John Shaft as well as Samuel L.  Jackson.  He's smooth talking, ultra-cool and he's got attitude to spare.  His way of policework  may not work well with his superiors, but he gets the job done.  John Singleton handles the  action well and lets Jackson shine in the role that he was born to play.  Also equally strong are  Shaft's antagonists Christian Bale and Jeffrey Wright.  Bale is a smug, arrogant rich kid and  Wright is a very cool, intelligent kingpin.   Wright nearly steals the movie from under Jackson's  nose.  The way he plays his character gives the role some credibility.  Wright doesn't go over  the top and he doesn't need to.  He lets the natural ruthlessness and intelligence of the  character come out of him.  But this is Jackson's movie, and as Shaft, he dipsences justice his  own way.  Highly entertaining, and hopefully there will be a sequel.  Can you dig it?          "},{"Title":"Well-done repeat portrayal of the tough and cool crime stopper...","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  1st watched 4/8/2001 - 7 out of 10 (Dir-John Singleton) Well-done repeat portrayal of the tough and cool crime stopper from the early 70's.  Although I haven't seen any of the previous three with this character it seems like this movie is more true to the style that seemed to prevail in these type of movies and therefore works much better than those movies that try to modernize(and make money) off of a popular previous theme.(Aka. Mission Impossible, the Saint etc...) Jackson is great as the womanizing yet tough cop with Richard Roundtree from the original playing his Uncle also adds to the movie.  Some corny yet repeatable one-liners seem to be a trademark of Shaft and add some humor to this fairly serious cop movie. Look for more of Shaft in the future(which is okay by me)!!! "},{"Title":"Well updated","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsJust under 30 years after the Richard Roundtree original was released,this classy but foul-mouthed and extremely violent remake comes.Samuel L. Jackson is well cast in the titular leading role,and has a surprisingly small age difference between himself and Roundtree,who played the original and has a small role here as Shaft's uncle.And the Isaac Hayes theme tune remains one of the most funky,invigorating tracks ever.Where the movie falls short however,is in the plot department.Though clearly outlined,it is still told in a very incoherent manner,with one event not really lining up to the next.Still,it's really faithful and well-updated to modern times,and the action will keep you glued.*** "},{"Title":"One of the worst, most over-rated movies I've ever seen.","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When i first saw commercials for Shaft I thought it looked great.  But when I saw it i was sorely mistaken.  It made me sick to my stomach that people watched it and actually enjoyed it.  I saw no attraction whatsoever.  Characters you didnt care about, a stupid plot that has been done over and over and over and over.  And even Samuel L. Jackson (who is a personal favorite of mine) sucked in it.  Spouting off cheesy catch phrases in an attempt to sound like the man.  Well, Shaft is not the man, and shame on anyone who thought he was. "},{"Title":"Very bad. The original Shaft had much more to offer","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The good point the acting. Without top class acting Shaft 2000 would be an horrendous violent and self-important detective movie.Now they bought out the Shaft name to make a movie that bears almost no relation to the original movie. Gordon Park's Shaft starring Richard Roundtree was violent at times but it was only a part of John Shaft's personality. Most of all Shaft was perfectly exposed in the opening title were you could see the man walking with nonchalance while listening to the wonderful title song by Isaac Hayes (RIP) would told the whole story in about 4 minutes. John Shaft was a tough no bs private dick and a womanizer.John Shaft starring Samuel L. Jackson is a tough cop. And that's all we're given, so it's a gigantic deception movie you expect Shaft, and you get a routine tough cop with a couple of half-funny one-liners... To make things worse the story is a big mess violence and serious narrative points are shuffled with light comic scenes that foster suspension of disbelief.The guys had gold in their hands, a franchise that could make the latest Bond movies look pale in comparison. They fumbled it and they should get the same sort of justice they chose to end the movie illogical, irrelevant and disproportionate. Too bad Paul Greengrass didn't get to start a new Shaft franchise instead of Bourne. "}{"Title":"The twists work very well.","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw all the 70s Shaft movies, and found them quite mediocre, some were even very dull. Judging from the first 10 minutes of the new Shaft, it seemed as if this latest installment will be just as bad, what with that unconvincing murder. The way Bale behaved as he watched his victim die was idiotic, too. Shouldn't Bale be worried, hoping his victim survives? After all, he isn't a mobster or anything, just a spoiled rich kid.But why nit-pick. This is just a silly action film. Besides, from then on things got a lot better. The most positive aspect of the movie is that it is full of unexpected twists, whereas I expected a linear revenge movie, full of action scenes to alleviate, if possible, the boredom that results from the predictability.Shaft is a silly character, what with the way he talks and the good but generic music that accompanies his every move, but Jackson made it work, being the best black actor for well over a decade now. However, I did not think Vanessa Williams should have been in this - especially not as a cop. She is as much a policewoman as Sean Penn is Alfred Einstein. Collette looks gorgeous, as ever, but she has been wasted in a one-dimensional role.But of course Singleton cast a white male judge to be the corrupt judge that hands Bale a bail. After all, as we all know, only female (black) judges are honest and decent, and totally incorruptible. Talk about PC crap. "},{"Title":"awesome action film","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" With phenomenal casting, explosive action, intelligent dialogue and great humor Shaft has become a cinematic action thriller for future action films to follow.I have not seen the original Shaft movies starring Richard Roundtree but if 2000's Shaft is any indication has done its predecessor well. 2000's Shaft and Samuel L. Jackson are an awesome sight to behold and have done Richard Roundtree proud by re-inventing the character of Shaft and making him stylish.Shaft contains well-crafted action sequences that took me on a thrill ride of unimaginable proportions. However, the best part about Shaft was the fact that I was treated to top-notch and first-rate humor missing in previous action films. These are just two of many great elements that set Shaft apart from other action films and put on a pedestal high atop those films.I could not have asked for a more perfect actor to play John Shaft than Samuel L Jackson. Jackson has versatility in his repertoire of talents, he has the right moves and the right lingo to pull off the character. His suave and flare for justice were two characteristics that impressed me and proved to me that Jackson is a actor to be reckoned with. I was impressed with Jackson from the first scene he was on screen because he carried himself with a strong confidence to carry out justice at any cost.Vanessa Williams, Christian Bale, Jeffrey Wright, Busta Rhymes, Dan Hedaya and Rueben Santiago-Hudson co-star in Shaft. These are actors that are so incredible in their roles they convinced me Shaft is not just an action thrill ride but an intelligent film with superb dialogue, excellent writing, and explosive action sequences.Shaft was a true pleasure to watch and I hope others enjoy it as much as I did. Two thumbs way up. "},{"Title":"Cool!","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This remake to the 1971 hit Shaft is cool in a way. Samuel L. Jackson plays John Shaft. What more could you want? Unlike the 1971 version, this Shaft is NYPD. Now there's a change. I liked the part where Shaft threw the badge into the wall like a shueriken(throwing star) in a courtroom. That's laying it down, man. Now they are looking for a racist killer(Christian Bale) whose father married another woman. That really fueled his fire. And the victim's mother(Lynn Thigpen) is relentless on getting him to justice. The fun part of the movie is where the original Shaft(Richard Roundtree) is the uncle. Who's the father? Busta Rhymes is known for his rapping, and his acting skills are great. He's not bad at all. And the shootings are no different from the original as well, both Shafts are good, even though I haven't seen all of the original movie. Call it the best of both worlds in this version. I enjoyed this movie, and I don't have any criticisms about it. Real cool you dig? 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Very good!","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Samuel L. Jackson is simply brilliant in this movie, the role of Shaft suites him like a glow....Well first of this movie caught my attention right from the bat, music was great and beginning awesome.Shaft is hunting a race-murderer in this movie, Walter Wade(Christian Bale). (Unfortunate) for Walter Wade a waitress sees the kill and that makes him frightened. After the trial Wade's father posts bail and Walter flees the country to middle Europe for a couple of years. Shaft isn't really happy with that and plans to arrest him as soon he gets back to the States. Walter gets bored of Europe and returns home, just to see the friendly face of Shaft five seconds after getting of the plane. Walter then teams up with an ally in jail, when noticing that this person could help him. This ally is the funniest character in the movie ,laughed the second he opened his mouth ) (Peoples Hernandez)..basicly that's all the plot needed, a very enjoyable and relaxing movie. Sure some of the scenes are questionable but yet again this movie wasn't made to be at the same caliber as The Goodfather or Scarface. It isn't about that, so don't analyze everything and make a big deal out of it. Don't really get people that analyze every inch of the movie and criticize it, how about a coke and a smile? Relax! The action is good, humor great (in my opinion)..Had a few big laughs from the beginning to the end. Further more the acting was just brilliant from the main characters, quite impressive actually, they pull it off great! Not very surprisingly though, the cast is very good. If you enjoy mixing action with humor this is the movie to watch, it got me really relaxed and I enjoyed every second. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Shaft shafted by the man","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" With a plot that might be acceptable for a TV series, Shaft 2000 tries to live up the cool of the original. But cool is now having a stable relationship, being very violent and being part of the very problem he is trying to solve. Shaft goes after a racist killer who is portrayed in his one-dimensional glory. Of course the one way to do this is to break all the rules.Somewhere Shaft stopped being the man and got shafted by the man. There is nothing here to say when America is being ripped apart by law enforcement issues, racism, violence and crime.At the end of the day it is just another throw away action movie with all the clichés of those bad 80s and 90s cop shows. "},{"Title":"bad remake, do not watch","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie is bad. It's very uncool and there's A LOT wrong with it. There's no suspense it's never exciting, it's all clichés, the acting is bad, and some roles have no function at all (Vanessa Williams). Worst of all the ladies are old or ugly or worse, old and oogly. Or wait a second, what ladies? Then there's the car chase it's so boring. Eventually the bad guys drive next to the good guys after they've been shooting the car to pieces from behind (of course without hitting anyone) and all of a sudden they cant shoot the driver (Busta-very-bad-actor-doesnt-rhyme) when they're driving next to him. Then an Uzi gets emptied on the car and again no one gets hit. Both cars crash for some reason(?) and the wheels of the car aren't even spinning 1 second after the accident (at least 60mph). Righhtt. The father of the prime suspect is loaded with money, he's got every judge on his payroll, bails his son $200.000 then $1 million but the kiddo cant come up with $40.000 to whack the eyewitness? Who's been told to disappear and keep her mouth shut. I've been running for 2 years. What? Running circles in Manhattan. That's hilarious. Etc etc. Tthis movie stinks. And I recommend anyone NOT to watch this one, especially if you liked the real Shaft. Samuel 'LD har har har' Jackson isn't cool in this movie. He's not Shaft, he's a weak version of Jules Winnfield. Watching Pulp Fiction for the 25th time is more exciting than watching Shaft2k.2,5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson is probably the only reason why I'll remember this movie in a few days time.","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" My first thought before seeing the movie Oh no, not another remake from a seventies movie!!! After seeing it I have to admit that it wasn't bad. Nothing special perhaps, but not bad.I don't know what is wrong with Hollywood, but it seems like all inspiration has gone. Why do they need to make remakes, has everything already been done than? And even when everything has already been done, in my opinion that still shouldn't give today's producers the right to copy past successes. I still prefer to see original movies. Having said this I have to admit that Samuel L. Jackson did a great job as John Shaft, the cop that will fight all crime on his own without getting wounded a single time. Shaft is really untouchable. He walks away from a car crash like nothing has happened, bullets fly around in the air, but he doesn't get hit. However, when he shoots, he almost never misses. Very nice to see, but not really close to reality if you ask me.In fact Samuel L. Jackson is probably the only reason why I'll remember this movie in a few days time. I'm sure it will not be the story or the cinematography that make this movie unforgettable. The story is rather weak The good, untouchable black cop chases a rich, racist white murderer and will get him to court, no matter what ... The scenes aren't that special either. The action shots are well done and the sliding screen shots (when a new scene starts) as a reference to the seventies movies is a nice feature. But it just isn't enough to make me forget about the weakness of the story.I recommend this movie to the fans of movies like Dirty Harry. I'm sure they will love this one as well. Personally I wasn't so touched by it. I give it a 6/10 (only because of Samuel L. Jackson's performance) "},{"Title":"Groundless remake","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This Shaft is not like its predecessors, yet it definitely fails to be an improvement. It lacks the swing and amusement value of the 70's blaxploitation movies, as well as the production values that modern day approach might have added to it.Casting is not on spot either. Samuel L. Jackson should make an excellent Shaft, but he merely poses around, failing to give an ounce of soul to his character. Jeffrey Wright is the sole success, portraiting his latino bad guy stereotype with as much credibility as the substandard script allows. Anyone else is not given enough to work upon.This Shaft is stiff, cold, and boring, and the fact that the movie has the look of a cheap TV film from the 80's does not help at all.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this film. It deftly managed to avoid the pitfalls of other films in a similar genre such as Charlie's Angels and Starsky and Hutch, in that it stuck to being a piece of tongue in cheek kitsch rather than becoming an out and out spoof of it's subject matter. It really made me laugh out loud in parts, probably because unlike the other films mentioned the jokes weren't spelled out to the audience but rather were played as completely straight scenes. Samuel L. Jackson's cheesy pick-up lines were a particular high point in this regard. I can see where some of the other user comments are coming from in that this isn't a great action film, and it could be viewed as containing some fairly questionable messages about the acceptability of police brutality. However, I really don't think that providing a thrilling action movie or well observed social commentary was the director's intent. Think of this film as a tongue and cheek love letter to the seventies and not as an attempt to do a serious remake of the original films, and you'll get a lot of enjoyment from it. Great stuff.  "},{"Title":"Not a Patch on the Original","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this on Channel 4 in the UK last night and I have to say it was very disappointing.It felt more like a TV movie than a feature film.Some of the acting was awful Busta Rhymes (what a pain in the a** he was), Jeffrey Wright as Peoples (ham actor extreme and I couldn't make out half the things he was saying), Vanessa Williams (poor actress generally but worse than usual here.) Even Jackson was way below par - seemingly just going through the motions.The whole Peoples subplot was in danger of taking over the movie. It would have been far better for the plot just to concentrate on the Bale and Jackson characters. Bale was actually the best actor in the movie but he just didn't have enough to do.Just don't waste your time with this one. Watch the original instead. Richard Roundtree owns Samuel Jackson!!4 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Shaft was a great underrated film!","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft had a great story that was better than the originals.  Samuel L. Jackson was perfect for this part.  He knew how to play a cop that was looking for revenge.  The plot was really really good.  If you wanted to see a Shaft movie you should see this one.  This movie is one of the most underrated movies I have ever seen.  You should see it. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sam Jackson was great, but the film didn't embody what Shaft was all about","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Having been a fan of the original Shaft,  I had to agree with most critics in  respect to this movie. While it was  entertaining and Samuel L. Jackson  was at the top of his game, where the  heck was the Shaft we had grown to love  in the 1970s? Where was the guy that  entertained the ladies and got some  whenever he wanted? Instead, we get  a violent maniac with a major chip on  his shoulder who still scored less than  Uncle Shaft (the original). Fun times to  say the least, but it was still a bit below  expectations in the love department. "},{"Title":"entertaining if you don't think about it too much","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Slick, violent update from director John Singleton casts Jackson as the tough, impulsive nephew of the original John Shaft. He's a seasoned, no-nonsense N.Y.C. street cop who goes on a personal mission to find the sole witness who can help him apprehend Walter Wade, Jr., the spoiled son of a wealthy real estate tycoon and the primary suspect of a racially-motivated murder. Shaft has his hands full when the elusive brat forms an unlikely alliance with a Dominican gangster who agrees to track the witness down. Enjoyable enough rendition is well-paced and action-packed, with Jackson an ideal Shaft, Bale an effective antagonist, and Wright a scene-stealing one, just don't look for a lot of logic. **½ "},{"Title":"who delivers 10 times out of ten","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  another one of jacksons fine work i liked shaft for shaft hes cool,quick and very mad this film is good but it could be better but its a good film so you should see it theres only one promblem christan bale i hate him the worst actor ever so close your eyes when you see him  "},{"Title":"Singelton's first popcorn flick and he succeds","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The remake of Shaft is John Singelton's first foray into a popcorn movie and man does he succed. Shaft has action, laugheter and eye candy. Samuel L. Jackson was perfect for this role and Busta Rymez is hilarous as his sidekick. Check this out for a good time. "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson and Vanessa L. Williams","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Although the opening credits were good, I somehow struggle to engage with John Singleton films. The flaws seem to be sourced from the scripting rather than the acting. It may even have something to do with the directing, although that would be more applicable to 'Boyz n da Hood' than his writing. Vanessa L. Williams teams up with Jackson having previously teamed up with Wesley Snipes in 'Futuresport'. "},{"Title":"The Best I ever seen","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft is the best movie of the millennium. Samuel L. Jackson plays Det. John Shaft, an Detective to be a former Detective in the NYPD untill the trial of Walter Wade, Jr. (Christian Bade). This is the best movie and I hope this movie will make it to the oscar awards.This is a great BLAXPLOITATION flim.I give it *****. "},{"Title":"very disappointing and boring","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted to see a good, cool action movie - but was terribly disappointed. Senseless shooting and car races, primitive cliché-gangsters, unlogical plot - a very boring movie. Police, detective or hitman movies from Hongkong or Japan are a hundred times better than this uninspired Hollywood-slush. "},{"Title":"Well-worn but watchable","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well-worn cop drama, well-told but ultimately forgettable. Worth going to see principally for the legendary character. A standard night out at the cinema and good-value popcorn stuff. Shaft is a charismatic an unorthodox cop. Old-fashioned when you compare it to the in-depth character stuff of NYPD Blue though. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've seen in a long time","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft is a sorry combination of stereotypes, cliches, and unbelievable plot turns.  Every few minutes, while watching the movie, I found my head in my hands, dumbfounded at yet another moment of stupidity.  Though I must say it is an accomplishment to make a film without one recognizably human character.  Without question, Shaft is the worst movie I've seen in the last several years.  "}{"Title":"I've seen this film 1000 times over","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Here is the story.  Shaft has to find a girl that witnessed a murder and get her to testify.  She has disappeared from the face of the earth and she is the missing link into putting the bad guy in jail.  Shaft's character?  Well, he is a bit of a recluse, he is the best cop on the police force, he is tough, suave, honest and takes no do do from anyone.  Sound like a good movie?  Sure, just like it did in 1972, 1973, 74, 84, 22, 65, 99, 38, 45 etc. etc.  This film has been done a thousand times over and there is nothing new about this one to distinguish it from every other cop movie out there.  There is nothing fresh, nothing new, nothing remotely original in this script.  I guess John Singelton got tired of doing small budgeted films and sold out for a paycheck, which is fine, but if they think this film is going to go on to become the franchise for the players involved, I think they are mistaken.  Shaft is a by the numbers film and if this would have come out in any other season except for the summer, it would have died quickly.  As it stands, it made #1 in it's first week because it had no competition and because it is a summer film.  Gone In 60 Seconds was quite stale and that was it's competition from the week before and the week after Me Myself and Irene gives it a run for it's money.  I just don't see great legs for the film.  Maybe it targets the African American audience but I don't even think that is totally acurate.  Samuel L. Jackson is a great actor and ever since his turn in PULP, people want to see him in the movies.  Well, this is his chance to shine, it is his chance to carry a picture.  And although he is good, charming and sexy in a role designed for him to be good, charming and sexy, the film fails him.  It is not very interesting, it is a by the numbers story and the action is stale.  I was listening to Howard Stern a few days ago and Jackson was on.  He said he was somewhat disappointed with the film but he would work with Singelton again.  His version of the film and the character was that Shaft was a normal man with street smarts.  Singleton and the other producers saw him differently.  They are the ones that saw Shaft as a larger than life cop.  Jackson went on to say that the film could have been better if they tried to make him more real, more human.  I agree with Jackson.  Shaft would have been better, more original if he was more like say a Michael Douglas from Basic Instinct than Sylvester Stallone in Cobra.Shaft isn't a terrible film, it just isn't very good either.  If you want to spend two hours with this film, make sure it is on a hot and humid day.  That way you can go into an air conditioned theater and enjoy some M&M's and a Coke and sit back and watch the film and get some reprieve from the heat.  That way it won't matter if the movie sucks or not.  Which this one pretty much does.5 out of 10  I really hope Perfect Storm is as good as it looks because with the exception of Road Trip and Gladiator, this summer has been really disappointing.  "},{"Title":"Decent at best.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe its just me, but so much more could have been done with this movie. The original Shaft did very little in this flick and I think the movie would have been richer if his role was larger. Plus, there was very little player action on the part of Shaft towards the ladies- this I always believed was a fundamental part of the original Shaft movie. Also, for the record, even though I'm letting it slide- there were huge plot holes in this and an extremely predictable storyline that had the potential to be so much better...a 5 at best. "},{"Title":"I Can't decide!","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film, and I couldn't decide on it.  I mean, I liked it, but the first one was authentic and original in it's 70's black-exploitation bad-ass way.  Samuel L. Jackson is perfect as the new century's Richard Roundtree, as a cop on the edge who is trying to stop a killer (Christian Bale) after a woman (Tomi Collette).  Best part, rapper Busta Rhymes plays his partner and is perfect in the role.  Not quite authentic, not quite as bad, but very, very cool.  Shaft is still the man, and Oscar-nominated director John Singelton proves it with Jackson.  One of the best new films of the decade. A "},{"Title":"Not a remake... A continuation of the first 3 Shaft films","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In 1971 John Shaft butt-kicked his way though NYC to retrieve a kidnapped Pimp's daughter.In 2000, His nephew butt-kicks through NYC in a more modern story.I recently saw the original and I realized just now that this 2000 Remake is actually a continuation of the story. After all, there were two sequels in 1972 and 73 Shaft's big Score and Shaft in AfricaRichard Roundtree is STILL John Shaft. He is wearing the same turtleneck and brown leather jacket. He's still the Private Dick who's the sex machine with all the chicks. But this film focuses on his nephew Samuel L Jackson is also John Shaft, an NYPD Detective that gets fed up with the system when murderer Christian Bale walks and so he goes out and gets Bale himself, using all sorts of clever tricks on the bad guys.Someone posted a comment that this film was un-original, but entertaining. Hell, nothing is original, and so I rate this film high cos it IS entertaining. It is well directed, and as such is swell Homage to Gordon Parks... Who directed the first Shaft film and is in this film as the club patron named Mister P All this being said It is a long way from 1971 to 2000, almost 30 years So, this 2000 Continuation is not as big a deal as the original was. But that don't make it any less good. I liked this film and I liked the original Shaft. "},{"Title":"Still the man but he's tired and out of new ideas - 59%","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I've yet to meet anybody who doesn't like Samuel L Jackson. With an astounding body of work to his name, few actors can claim to hold an audience's attention as well as Jackson. He's the living embodiment of cool, bringing an edge to every role he plays. Great as he is, he can't carry an entire movie by himself and that is the fundamental flaw with this remake-slash-tribute that actually has more in common with another recent rehash, Starsky And Hutch. Simply by getting Jackson in the costume and having Isaac Hayes sing on the soundtrack, you have a new Shaft but sadly, this film needs much more than that.Jackson, as you've probably gathered, plays John Shaft who's a tough New York cop who gets the job done and parties hard. After a racist murder outside a bar, Shaft arrests the obviously guilty Walter Wade Jr. (Christian Bale), the son of a multimillionaire tycoon who skips bail and flees the country. Two years later and Wade is still a free man due to the unwillingness of a witness (Toni Collette) to testify and racial prejudice within the system. Disgusted by this turn of events, Shaft quits the force and tries to locate the missing woman in order to secure Wade's conviction. But Wade will not give up so easily and soon hires local drug pusher Peoples Hernandez (Jeffrey Wright) to kill the woman before Shaft gets to her.This is a film without an idea about what it wants to be. Is it a gritty crime thriller or a glossy, stylish tribute to the original? Certainly the appearance of the original Shaft (Richard Roundtree) tends to suggest that this shouldn't be taken that seriously, coupled with some laugh-out-loud lines (It's my dooty to please that booty. - brilliant) and the obligatory cameo from a rapper, in this case Busta Rhymes. But everybody seems to be taking it very seriously with the exception of Jackson himself, who was surely born to play Shaft, and Wright who is fantastic as Peoples. But beneath the coolness, there is a sterile feel to it all and the thing quickly degenerates into a standard action-cop movie, complete with a horribly dated car chase sequence. It lacked the out-and-out comedy of Starsky And Hutch but maintained that film's enthusiasm for nostalgia without offering anything new at all. And although there is absolutely nothing wrong with Isaac Hayes' funky soundtrack, it did highlight how dated this movie actually was and just smacked a little bit of laziness.I'm all for looking back but if you have to keep taking and remaking earlier films then audiences are pretty soon going to give up. There seems a trend at the moment of rehashing old TV shows (stuff like the Dallas and The A Team remakes, which I'm not touching with a bargepole) and they all seem to be weary, tired and superficial - everything that Shaft is. There was absolutely no reason to remake Shaft except to see Samuel L Jackson in the role and if that's all you want then you'll probably enjoy this. But this film adds nothing to the original or the action-cop genre as a whole. Shaft may still be the man but this man is getting older by the day. It's like watching your Dad squeeze into his old flared trousers and shirts with the sort of lapels you could hang-glide with - fun for a while but soon gets embarrassing. "},{"Title":"Still the man after all...","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It seemed almost impossible, but director John Singleton (Boyz N the Hood, 2 Fast 2 Furious) was actually able to direct a reasonable and (dare I say) better film that the original 1971 Shaft, which is in itself an adaptation of the novel by Ernest Tidyman.Samuel L. Jackson is the man this time around in the 2000 remake, and after a flashy opening credit title sequence, the story comes into focus at the scene of what appears to be a routine homicide. A young black man (Mekhi Phifer) was found outside on the sidewalk of an upscale New York restaurant, apparently beaten and who later dies from his injuries.A waitress at the restaurant, Diane Palmieri (Toni Collette), fingers Walter Wade, Jr. (Christian Bale, perfectly cast and villainous), who is the rich, racist son of a prominent real estate developer. Wade is of course arrested, but skips town and heads to Switzerland when he's allowed to post bail by the courts.Two years later, Shaft is now working in the narcotics division and after a (somewhat) successful drug raid, he immediately runs afoul of the neighborhood alligator, Peoples Hernandez (Jeffrey Wright). Things heat up again when Wade mysteriously returns to the United States and is arrested the second he steps off the plane.When Wade is again allowed to post bail, Shaft decides he's had enough of the political red tape and goes after him - vigilante-style - with his new partner Carmen Vasquez (Vanessa L. Williams). The situation becomes even more intense when Wade enlists the newly agitated Peoples to track down Diane Palmieri and have her silenced. And again, things become even more heated when a couple of corrupt cops (Dan Hedaya and Ruben Santiago-Hudson) enter the picture and it soon becomes a race to find the missing witness and put Wade behind bars where he belongs.Singleton asserts a level of maturity here in his direction that hasn't exactly been all that apparent in his films since 1991's Boyz N the Hood, which of course isn't to say that his subsequent material hasn't had its bite. He shows off the action flare that would later serve him good when working on 2003's 2 Fast 2 Furious.Samuel L. Jackon is excellent as the new Shaft, and some Blaxploitation admirers may even get a buzz from cameos by original Shaft player Richard Roundtree and that film's director, Gordon Parks. The rest of the cast is pretty standout, particularly its two main bad guys, played by Wright and Bale. Wright is right over-the-top as Peoples and Bale is slimy and cold as the racist Wade.A fair and reasonable remake is Shaft, as it is also a welcome entry into the fledgling genre of Blaxploitation.8/10 "},{"Title":"THIS 'Shaft' shafts its audience. Rent some vintage Richard Roundtree instead.","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I avoided this like the plague when it was first released, suspecting the worst. I love many 1970s blaxploitation movies, and especially enjoy the original Shaft movies starring Richard Roundtree one of the coolest and most charismatic stars of the genre. Anyway Shaft 2000 comes on TV and I think I might as well take a look... And it's just as bad as I expected. Now it's by no means THE WORST action movie I've seen come out of Hollywood in the last ten years, but considering the source material it stinks. This Shaft is in no way a remake of the original Shaft, they really have no connection whatsoever. Roundtree is dragged out and Isaac Hayes brilliant theme song is reused but these are just cheap tricks to try and fool the audience. This movie doesn't have any connection is spirit or style or attitude with the REAL Shaft! It's just another stupid Hollywood action movie full of plot holes and predictable scenes. I like Samuel L. Jackson as much as anybody, but as cool as he is he can't save this movie. The script is absolutely terrible. The only actor who comes out of this with any credibility is Jeffrey Wright ('Basquiat'). His character People Hernandez was the ONLY person in the movie I had any interest in. If you are even remotely considering watching this movie and you haven't seen Richard Roundtree in action as Shaft do yourself a favour and rent 'Shaft', 'Shaft's Big Score' and 'Shaft In Africa' and leave this one on the shelf where it belongs. THIS 'Shaft' shafts its audience. "},{"Title":"Harmless, but what did they really add?","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" OK, so we know by now that Samuel L. Jackson will virtually always play a bad mother-f---er (his wallet in Pulp Fiction even said that). That said, there was little in the Shaft remake that we wouldn't expect. John Shaft (Jackson) is a bad mother investigating some things and doesn't take crap from anyone. When the original was released, it was the height of the Black Power movement, and they wanted to show that black Americans were no longer gonna listen to The Man - think of it as a jab against Nixon.Still, this one is pretty cool. Toni Collette doesn't really make as much of her role as she did in The Sixth Sense, but she's pretty good. All in all, I recommend the original more, but this one is worth seeing. Any questions? "},{"Title":"Superb Thriller","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A dark film from the director of boyz in the hood.John Shaft(Samuel Jackson) JR a young cop who is the nephew of the legendary John Shaft SR(Richard Roundtree) is sent to the scene of a murder of a young black man. The murderer is suspected to be a racist rich pshyco (Christian Bale the new batman).So Bale hires Peoples Hernandes ( Jeffrey Wright the new Felix Lighter).And Shaft tries to persuade a witness (Toni Collete) to confess what she is reluctant.Shaft ends up in a battle of wits with both Bale and Wright. An unsuspected ending , a strong cast and a much more interesting plot than it sounds make this superb.This can be ranked along the other Shafts . "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson's dirty shaft","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The shaft on Samuel L Jackson will put your eye out. Its a smooth well oiled movie. Sam just keeps pounding till the last minute, and there's a climax that gets messy, Sam just flips his lid and explodes his rocket of a performance. If you're looking for wet throbbing circumcised cinema. then see Sam's dirty shaft. He blows the head off crime. This film is long, hard and pumped. Sam's rock hard expressions puts the ladies in wheelchairs and makes you want to cream all over your dad's new pants (because your so excited that you spill your dessert on your dad). It certainly is a creamy, erect and anal film. So watch it with some napkins handy, and enjoy that long hard creamy dark shaft. "}{"Title":"I Liked The Movie!","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Although I'm 5 years late, I saw this movie on video for the 1st time yesterday when a friend brought it by. For the most part, I enjoyed the movie and Samuel L. Jackson was excellent, as he is always, in every movie in which I've seen him.I do have a couple a criticisms which were unbelievable to me Why didn't the Black guy take his date and leave after putting the napkin over the racist's face? Why was he outside pacing? That, to me, was an invitation to get his a** kicked.If the witness was given $100,000 to disappear(she's lucky that the rich guy didn't have her killed- or kill her right then!) why didn't she disappear? The fact that she was the only witness on a busy NY street was unbelievable to me anyway.She could have moved anywhere in the world with $100,000. She admitted that she spent $50,000 and she was still in the city, basically in the same neighborhood? Why? I realize that the cost of living is high in NY so $50,000 doesn't go far, that's even more reason why she should have moved to Caribbean and bought a villa or something. Couldn't she have taped her testimony? Wasn't witness protection available to her?Also, when the rich guy was mugged, and lost the money, why did he think that Peoples would be sympathetic and kill the witness anyway for him?I did enjoy the part where Vanessa Williams' character double-crossed those crooked cops. Their expression was priceless when they saw her standing there!!!As I said, although I basically enjoyed the movie, I found a few parts unbelievable!!!The action was great and I loved the ending! "},{"Title":"a baaad mother...... movie!","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I know this movie's storyline and plot are a bit clichéd and stereotyped in a way and it's probably why a lot of people dislike this movie but I thought this movie kicked some serious ass and convinced me that Sam Jackson is one of my favorite actors of all time! Sam Jackson's performance from Shaft might not be as seductive as Richard Roundtree's in the original Shaft, but Jackson really delivers with the rest of the Shaft qualities. He's a no-nonsense taking, trash-talking, ass-kicking, pistol-whipping, in-your-face Shaft that in my opinion outshines the original Shaft.His supporting cast is also excellent. Jeffrey Wright is perfect and hilarious as People's Hernandez. He definitely steals the show from Jackson whenever he's on screen. I still find it hard to believe that an African-American actor was able to play a Hispanic character so perfectly. His portrayal of a Dominican drug dealer was so dead-on (I say that because I grew up in the neighborhood where they shot this movie. That's how recognize the mannerisms and accent he puts on in the movie because I used see guys like that around my way) a lot of my friends don't believe me when I tell them this guy is actually black, and I found out on this website and at first I was shocked too and it really made me acknowledge his huge talent as an actor.Christian Bale as Walter Wade Jr. was excellent as well. Once again we see him playing the role of a sadistic killer that he played in American Psycho. In this movie he is so obnoxious and evil it really makes you hate him and wish Shaft can kick his ass hard! The rest of the cast is pretty good too. Toni Collete does a great job portraying an Italian-American from The Bronx, her accent is pretty good, and so was her performance as the threatened and terrified witness of a crime committed by Bale's character at the beginning of the movie. Vanessa Williams does a good job as Shaft's female backup, Carmen Vasquez, who although most times does not agree with his brutal methods of justice, still sees Shaft's noble side and backs him up. Busta Rhymes was hilarious in this movie as Shaft's right-hand man, Rasaan. This movie never bores you. The dialogue is excellent, sometimes it's almost like watching a Tarantino flick, and then it's the action sequences which are pretty well done as well. I know John Singleton has done better movies in the past (Boys 'n da Hood, Poetic Justice) but I still enjoy this movie every time I watch it. This is a great movie if you're in the mood for action and comedy. To date I have seen it about 30 times or more since 2000, and it's the first DVD I ever bought. A classic! 9.5 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Bad m*********a","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SHAFT (2000) *** Samuel L. Jackson, Christian Bale, Jeffrey Wright, Vanessa Williams, Toni Collette, Busta Rhymes, Dan Hedaya, Ruben Santiago-Hudson, Daniel Von Bergen, Mekhi Phifer, Richard Roundtree, Lynn Thigpen, Pat Hingle, Lawrence Taylor (cameo).  Kickass update of the classic `blaxploitation' flick of 1971 with a glowering Jackson up to the task of mantle passing from his Uncle John (Roundtree in a prolonged cameo), this time facing rich boy racist murderer Bale and street smart drug kingpin Wright (both hamming it up but a guilty pleasure just to watch them chew the scenery) keep the smooth talking, suffer-no-fools-gladly ex-cop turned one-man army vigilante busy and out to protect key eyewitness Collette from getting snuffed before she can testify. No-holds barred action and a tricky screenplay by filmmaker John Singleton, Shane Salerno and Richard Price.  Violent, ugly and surprisingly funny with Jackson at his coolest/angriest looking real bad in Armani leather and the funky Isaac Hayes signature theme! Shut yo' mouth!! "},{"Title":"Many negatives; one huge positive","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  First the good news is that Jeffrey Wright is a damn good actor and owns this movie in total.  Any enjoyment I got from this mostly-stupid movie was in his work, his portrayal of Peoples.  If there is any justice in Hollywood for a talented person of color (yeah, I know), he will be given an opportunity to showcase his talents.  Judging from the list of movies he has yet to be released, he might actually get his chance. Unfortunately, the rest of the cast and the rest of the movie are not at his level of intelligence and concentration. There are plot holes and questions about motivation up the yin-yang, but they are not worth asking.  The movie is supposed to be entertaining, and it is that.  I just wish Jackson wasn't doing a Black Super Hero.  I wouldn't have been surprised to see him fly; his portrayal is that grounded in reality. The ending of the movie was very unsatisfactory. 6/10, mostly for Jeffrey Wright's future.  "},{"Title":"Overindulgent @#$%$#!","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What have you done, John Singleton? You went from Boyz N the Hood (one of the best movies EVER made by a freshman director) and Higher Learning (flawed, but still a good film at the end of the day) to a movie that was unnecessary, excessive, and profoundly stupid. You quarreled with your star (Samuel L. Jackson) and botched the character development of 2 of the best actors in films, in Jeffrey Wright and Christian Bale. Unoriginal to the Nth degree, this is a terrible remake, and is a time waster. If you want the real deal, stick to the Richard Roundtree original. Vanessa L. Williams, Dan Hedaya, Toni Collette, Mekhi Phifer, Busta Rhymes, and Lee Tergesen all show up for this dud, and my one hope is that they were paid well for appearing in this steaming pile of !@%%^^$#@! "},{"Title":"Shaft","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw a Lenny Henry sketch a long while ago, and it had a really good spoof theme song making a joke of his character The Pope. I never knew this is the film that introduced that cool theme tune, sung by Isaac Hayes (aka Chef in South Park). Anyway, it does have some good moments with the bad language, small action sequences and a not bad villain. Samuel L. Jackson is John Shaft, the cop that isn't afraid of anything or anyone, and he'll stop at nothing to complete his job. Also starring Ugly Betty's Vanessa Williams as Carmen Vasquez, Casino Royale's Jeffrey Wright as Peoples Hernandez, American Psycho's Christian Bale as Walter Wade, Jr. and a brief Pat Hingle as Hon. Dennis Bradford. Obviously the theme song is the best part, in my opinion. Good! "},{"Title":"A cinematic action masterpiece","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Few films deserve the honor and distinction of being called a masterpiece, so when one comes along such as Titanic, Saving Private Ryan, Frequency, Men Of Honor and Shaft it is a true privilege to watch pure brilliance at work.My definition of a masterpiece is a film that contains all the components of a blockbuster plus the performances immerses me into the film. With phenomenal casting, explosive action, intelligent dialogue and great humor Shaft has become a cinematic action masterpiece for future action films to follow.I have not seen the original Shaft movies starring Richard Roundtree  but if 2000's Shaft is any indication has done its predecessor well. 2000's Shaft and Samuel L. Jackson are an awesome sight to behold and have done Richard Roundtree proud by re-inventing the character of Shaft and making him stylish.Shaft contains well-crafted action sequences that took me on a thrill ride of unimaginable proportions. However, the best part about Shaft was the fact that I was treated to top-notch and first-rate humor missing in previous action films. These are just two of many great elements that set Shaft apart from other action films and put on a pedastal high atop those films.I could not have asked for a more perfect actor to play John Shaft than Samuel L Jackson. Jackson has versatility in his repetiore of talents, he has the right moves and the right lingo to pull off the character. His suave and flare for justice were two characteristics that impressed me and proved to me that Jackson is a actor to be reckoned with. I was impressed with Jackson from the first scene he was on screen because he carried himself with a strong confidence  to carry out justice at any cost.Vanessa Williams, Christian Bale, Jeffrey Wright, Busta Rhymes, Dan Hedaya and Rueben Santiago-Hudson co-star in Shaft. These are actors that are so incredible in their roles they convinced me Shaft is not just an action thrill ride but an intelligent film with superb dialogue and explosive action.Shaft was a true pleasure to watch and I hope others enjoy it as much as I did. Two thumbs way up. "}]