[{"Title":"Utter nonsense but at least it was enjoyable to watch","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film was complete trash, but in a good way. I've always looked upon Cuba Gooding Jnr as a semi decent actor but if this is the kind of film he is going to be starring in, then I can see him descending the same way as Charlie Sheen.You can see from the outset that the makers tried to make one of those high octane action thrillers, which are ten-a-penny these days. But when you've got a budget that would struggle to finance an episode of quantum leap, then maybe making a film of this kind wasn't such a good idea.They make use of computer graphics in a lot of the action scenes which, to be honest, doesn't look the worst I have ever seen, but still prompts you to snicker at how bad it is. The most ridiculous of which occurs at the end of the movie, when a chemical weapon which we have been told has the power to blow up basically a quarter of America, detonates in a tunnel.At this point we are subjected to rotten computer graphics which are so bad that I instantly had flashbacks of Dean Stockwell and the film-making atrocity that was the Langoliers.But the story is complete nonsense, so even with a budget the size of Lord of the Rings, there would be no way of making the whole thing believable anyway. So you can perhaps see where the producer was coming from i.e. lets make a cheap action thriller and we'll plaster Cuba Gooding's face over the front cover and we'll maybe make some money.It would've have been better if Eric Roberts had been given the leading role. "},{"Title":"One of the better action films I have seen in some time.","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Good action flick about regular guys turned defenders of the American people. Cuba Gooding is great as an excitable type, while Skeet Ulrich is the cool one. Once the story is set up, the action is non stop with a lot of Edge of your seat scenes. Cuba & Skeet deliver some good comedy lines to take a bit of the edge off the intensity of this film. Their relationship as friends grows throughout the movie so it gives you a good feeling & brings some believability to how they react to each other in tough situations. If you like fast, hard hitting action with a bit of humor thrown in, this movie is for you! "},{"Title":"A Movie Slightly Above Average of Other Action Movies","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A scientist (David Paymer) develops a biological lethal weapon and accidentally kills eighteen soldiers in an island during the tests. Colonel Andrew Brynner (Peter Firth) is the commander and becomes the scapegoat of the incident. He is sentenced to go to the prison for ten years. Along this period, he becomes unbalanced and decides to get the bomb to sell to terrorists. He commands a group of mercenaries to steal the bomb from the base where Dr. Richard Long is researching. He shots the scientist but he flees with the weapon to the convenience store where the clerk Tim Mason (Skeet Ulrich) and an ice-cream trucker driver Arlo(Cuba Gooding Jr.) are negotiating. Mason receive this weapon from the injured Dr. Richard Long, with an advice to keep it below 50 F. they try to reach a military fort and try to escape from the colonel's team that is hunting them down. Chill Factor is not a bad film; indeed it is slightly above average for this type of action movie. There are some terrible cuts of the scenes in the edition and the egocentric Arlo is annoying most of the time. The deceptive conclusion makes this film forgettable. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Suando Frio (Sweating Cold)Note On 02 October 2015, I saw this film again. "},{"Title":"Funny and asinine!","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The whole plot was tired and foolish, must of us know that. I myself happen to like cheesy and stupid action movies. Cuba was funny, as I thought he might be, even Skeet turned out to have slight humor in his bones. This is one of those movies where two guys hate each other at first, but end up becoming the best of pals. If you like dumb jokes, and asinine plots, you'll LOVE this movie!  "},{"Title":"PLEASING AND INVOLVING ACTION FLICK","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CHILL FACTOR is one of those movies that you enjoy for its duration but does not live long in the memory.The main story takes a little longer than it needs to to get under way but once it does the movie races along to an exciting and dare I say suspenseful climax and emerges victorious as a pleasing and involving action flick. Skeet Ulrich and Cuba Gooding Jnr.,actors unfamiliar to me work well together as two likeable guys transporting some kind of explosive macguffin in an ice cream truck to protect it from psychopathic terrorists on their trail.The standout performacehowever,comes from Hudson Leick who portrays the villainous warrior woman Callisto on XENA WARRIOR PRINCESS.She plays the tough mercenary hench(wo)man to bad guy Peter Firth and she can play evil like no other actress around today;Leick can wither with a glance and helps make CHILL FACTOR a movie to seek out.More from her please. "},{"Title":"Decent action flick","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is, I believe, a bit underrated. Cuba Gooding stars in this action drama about a terrorist and a really nasty chemical weapon. In my opinion, it deserves a bit more than the 4.8 rating that it has accumulated. I gave it a 6. I found the interaction between the two heroes, portrayed by Gooding and Skeet Ulrich, to be quite what I'd expect from people under similar circumstances. There is intrigue and lots of action, enough to satisfy any action film freak. The story is decent and the screenplay is well-written. I thought the execution was OK but nothing to write home about. All in all, a Not Bad action flick that shouldn't disappoint. "},{"Title":"A good Saturday night stay-at-home special.","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Over the past few months, I've been taken in by some movies that have been deemed 'cinematic masterpieces' by some. I've also had the 'pleasure' of watching TV-movies that can be found at the bottom of the bargain bin in some video stores.This movie is neither. It is not a 10/10 movie masterpiece, nor is it a bargain-bin, third-rate, C-list, avoid-at-all-costs tape. It sits right in the middle of the spectrum. It is watchable and entertaining, yet not exactly worthy of the Oscar or Golden Globe awards. It was action-packed, fun to watch and a great way to spend a Saturday night at home, either by yourself or others.Out of ten, I give this film a 7. It lost 3 points for the somewhat hollow acting, but still, it was a fun movie, if you don't take it seriously. "},{"Title":"2 men and an ice cream truck. Make that 2 men with an ice cream truck and a deadly radio-active bomb named Elvis.","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Repeat Review. Reviews #1-97 http//www.imdb.com/user/ur3825387/comments Reviews #98-#100 http//www.imdb.com/user/ur5060215/comments Reviews #101-#104 http//www.imdb.com/user/ur5339193/comments ---------- (Original Date of Review - August 26, 2004)---Minor Spoilers--- Cuba Gooding Jr., and Skeet Ulrich star in this decent but funny action/thriller directed by Hugh Johnson. Cuba plays an ice cream delivery man named Arlo while Skeet plays as a connivance store clerk in Montana named Tim Mason. David Paymer plays a role at the beginning of the movie that lasts about 30 minutes and he plays the best friend of Mason who is a scientist named Richard Long.The movie starts on an island in which some sort of military establishment is. Dr. Long is in charge of this radio-active bomb named Elvis that he's been working on for a long time. Him and his assistant decide to test it out but it goes all wrong and Long's boss comes in named Bryner. If the bomb were to reach 50º Fahrenheit, it would blow up and massacre anything in it's 5-mile radius, that exact radius of the island. The bomb reaches 50º, which must be the CHILL FACTOR and it blows up. 17 soldiers are severely killed and in the scientist shelter, the military boss, Long, and his assistant survive. Next scene, the boss is charged for all of it even though it was all Long's fault. The boss goes to jail for 10 years. Next scene, 10 years later, Bryner comes out and seeks revenge. Now in Montana, he assembles a small team of smart assassins to travel with him to avenge what Long did to him. Meanwhile, Arlo (Gooding) is doing a 4 AM ice cream shift and Mason (Ulrich) is doing a connivance store night shift. The assassins invade the research center of Long and he gets shot. Already some plot holes. Long barely makes it to Mason's store, almost dead while Arlo is there to deliver $400 worth of ice cream. Long tells his best friend that he's about to die and that he needs him to bring the remaining radio-active bomb that detonates at CHILL FACTOR to the military base. This time, this Elvis is much more stronger than the 5-mile radius one. Long said he needs Arlo's ice cream truck to keep the temperature down on the bomb. Long dies, and Arlo and Mason are off to put the bomb in its proper place with Arlo's ice cream truck while the assassins are on him. Thus concludes the first 35 minutes of the movie. Note that Arlo doesn't appear in the movie until 25 minutes in. The adventure (with this twisted plot) is on. Tensions flare, in comedy as Arlo wants to get the hell away from Mason and far away as possible but Mason threatens him with a revolver forcing him to continue driving during the early parts of they're trip. They soon find out that Bryner is on their tail and they have to improvise or die.Overall, Chill Factor is a decent action/thriller with good comedy in it but somewhat fails to impress. Maybe it's the lacking, holed plot. Good effort by Cuba and Skeet though. If you got some time and you want a good buddy film, check this one out.My Rating 7/10 Objectively 6/10 Subjectively 7/10 Eliason A. "},{"Title":"A waste of celluloid......","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cheesy, predictable plot, with no movement.  Stereotypical from beginning to end. The lighting and camera angles reminded me of something from a made for TV movie.  While the movie tried to be funny, it was far from it. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kevin Thomas from the LA Times promises me on the back A Roller Coaster Loaded with Thrills and Spills. Kevin Thomas is an awful liar, lemme tell you.A dreadful action-adventure turkey, this starts out squarely on the wrong foot on some deserted island somewhere mad scientist David Paymer is experimenting with some kind of superweapon he calls Elvis. (This joke will subsequently be rammed into the ground, covered up with dirt, then dug up and rammed into the ground again as the movie progresses.) Peter Firth is the good-guy American soldier who thinks Paymer's out of control, Paymer pulls rank, does the test, of course something goes wrong, most everybody dies and Firth gets shafted, sent for ten years hard time in Leavenworth.Got that? We cut to the present, Firth gets out and he's the bad guy? (????) And Paymer's some kind of sympathetic hero? (??????) Huh? (I'm gonna use up my ratio of question marks, you get the idea.) Anyway, Firth, who now has a Hollywood-approved multi-cultural, fully integrated team of bad guys, shoots Paymer while looking for Elvis, who he's gonna sell to the highest bidder. Paymer, bleeding to death, improbably summons up enough strength to give it to Skeet Ulrich, who's the only guy he can trust. Ulrich (gamely trying for The Hero With A Troubled Past, but really just reminding me of various convenience store clerks I know) shanghais Cuba Gooding Jr.'s ice cream truck, which conveniently happens to be parked outside (Gooding is doing The Hip Urban Guy Whose Wisecracks Are The Comic Relief; it's an embarrassing role for any actor, and Gooding does not enoble himself here.) I personally was rooting for the bad guys throughout, which is kind of a problem in these sort of movies. But anything to shut Cuba Gooding up. Apparently they blew their budget on a few effect shots -- the schtik of the movie is that the bomb has to remain cold or it'll go off, and you'd think there'd be a lot of sequences playing around with that, but not really, and whenever it looks edgy there's always a cold mountain stream or a handy fat guy with a case of beer in a cooler to save the day. Most of it is a dull car chase around what looks like a resort town in Montana.My guess is that early versions of the script were much more of a straight up black comedy, with two lunkheads saving the day for the wrong people. Bill and Ted meet SPEED. Something like that. But maybe that's just my imagination that'd make a good movie, though, huh? "}{"Title":"Hoo-Eee! This one's a stinker!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sure, this is supposed to be an action-packed buddy flick with nifty stunts and jaunty banter.  Uh-uh.  This movie is soooo bad it's not even fun to watch.  The plot is wretchedly implausible and the action scenes are just dopey.  If the dialogue were a little better, we could call it trite.  One wonders if the original script was substantially better than the finished product.  What else could have lured respected actors like David Paymer and Cuba Gooding Jr. to this project?  The mind boggles.All this being said, this flick will always hold a special place in my heart.  I saw it on a first date and he and I were united in our mutual disregard for this clunker.  Reader, I married him. "},{"Title":"The movie that marked the end of the careers of Cuba Gooding Jr. and Skeet Ulirch.","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Skeet Ulrich and Cuba Gooding Jr. once started out their careers as promising new actors, Gooding Jr. had even already won an Oscar at the time of this movie. I have however always regarded this movie as the sort of turning points in their careers, as it's simply a very bad genre movie, with a lame concept and a story that borrows too much from much better other genre movies.It's not just its concept that makes this movie bad, it's just the overall execution of it all as well. For an action movie it simply isn't a very good one, not in the least because it also borrows heavily from other movies and just isn't original enough on its own to really add anything. The movie is like Speed meets Die Hard meets The Rock and than some movies thrown in the mix with it.No, I didn't really enjoyed watching this movie, even though the movie obviously got aimed toward it to bring some entertainment, by also adding a dose of comedy to the movie. Gooding Jr. has just never really been my favorite comedy actor and Skeet Ulrich just doesn't fit this genre. The movie tries to be like a buddy flick, in which two totally different mismatched persons just by chance end up with each other, running from a couple of bad guys who want to have a new deadly chemical weapon that detonates when it reaches temperatures over 50 degrees. Luckilly Gooding Jr. is an ice cream truck driver. This already should provide you a troubling image of how this entire movie is being like. Seems amazing to me in the first place that they decided to turn this concept into a movie. Its concept alone was reason for people to not go and see this movie, which made this movie an instant flop already, far before it had been released. And why some of the actors within this movie actually agreed to be in it is perhaps an even more strange thing. The movie does have some big names in it, next to Ulrich and Gooding Jr., such as David Paymer and Peter Firth.A movie that is as bad as its concept.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Doesn't fit anywhere...","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am not a huge fan of Cuba Gooding Jnr, but enjoyed his performance in Radio, and as all actors put in the occasional good performance, I thought I'd give this fim a go. It was awful. The plot would belong better in an episode of Starsky & Hutch, the villain was (unfortunatly) badly played by Peter Firth, who I enjoyed in the TV series 'The battle for Rome'. Hugh Johnson directed this flick, and this is his one and only attempt, and since this he's gone back to cinematography where he firmly belongs. The plot is thin, obvious and not entertaining. The action sequences are poorly put together and edited so badly it hurts to watch. It's not an action picture, it's definitely not a comedy, but it trys to be both, and fails. I felt the acting was restricted by the director, who is ultimately to blame for this appalling film. All in all, a waste of a Tuesday morning off work!!!! "},{"Title":"If you like action with wit, this is a good movie to rent.","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Of course, I like any movie that is packed with action, but is not so serious, that your depressed halfway through the movie.  This movie portrayed a pair of undesirables stuck together in a, wrong place at the wrong time kind of situation which made them into heros.Is this realistic?  Absolutely not!  But was it entertaining? Most definitely!  The humor in this movie is what made it good.  If they had tried to make this into some kind of serious drama, it probably would have flopped. Thankfully they didn't try that.  This movie gets an A+ from me. "},{"Title":"Far fetched plot, terrible dialogue, hopeless terrorists bags of laughs","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There's only one reason to watch Chill Factor, and that's Peter Firth (Colonel Andrew Brynner) and his bunch of totally useless elite commandos / terrorists.The plot is awful, the dialogue is terrible, and it makes you wince to think that Cuba Gooding Jnr once won an Oscar. However, this movie contains some of the most useless bad guys you've ever seen .Laugh out loud as one chap abseils into the path of a moving van, whilst another rides his motorbike into the grill of an oncoming truck. Grab your sides as Peter Firth delivers line after line of hilarious empty threats, movie clichés, and, in some cases, complete and utter rubbish.The movie lacks pace (apart from a nicely done initial disaster) and has no idea which genre it belongs to. Is it a bad action movie, a send up, or a comedy buddy movie? Who knows? What I do know is that Peter Firth realised he was making an absolute stinker of a movie and took the opportunity to ham-it-up to the max. He's a serious contender for worst movie bad guy ever, who clearly recruits his goons from the school for the seriously challenged.Watch out for his numerous attempts to steal best movie leer from John Voight in Anaconda! "},{"Title":"Terrific fun","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Don't you just love it when you're channel surfing to pass the time, end up watching a film you've never heard of and discover a forgotten gem? This is one of those movies, an action flick with tongue firmly placed in cheek that is very much in the vein of Con Air with its sense of humour.The plot is basically one part road movie, one part 'Speed' and two parts 'The Rock,' as two blue-collar losers in the shape of Skeet Ulrich and Cuba Gooding Jr find themselves in possession of a top secret military chemical weapon that will detonate and kill millions of people if its temperature exceeds 50 degrees Fahrenheit. Pursued by a renegade military General, the duo set off against all odds to return the weapon to the nearest secure outpost, but there's a hitch; they have to cross the desert to do so.It may be more Renny Harlin than William Shakespeare in its premise, but the end result is a riotous hour and thirty minutes worth of entertainment. Skeet and Cuba make for a great on screen pair, their bickering providing plenty of laughs and one liners, while Peter Firth is brilliant as the scenery-chewing villain. What makes it even more fun, is that unlike its contemporaries, the two lead characters are utterly hapless. They are just a pair of ordinary guys thrust into a situation beyond their control rather than muscle-clad, indestructible body-builders or Kung Fu experts and they only really survive unscathed by bumbling through the fight scenes.You can tell the cast are having a great time and in all honesty, Cuba Gooding Jr seems to be enjoying himself so much it's a surprise he doesn't grin like a cheshire cat throughout the whole movie. So get some beers in, get your mates round, switch your brain off and check it out, its a really enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Bore Factor.","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Chill Factor (1999) Dir Hugh Johnson / Cast Skeet Ulrich, Cuba Gooding Jr., David Paymer, Peter Firth, Kevin J. O'Connor Stupid action premise that winds down to clichés, stereotypes and total idiocy. Title represents a device that needs to be kept cold but it can also refer to the situation itself. An experiment goes wrong (much like the film) that costs the lives of soldiers. David Paymer plays the doctor in charge who regrets it. Peter Firth plays the commander who took the fall and plots revenge. The rest is a dumb road trip with Skeet Ulrich and ice cream truck driver Cuba Gooding Jr. Hugh Johnson directs as if this is a Looney Tunes cartoon. Ulrich plays a deli worker whom is the only one Paymer can trust on the verge of death, but the role has him either fleeing by vehicle or on foot. Gooding Jr. brings comic relief but the role is total cardboard. Paymer does well but his role requires him to regret, guilt and then die within fifteen minutes, which renders the role a prop. Firth cannot raise the commander above embarrassment. He murders the Paymer character then spends the remainder of the film trying to do the same to Ulrich and Gooding Jr. He also yells threats a lot but that may be the attitude coming from working on this film. Kevin J. O'Connor also makes an appearance in what will become standard for him and action films. Mindless action junk that should be buried in the Arctic. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Very promising idea, loused up by messy writers, who deserve a good chilling","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There could of been something much more better, than what eventuated here, it's a disappointing loss to what was an exciting idea. Palpably here, it's the script which is at fault, a lot of suspense and thrills have been sucked out of it, we're left with a below average actioner. This film too, pretty much finished Ulrich's career, and he really hasn't much to offer with his performance here. The film's exciting start, takes place in the South American jungle, when an experiment, involving frigid temperatures, goes horribly wrong, and a army of soldiers of frozen out, you could say. Taking the rap is a Colonel (Firth inn a dastardly role) now turned terrorist as just being released from prison after a ten year stint, with nothing but revenge on his mind. Disgraced scientist (Paymer), the real one responsible, for that horrific incident, has since retired to a simple life, as a fisherman in one of the backwater pine towns. Firth + his posse and Paymer's pasts cross, and it's a bitter confrontation. Paymer still has the chilled contraption of death, or better known as, yeah, Elvis, which Firth is after to make a loud of spondouli, putting it out there on the open market. Ulrich takes off with it, teaming up with an ice cream delivery man (Cuba Gooding Jnr, who's fast gabbling got on my nerves) pursued by Firth and his posse, where from here, it's an almost non suspense filled chase, with a couple of high thrills, but really just steady driving, nothing happenings, going on, here, where we're left with CBJ's ranting (someone give me a gun). There's some other thrills throughout the movie, but it's more a What happened with the movie here?, territory) Firth's twisted character, did have a have one hell of a motive for becoming who he does, I could sympathize with him a little. CF is one of those less memorable, short running movie pics of 2000, and the onus is on the writers, who have obviously written a messy exchange of bad dialogue, and plotting, from what was sadly a movie that could of really been something, if penned by different hands. Firth too, the real actor here, is one of few things good about this. "},{"Title":"Stupid setup to premise and stupid ending","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Dr. Richard Long (David Paymer) is working on a powerful bio-chemically bomb in a covert tropical base. Colonel Andrew Brynner (Peter Firth) is in charge of guarding the base, but when the experiment goes wrong killing all his men, he is scapegoated and imprisoned for 10 years.Now it's 10 years later, and Brynner is back to steal the weapon from Dr Long for himself. Tim Mason (Skeet Ulrich) is Dr Long's fishing buddy. When Brynner hit the base, Dr Long is mortally wounded but he escapes with the weapon. He manages to give it to Mason, and leave him with instructions to keep it under 50 F. Mason along with Arlo (Cuba Gooding Jr.) must take the weapon to Fort Magruder.Arlo is annoying self-centered more worried about his ice cream than saving the world. Why would he drive the bomb around? Mason is more likely to just steal the truck and leave Arlo behind. Of course, they need it for the movie buddy duo road trip genre.The setup is silly just to bring about the unlikely scenario of two bickering guys in an ice cream truck carrying a super weapon being chased by militaristic bad guys. For about 20 minutes in the middle, they have a fun action movie. Then it just gets stupid again. "},{"Title":"Far-fetched and plain, but still pleasant to follow","Date":"21 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In spite of several clichés and improbable scenes, the movie was not boring or annoying to watch - thanks to Cuba Gooding, Jr. as Arlo, Peter Firth as Andrew Brynner, and David Paymer as Dr. Richard Long, above all (Skeet Ulrich as Tim Mason was uninviting to me). Perhaps not worth for a cinema visit, but rather good in front of TV screen with a (male) company - and I find it better than most of movies with Norris, Seagal or Dudikoff. Chill Factor is a mediocre A-movie, but outperforms most of good B-movies; that is why I find that the viewers have been too harsh and critical towards it. Fortunately or unfortunately, film-makers like Tarantino, Schumacher, The Coen Brothers, Scott etc have no monopoly on making action movies. "}{"Title":"Typical Chase Movie","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A similar idea to Speed, where the bus had to keep moving above 50 mph to avoid exploding, the difference here is a substance must be kept at a higher temperature than fifty degrees. Dr. Richard Long is a scientist who worked on a top secret weapons project for the military which resulted in an accidental explosion, killing eighteen people. Long moves to Montana and does smaller experiments and spends time fly fishing. His former boss, a Colonel Brynner, is released from prison after ten years and he assembles a group of terrorists to steal a substance called elvis, which is highly volatile and will detonate above 50 degrees. Cuba Gooding is Arlo, who drives an ice cream truck. He ends up with elvis and most of the movie is a typical chase scene with a second guy, Tim(Skeet Ulrich) fighting with Arlo as they try to avoid Brynner and his crew. Chill factor reminded me of the A Team, but where is Mr. T when you need him; pity the fool who watches this. "},{"Title":"Chill or be Chilled","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It seems the nineties was the best decade for action films when it came to things such as Judgment Night and Speed. But here's a film that is forgotten, and so under the radar you could lose it. Chill Factor's purpose is nothing but a funny, quirky, feel-good action film. Don't you just love those films? Some films are put on this world to entertain and that's what Chill Factor's goal is. It certainly does in parts as well. The first twenty-five minutes were looking sort of grim, but the pairing of Cuba Gooding Jr. and Skeet Ulrich worked in the film's favor because the script made Cuba's character smart and funny. Rarely do I leave a movie wanting more, but I actually wouldn't have mind if after the credits the film kept going.The story is a strange one, and it doesn't help to just evaluate it for hours. But a bomb has been made that will explode if it reaches fifty degrees Fahrenheit. This bomb, nicknamed ELVIS, is now in the hands of Arlo (Gooding Jr.) and Tim (Ulrich). The rest of the film is a cat and mouse chase between Arlo and Tim and the US Army who wants to obtain the device so they could sell it to a foreign country and get revenge on the United States.This also one of those films where its better to go along for the ride than try to evaluate it. I had fun just watching everything unfold. Sometimes I was lost, and other times, I was enjoying myself. I used to watch countless action movies as a kid, most notably Speed, and not pay any attention whatsoever to the dialog. I would just rock back and forth and enjoy the explosions, fast cars, and tension. If I saw Chill Factor as a kid, I think I would've found my new favorite film.When compared to Cuba Gooding Jr.'s previous action film, Judgment Night, this is greatly inferior. When compared to current action films that have nothing more to offer than fast cars, wet t-shirts, and six packs, Chill Factor's premise may be a little bulky, but it's acceptable. It isn't long. Isn't convoluted to the point of confusion amongst the audience. It fits into the box it picked.Starring Cuba Gooding Jr. and Skeet Ulrich. Directed by Hugh Johnson. "},{"Title":"Watchable fluff, but one of the works that put Cuba firmly into the DTV market.","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Chill Factor isn't a horrible movie by any means, in fact it did exactly what I wanted passed the time perfectly, but it isn't anything out of the ordinary. The chemistry between Skeet and Cuba is good enough and it has a couple of spectacular action sequences, but when all is said and done that doesn't make it anything more than a run of the mill, average Buddy, Buddy film. It had some decent comedy in it at times, and the truck chase scene on the highway is by far the film's most effective action sequence, but I had to put up with a lot of silly dialog and a rather bland villain for my liking. Cuba is better than this stuff and deep down he knows it, wrong career choices has brought his career where it's at, and an actor of his caliber deserves so much more. Skeet didn't do much after this movie, and he has since faded into obscurity for the most part, doing occasional important work, here and there.Performances. Cuba Gooding Jr. is charismatic but his character isn't anything special, nor is it developed enough for me to care about it too much. He has enough presence to be entertaining but that's about it. Skeet Ulrich is alright, but he had plenty of wooden moments, and only seemed comfortable when Cuba was around with him. Peter Firth is a bland villain in my opinion, didn't care for him at all. David Paymer provides solid support.Bottom line. It did what I hoped it would do, passed the time nicely and not make me groan at anything, but it's far from remarkable. This will be a nice rainy afternoon television viewing, but don't expect anything more than an average film.5/10 "},{"Title":"This appeared in cinemas?","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Chill Factor has little originality, with sloppy direction, and a straight to cable feel.The only thing that kept me watching was counting how many times the main characters uttered the words 'Oh S***' - if you ever watch it, you'll be surprised by how often the writer relies on these words to convey 'fear/tension/disbelief'. My own thinking was that the actors realised just how bad the movie was and threw in double the amount of 'Oh ****' as the script originally had!  "},{"Title":"Decent, but you have seen it a million times before","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When a military experiment on a biological bomb goes wrong Col. Brynner ends up with a ten year prison sentence.  Now ten years later Brynner is out and ready to get revenge on the people who imprisoned him, by killing the creator of the bomb and selling the bomb to the highest bidder.  The only people who can save the world are Mason, a nightshift convenience store clerk, and Arlo, an ice cream delivery man.  The catch is the bomb will explode when it hits 50 degrees, so the guys decide to use Arlo's ice cream truck to transport the bomb to the nearest army base, while Brynner's men try to get the bomb back.  Lots of action, and pretty fun.  Gooding and Ulrich make a great pair.  The biggest problems are there is really nothing in this that you haven't seen before, and the fact that the bad guy is so uninspired and dull that he is just boring to watch.  Still, the ice cream truck idea is pretty cool.  ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Watch only if you don't have to pay for it.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This flick is VERY average, on the plus side are great visuals, noteably the landscape portraits, but the dialogues and the whole story are sooooo predictable and not very chilling. If you've seen some similar movies in the past, you will be bored, so i cannot really recommend this one. Also the story has quite some plot holes, so don't think too long about it. Watch it only if it runs on TV, so you don't have to pay for it. "},{"Title":"My brain is frozen","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I felt chills go up my spine as I thought about how much money I had to spend seeing this movie......I can't sleep or eat anymore because I feel so guilty about the $5 I spent renting this DVD, when I could have spent it ruining something else in my life......damn that man that recommended it to me!  Damn him to hell! "},{"Title":"Cliches in overdrive","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this movie based on the pretty good track record ofGooding jr . Well I must say it was a bitter disappointment. Not thatGooding didn't do his stuff, but the dialogues we're soooooooincredibly stale. Every cliche in the book is there.  The story is flimsy and holds no surprises whatsoever. My adviceSkip this one! "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie could have been better if it weren't such a stereotypical, predictable rip-off of Speed and other such genre movies.I wish original and good writing would make a return, instead of brain-dead plots and trite dialogue that rely on effects and actors' energy to create eye candy.  "},{"Title":"Painful to watch","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This ranks at about 4 on my worst 10 list.  The movie suffers because there is really no character development.  It's like were put in a middle of an action movie with bad guys chasing good guys and thats it. Capt. Andrew Brynner's transformation into an evil character literally takes place in just under 5 seconds where we see a shot of him going into a prison and coming out 10 years later. We see major characters that have a great effect on the movie like Colonel Vitelli midway through the movie without any explanation other then that he served with Brynner.  The movie suffers and several cliches are thrown out just for the sake of it since this can be classified as one of those monotonous action movies without any flare to it. "}{"Title":"Awful, dreadful, contrived","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It angers me to see a movie like this, 'cause there are so many good scripts out there waiting to be written or have been written already but are considered not crowd-pleasing enough. Then Hollywood comes with this horrible piece of movie not worth the celluloid it is printed on.The story was so incredibly boring, the supposed jokes were not remotely funny, acting was horrendous. Why does Warner or any other studio for that matter keep making these movies, for the money I guess and that's not a good basis for using the incredible cinema medium.Horrendous, stupid, a waste of your money.2/10(I give it a 2 for the effort.) "},{"Title":"A CHEAP KNOCK-OFF of BROKEN ARROW","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is painful to watch from the very beginning. What a waste of time for the talented Cuba Gooding Jr. The talented cast entices the viewer to sit through the entire movie, waiting for it to get better. It never does. If your trapped on a desert island with this movie, I suppose you could replay the explosions for awhile. "},{"Title":"Subpar production value with not much of anything","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The low production quality and below average storyline make this film a rather painful experience to sit through.  Cuba Gooding Jr. continues to act his show me the money routine, which really is getting tiresome, and Skeet Ulrich acts as if he doesn't want to be in the film.There are a couple of stunt scenes which are notable, but all other prodution areas of this film are just plain awful.This action thriller is definately missing the action and the thrills. "},{"Title":"Do everything possible to avoid this movie.","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Chill Factor 0* During the fall of 1998 I was in North Carolina. The afternoon before returning to Richland, I had the opportunity to tour the Bad Creek Power Station. Bad Creek Power Station is awesome and the tunnel though the mountain to the power station is really impressive. So what's this have to do with a really bad movie. The tunnel entrance is a featured set in the movie and of course I had to see this. Well I saw the tunnel in the movie and Dewey Johnson, the station manager that gave us the tour is credited. But CF is so bad, it hurt sitting there watching the movie. I could comment on the acting, directing, script etc, but needless to say they all contribute to a 0* rating from me. But the really, really worst thing about CF is the geographical incongruity. The movie takes place in Montana. The on-location scenes flip back and forth between Utah and North/South Carolina. Are the moviegoers of America so geographically challenged that scene changes between Utah and the Carolinas go unnoticed? (Please don't tell me the answer. I just want to assume that the director is extra stupid.) Do everything possible to avoid this movie. CF was near the top (bottom) of my 1999 worst movie list. "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This one sucked. I mean, I can see the appeal of a plain-jane action movie, but this one has been coughed up from the phlegmatic lungs of hundreds of other action movies. Every single damned line in the whole thing was a big cliche. For God's sake, Cuba Gooding, Jr. at one point says, When this is over, remind me to kick your ass. Raise your hands if you've heard that one before. Skeet Ulrich, I liked. Cuba Gooding, Jr., I didn't. The only line he delivers that I liked was the same one that everyone has heard a hundred times in the advertisements, so, I was ready for it. AVOID. "},{"Title":"I am not a movie critic, I go to the movies for enjoyment","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you are looking for a movie to stimulate your intellect, give this one a miss.   If however, you are like my wife and myself, and you want to get away from reality for a while, this one will fill the bill.   It is funny in places, we loved the cliches, the mix of plots from other movies(there are not really all that many original stories around), the holes in the story and the obvious can't happen events.   We reckon that it is worth a 6. "},{"Title":"A Broken Arrow and Speed wannabetwo rip-offs at the same time! Oh NOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Chill Factor is about two idiots that are not at the good place at the good time...and of of them has a friend which is a scientist and who has a secret. But when they realize the secret Skeet Ulrich's friend had causes a lot of trouble...they play the heroes and get away in an ice cream truck containing the bomb their friend stole. And then comes a bunch of boring and cheap car pursuits where some terrorists get killed...Then they are captured by the terrorists and there is a big fight between ''good and evil''. The normal thing in an action movie. It is absolutely non realistic and stupid. Cuba Gooding Jr. is getting on my nerves!!!!!I think he was good in As Good As It Gets and maybe in Jerry Maguire....but after A Murder Of Crows, Instinct and Chill Factor, I guess he's ready to make straight to video movies(A Murder of Crows didn't play at the theatre). Skeet Ulrich is not very amazing....not as bad as Cuba Gooding Jr.! This is like Speed without scenario(and let's say that Speed had not a big and rich scenario...And it is a bit like Broken Arrow, without the cool action sequences, and the good acting of John Travolta (and maybe Christian Slater). You want to have fun and you are a big action fan? This film is not for you! You are a big INTELLIGENT film fan? This film is not for you either...It is not for anyone....nobody has to waste his time watching stupidities like this....avoid it please...this is not a BAD BAD BAD film....but still, not amazing at all. I give it 51%(and I am generous). "},{"Title":"Not too seriously now!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie sure didn't take itself seriously at all.  Constant bickering between good guys, unrealistic action sequences, goofy terrorist team.  However, it was enjoyable for the most part.  You can't really get into this movie and call it an action movie.  It's more of a comedy with goofy action.  The first scene sets the stage for the value of the chemical bomb, but we really get to see the effects in the end, whew!  Pointless explosions blur together, mainly because the camera use and FX is slow and somewhat confusing.  The cameras were put to awful use.  The ending in my opinion, was very good.  It was serious, but lightened up totally at the very end.  That's how I like it, just like in Bad Boys.  This one is up in the air, rent it at your own risk.   "},{"Title":"You want cliches? Chill Factor has them in spades.","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think that this movie is merely a compendium of different buddy action picture cliches. We have- Scene with argument over car dash controls (air conditioning this time)- Scene where the Hero (TM) flashes back to something that the    now-dead Scientist(R) said to him while they were fishing(C) together.- Standard pointless explosions- Standard rejoicing over killing other people- Standard femme fatale, who does even less than such characters normally do- Vehicle endorsement. We learn that milk tankers are utterly annihilated when hit by a shoulder-mounted missile, but Chevy Suburbans can withstand a helicopter-fired missile strike.- Yet another Good guys win, bad guys get blown up or otherwise destroyed final conflictI swear this movie has the worst ending I've ever seen. We're talking about plumbing the depths, here. "},{"Title":"Honestly the worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Yes, even worse than Mortal Kombat Annihilation.  This movie just sucked.  The plot was old and tired.  I knew how the movie was going to end from the beginning 15 minutes.  The writing was horrible-- the lines were so lame, so corny, and the flashback seen was so pathetic I was actually laughing out loud(Not since the boom mike was visible in Playing God have I laughed out loud at horrible production)!!!!  And the acting was just as bad!!!  The scientist's death scene was so melodramatic I almost laughed at him dying, too!  I tried to convince my friends to leave so I could see the second half of The Sixth Sense for the 4th time, but they were too amused by how bad this film was.  I just kept thinking to myself through the whole movie Please kill the good guys, please kill the good guys...  Ugh, if I could, this movie would be rated -10; The other movies I've rated a one don't deserve to have this among their company. "}{"Title":"Well...","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sometimes a movie can have a deep, long lasting effect on one's life. We all can agree that there is at least a hand-full of films out there that typify perfection in the cinema arts. Films such as 'Life Is Beautiful' or 'Saving Private Ryan' are great examples of works that cause us to dig deep into our psyche and ask questions about our existence, our soul, and so forth. There are other films that have equal merit, yet of a different nature. 'The Waterboy,' 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2' and 'I Got The Hook Up' for example, are crucial contributions to the world's cinema repertoire because they have given us a 'base-line' of just how bad art can be. Not only do films such as these help us better appreciate fine filmmaking, but also they provide us with a cornucopia of comedic materials. Most importantly, these insipid films serve another critical purpose they entertain the less fortunate, intellectually challenged members of our plebian communities. Hence we MUST HAVE horrible, disgusting, foolish, cliché, nonsensical films in our society. Thank you Drew Gitlin and Mike Cheda (the writers of 'Chill Factor'). Thank you. You guys actually sat down and took the time to write a fine piece of cinematic history. Your film, 'Chill Factor' will join the ranks of ' The Waterboy,' 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2,' 'Gone Fishin,' 'Lawnmower Man 2,' 'Howard The Duck,' 'I Got The Hook Up,' and 'Leonard Part 6.' "},{"Title":"One of the year's worst movies, but still entertaining...","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Now, Chill Factor, oh, my goodness. The movie was so bad yet pretty entertaining. I was never bored, but I can't find another movie this year that was so riddled in cliches. It brings zero originality to the formula and the action was rather standard. Skeet Ulrich bothers me so much because of his awkward facial contortions he makes in ALL his movies. I am starting to feel sorry for Cuba Gooding, Jr. though. He was great in Jerry Maguire but hasn't he been playing that role ever since? I liked him better in Instinct and the overall film even though everyone else hates it. Here, he was just annoying most of the time, playing SUCH a stereotypical black character. He's basically Jar Jar Binks in human form, but not annoying to that extreme. I don't even know where his career is going now. He should have been on the right track after winning an Oscar and he was for a while with As Good As It Gets and What Dreams May Come. Well, there were moments where Cuba was hysterical, some zingy one-liners, but this movie is instantly forgettable once you leave the theater. Oh, well. "},{"Title":"A delivery guy and a short order cook save the world from a deep freeze by way of an ice cream truck.","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You can almost see the movie honchos in this pitch meeting.  Honcho  It's Speed meets 48 hours in an ice cream truck.  Well, Speed was thrilling and 48 hours was funny.   This movie accomplishes neither.   After watching this movie, I have to say Cuba Gooding Jr. has got to find a new agent.   A movie has got to be pretty bad if all they can put in the trailer as the tagline a protesting Cuba deadpans(where Skeet Ulrich points a gun to Cuba) How far do you wanna go?   A good action/comedy usually makes you lose all your senses as you go through a wild roller coaster ride.  The only thing I lost after seeing this expensive train wreck of a movie was seven bucks and a few brain cells. "},{"Title":"Ok for a action movie!it been done before!","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a lot similar to broken arrow from a few years ago.It was also like watching any buddy action movie (ie Leathal Weapon movie) It will be ok for a rental?perhaps there is some deleted parts that maybe would overall better . The only thing in Chill Factor was the a/c in the movie theater!!You have seen better from the films stars cuba gooding was awesome in What dreams may come and Ullrich was awesome in Scream and Phantoms!!!If you must go leave your mind at the door and be ready for a mind numbing action movie!! "},{"Title":"Better Than Lethal Weapon 4","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A nice surprise.  I went to this movie just based on what I read on a poster.  I figured it would be interesting.  I did not expect it to be funny, but I found myself laughing with the writer inspite of Cuba Gooding Jr. over acting.  He seemed to be trying too hard to be funny.More action than Universal Soldier The Return (don't go see) and funnier than Lethal Weapon 4. I gave it a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Pass on this one if you have a choice in the matter.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For an ex-cinematographer who's been fortunate enough to work with one of the greatest directors in film history (Ridley Scott), I am surprised at just how bad this film looks.  I mean 1492 may not have been one of Ridley's greatest, but Hugh Johnson shot it, and it was absolutely beautiful.  Maybe there just wasn't any room in the Chill Factor budget for lights.  There are more than just a couple of scenes where you find yourself having paid green money to watch a bunch of silhouettes run around on the screen and spew unfortunate dialog.  And it's not that the plot is tired.  Name one action film presenting a new idea.  And it's not that the film is cheezy.  I'm a huge fan of cheezy movies, but this film takes itself entirely too seriously to be classified as cheese.  The writing is bad.  The acting is bad.  This film could have been edited down to a fairly impressive 28 minute short...But not to be completely negative, Cuba Gooding Jr. was very entertaining and Cinesite's sequence in the beginning is really impressive for the anemic budget I'm sure was allotted for visual effects.  I mean, if they couldn't afford a good script, a good director, or a good editor, there's no way they could've afforded that much 3D...Pass on this one if you have a choice in the matter... "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Two word defines this movie.  Thrilling-Funny.  I could not stop laughing once Cuba came on.   Cuba is all comedy.  Skeet is all action.  The stunts were excellent, and the scene with the boat is amazing.  The deaths are quite disturbing, but that makes you realize the power of the liquid.  Like another comment, this is Broken Arrow 2.  If you like Broken Arrow, I'd really recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Might be considered entertaining . . . .","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  if you have an afternoon to kill. This will not go down as one of Cuba Gooding's better venues.  The plot is recognizable; the character's not quite believable.  The heroes might have saved Montana, it's unfortunate they couldn't save this movie! "},{"Title":"","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Pop quiz hotshot.  There's a bomb on an ice-cream truck.  If the temperature of the bomb goes over 50, the bomb blows up.  What do you do?  What do you do?  One thing's for sure...you can skip this movie.  The Speed similarities aside, this movie tries to pass itself off as a buddy film. Whereas other buddy films like Lethal Weapon, and Thelma and Louise prospered with the idea, the chemistry between Cuba and Skeet didn't quite click for me.  The Jokes were dull and a little over the top, and the only enjoyment I got out of the film was guessing how creatively the next bad guy would die.  If you like this movie&#133;you'll also like `Speed', Broken Arrow, and Chain Reaction. "},{"Title":"Entertaining...but...","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  NOTE to editor Please check the plot summary for spoilers and remove as necessary.Over the last few years, I've noticed that it's a pretty good bet that if Cuba Gooding Jr. is in a movie, it's going to be entertaining. This was the case with Chill Factor but this movie wasn't as entertaining as I thought it was going to be.The story revolves around a military science experiment that goes bad. The Major in charge of the experiment is held responsible for the disaster and is thrown in jail for 10 years. Flash forward 10 years and the Major is released from jail only to be extremely bitter towards the government and attempts to exact vengeance by stealing the chemical weapon that was developed during that experiment to sell to the highest bidder. In walks Skeet Ulrich and Cuba Gooding Jr's characters. They are a couple of ordinary guys that invariably get mixed up in this mess and what ensues is a plot line about a group of renegade mercenaries, lead by the Major, who chase down these two Joes to get these chemicals back.The plot line is somewhat similar to another movie, The Rock. Despite that, I do have to say that the performances that Ulrich (who looks amazingly like Johnny Depp) and Gooding Jr. give are quite good, especially Gooding Jr's. He tends to dominate the scenes that he is in purely on the fact that he makes the most with what he is given. This is definitely the sign of a good actor. Also, the constant bantering between him and Ulrich is quite humorous and the chemistry between the two actors is very evident.The special effects are also fairly well done and if you like explosions, there are plenty of those. Being billed as an action flick, the movie definitely follows the action flick formula of plenty of explosions, lead characters fighting against ridiculous odds, some gruesome deaths and eye catching stunts. It also means that the plot leaves a lot to be desired. Some of the dialogue is just not very good, especially the ones delivered by the villain (Peter Firth). At times, I found the dialogue so filled with cliches that it was annoying. It got to the point where I knew the line before it was spoken. Now, mind you, I realize that with action movies, this kind of corny dialogue is going to happen but at least make an effort to come up with something somewhat creative. Also, the premise that a couple of ordinary guys could outsmart a group of professionally trained soldiers is a bit hard to believe.Overall, if you check your brain...and your vocabulary at the door, you will find this movie entertaining. Gooding Jr. and Ulrich hold this movie together and make it a satisfactory action movie....6/10. "}{"Title":"An enjoyable but not top notch action film","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Chill Factor was definitely an enjoyable movie for an action film fan. The plot, although at times flawed, was intriguing enough to keep a viewer interested.  Skeet Ulrich and Cuba Gooding Jr. worked well together.  However, Gooding Jr., although decent, didn't appear as comical in the role as for instance a Chris Tucker or Chris Rock.  The villain was evil but slightly hard to believe.  I would give examples of the flaws but I would rather not give scenes away.  This is a good movie but does not compare with various other movies of its genre. "},{"Title":"We always seem to be drawn into these action movies...","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  We always seem to be drawn into these action movies...What is it about chase films.  Is it the story? (cause they are all the same).  One or two Hero's are being chased by the bad guys...they have no military training, they are just your average joe's going against ruthless professionals to save the world.  Is it the action?  multiple explosions...possible loss of life...unbelievable stunts.  Is it the suspense?  are the hero's going to make it alive....for the sequel?   No matter how much we see the same types of movies, it doesn't matter.  As long as you have fun watching the movie.  As long as your gripping your armchairs during the suspense....laughing at the actors 'well timed catch phrases'  and waiting for the final battle against good and evil it does not matter that you have seen the same typical movie. I really enjoyed watching this film.  Cuba Gooding Jr. and Skeet Ulrich made a very opposite, yet funny team together.  I gave it a 7 in my book  "},{"Title":"Chill Factor left me a little cold.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Chill Factor left me a little cold. The contrivances of this film were at such a level that I was unable to suspend my disbelief. Unfortunate, because it boasts good acting talent. I got the feeling they had to shoot the film in a week, forcing the production team to take a machete to their basic FORMULA for a commercial action /thriller. Further compounding a fracture, they wasted the adroit talent of Hudson Leick. The film would have been more interesting had they expanded her role. It will be interesting to see how long it lasts at the box office. "},{"Title":"A good buddy action thriller","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's no Lethal Weapon, but it's a decent action thriller. Oscar winner Cuba Gooding Jr. sometimes overplays his character (a la show me the money attitude) and Skeet Ulrich seems timid at times, but the two actors pull it off as a team.  The chase scenes do seem to get redundant.A good balance of action/suspense/comic keeps it moving.  The twist of keeping the bomb at under 50 degrees while being chased by well trained commandos does make it interesting.It's not a blockbuster actioner, but it should play well to the action fans.The overall production quality is good. "},{"Title":"Broken Arrow, Part II","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Chill Factor is a great crowd pleasing movie, lots of things blow up, there's blood, people die, and you really don't have to think at all while watching the movie. Although several parts are unbelievable, the audience seemed to love it from beginning to end.The plot of the is a tad bit over used. Anyone who saw Broken Arrow may have trouble telling the difference these movie, except for the fact that this doesn't have as big stars. As predictable as this is, if this is your idea of $8 well spent, then it's a must-see movie.If it's not, it's easily summed up with a quote from the movie Bowfinger I'm trying to make a movie, not a film. "},{"Title":"Lousy Film! Waste of Time!","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I had to review this film because of all the Not Bad reviews. This is simply one of the worst films I have ever seen. This one would definitely qualify for Elvira's World's Worst Films. Cuba Gooding's expletive deleted Ah S--t! is screeched from his falsetto voice at least 2 dozen times throughout the film. There is no script and what there is is lousy. There is no story worthy of note. Lousy acting! Lousy direction! They go hand in hand in this film. This movie is consistently bad throughout. Are people going brain dead from watching too many zombie films and/or are they simply smoking too much weed? This film should be flushed down the toilet. Or better yet do like Mel Gibson commanded in Braveheart. Burrrn it! "},{"Title":"Dumb, dumber, dumbest","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a total paint-by-numbers job that is devoid of brains, originality or believability. Every element of it has already been done to death many times over. Interracial male bonding buddy movie? Check. Road movie? Check. Rogue military bad guys? Check. Pseudo-scientific BS? Check.I really can't imagine what Cuba Gooding was doing in this throwaway effort when he can have his pick of roles. Especially playing second fiddle to Skeet Ulrich, who was reasonably good in the TV series Jericho but is not exactly an A-lister. And Gooding's role was annoyingly formulaic as the hyper, wise-cracking black guy. The bad guys, the country sheriff etc. were likewise straight from central casting.There was a fairly good chase scene, but I'm glad I didn't pay money to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"chilly","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I came across this film one night and let me tell you it is a cracker of a movie. Cuba Gooding Jr,an ice cream delivery driver,and Skeet Ulrich,an employee at a diner, are transporting a secret chemical weapon,named Elvis,that if exceeding the temperature of 50 degrees will detonate killing 3 million Americans and annihilating everything for miles around. They are pursued by terrorist Peter Firth, who wants to sell the weapon to the highest bidder, and his female cronie Hudson Leick. This is a film that keeps upping the tension and keeps you on the edge of your seat. Cuba Gooding Jr and Skeet Ulrich are perfect as 2 unlikely heroes who at first don't get on but have to work together and in so doing become friends. Peter Firth plays a really nasty piece of work but his co-star Hudson Leick steals every scene with her portrayal of a female assassin who has no scruples what so ever. If you ever get the chance to watch this film then take up the offer because you will be seeing a small movie that is a little gem. By the end of this film you will have no nails left to chew. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"2 men and an ice cream truck. Make that 2 men with an ice cream truck and a deadly radio-active bomb named Elvis.","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ---Minor Spoilers---Cuba Gooding Jr., and Skeet Ulrich star in this decent but funny action/thriller directed by Hugh Johnson. Cuba plays an ice cream delivery man named Arlo while Skeet plays as a connivance store clerk in Montana named Tim Mason. David Paymer plays a role at the beginning of the movie that lasts about 30 minutes and he plays the best friend of Mason who is a scientist named Richard Long.The movie starts on an island in which some sort of military establishment is. Dr. Long is in charge of this radio-active bomb named Elvis that he's been working on for a long time. Him and his assistant decide to test it out but it goes all wrong and Long's boss comes in named Bryner. If the bomb were to reach 50º Fahrenheit, it would blow up and massacre anything in it's 5-mile radius, that exact radius of the island. The bomb reaches 50º, which must be the CHILL FACTOR and it blows up. 17 soldiers are severely killed and in the scientist shelter, the military boss, Long, and his assistant survive. Next scene, the boss is charged for all of it even though it was all Long's fault. The boss goes to jail for 10 years. Next scene, 10 years later, Bryner comes out and seeks revenge. Now in Montana, he assembles a small team of smart assassins to travel with him to avenge what Long did to him. Meanwhile, Arlo (Gooding) is doing a 4 AM ice cream shift and Mason (Ulrich) is doing a connivance store night shift. The assassins invade the research center of Long and he gets shot. Already some plot holes. Long barely makes it to Mason's store, almost dead while Arlo is there to deliver $400 worth of ice cream. Long tells his best friend that he's about to die and that he needs him to bring the remaining radio-active bomb that detonates at CHILL FACTOR to the military base. This time, this Elvis is much more stronger than the 5-mile radius one. Long said he needs Arlo's ice cream truck to keep the temperature down on the bomb. Long dies, and Arlo and Mason are off to put the bomb in its proper place with Arlo's ice cream truck while the assassins are on him. Thus concludes the first 35 minutes of the movie. Note that Arlo doesn't appear in the movie until 25 minutes in. The adventure (with this twisted plot) is on. Tensions flare, in comedy as Arlo wants to get the hell away from Mason and far away as possible but Mason threatens him with a revolver forcing him to continue driving during the early parts of they're trip. They soon find out that Bryner is on their tail and they have to improvise or die.Overall, Chill Factor is a decent action/thriller with good comedy in it but somewhat fails to impress. Maybe it's the lacking, holed plot. Good effort by Cuba and Skeet though. If you got some time and you want a good buddy film, check this one out.My Rating 6.5/10 (A Mid 6.5)Eliason A. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Terrible","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I never walk out of movies. I'm a movie buff, and if I'm going to pay eight bucks to see a picture, I'm going to make sure I see the whole thing. However, Chill Factor was a different experience altogether. The trailers looked great. I had been following this movie, having been a fan of Cuba Gooding Jr. since Jerry Maguire. Talk about a let-down. What did this movie have? A terrible plot, stereotypically bad villains (the lead villain in this film is a textbook case of overacting), and a garbage script that lacked an original idea with the exception of an ice cream truck. This flick is blasphemy. Don't see it.  "}{"Title":"I LIKED THE SUSPENSE.","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wonderful actorsCuba Gooding Jr,Skeet Ulrich,Hudson Leick,Judson Mills,David Paymer,& Peter Firth.There's action in this movie and alot of suspense.Also,if Gooding Jr is in a movie,you know it will include comedy.That's why i really loved this movie and own it on dvd.Thank you actors,writers and directors for a job well done.My suggestion for any other movies for you to seePresident's Man & President's ManA Line In The Sand.Also,anything with Gooding Jr,he's funny and witty. "},{"Title":"Good Jokes, Good Action","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you are looking for a quality movie, this is not the movie to see. Cuba Gooding Jr. and Skeet Ulrich are all jokes in this movie as they transport an explosive in an ice cream truck. The plot isn't very strong and is very similar to other action films, but there are some funny, memorable moments. If you are looking for a good laugh or simply are a fan of Gooding, see this film just for the hell of it!  "},{"Title":"formulaic but passable action film","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In `Chill Factor,' Cuba Gooding, Jr. and Skeet Ulrich star as two average guys who find themselves in a stolen ice cream truck transporting a volatile chemical weapon capable of destroying all animal life within a 500-mile diameter if the material (shades of `Speed') rises above 50 degrees Fahrenheit.  Hot on their tail come the men (and one woman) who will stop at nothing to retrieve the explosive as well as a dimwitted sheriff who mistakenly believes the two young gentlemen are responsible for the death of the scientist who both invented the substance and guards it from falling into enemy hands.`Chill Factor' is a decent enough action film, short on credibility and originality but high on energy and visual attractiveness.  The latter is attributable mainly to the gloriously scenic and beautifully photographed Montana countryside where the film is set.  `Chill Factor' is also, however, replete with the usual array of action movie staples  impressive but wholly implausible action and stunt sequences, the running exchange of dimwitted quips and wearying verbal badinage - sometimes between the main characters themselves and sometimes between them and those who are out to kill them - that occurs virtually without pause throughout the movie and, finally, stock villains that come straight from the cinema factory that seems to spit out these cookie-cutter action films with almost unconscionable frequency. On the positive side, director Hugh Johnson knows how to keep the action moving forward at a brisk pace and Gooding and Ulrich, despite the fact that the screenplay offers neither actor much of a chance to flex his thespian muscles, at least make for a likeable movie-buddy team.  Still, one wonders whatever happened to Gooding, Jr.'s career which seemed so promising just a few years back after he won the Academy Award for his work in `Jerry Maguire.'  Likeable as he is in `Chill Factor,' one would like to see this performer applying his talents to more challenging and worthy fare than he has of late been doing.  "},{"Title":"Character Holes Are Bigger Than Plot Holes In This Sinking Ship","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you are willing to turn off your intelligence, let the momentum carry you over the glaring plot holes, and ignore the derivative nature of this movie (Speed in an ice cream truck) you may come out of the theatre happy. Otherwise, prepare to be disappointed. The surface problem with this movie is its inability to decide whether it is an action film or a comedy. Some films - notably the first Lethal Weapon - manage to straddle the divide to good effect, but not this movie. The violence is gratuitous and far too graphic for comedy (both the opening and the climax are unsuitable for the weak of stomach), and the comedy is too broad for an action movie, as well as being forced. However, what really sinks this film is the lack of any plausible motivation for any character involved. For the first 15 minutes, Major Brynner seems to be the good guy, and Long the mad scientist; yet in jail Brynner is somehow transformed into an evil megalomaniac. This conversion is never justified in the film. Meanwhile, Long has supposedly suffered 10 years of terrible guilt over carelessly causing so many deaths in act 1 - but not so terrible that he has stopped developing the weapon responsible. Yet, we are supposed to regard him as the good guy - at least, one minor character gives us a tedious monologue on how wonderful he is. And then, 20 minutes into the movie he abruptly dies (not a spoiler - it's in the trailer), leaving Mason and Arlo (Ulrich and Gooding) to save the world. Confused? Apparently, so were the writers of this nonsense.Mason and Gooding's motivation for taking on this mission is never even remotely established. Arlo's excuse, that he is threatened with a gun, is discarded about 30 minutes later when Arlo says he knew Mason wouldn't shoot; and besides, what stopped him from handing over the keys to his van and exiting the story? Indeed, the dull scene in the boat where each tells his backstory, supposedly explaining his motivations, is easily the worst in the movie, highlighting the limited acting talents of both Ulrich and Gooding. Thus, as the film enters act 2, none of the characters introduced in act 1 is alive or recognizably the same person, and the protagonists have only just appeared. Midway through the movie, another key character, Colonel Vitelli, joins the chase. (Apparently the writers missed the class in Screenwriting 101 where you learn not to introduce key characters halfway through.) Vitelli apparently has a history with Brynner, but that seems to have finished up on the cutting room floor, leaving us with a bizarre scene in which Vitelli tells us that he knew all along it was Brynner (so what? that was never in doubt!) and Brynner again confuses us by laying justifiable claim to being the good guy (apparently, he was demoted for protecting civilians in Vietnam). The possibility that Vitelli might have pursued Mason and Arlo in the mistaken belief that they were the terrorists is thus introduced and disposed of in the space of minutes, neatly killing what might have been the only interesting complication in the progress of this story. Once Vitelli enters, the second half of the movie reprises the same idiotic chases and explosions of the first half, yet no obstacle is allowed to stand for more than a couple of minutes before our two young heroes dispose of it. As a result, the film never manages to achieve any sense of tension or jeopardy.The film is so riddled with plot holes, starting with a terrifyingly powerful doomsday weapon that can be stolen by 3 people simply by killing 4 guards, that they are hardly worth cataloguing; but it is the character holes, rather than the plot holes, that ultimately sink this movie.  "},{"Title":"nothing special","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sorry but this movie didn't do it for me. Yes it is a bit funny and yes there is some cool dialog. The movie is completely predictable from beginning to end, there is no surprises of any kind. Some of the action parts are nice, but you don't really care about the characters and through the movie you have the feeling nothing bad is going to happen to our main characters (like in James Bond). I must say there are some parts where the bad guys are really stupid, can't believe some refer to them as professionals. Overall, it is funny maybe entertaining to people who did not see many action movies and get excited when a bomb goes off &#150; but pointless and predictable.Too bad, The previews looked good.  "},{"Title":"Chilly Silly.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Editor's note this comment contains minor SPOILERSI can understand some filmmakers trying to make a tounge-in-cheek action film, with a weak plot, and big action scenes. They can work sometimes, CON-AIR for example, it's plot was simple, but the action scenes were great and so was the acting. But CHILL FACTOR, wants to be another big action film with little plot and big action scenes.  The problem is that Director Hugh Johnson not only got a dumb plot, but also dull action scenes.The plot has a military scientist Dr. Long (David Paymer) test out a new defense system on a private island.  Because of poor miscalculation, most of the soliders on that island perish, and the scapegoat is Capt. Andrew Brynner (Peter Firth), the person in charge of the soldiers.  Capt. Brynner is sent to prison for ten years, while Dr. Long transfers to Montana.  Ten years later, Dr. Long is released and seeks revenge on Dr. Long, and wishes to steal the deadly chemical that sent him to prison, and sell it to the highest bidder.While Capt. Brynner and his crew kill all of the security at the secret military base, Dr. Long is shot by Brynner, but not bad enough to steal the chemical before Capt. Brynner can. Dr. Long takes the chemical and gives it to his fly-fishing friend, Tim Mason (Skeet Ulrich), a short-order cook.  Before Dr. Long's perish, Long tells Mason and a ice cream delivery man named Arlo (Cuba Gooding Jr.), to take the chemical to another military base, and to keep the chemical below 50 degrees or it will explode.  So it's a race against temperature as Mason and Arlo outwit Capt. Brynner and his team and try to take the deadly chemical to the closest military base.This is a pretty bland film, the plot seems to familiar (a lot like SPEED meets SORCERER) and the pacing of the film is slow.  Some of the action scenes are pretty typical, they look like action scenes taken from such movies as BROKEN ARROW, BREAKDOWN, and SORCERER.  And the outcome of the film is a let down.  The only thing in this film that somewhat stands out is the acting by the two leads (Gooding Jr. and Ulrich).  Both men do a respectable job with their acting, and seem like that they give it their best shot.  But it's not their fault that the screenplay doesn't work. As for the other acting, Paymer plays a typical scientist in jeopardy before he dies, and Firth is following the betraying military Capt. by the book.  The book titled I am a terrorist, who's trying to be cruel.The one thing that really bothers me is the logic.  I can buy and enjoy two secret service agents trying to stop a mad scientist and his deadly female assistants trying to assassinate the president with a 80 foot tarantula.  But I can not buy two men, one a cook, the other a delivery, the only physical strength experience one of these two had was being a football player.  And these two ordinary men, out-wit and kill a team of highly trained soldiers.  The soldiers aren't too bright, since they overlook Dr. Long's blood while Long stole the chemical before they got a hold of it.Overall, CHILL FACTOR is a weak movie, a typical film released off-season.  Had it been released during the summmer or winter, it would have been only been big for a week.  But since it came out in early fall, it's going to be big for two weeks.  Stick to a Jerry Bruckheimer action film, they're more entertaining.  ** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Ready for Thanksgiving","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film practically gobbles, it's so bad. At one point, I though it might even tip over to a parody of the thriller genre, but the funniest parts were unintentional.   Cliches and unlikely, even impossible plot points and lack of continuity abounded.  I realize the script was probably a first effort by a pair of 20-something boys, but these boys aren't even remotely clever.  They shouldn't be allowed near a word processor (or better yet, a pitch meeting) ever again, at least not without adult supervision.  And may the equally untalented director be similarly rewarded.Cuba Gooding, who can be wonderful, was so hammy, he resembled Stephin Fetchit at several points.  This was the first time I'd seen Skeet Ulrich, and he's a cute Johnny Depp lookalike, the perfect bookend for the Sharon Stone clone in one of the few female roles.  David Paymer, who is usually a talented actor, has a grueling death scene in this that is unintentionally as funny as some of Bruce Vilanch's work.I'm certain this film was created with the special effects first (gratuitous violence, literal cliffhangers, and things blowing up) and then a storyline was sketched out to incorporate this unlikely series of events.   The plot, such as it is, involves a deadly substance, developed by the Paymer character, that Ulrich and Gooding, as two ordinary guys, are trying to keep out of the hands of the bad guys, a highly trained paramilitary group. Unfortunately, I suspect this film will do fine at the box office, as some in the audience seemed to find it more entertaining than I did.   While not my favorite genre, I like decent action thrillers (e.g. Escape from Alcatraz), and audience acceptance of dreck like this makes it even more difficult for more challenging films to get produced and released. "},{"Title":"Great action film","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Every once in a while, there is a film that comes along and grabs you unexpectedly, without notice or warning. I must say that Chill Factor is one of those such films. At the time of it's release, I had no thought or opinion whatsoever about this film. I didn't even really pay attention to the commercials. A year and a half pass and what do you know, this same movie comes on Cinemax, ironically on my birthday. So I decided to check it out and man I was pleased with what I saw. Maybe this film might not have the greatest plot I know, but it sure as heck keeps you entertained throughout the whole movie. Not many action movies can keep you entertained for the entire duration of the movie but this film succeeds in keeping you engaged the entire time. The chemistry between Cuba Gooding, Jr. and Skeet Ulrich can be ultimately seen in every scene. This film had solid action and the characters are a little hokey, but who cares. Anyway if you're looking for a fun and exciting film, Chill Factor is sure to keep you entertained from start 'til finish. "},{"Title":"Action movie with lots of laughs!","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I can't believe all the negative comments for this movie. It is about two guys trying to keep the bad guys from scorching about a five-square-mile patch of the US and all the citizens therein. If you went to this movie after watching the trailer and didn't expect it to be a great diversion rather than a serious action-thriller, you weren't paying very close attention when Skeet Ulrich's character brandishes a gun and for the second time says I need your truck, and Cuba Gooding, Jr., responds, How far you got to go? From that point on in the trailer, you SHOULD be clued in. Once the ice cream truck shows up at the diner, it is non-stop action, and it's FUNNY.Everyone needs to lighten up. This is a comedy, and it is a good one. Relax and stop taking yourselves so seriously. "},{"Title":"Silly, clichéd and unimaginative but not as awful as it sounds","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When a top secret military project on an tropical island goes wrong it results in the death of 18 soldiers.  Colonel Brynner is jailed for the accident he swears revenge on Dr Long.  On his release he attempts to steal the biological weapon but Long manages to escape.  He gets as far as a local restaurant where he enlists local boy Tim Mason and ice cream delivery worker Arlo to take the weapon and deliver it safely back to the Government.  The only condition is that the weapon must be kept below 50 degrees Fahrenheit or else it will go off and kill everything for hundreds of miles.When I sat to watch this it was really because it had been a good few weeks since I had seen a really bad film &#150; from the plot summary I had assumed that this would be one, even with my low expectations.  In no way did I think this was a good film but it wasn't as rubbish as other reviews have suggested &#150; rather it is simply uninspired, clichéd and silly.  The plot seems daft and it is &#150; mainly because trained military special ops can't seem to catch two small time crooks driving a clapped out van in the desert.  However it manages to be enjoyable as it keeps moving constantly and stops you being distracted for even a second, lest you should ask questions.The action is OK but never really gets the tension up in the same way that Speed did.  The director is owed a lot of credit, despite the clichés he really keeps the pace up and makes this better than it should have been.The acting is not good but is acceptable and is all that is needed for this sort of film.  Ulrich is not a leading man and Gooding Jr seems to be trying to prove that the Oscar was a one-off, but together they have an easy chemistry despite it being the usual old mismatched buddy movie banter.  Firth plays a traditional bad guy and Paymer seems to have taken his misguided scientist straight from the cliché text book.Overall this is a poor film.  It has no real good ideas of it's own (even the `keep it below 50' idea is someone else's) and it is clichéd all the way.  However it keeps moving with such energy that it is hard not to veg out in front of it &#150; just don't expect a good film.  You could do worse but you could do a whole hell of a lot better. "}{"Title":"entertaining, wonderful female actress","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cuba Goodings made it obvious the movie is offered as fun. Husdon Leick was great as the only woman in the movie. The part was the strong silent type male stereotype given to a woman who portrayed it exactly right.The movie was enjoyable.   "},{"Title":"Who needs this movie anyway?","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  god, this movie was wasted time. in fact it was so bad i'd want to slap myself. acting at its worst (except cuba, he was ok but far from good), totally predictable and cheap storyline, cheap cliché everywhere, brainless dialogues, try-hard-but-fail kind of comedy, cheap wanna-be effects and action, ultra-unrealistic, ... continue list yourself. and that evil elite woman ... man, she's probably the worst thing about the whole movie. i feel so sad for her.my ratings acting 4/10, story 4/10, action 5/10, comedy 1/10. my overall imdb rating (also voted) 4/10. everything above a 4 rating is highly exaggerated.i like well done action movies (this includes budget ones), but honestly ... nobody needs movies like the chill factor. if you still think this one was good you better take a break from action movies and get back into reality.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed Chill Factor. It had a fair bit of action and the acting was great. There was a bit of humour in this movie also and I found myself laughing in many parts of the movie. The cast Cuba Gooding Jr. and Skeet Ulrich were great as the protagonists and I love Hudson Leick (pity she didn't have a larger role in this one). David Paymer played a good Doctor Long also. I wasn't sure how good it would be so I am glad that I stayed up to watch this one. "},{"Title":" great movie and cast is fab","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is one of the best flicks i have seen a while a good cast. Skeet ulrich (scream) does very well as Tim macson Cuba gooding Jr is alright as Arlo the ice cream dude. can't really say much more over all great David Paymer is good as doc long. Peter Firth is crap as a bad guy his roll in pearl harbour was far better. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably bad writing, the rest not bad","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Had they taken the script pre-production and had somebody with some actual talent re-write it, then this movie would have been not too bad. The directing wasn't that bad, the acting was done quite well considering the horrible characters and dialogue the actors were given, and the locations were very appealing and went well with the story.However, thanks the unbelievably bad writing, the movie simply couldn't have been saved. If you need evidence of this horrible dialogue, just watch the scene where the diner owner goes home. She spews forth from her mouth some of the most undesirably stereo-typical and just downright stupid dialogue that I just had to laugh. And the retarded banter spoken between the two main characters made the whole thing just plain painful to watch.The special effects were good though, especially in one scene near the beginning of the movie where the chemical is released onto an island.All in all, I can sum up the problems plaguing this movie by referring to the scene where the two main characters hop into a fishing boat and proceed to ride the boat down the side of a mountain without hitting anything.If you get an extra rental free at Blockbuster, and Chill Factor is within reach without leaving the line, you'd might as well get it. Why waste the free rental?  "},{"Title":"You must be joking...","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't imagine exactly what the pitch may have been like for a movie like Chill Factor to have been accepted by a major studio like Warner Brothers, but I'll take a crack at it Get this! It's a riot! Ok, there's this super, top-secret, biological, explosive weapon that's being tested on a remote island, the test has... uh... unpredictable results, almost everyone dies except the scientist who developed it (played by David Paymer) and the military guy (Peter Firth) who takes the fall for the catastrophic blunder, the military guy is sent to Leavenworth for 10 years while the scientist... I don't know... becomes a fly fisherman but must live with the haunting devastation of his weapon. The military guy gets out of prison, seeks revenge for the time he spent put away, means to steal the weapon and sell it to the highest bidder! Sounds scary, huh? But then check this out In comes our heroes (Skeet Ulrich and Cuba Gooding, Jr.) who are tasked with transporting the deadly weapon to a safe haven after Paymer (who is mortally wounded by the slightly ticked-off Firth) shows up with this top-secret, explosive weapon tucked under his shirt (???). Only problem is Gooding, Jr. (who drives an ice cream truck coincidentally) and Ulrich have to keep the temperature of the weapon below 50 degrees or say bye-bye to everything within 100 miles! So, whatcha think? It's good, right?OK... back to reality Let me ask you this, my fellow movie-junkies, does this sound suspiciously like another MUCH-better-made movie called Speed by chance? Well, you don't have to be a super, top-secret, biological, explosive weapon scientist to figure that one out. But since everyone will compare this trip to Speed anyway, let me make a further comparison using these two movies in question. Do you remember Glen Plummer's character in Speed? He was the dreadlocked, Jaguar-driving guy whose vehicle Keanu had to use to get on-board the bus (You scratch this puppy, and you and me are gonna have words!). Plummer's part was VERY short but comedically effective. Now take that role and stretch it as thin as possible, and you've got Gooding, Jr.'s entire part down to the bone. I hate it when good actors are saddled with bad writing, and this is no exception. Ulrich is as bland as bland can be, Paymer is somewhat convincing as the scientist, and Firth's villain starts off convincingly but takes a nose-dive about half-way through. And I didn't buy the buddy-schtick either; absolute zero on the chemistry.  "},{"Title":"A great robot movie...","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh, so what's a robot movie?  If you've ever seen Mystery Science Theater, you know.  Some films are great films; some are horrible.  Then, there are great robot movies, those films where you will sit around and comment on the movie the entire time.  These films are best seen in a group, so your comments get noticed and you can generate a good dialog (to make up for none on the screen).What does it take to make a good robot movie?  1.  Completely implausible.  The more stupid the idea is, the better.  This one set some new records.  A new weapon (is it chemical?  explosive?  biological?  We'll never know) that creates cool special effects when it reaches 50 degrees.  Scientists who are testing it, but are in such a hurry they don't wait for the computer simulation results and have no way to abort a test.  Observers who feel a need to be as close as possible to the boom.  Anyone notice that the temperatures are all in Fahrenheit?2.  Cliches!  A good robot movie needs lots of great cliches so you can have fun predicting them.  Aside from the obvious (black guy likes rap), there are the truly great ones  They named the bomb Elvis.  Thank you very much!  You knew every Elvis cliche in the book would make it into the film, including our favorite Elvis has left the building.  How many times did they really need to say Elvis is dead?  Then, there's the classic countdown cliche, only in this case it's counting up to 50 degrees.  You just knew you'd see 49.6, 49.7, 49.8, 49.9, it's a gonna blow...3.  Fun drop-in characters.  Hurrah for Hudson Leick.  Every time she gets a bit of screen time, you can yell Callisto!.  Too bad they didn't make any effort to effectively utilize her in the role.4.  Snack time.  Lots of times when the show drags so you can run and get snacks or a beer.  My favorite is when Mason is in the convenience store and remembers a command made by the Doctor.  While remembering that one short line should have been enough, he recalls it enough times to go order a pizza.I have to wonder  how do these movies get made?    "},{"Title":"A mess, but fun.","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Chill Factor is a mish-mash of other, better action films. (Notable rip-offs include The Rock, Speed, Broken Arrow) The movie steals with reckless abandon and (aside from the slow beginning) never lets up for a second. In fact from it's slow start, it actually gets better and better all the way to the end.(where it sort of misses the mark, but who's counting)By no means is this a great movie. The performances are terrible, chiefly because the characters have so little personality that they act like robots programmed to mimic other characters in other action movies.For some reason, this comes together as a fun movie to watch on cable and enjoy with a few beers. There are some good stunts that are played for sheer shock value, which is effective here. It should also be said that this movie is DAMN violent.So, the next time this one's on cable and you have nothing better to do, check it out and have fun rolling your eyes at it's stupidity and enjoy. It's just eye candy.  "},{"Title":"ok action flick","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you like action movies then I think you would enjoy Chill Factor. It wasn't great but it was entertaining. I thought Cuba Gooding Jr. was miscast. He's a great actor who stands out but I think he's better in comedies (like the great characters he played in Jerry Maguire and As Good As It Gets).  "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i went into this movies, expecting the worst - and i was suprised.  both cuba gooding and skeet ulrich put in good performances, even if they aren't oscar quality - i did enjoy it and w/ the help of cuba gooding, laughed alot!!! ) "}{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit that the two other guys I saw this with didn't like it that much, and that seems to be the general opinion about this film.  I have heard and read that it is amateurish and the acting is bad and the dialogue is kind of hokey.  And although some of that may be true, what people don't say is that this film is action packed, funny and energized in the sense that Lethal Weapon is.  What is bad about this film is David Paymer's dialogue.  Paymer is the scientist that creates the weapon and he is given nothing to work with.  Some of his lines are so silly that they make you laugh, but for the wrong reasons.  His acting isn't that great either.  The main evil guy that wants to blow up the world is kind of bad also, but I thought John Lithgow was pretty bad in Cliffhanger but that movie still worked.  So take some bad acting and some bad dialogue and try to overlook them  because when Cuba and Skeet get together, the film never stops entertaining. Cuba Gooding Jr. plays Arlo and Skeet plays Mason.  They are two guys that have been thrown into this highly improbable situation and they are forced to get along.  At first Cuba only agrees to go along with this because he has a gun pulled on him and he is protecting his ice cream truck.  His truck represents a dollar figure to him as he took it from his former employer for money owed.  And this is where the true strength of the film lies.  Ulrich is great in here but it is Gooding that made me howl with laughter.  There are a few spots in the film that I honestly didn't see coming.  And when you can laugh at an actor doing his thing like Gooding is doing in here, you feel the money you spent was well worth it.  Gooding's timing is perfect and his comedic ability is really showcased here.  When he wasn't on screen it wasn't as fresh as when he was.  Whether it is a facial expression, a scream, a jibe, a subtle gesture like taking ice cream from his over turned truck or his genuine but silly looking fear in his eyes, you are glued to what he is doing and can't wait to see what he is going to do next.  He was a total asset and the best part of the film.  The action was pretty good too.  There are many inventive ways for terrorists to die, and two in particular are shocking.  One involves a motorcycle meeting a truck and the other involves a terrorist hanging from a mountain that also gets to shake hands with a truck.  I really can't say enough about how much I enjoyed this film.  For an action film, I laughed non stop and I was marveling at some of the stunts.  I am not saying that this is a flawless film but what I am saying is that it tries hard to be entertaining and it succeeds at that.  Even if you don't like the film that much, the one thing it will do is make you laugh.  Even when it suffers from things like the talking killer, it makes up for it with some clever lines.  Chill Factor is a film that really should be given a chance.  I think it wanted to please and even though it lacks in a few areas, it is robust and awesome in so many others.  I am giving this film 9/10.  It really is that good.  Action films like Raiders of the Lost Ark and Lethal Weapon get 10's because they are the best.  But Chill Factor is a worthy imitator and if you want to see something that is a great diversion, see this one, you won't be disappointed.  I really do love this film! "},{"Title":"very close but no cigar","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this movie had its moments but the parts to are way unbelivable ruin the movie. Skeet does a good job while his counter part Cuba play a covincing man who was drug into the situation unwillingly. Still not worth $8. Go see during the matinee discounts! "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was great. It was hilariously funny. I loved Cuba Gooding Jr. and Skeet Ulrich. Some parts were a little too unbelieveable.... i.e. people seeming to live through twenty lives...  but that's all right. It was still great. A MUST see movie!!! "},{"Title":"Better then Mystery Men","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm so surprised a movie like this got out of the can. It's a shame that Cuba Gooding Jr. wasted his Oscar winning talents on this movie. I'm so glad I paid a matinee price...what am I talking about this should have been a freebee. John Woo should sue for plagerism. "},{"Title":"Sucked","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was pretty bad.  I read the comments on this page right before going, and I have to agree with most of the comments that this movie was not worth the money to see it.  The only cool thing was ELVIS.  If you want to see an action movie at the theaters, go see something else. "},{"Title":"Chill Factor is one 'Cool' flick!","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liked this movie.  Had great action and good humor. Cuba and Skeet did a good job, and the villians although all dressed in black, did a nice job too. Good summertime fun!  "},{"Title":"This will be getting the cold shoulder at the box office.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Chill Factor A chef has to keep a doomsday weapon away from vicious mercenaries... hmmmm.  This movie has been done before, only much better.   The plot is razor thin, (with about as much depth), the villains are cardboard cutouts and the acting is nonexistent  Cuba Gooding Jr. does a poor imitation of his  Rod Tidwell character from Jerry Macguire - but at least he has that to fall back on. For some unknown reason Ulrich keeps being cast for roles, even though no one has been able to wring anything resembling a performance out of him. Flat, boring, and nonsensical, this movie left me cold. "},{"Title":"Cuba Gooding jr as Leading Actor","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Even at this stage in Cuba Gooding jr's career as a 31 year old Hollywood actor, he is still not mature enough to be a leading actor. Just what is it about Gooding jr that makes him appear as a weasley, spineless character? Is he handsome enough to be a leading man? Do girls swoon at the sight of him as they do with Denzel Washington? "},{"Title":"It left me cold!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm no snob who only loves foreign movies and turns his nose at mainstream entertainment - in fact, I am quite forgiving for genre films, and I enjoy a lot of B movies as well. However, this major Hollywood is just as bad as many of the worst B films. Despite a respectable budget, the movie looks quite cheap, sometimes embarrassingly so, like when you see a guide cable hooked to the boat, or when you see that a major highway up a mountain is A DIRT ROAD (?!) The protagonists are annoying little jerks, and you feel sorry for Gooding for playing a foul-mouthed stereotyped hustler. In fact, the chief antagonist is more sympathetic than they are! There's also not that much action, and what there is has been filmed a la Speed 2 (jiggily camera close-up). Even if it's free on TV and you're feeling undemanding, you'll feel as frustrated as I felt at the end. "},{"Title":"You can trust the other reviewers this is a total dud!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie basically copies tricks from every chase-the-guy-with-the-stuff movie you've ever seen, and most remarkably Speed for the temperature limit on the weapon. If you have ever watched  Speed or *any* other movie which involves bad guys chasing after someone with an artifact, you've seen this movie. Don't bother. "}{"Title":"this is a good movie for people who like action and comedy","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie I was not sure what it would be like as I did not know many of the actors but I laughed almost all the time the actors played off each other very well the story was really good not too far fetched the scenery was awsome the car chase up the mountain road WOW! "},{"Title":"So amateurish and badly done that I can't remember what happened","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was absolutely awful! It was very much like those BAD unreleased features that you can see at two o'clock in the morning on the cable channels-- you know, with a bunch of unknown actors who resemble other, more successful actors. So what's the deal with Cuba Gooding, Jr.? He is so talented, I can't imagine that he'd be hard up for a job. Perhaps his participation in this disaster was because he lost a bet?The movie began with a very good sequence, and one of the best special effects of its kind that I have ever seen. But it quickly deteriorated into a dreadful parody of every action flick cliché. And you just know that a parody of a cliché must be bad. The plot and story logic were so flawed that within ten minutes I stopped caring whether anyone lived or died. Events were inserted into the story so amateurishly that what was happening on the screen resembled decoupage. Patch work. Here's a simple example of how poorly written, executed, and edited Chill Factor really is I saw the movie tonight with some friends. I returned home directly, and thought I'd record my vote and comments with IMDb. I wanted to discuss some of the movie's events and plot devices to illustrate my points, so I planned to use a Spoiler Warning. But I needn't have bothered. Here I sit, not an hour after the movie was over, and I can't remember half of what happened, nor how it ended. No spoiler, folks-- it was all so insubstantial and unmemorable that it faded away within minutes! Aaagh! I gave it a 2 instead of a 1 because of the nifty opening effects. Those I remembered. "},{"Title":"Third Rate Guy Flick","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This 3rd rate action adventure guy flick will probably set Cuba Gooding, Jr.'s career back about 10 years.  This film is basically a variation on `Speed' where instead of keeping the bus above 50 mph, they had to keep the unstable chemical warfare bomb below 50 degrees.Two regular guys (actually two screw ups) must save the world from a group of rogue military mercenaries who are trying to steal a potent chemical weapon and sell it on the open market.  The chemical is unstable above 50 degrees Fahrenheit and will explode stripping the skin from any living creature within a hundred miles.  Our heroes must get this doomsday weapon to the nearest army base armed only with a broken down ice cream truck and a pistol with no ammo.  The half a dozen bad guys are all have elite military background, the latest in electronic equipment, souped up SUV's, and an arsenal of advanced weaponry.  Predictably, the mercenaries are no match for our screw ups.This film is one big chase scene that takes implausibility to new heights of incredulity. The dialogue between Arlo (Gooding) and Tim (Skeet Ulrich) is mindless tripe that attempts to be funny but merely makes the characters seem pathetic.  This is consistent with all the writing in this screenplay which is mostly hack.As far as I can tell, this is Hugh Johnson's debut as a first line feature director, having mostly done assistant and second unit direction and cinematography.  In this regard he fails to distinguish himself.  His camera work was pedestrian and scene selection was pretty much stock for the genre.  The first third of the film was shot with a blue filter, to get a dark look.  The odd thing was, he kept the blue filter for the indoor shots and subsequent daytime shots.  This indiscriminate use of the filter, rather than creating an effect just made the entire film look washed out.  Then suddenly, he abandoned it entirely.  On a plus note, the stunts and pyrotechnics were handled well as were the special effects when the chemical weapon test went awry at the beginning of the film.  There were some effective moments of suspense like when they tried to take the oversized ice cream truck past the narrow road on the cliff.  Cuba Gooding, Jr. did his best to bring life to a very insubstantial character.   He was witty and energetic as always but there was no saving Arlo.  Skeet Ulrich was utterly bland as Tim Mason.  David Paymer was decent as the arrogant scientist who's ambition for his work exceeded the limits of prudent science.  Peter Firth was dreadful as the evil Captain Brynner, leader of the rogue soldiers.  All in all, this film was a loser.  I gave it a 3/10.  For guys who want a good beer buzz movie while the wife and kids are out of town, this might be okay.  Otherwise steer clear.  "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Stupid buddy movie about a nuclear bomb being transported through a desert. Enter Cuba Gooding Jr. and Skeet Ulrich (Scream) as the mismatched guys who have to save the day. I saw it for free on television and even then I was disappointed.2/5 stars.- John Ulmer "}]