[{"Title":"Suspense And Shock","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"37 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Wow, this is a rarity a modern-day film in which the Christians (mostly nuns in this story) are the good guys and the New Age advocates are the devil-like bad guys. That really annoys all the secular critics, which means about 99 percent of them.Rufus Sewell plays a Satan-worshiping cult leader who tries to kidnap young Holliston Coleman, someone with special healing powers. Kim Basinger, in an unusual wholesome low-key role, plays the aunt-turned-parent/guardian of the kid.There is some very good suspense here, especially at the end and some shocking horror scenes of violence. Shocking not just because of what happened but the film was so family-oriented up until then. Overall, though, a decent story and a good message. Even though I liked it, it wouldn't a film I would watch multiple times, although a second look is likely. "},{"Title":"Good film, similar plot...","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  BLESS THE CHILD is another one of those films that fit right into the category of 'satan-becomes-man-and-is-about-to-take-over-the-world' movies. Other examples of the genre would be END OF DAYS and LOST SOULS. Both of which are good. BLESS THE CHILD is not better than these two films and it is not worse either. It is just the same. Maggie (Kim Basinger) lives with her sister's daughter, Cody (Holliston Coleman). When Cody gets discovers that she has special powers and abilities, she is targeted by a cult led by her sister's fiance, Eric Stark (Rufus Sewell). With the help of a gothic cult follower (Christina Ricci) that is willing to help her, Maggie must stop the cult from using Cody's powers for their ultimate goal...use them to summon the Devil.Now, this is a cool movie. Not too much action, but some. A little bit of horror thrown in for good measure, and some thrilling sequences- and you got a good movie. See this film, if you are a fan of the genre. Otherwise, you probably won't like it that much. But, otherwise, this is one thrill-ride of a film! BLESS THE CHILD 5/5. "},{"Title":"A most underrated movie, unfairly condemned by others","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"34 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I have been going to the movies for 55 years now. And I have been writing novels for nearly 30 years, with 38 published thus far. One of my favorite genres as a moviegoer is the horror thriller, which is one in which I have written also, usually within a Christian context.BLESS THE CHILD is unquestionably one of the finest genre movies I have ever seen, the kind that combine Christian themes and thriller techniques. I like it because it is relatively subdued, with sincere underplayed acting, and a minimum of Hollywood hocus-pocus.The themes are1) The triumph of God over the devil, instead of the reverse. 2) The power of prayer. 3) The depiction of angels of light. 4) Brief but effective moments when demonic creatures, normally in an unseen supernatural existence, are revealed starkly. 5) No attempt to make evil seem other than loathsome, destructive. 6) Child-like faith enables us to resist Satan.The direction by Chuck Russell was excellent, involving; no wonder he came close to directing the screen version of THIS PRESENT DARKNESS. There was almost no foul language, and the brutal episodes were less in number than usual.I notice the Christian moments were referred to as propaganda. Why is it propaganda when biblical references are used but not propaganda when humanism, nihilism, abortion, homosexuality, adultery and such are similarly promoted?I showed BLESS THE CHILD to a neighbor couple, folks who are not especially religious. They were enthralled by it, reacting nervously when the suspense is intensified, rejoicing at the more inspiring moments.BLESS THE CHILD is not a toweringly great movie but, rather, an intensely reverent one, directed with intelligence, acted with conviction, without nude scenes, and thankfully lacking a tidal wave of vulgarity,Roger Elwood  "},{"Title":"Someone should have blessed this movie.","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Rated R Runtime 107mins Release Date 2000For Maggie O'Connor a surprise visit from her sister meant much more than catching up on old times. Maggie's sister, being to strung out and confused to do anything more than act crazed, leaves Maggie with something she herself could not conceive, a beautiful baby girl. What Maggie and the rest of the world don't yet know but will find out, is that this baby girl is something even more special than they could ever possibly begin to imagine.Bless the Child stars the beautiful Kim Bassinger as Maggie O'Connor, a single New York native whose world is completely changed when her long lost younger sister comes to pay her a surprise visit. Maggie's sister has also brought along her daughter Cody, who is seemingly just a beautiful baby girl. But confused and addicted to heroin, Maggie's sister leaves Cody in Maggie's protection. So for the next seven years Maggie raises Cody as her own daughter but finds out that this little girl isn't like most little girls. For instance she has the ability to make things move with her mind and has an unexplainable healing touch. But Maggie isn't the only person who knows that Cody is special, as a matter of fact there has been an underground occult group that have been looking for someone like Cody for the past seven years, believing her to be the savior or destruction of mankind. Eventually they find Cody, and coincidentally at the same time Cody's mother shows up again, clean and sober and married to a famous author and child enthusiast, Eric Stark (an always awesome Rufus Sewell), who isn't quite what he seems. Cody's mother and Stark want Cody back and they will stop at nothing, including kidnapping, to do so. But along to help Maggie get Cody back is special Agent Travis (Jimmy Smits), an expert in the occult field who has been tracking the people that have been looking for Cody for the past seven years. Together the two will travel through hell on earth to get this extraordinary child back.I'll start off by saying at least this film was much better and had many more thrills than the almost simultaneously released Lost Souls. There are some solid performances by the leads, especially Bassinger, whose acting, much like her beauty, just seems to keep improving with age. Sewell was also notable in his genuinely creepy role as Stark, and has been near the top of my actors list since I first saw him in the astonishing Dark City. I have to give them and Smits kudos because even when the movie starts to drag at least they can be counted on to keep the film worth watching.Director Chuck Russell makes a good attempt to throw in horror and chills at the right moments and even throws in some great effects such as the Devil's manifestation in to a throne and even a rolling head for fans of a little gore. Also worth mentioning are some genuinely touching scenes added in especially one in which Cody is in the hospital and gives a dying woman a hug and some very kind words. Russell is a good director who has a bright future ahead but he has to learn how to fill in the middle with as much substance as the beginning and end, because I must admit the movie does start to get a little repetitive. Screenplay writers Tom Rickman and Clifford and Ellen Green do a solid job of adapting Cathy Cash Spellman's interesting novel to the big screen. However the storyline is very evident as a cross between Rosemary's Baby and The Omen, which can plainly be seen as a slight lack of originality.Bless the child is a well crafted horror film with some strong aspects and a great feel, but like so many movies adapted from books there is a little too much talk and not quite enough horror. I do, however, recommend this film because the good qualities do outweigh the bad, and it is one of the better horrors in recent release. Leaving it up to a choice though, you can either go out and watch Winona Ryder bore up Lost Souls, or you can sit back and enjoy beautiful Kim Bassinger Bless the Child.Overall Rating 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great supernatural ride","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kim Basinger is great in this, great good vs evil, every good deed is high lighted. A good man is not alone in the world. Great quote.You'll get film snobs who will over search too many things, but the story and entertainment is top notch, great star in Basinger, good morale and religious overtones.  A enjoyable supernatural ride that has elements of horror. It's a story done before with End of Days and Lost Souls, but I like them all, if they dress it up to entertain, then no problem with me, these stories are important and timeless.  Good vs Evil, and its done well for me.   "},{"Title":"I gave it an 8/10","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Bless the Child is about a 6 year old girl born under a star so she has special powers, and she is destined to lead many to God. However there is a satanic cult out to turn her to the dark side, if you will. It was a pretty good movie, it had to do with God, angels, the devil. Quite frankly I liked it. "},{"Title":"A Good Supernatural Thriller","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Maggie( Kim Basinger) is a lonely woman without a family and on one rainy day, she suddenly finds her sister jenna( Angela Bettis) who she hasn't seen in two years at her doorstep with a baby. Jenna is to worn out and can't lay off the drugs she's been using so she runs away and leaves Maggie with her baby. As slowly the years pass by, it seems that cody (Holliston Coleman) suffers from some kind of autism. Her disorder is hard to explain but it is bluntly obvious that Cody isn't like ordinary children. Meanwhile, in the neighbourhood are some horrible murders going around. Kids are being found dead in a gruesome ritual where they all have the same satanic symbol burned on their bodys. No one can explain who is doing this but when Cody becomes a target for these murders, Maggie will do anything to save her niece. I enjoyed this movie, i think the acting was very good, especially by Kim Basinger and Angela Bettis. My favorite actress Christina Ricci had only a very small part in this movie but I still enjoyed seeing her. I would give Bless The Child 8/10 "},{"Title":"Weird, dumb, and not entertaining...","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  After seeing the previews on this movie, my friends and I wanted to see it right away for three reasons 1) it seemed like it had a very touching plot; 2) the special effects seemed very real; and 3) we love Christina Ricci. So, we decided to see it the Friday it came out.  But, when we walked out of the theater, we were laughing our heads off because of how dumb the movie was. First, the plot was not believable, did not move along smoothly, and was generally boring.  Yes, the leads act really well, but the plot made them look like chickens running around with their heads off. Second, the effects were mediocre.  Although, I did not expect much in the ways of effects in the movie, this was pretty bad.  Have you ever seen someone trying to kill someone else with a butter knife?!  I have, in this movie! Thirdly, almost the entire preview was spent on Christina Ricci's role. But the length of her on-screen in the movie is equal to the amount of time she is in the trailer.  Her role could easily be filled by an extra!  Her role had no challenge, hardly any lines and hardly any effect on the movie. So, if you want a good laugh at a stupid, it's-been-done movie, or if you have nothing better to do, see Bless The Child.  If not, you would be as disappointed as my friends and I were. "},{"Title":"Dress the Turkey","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie really affected me. It keeps haunting me two days after seeing it ...- How did that script get to production? - How did the movie get to general release? - And they spent money marketing it?!There are a few inconsequential spoilers here. Read them anyway; just don't see the film.Bless The Child broke the cardinal rule of film-making Create Tension. It was never in doubt that the good guys were going to win the war. Of course. But in this film, they weren't even allowed to lose a battle. The good guys could cheat by having God step in and get them out of anything.Your car's hanging off a bridge and about to fall? Here, take this angel's hand. I'm not kidding. Real angels. Sent just because the good guys had to win. *puke*The six-year-old girl gave not the slightest indication that she was going over to the dark side. Rufus Sewell did his best Darth Vader (Feel the anger! Use the hate!). Apparently his plan to take over the world depended on completely converting a little girl who was possessed by God. In attempting to do this, he immolated a homeless man. Yeah, that'll work. There wasn't a trace of a dilemma on the girl's face. What is your plan, Rufus?! Offer the girl the world? What's she going to do with it? And is the audience supposed to feel any of the temptation? We're never shown any upsides of this supposedly powerful evil. Not even a nice house.That climax. I guess I could write it. Let's see, Rufus will wear a robe and speak some dangerous-sounding Latin. The little girl will sit there and do nothing. Some evil special-effects, build the tension ...Oops. No tension, very brief effects, and then it's all over. Angels storm the place, and Rufus copped a God-guided bullet. Oh yeah, his second-in-command bizarrely rushed out of nowhere and was despatched in four seconds.The final scene. A Rufus follower, in slow motion, in broad daylight, is racing to stab the little girl. She looks at him. He backs away. YOU CALL THAT A TWIST?!Bomb bomb bomb bomb bomb (five bombs). And Kim Basinger taught Hugh Grant to run. At least that gave me a laugh. "},{"Title":"The Equinox of the Gods Bless the Child for she shall relinquish the Curse of Man.","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The devil resides in New York City and from the moment this film begins, we see exactly where this film is going. As the opening credits roll, its wonderful atmospheric start with its close-up night time shots of New York's gargoyles brings back memories of the great vampire movie Queen of the Damned (2002) and its visual introduction to its narrative.With the arrival of The Star of Yacov, better known as The Christmas Star, once more in some two thousand years, we see childless Maggie O'Connor (Kim Basinger) taking on her younger sisters new born baby Cody, as Cody is dumped on her door step, this elder sister, this wise mature woman and now surrogate mother takes on full responsibility. Myth has it too that Saint Margaret the Virgin is known to be the Patron Saint of Pregnancy, and who, as legend would have it, was brought up by a nurse after her father disowned her, and having once met with the devil, with him in the form of a dragon. Irony and coincidence perhaps for both, considering her name being Maggie and her inability to have children and baby Cody's circumstance.Dealing with this child and her seemingly autistic state, autism being a condition that is caused by a disorder that prevents the brain developing properly, this in turn can impair interaction both socially and emotionally. It isn't until she reaches six years of age that Maggie's worries slowly turn into fears of what exactly is wrong with this exceptional child. There are more than just physical and mental states at play here that are more than concerning and enlightening. Maggie's doubts and fears are soon to be tested, to and far beyond the boundaries of human restraint.Bless the Child uses fables and myth to bring old legends to contemporary settings. With the killing of the innocent children to flush out the Prophecy, the way in which we see this being done is very subtle and coaxing, if a little disturbing, bringing an uncomfortable reality that something sinister, something malevolent, something lurking in the shadows and something extremely evil is all to ready to pounce. Here lies the winning formula, the evil that we see is not so much dark forces of the underworld, but be warned, they exist here too, it is more the evil of man and his willingness to be lead and be controlled by them. Man against man, sin against morality and the age-old battle of Light against the Darkness. We see Eric Stark and his followers taking parallel lines in the similar vain as the real life Satan and occult master Aleister The Beast Crowley (1875 - 1947), founder of The Golden Dawn, and once labelled The Wickedest Man in the World. With Eric Stark renaming his cult The New Dawn Foundation, it is he who most certainly carries this trade of old evils and new Beasts to a tee. English born Rufus Sewell plays Stark with convincing zeal, with both phoney exterior compassion and charm to literally devil-may-care cold indifference, intermingling both persona's well enough to know that we are dealing with more than just the basic human traits that we see, hear and deal with in life. Evil, as it seems holds no bounds.Kim Basinger and Holliston Coleman (born 1992) bond very well, and a great performance as surrogate mother, she plays her role with devotion and with an honest and convincing feel. With just three years after winning her Best Actress in a Supporting Role for L.A. Confidential, this isn't Ms. Basinger going down a peg but raising the stakes in this thriller horror movie genre. Her integrity is most certainly kept in tact, and this is with the assistance of one Chuck Russell, director of A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987), The Blob (1988), The Mask (1994) and The Scorpion King (2002). A fine team they make, and as with the gelling of the two leading ladies, it is his fine work in crafting young Holliston Coleman to a standard of high-end child acting. Expect to see more of this young girl. Especially, if she were to take the good advice from the ever professional and independently versatile actress Christina Ricci as the heroin addict Cheri Post, which is always a pleasure to see her working.Bless the child also has its own parallels too, and lends itself to the likes of The Omen (1976), The Exorcist (1973) and the 1968 Roman Polanski film Rosemary's Baby, where we see children as axis of evils', Bless the Child sees the innocence and purity that is The Child; untainted and undemanding. Thus bearing the special gift of Life and the blessing of Divinity, sometimes disturbing, but slight, and at times touching, but never over demanding and horrific, which sets this movie of as being different and a little unique.With moderate violence and with the help of a little CGI, a script that fights its own ground when in the amphitheatres of right and wrong, excellent and well cast, we can then be assured that Bless the Child most certainly has not been cursed. "}{"Title":"i liked it a lot!","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" i thought this movie was great! i really liked it because Kim and Cristeena were in it! i wished that Cristeena stayed in the movie longer though! i almost cried when her head got chopped off! i thought that the movie was really touching. i wanted to kill that evil guy ...omg he really got me mad! those evil creatures were really freaky! they scared me a lot! ex specially that guy on the train... that freaked me out! when this movie came out i rented it right away... a couple years later i remembered it and wanted to rent it again but i forgot what the title was. me and my parents went to blockbusters and Hollywood video trying to look at the covers of the movies to find it. we were in the movie stores for about 1 hour then finally gave up. my dad looked up one of the actress online and we found it! i am going to buy it tomorrow! "},{"Title":"Outstanding, if you want to see how Spiritual Warfare actually works.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie accurately depicts the Biblical principles of Spiritual Warfare, the tactics of those Satanists who prey upon children, and what God-fearing people can actually do to combat them and the demons that motivate them.  Allowing the producer and director a little leeway for hollywoodisms (they have to break even, after all), the movie is about 95% theologically correct, especially re angels and demons.  As an ordained Baptist minister, I purchased the DVD and a loaner tape, and use them as a basic introduction into principles of Spiritual Warfare. The acting, directing, filming are all first rate.  It starts slowly, builds relentlessly, and will definitely hold your attention right to the last minute.  To the Cast and Crew, Kudos for an outstanding and gutsy job in today's world. "},{"Title":"Well crafted movie that allows you see the good...","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Bless the Child was a good movie. I have to admit that when this movie came to theatres, it was one of the few times that negative reviews kept me from seeing a movie. After watching the DVD last night, I was kicking myself for missing a chance to see this movie a year earlier.Bless the child is full of new or unknown actors, but reguardless it is well acted... Kim Basinger and Jimmy Smits both play their parts well and the script and their acting allows the viewer to see something that may be chemistry building between the two, but doesn't throw it in our faces. The problem with most movies of this type is that the villian is flat and poorly acted... That is not the case in Bless the Child. Rufus Sewell does an excellent job portraying the evil Eric Stark. Although she has a nominal part in the movie, Angela Bettis played the part of Maggies drug-addicted sister so well, I was absolutely hating her. Even with all of this, the movie would not be what it is without the superb acting of Holliston Coleman who plays 6-year-old Cody. At 7, Holliston has more ability than many adult actors. She definately has a future.The story and directing were both done well. Although it is not the most original story line, it is done a different way. Rarely, if ever, is the force of good allowed to manifest itself in a visible presence. In Bless the Child, however, the good can be seen along with the evil. Although I not by any means a very religious person, this struck a cord with me. There's a sense of hope within this growing evil... The world may just have a chance, not because a big guy with a big gun blew away Satan... no, because there is good out there. The battle between good and evil does have two sides... It's just nice to be able to see the good for a change.The special effects are also good in this movie. It is by far a special effects movie, but they are used in a smart fashion to provide a glimpse at the battle that goes on all around us, although we don't see it... Only the rat bedroom sequence left me somewhat disappointed, the rest provided a eery mood to the film.Bless the Child is a great film for what it is and maybe be known as the starting point to the great career of Holliston Coleman. 8/10Although it may not be a perfect movie,  "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  If I had only read the reviews written in this forum I would have thought this movie was another Kevin Costner or John Travolta fiasco. Never have I seen so much intense negative interest in a really bad movie.Before watching Bless The Child tonight, my only prior knowledge of it was seeing the trailer a couple of times on TV when the movie was about to be released. And then I only really noticed because the Icon label attached to it seemed to be out of place.But the movie really wasn't that bad, though it could have used more (much more) focus and better lines and more intensity from the lead actors.The story is classic good vrs. evil. What seems to have peeved many of the reviewers is that good, in the form of a little girl (Holliston Coleman), was actually presented as having some real (and quiet) strength for a change. I suppose, in these reviewers jaded view of reality, this seems unrealistic. Besides, in horror movies (you know, the realistic kind) the evil thingamabob is always indestructible and just when good manages to triumph -- we find it really didn't. (How dare the Bless the Child producers have the gall not to be cliche in this respect!)So to sum up my feelings. I liked the story (I don't suffer from anti-Catholic bigotry so the charge of being too Catholic wasn't a concern). I liked the little girl's acting. I thought Kim Bassinger did a credible job -- though her part lacked some intensity as did Jimmie Smits' part. I thought the Stark character (acted by Rufus Sewell) was well acted and convincingly evil. Miss Ricci's cameo was well done and the special effects were very good. Overall, taking into account my earlier criticism of lack of focus, lack of intensity and a few lines that made me wince -- it was not a bad movie. I would suggest it for those who *do* like a clear cut distinction between good and evil. And, oh yes. No nudity. Very little profanity and violence that was intense but not overly graphic or gory. (I know -- this crew simply *doesn't* know how to make a real horror film, do they?) "},{"Title":"The Omen...done badly.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I have no idea why Hollywood gives the green light to movies like this one. Bless The Child is a ripoff of The Omen, but in this one, the kid isn't evil.  Oooh, that's original.  Plagiarism is rampant in movies today.  Only a handful of filmmakers are creative.  This should have been a direct to video release.   "},{"Title":"If you don't mind some Christian preaching - you could really enjoy this film.","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I don't usually re-watch Thriller/Horror films, as they're never as good the 2nd time around (with the exception of the Saw series, which is in my opinion the best Horror series in history, and yes I've seen the classics). However in this case, I watched Bless the Child again without remembering that I'd already seen it like a decade ago. Good thing though, as I didn't really remember all that much about it.I must say I enjoyed watching this film, as the story really managed to be both compelling and moving. As a PG-13 Occult/Supernatural sub-genre, it really managed to outdo itself. Now I'm a Jew, and not really religious, but my family is traditional so I've always had an open mind about religion based films. I've always been a fan of Exorcism-Horror films. In this case, Bless the Child really managed to speak to my inner child. The child born on the same day as Christ, possessing telekinetic and healing abilities, battling a Satanic cult - all very nice. I even liked the utopia-like miracles and the slightly tacky visual effects of the angels and the demons. I believe anyone with an open mind could really enjoy this film. Even if they're completely non-religious - they could enjoy it as a Disney style fantasy.Another bonus in this film was the cast, which was a real clash of titans! The lovely Kim Basinger in the middle of her career, my favorite female actress Angela Bettis acting her usual Neurotic character, Christina Ricci in one of her first serious roles since The Addams... all fit together beautifully!Now, for the much called for criticism against the contemporary self- indulging religious messages in the film... unfortunate, but true... The imply that Amy's life had been empty and dull before a miracle child landed in her life and brought her back to her catholic upbringing. The imply that not believing in God automatically sides one with Satan. The imply that teenagers at risk, living hood lives and doing drugs are minions of Satan (and by mere coincidence, of course, have dyed hair and black clothes). The imply that prayer leads to a miracle per request. All these were not at all subtle, and not at all called for. I could easily see how such Easter eggs in a film could ruin it for people who just happen to observe religion in a slightly different way than the film portrayed.However, seeing as how I'm just as capable of enjoying a film with Christian morals as one with Mayan/Asgardian morals - I personally did not find it to be a problem. I place this film with The Neverending Story and Hook, only slightly more serious and maybe slightly scarier for kids. "},{"Title":"Forgive Me Father...","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  For I have wasted my time watching this film. A group of cult fanatics, believing that a new religious leader has been born, are convinced they must use the child to their own ends or face their demise. And apparently, the only ones who can stop them are the angels of God because they swoop down and save the day whenever and wherever necessary. If this is the case, why didn't they just solve the whole mess in the beginning and leave the humans out of it? And there are some major plot holes that anyone would have trouble buying. (i.e. Is Jimmy Smits really the only officer who recognizes the significance of the birthdates of all the children? Come on!) Not a very good thriller, I wouldn't bother with this film unless you are so desperate to see something shot in dim lighting, with actors who never smile, and special effects that encourage thoughts about demons that you are willing to sell your own child to the devil. Let's hope not a single person is that desperate. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Bless The Child is a film so audaciously and boldy bad that I would be lying if I said I didn't enjoy some of it. A religious thriller which appartently has a problem with 12-step programs or Scientology, it is so inventively goofy that I found myself watching it is suspence, wondering what goofy thing the filmmakers would come up with next.But the underlying premise of the movie isn't so bad the retelling of the temptation of Christ in a modern setting. The problem is that the filmmakers were more in love with computerized bats and rats than they were in telling an intelligent movie. Some of the actors emerge unscathed, although it can't be said that all of them do. Rufus Sewell revels in his role, with giant green eyes that almost seem to glow. He's having fun. Ditto for Ian Holm, who plays a renegade Jesuit priest who quotes the Bible, and The Usual Suspects. But Basinger doesn't fare so well as the hapless heroine, in fact so hapless that she doesn't seem to really do anything helpful until the end. But this film has dozens of delightfully dumb, goofy moments. Here are a few (SPOILER ALERT)The doctor solemnly tells Kim Basinger that her adopted daughter has some form of autism. It's a difficult diagnosis, he says, and he's right, because throughout the movie there doesn't seem to be anything wrong with her.Rufus Sewell sits atop an office building in a bad part of New York with our six-year-old heroine, and as he looks across to more office buildings, says All of this will one day be yours if you follow me. How this is appealing to a six-year-old is beyond me.Jimmy Smits the smart, religious FBI agent assigned to catch a ritualistic murderer. He wanders on to a seemingly normal crime scene, notices some incriptions on the ground which lead to a great breakthrough. Does he look at all of the crime scenes for clues?The police must break into the bad guys mansion, which is described as heavily guarded, and the police prepare like they are infiltrating the Pentagon. Three minutes later, Kim Basinger single-handedly breaks into the house by breaking the glass on the door and opening it.A bunch of nuns pray for our heros, and arouse and angel of death to vanquish the bad guys. The filmmakers chicken out on this part; they could have copied Raiders of the Lost Arc, but instead let the Jimmy Smits guy do the hard work.All in all, I would never recommend that an intelligent person see this, but if you are with some friends and want to have a good, dumb time, sure. "},{"Title":"This movie was horrid.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  It was so bad.  The dialogue was wooden, the acting terrible and everything was so telegraphed beforehand that there were no surprises.  The demons looked awful.  Satan looked childish.This movie stinks.  "},{"Title":"SUCKFEST!","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  this was BY FAR the worst movie i have ever seen. on a scale of 1-10, i give it a -11000000000. The plot was INCREDIBLY boring, the actors did a terrible job, no one was even close to convincing except the drugged up sister. the storyline was very unsupported, and NOTHING was scary or frightening. the computer graphics were pretty bad, overall this movie sucked. almost everyone in the theatre was laughing at it. i don't recommend this to anyone, even if you're bored. it's terrible, and if you have any sense of quality, you will not like this movie! "}{"Title":"Ultimately pointless","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Despite good performances by Rufus Sewell and the little girl, this movie was pretty disappointing.  Textbook example of a bad script. The plotline was unimaginative, the dialogue bland.  The characters were one-dimensional, and most of their actions were unmotivated, existing only to set up the next scene.  There was a lot of laughter from the audience, which would be good news if this were a comedy. "},{"Title":"It's the Devil who has the best tunes","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This deliriously daft horror movie is like the distaff side of The Omen, only in this case the child doesn't come from the Devil but from God and it's her, (not his), job to stop the Devil doing his worst. It might have seemed like a good idea but it doesn't have an original thought in it's head and the scare factor is non-existent. Instead, what we have is a series of daft set-pieces in which 'guardian angels' help the good guys and the bad guys are accompanied by some very unconvincing animated demons. The film's idea or originality is to turn the 'Jesus' character into a little girl. As the Devil's principal agent on earth the devilishly handsome Rufus Sewell looks like he might be enjoying himself and is much more fun than the sanctimoniously pious Kim Basinger as the God-child's earthly protector. In parts much too small for their stature Christina Ricci and Ian Holm play to the galleries. As the child destined to save the world Holliston Coleman is so annoying you root for the Dark One. "},{"Title":"Don't let them get the girl.","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" A cult crime about a mother named Jenna O' Conner (Angela Bettis) who ran away and left her daughter Cody (Holliston Coleman) with her Aunt, Maggie O' Conner (Kim Basinger). Maggie brought her up and she soon discovered that Cody had ADHD. And 3 years later, she had amazing abilities. For example, she could spin a bowl lid, spin a doll's car, make the snow in the paperweight move about, healed a pigeon, magically lit the candles in the church one by one, etc.When Cody's babysitter, Maria (Anne Betancourt) said to Cody, if she prayed, good things would happen. On the following day, a child named Martin (Nicholas Marti Salgo) was kidnapped and found later at the bottom of the lake by police with a symbol of the devil on him! And soon, a girl named Cheri (Christina Ricci)ended up in Maggie doctor room. Cheri said that her friends wanted her to end up in a morgue because , she wanted to quit her club! She saw a vision that they were going to get the girl and she said to Maggie that she must NOT let them get the girl.It was fascinating to hear what that satanic symbol symbolized. According to John Travis, the symbol was used in Ceremonial Sacrifices in the 16th century in Europe. The top symbolized Satanism because the fallen angel mythology was taken seriously. The crimes were against God and all the victims' bodies had the symbols which meant Like Easter. What ever a man was up to on Easter's Eve. And on the following day, Cody and Maggie bumped into Jenna and her new husband Eric Stark (Rufus Sewell), a master of evil who kidnapped Cody.After the incident, Cheri called and said she knew where Cody was. Cheri also told Maggie that Eric believed in the Devil and he was the one who always killing the kids on the 16th of December who were 6 years of age. He would put them through a test and if they failed, he would kill them. And Eric had been looking for Cody all along and he wanted to change her. Just to make her look like him! So he could use her power. And if Eric couldn't turn Cody into what he wanted her to be, he would kill her because she lead people to God! And on the same night, FREAKS came after Cheri! And when Maggie tried to call the cops, she was given an injection and she felt weary . And as the gang beat Cheri up in the train station, evil creatures were seen flying about. And when Maggie touched Cheri, CHERIS HEAD FELL OFF!!! On the following day, Maggie found out where Eric stayed. Freaky to see demons flying around his lair. The nastiest killer that Eric had was named Stuart (Eugene Lipinski). And pretty creepy to Eric's odd looking eye. And also when Eric strangely removed bullets from Maggie's gun when she tried to shoot him. And she was knocked out by Stuart! And when she woke up, she was swerving past every car on Brooklyn Bridge and she crashed on the edge. And she was thankfully rescued when the car was going off the edge of the bridge.And that night, Eric tempted a hobo (Dwaine McLean) with gas and matches through a Satanic practice. It was stopped when Cody said to the hobo that the Loed had not forgotten him and when the hobo opened his hand, a rosary was in it. And when Cody left, ERIC DROPPED A LIGHTER AND THE HOBO WENT ON FIRE! And then, Eric fooled Cody by becoming a Satanist if she did not believe in God, she must jump.And soon, Travis uncovered Eric's tracks. And when Maggie and Cody were escaping from Eric's helper Dahyna (Dimitra Arliss). And once they got in, DAYHNA APPEARED AND WHEN SHE SMACKED THE WINDOW, SHE TURNED INTO A HIDEOUS DEMON! When Cody and Maggie went 30 miles South of Albany, they crashed and when Maggie told Codie to get out and run, Cody was caught by a limo and she was taken to an Old Estate, North of Albany. And back at Eric's house, under some kind of vision; The Forensic Detectives discovered Satanic symbols in pinkish-purple liquid. And at the Old Estate, Eric told Cody to join them if she wanted to live and her mother said, she should. And then, she made all the plates on the dinner table spin.And when Maggie and Travis came over , Maggie saw Cody running away with a Voodoo group coming after her. And suddenly, one of them attacked Travis!Maggie followed Cody to a demonic church with demonic creatures flying around it. Abd when Maggie approached Cody, she hissed at her and the Voodoo group took Maggie into the Satanic church. And when everyone was inside, rats appeared and they flooded onto a thrown which everyone was facing and the Devil appeared and then evaporated.Back at the church, Sister Joseph (Helen Stenborg) prayed at the convent. Cody was sitting on a table with Stuart holding a knife to her throat. And then, gas bombs broke in and Maggie stabbed Eric. And when Maggie tried to rescue Cody, she was shot by Eric and Cody healed her and angels appeared. And cops broke in, Travis shot Eric and he died, Stuart was shot and the angels disappeared. Maggie rescued Jenna , the church burnt down and everyone got out.In the end, Jenna was in ReHab and she told Maggie to adopt Cody. And suddenly, one of the evil helpers appeared, whipped out a knife while they were looking at the church, Cody then turned around, stared at him, the evil helper stopped and he ran away! WOW!!! "},{"Title":"Reprehensible and irresponsible","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" About mid-way through the wretched Bless The Child, Kim Basinger has schemed--off-camera--to kidnap her pre-teen niece from THE DENTIST'S OFFICE where the gifted tyke has been taken by a devil cult (I kid you not). She pulls up in a car driven by a man who we in the audience have not been introduced to. After the plan goes mostly awry, the poor guy schlepping Kim around in the car gets his eyes poked out with knitting needles. Both of 'em! Count 'em, one--two. There is never again any mention of this poor fellow, no shock or remorse from anybody. He appears, gets killed and all memory of him vanishes. This is a tell-tale sign of what's generally wrong with Bless The Child. It has been cursed by bad judgment from the get-go, and all its flashy bits and pieces completely fail to come together. I've seen episodes of Gilligan's Island that were scarier. * from **** "},{"Title":"Christian propaganda","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Not that I mind Christian propaganda except that it's so poorly done in 'Bless the Child.'  'Stigmata' tried to be profound, and partially succeeded because its plot remained fairly vague.  However 'Bless the Child' unfortunately tries to weave a detailed and ultimately cluttered plot.The movie clings to most cliche themes regarding religious cults as well as a number of generic conservative views on sin and evil.  The cult members are a bunch of skateboarding druggies who wear dark clothing.  In the end, it becomes another 'forces of light versus the forces of darkness' in a climatic battle that's not very interesting.Towards the beginning, Basinger's character is seen reading about the cult's crimes in a tabloid.  Was this meant to bolster the credibility of tabloids or lower the credibility of the movie?  The cult-leader(Sewell)'s brilliant psychological manipulation of Cody ultimately went like join us or die.  Sewell's role was one of those blatantly BAD BAD BAD characters who just becomes annoying, constantly performing outrageously evil acts of great evility to show his evil badness.  He should have just held up a sign throughout the movie proclaiming 'I am evil.'The movie's drama frequently degenerates into a soap-opera feel.  To make matters worse, the movie-makers felt it was necessary to insert a bunch of low-budget cgi effects that don't fit and don't contribute much to the movie at all.  All in all, the movie was overdone and superficial.  I give it a generous imdb 4. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal and Unsatisfying","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The scariest thing about this one is the amount of recycling from previous, better horror films.  Utilising elements that have worked before doesn't make this a bad film, but using them with no degree of innovation or knowledge of how and why they work does.  If you haven't seen The Exorcist, Rosemary's Baby, or The Omen there might be some surprises here for you.  If you have seen any of these films, watch them again instead of renting this pastiche.Occasionally something interesting pops up, like the Scientology-esque cult filled with the devil's minions.  Many of the supporting roles are filled well Rufus Sewell is a smooth and seductive Satan, Christina Ricci brings some pathos to an otherwise predictable role, and Ian Holm hams it up in the stock part of the priest/researcher with arcane knowledge.  Kim Basinger is the whitebread protagonist, and the side of the angels has never looked so boring.What makes great horror really work is it's distortion and magnification of the dark things residing in the back of our minds that we often refuse to acknowledge.  This is horror made by people that don't understand it at all. The Exorcist could scare an atheist into believing in the devil; Bless the Child could turn a pious viewer into an atheist.       "},{"Title":"Biblical plagiarism lacking a purpose.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is not a well done religious thriller.Twenty minutes after the movie starts I'm still waiting for it to begin. The writers of this script incoherenty piece it together leaving you constantly wondering what the purpose of this child is. Bless the Child.....for what reason?They have taken a first century plot recorded in the Gospels -  moved it to the year 2000  - replaced Jesus with a young girl - copied events and conversations from the Bible (word for word in some cases) called it their script... and the purpose of the child? I really don't know.This movie lacks originality and takes itself much too seriously.GONG !!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Hollywood is becoming a propaganda farm.","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Here we have yet another movie with bad guys who are drug users.  If you like this sort of thing you're going to love what Hollywood will have waiting for you in the year to come.In case you didn't know this, a new policy has made it so that every time a Hollywood producer releases a film that has an antidrug message in it, that producer gets a huge cash bonus from the US Government. The same applies to television.The government is writing your TV and movie scripts! Whatever your feelings about drugs and drug users are, you really should think about what this is going to mean for the movie industry.  Do you want to have every bad guy in a movie be a drug addict? It will begin to make the use of drugs only seem more glamorous and rebellious to kids and adults, and the consequences seem more fake (movies, after all, are not meant to be taken as reality.)Please consider writing to Drug Czar Barry Mc Cafferey and asking that this practice be revoked. Let your favourite producers know that you want to see real movies, not government propaganda.Especially baaaad propaganda like this ridiculous movie! Surely in the year 2000 we can get better computerized SFX than this. "},{"Title":"Not the worst, but....","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This film could have been a lot better. The audience deserves more, and we DO see when Hollywood repeats a trend, and repeats and repeats. For example Stir of Echoes, Stigmata, The Blair Witch Project. Each of these films came out around the same time. Similar themes(too similar) some better than others because of decent performances.The problem is, these films become redundant and audiences gradually lose interest. Kim Basinger delivers a decent performance, as does Angela Bettis as drug-addicted, cult member sister.The story however, becomes too familiar, and we lose interest. The ending was too formulaic. Overall this is not something you would be happy about if you paid to see it in the theater. Okay as rental though. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Messy.","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" What a horrible mess! How Messrs Basinger, Smits, Sewell, Ricci and Holm ended up in this half-assed excuse for a film I'm not sure, but even my profound Ricci bias cannot save my opinion of this film. Actually, I'm not being fair &#150; the film has good things about it. So, on balance plot &#150; vaguely interesting Omen rip-off with a twist; cast &#150; oddly high profile, with only Basinger seeming miscast (she's too wholesome for the part, and just didn't convince at all) and everyone dealing admirably with the clunky dialogue; effects &#150; hmmm, file under really-not-very-special; direction &#150; hmmm, file under hey, turns out those effects were tremendous compared to the direction! That was the real issue &#150; lame direction. There were lots of positive elements (a semi-gruesome Se7en-esque thriller angle, the aforementioned Omen riff, Christina Ricci) but, instead of mixing and presenting these ingredients to leave us with a tasty pie, we were left with a motley collection of ingredients that didn't hang at all. Amusingly, Rufus Sewell comments on the DVD interviews that he likes this kind of film when it is done well &#150; better luck next time, Rufus! "}{"Title":"Worse than I ever thought Possible","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Before I saw this film, I'd never heard of it. When I got to the cinema, I thought I'd try my luck with the unknown and hopefully be pleasantly surprised.On seeing the names 'Kim Bassinger' and 'Jimmy Smits' in the opening credits - I almost made a bolt for the door. Unfortunately, I stayed. It turned out to be the worst movie that I have ever been to at a cinema. Perhaps in 50 years time, people will be talking about it in the same vein as 'Plan 9 from Outer Space.'As far as woefulness goes - this film had everything- A terrible, terrible script with more clichs than you can poke a stick at (sorry)- Boring, shallow characters made worse by embarrassingly inept acting (to be expected from Bassinger but surely Christina Ricci can do better!)- Pathetic visual effects- Pointless, brainless, talentless, lifeless script (just to emphasise the point!).My advice to anyone thinking of seeing this film is to go with a group of friends. You will then have a great time outwitting each other with wisecracks. Otherwise - save your money and stay home. "},{"Title":"Do Basinger and Ricci have twin sisters?","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  They must, because I can't believe respected actresses would put their reputations on the line by appearing in this movie.Let's start at the beginning... the opening credits consist of the camera circling a statue for several minutes. Does the statue have some relevance to the story? Not that I could tell. The basic plot could have been salvaged by writing dialogue that didn't sound like a cross between a Movie of the Week and a soap opera. The details, however, seem to have no impact on the direction of the story each scene makes some sense in itself, but most make very little sense when viewed as part of a whole. Characters come and go at random - one minute Christina Ricci is there, the next she isn't. Every character is one-dimensional and none of the acting convinced me in the least. It seems like each actor was given a single facial expression to use throughout the whole film.One scene involving Basinger's character asleep at her computer epitomized the made-for-TV nature of this movie for me... it starts out spooky enough, but then the writer destroys it by turning it into something you'd see on a sitcom.I got enough Mystery Science Theater-style entertainment from this movie that I don't regret paying $3.75 for it, but I would kick myself if I'd seen it in the evening. At least now I can finally see BATTLEFIELD EARTH if I can take this, I can take anything. "},{"Title":"God blesses what God blesses and it ain't this film!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Predictable and slightly obnoxious good versus evil supernatural thriller that still has a few bits to make you jump out of your seat. Unfortunately over laden with religion, this type of thing is most scary to someone who believes in Jesus and the Devil etc etc. And here we see the appeal to bigotry as well. In the old days, the black characters in movies were often the bad guys, women never had top jobs and any Germans or Japanese in wartime epics were all innately evil to the core we've moved beyond such objectionable prejudice in these areas but still religion gets the full quota of American Righteousness. In other words, Christians (especially Roman Catholics and Jesuits) are always good guys whereas the personification of evil will tend to be linked with new age philosophy and the devil will speak with a sort of Moroccan or middle-eastern accent that is displays a prejudice towards Islam. On the prejudice scale, we see Buddhists (as long as they are not new age) get a fairly easy ride, whereas Hindus (probably because of the visual similarity between some of their gods and the depiction of gargoyles) are linked with evil. Hopefully in another twenty years or so this sort of prejudice will be a thing of the past - that is, if America outgrows its fundamentalist roots (that are a bit laughable, even to Europeans). "},{"Title":"A dumb and derivative Hollywood horror movie","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm trying. Trying really hard. Still trying. Yet no matter what, I can't think of a single positive thing to say about this movie. I know it hasn't been a particularly good time for movies as of late (as opposed to 1999, which was sheer bliss for a movie lover), but Bless the Child is lacking and scraping the barrel even more modern blockbusters. Rehashing the same tired clichs that popped up in the likes of STIGMATA and END OF DAYS to exploit the pre-millenial tension, BLESS THE CHILD is yet another film that offers nothing new to the genre with a weak plot that is predictable at every twist and turn, pointless scenes of action which add nothing to the story, and a dragging pace that makes the hour-and-a-half seem boring even when the film is pretty short for a modern cinema flick.It's hard to even call this a horror film as there are about three scenes of real horror and a couple of dodgy moments of special effects, otherwise it's more of a thriller story onto which the supernatural elements have been clumsily grafted. Sure, there are a few unexpected moments, but 99% of this film is run-of-the-mill fare. One such moment comes when the ever-weird Christina Ricci gets decapitated on a subway station by a gang of crazed Satanic thugs. There's something you don't see every day, which may be worth the value of seeing the movie alone. The film also seems bizarrely obsessed with showing people getting hit by cars and thrown into the air - not once does this happen, but twice, both done in exactly the same way. The first time was shocking, the second time just a pathetic repeat and expected.It's hard to believe that Kim Basinger was receiving an Oscar only a few years before this movie. What happened? Here she's wooden, unconvincing as the would-be mother, an inactive and frankly dumb heroine who causes more trouble than she's worth. I hate the recent influx of films centred around child characters and this is no exception. Holliston Coleman is irritating and far from cute as the central autistic kid, her sole acting talent being to scrunch up her face to display some emotion or other.Rufus Sewell (with his exceptionally creepy eyes) is well-cast as the smooth-talking villain, but he seems nonthreatening and his character underdeveloped. He doesn't get much chance to shine or show anger or hatred. Aside from Christina Ricci's cameo, Ian Holm pops up as a wheelchair-bound purveyor of good in one of his numerous instant take the paycheque and run cameo appearances, and Jimmy Smits - by far the most convincing and likable character in the movie - is wasted in support as an investigating cop whose character bears more than a nod to Fox Mulder.All of the clichd supernatural effects are present and correct, from candles mysteriously lighting themselves to a swarm of rats and weird demon bats circling in the skies, to black-clad Satanists running around on a mission of destruction. A shot of an undeveloped character getting knitting needles shoved into his eye sockets just seems gratuitous and unnecessary. The CGI effects are cheap-looking and very poor, whether it be the rubbishy demon bats (already used up in BLADE) or the swarm of rats (STUART LITTLE this ain't!), or the horned demons which briefly make their unwelcome appearances. The movie just plods on to an expected fiery climax. Boring, clichd trash, not worthwhile even for the genre fan; and there's not even much to make fun of here. "},{"Title":"the Anti Omen","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" So here we have, Bless the Child (2000) Directed by Chuck Russell based on a Novel by Cathy Cash Spellman, and brought to screen by Thomas Rickman. I enjoyed it, so, Spoiler Alert ahead. Reminiscent of movies like The Omen (1976) and The End of Days (1999) plainly stated, stories about the anti Christ as a child. In The movie, Bless the Child we have a twist. The movie could be called the anti Omen. The child of beauty here is Cody played by Holliston Coleman, Her mother Jenna, Played by Angela 'Bettis, abandoned the child to her older sister Maggie played by Kim Basinger. Six years pass, as the young girl Cody is brought up in a loving environment.From out of nowhere, Jenna returns to claim her child. She is married to a wealthy charismatic cult leader Eric, played with as much sleaze as can be mustered by Rufus Sewell. What follows is a fairly taught game of cat and mouse, as the cult Eric leads is investigated for child disappearances and murders. Agent John Travis, played by Jimmy Smits leads the investigation. On the good side, the movie is well acted, intelligently and entertainingly written. If taken on a cult of evil, vs the forces of good, without the supernatural flourishes, it would have done well enoughOn the negative side, I could relate to someone not wanting to have to be force fed morality. The movie is unashamed to move into the realm of the angelic. it is unabashedly pro a loving deity; For if there be demons, there must surly be angels. Effective cinematography, Editing and sound, An effective score composed by Christopher Young. All top rate production values. Eight out of Ten 'It's entertainment Stars. "},{"Title":"Don't Bless This Child.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Bless the Child (2000) Dir Chuck Russell / Cast Kim Basinger, Jimmy Smits, Rufuss Sewell, Christina Ricci, Angela Bettis Stupid film that seems like a terrible ripoff of The Omen. The title suggests ability with Kim Basinger giving her second bad performance of the year. She raises her sister's abandon daughter not realizing that the tyke has special powers that consist of sitting on the floor in a trance spinning dishes on the floor. Jimmy Smits enters as a cop investigating child murders. What he should be doing is investigating parents who allow their children to look this foolish on film. A cult leader has married Basinger's sister because that is the only way that Basinger's life could get any worse. They attempt custody for which Basinger retaliates resulting in a climax that wouldn't be any more laughable than if it came straight from Saturday Night Live. Absurd plot with special effects that are about as dazzling as a second grade art class. Religious elements are blasphemous with horrible directing by Chuck Russell who previously made The Mask. Rufus Sewell is laughable as the cult leader as is Christina Ricci as some moron cult Gothic princess. Angela Bettis plays another of the film's imbeciles in Basinger's whiny sister. In one scene a homeless man is forced to dose himself in gasoline and set himself on fire. That is exactly what should happen with this film. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Average occult thriller","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" There's nothing really about this film that hasn't been seen or done before,but certainly has been done better.It's a familiar good vs evil scenario. With the return of the Christmas Star,hanging in the night sky,Kim Bassinger returns home from work to find her drug addicted sister holding a new born baby girl.Sister promptly dumps the child and disappears leaving Bassinger to care for the baby. Skip forward several years and we find the child being brought up quite nicely and attending a Catholic school for special needs kids.The girl apparently has a form of autism but in reality is extremely gifted in ways nobody yet realises.........except for the Devil/Occult worshippers apparently hunting for any child that was born on the date the Christmas Star appeared years before.Getting the picture?.... Yep and so begins the battle to save mankind from the Devil......again... There's nothing particularly bad about this movie.It's just,well....average. There's very little or no tension from the story and the actors just seem to be going through the motions just to get payed at the end.Even Rufus Sewell,normally pretty good at playing bad guys tends to nibble the scenery rather than chew it!! Jimmy Smitts investigating FBI agent doesn't seem overly concerned or have any urgency about the fact that young kids are being kidnapped and turning up dead,and Bassinger just doesn't show her character any conviction to be believable.If anything,what really lets this movie down is the particularly bad special effects (just see the rats and you'll know what I mean).The movie could have probably done without them.I can look past average acting and overly familiar plots,but bad effects stick out a mile and do this movie no favours. That said,this movie is still watchable.There was nothing here that made me want to switch it off,but if you've seen the likes of The Omen,Excorcist,Rosemarys Baby etc,then you've probably seen the best of this genre out there and will want to give this a miss. "},{"Title":"Better Than Made Out to Be","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Omens and concepts of good vs. evil have no place in Maggie O'Connor's well-ordered, practical universe. Her life revolves around her job as a nurse at a busy New York hospital, until one rainy night, her sister Jenna abandons her newborn, autistic daughter at her home.Only 5.0 out of 10? This is what IMDb has given this film (as of June 2015). Not that this is anything amazing, but it is hardly only a flat five. We have Christina Ricci, Angela Bettis, and director Chuck Russell, which should be worth something.We have a priest-turned-cop (sort of like The Prophecy) which creates this interesting mixture of police procedural and satanic mystery. If done right, this is a great theme. (It is done fairly well here.) And with Rufus Sewell, who is always so evil in his roles? Excellent. "},{"Title":"Inversion of The Omen","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Released in 2000, Bless the Child is a thriller/horror that comes across as an inverted The Omen (1976) with elements of End of Days (1999). A little girl with awe-inspiring abilities is raised by her aunt, Maggie O'Connor (Kim Basinger), because her mother is a drug addict (Angela Bettis). The latter hooks up with a weird cult, led by the arrogant Eric Stark (Rufus Sewell), and they want the child for diabolical purposes.This is no low-budget production as it cost $40 million to make and was directed by Chuck Russell, who's known for a few fairly significant movies, like Nightmare on Elm Street 3 The Dream Warriors, the remake of The Blob and 1994's highly successful The Mask. Despite this, Bless the Child strangely comes across as a Lifetime movie with a higher budget. In other words, it somehow lacks the sheen and pizazz of an expensive production, which explains the film's mediocre ratings.While I understand this criticism I was able to enter into the world of the characters and enjoy the movie. It's not technically as good as The Omen (and some would say that it's sacrilege to even compare them), but I personally prefer Bless the Child simply because I like the story, characters and themes better, despite the film's limitations.Concerning the cast Kim Basinger was past her physical prime, but she still looks good and she's a likable and compassionate protagonist. Jimmy Smits co-stars as the detective on the case and he's effective, as always. Cutie Christina Ricci shines in a small role as a runaway who tries to help Maggie. They're all good, but it's Rufus Sewell who's most memorable as the leader of a cult that mixes elements of LaVeyian Satanism with Sciencefictionology.The CGI is a mixed bag, some of the effects are pretty good while some are barely serviceable, but you have to consider the age of the movie. Regardless, special effects are just icing on the cake; it's the story and characters that count and this is where Bless the Child is solid&#x97;nothing great or exceptionally good, but solid.The film runs 107 minutes and was shot in Toronto, Burlington and Sarnia, Ontario.GRADE B or B- "},{"Title":"close your eyes honey........","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Omens have no place in Maggie O'Connor's well-ordered, practical universe. Her life revolves around her job as a nurse at a busy New York hospital, until one rainy night, her sister Jenna abandons her newborn, autistic daughter at her home.Maggie takes the baby in, and she becomes the daughter she never had.Six years later Jenna suddenly re-appears with a mysterious new husband, Eric, and abducts Cody.Despite the fact that Maggie has no legal rights to Cody, FBI agent John Travis, an expert in ritual homicide and occult-related crime, takes up her cause when he realises that Cody shares the same birth date as several other recently missing children.The little girl, it soon becomes clear, manifests extraordinary powers that the forces of evil have waited centuries to control, and her abduction sparks a clash between the soldiers of good and evil.....released around the same time as End of days and Stigmata, this film relies on nothing more than shock tactics, not that bad CGI and Christina Riccis head coming off.Basinger isn't that good in her role, she can't really do anguish, and is upstaged by a wonderfully over the top Sewell. halfway through the movie, we realise that angels are helping her, and this is when it all becomes too silly for it's own good.There are some scenes that defy belief, like when she wakes up in a moving car, and the final act where the 'communion' is taking place, which is packed to the rafters from Lost boy rejects from Spielbergs 'Hook'.Nut it's cheesy in a good way,and there is some good support from Smits, but this is nothing new, and Schwarzeneggar had a much better time defeating the devil. "}{"Title":"Controversy about how liked it or not","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I just wanted to say that even if this movie was not the best of the year, even though this movie's story is not the best, I think I really enjoyed how much action is has in it.We know the story about those kids getting kidnapped and that girl who wants to protect this special kid to whom she has no legal rights. An FBI agents decides to help her when he sees that lots of kids who has the same birthday date as this kids are gone missing.Evil minions are about to kidnap those kids because they would have some special powers.This movie is full of clich, but still lots of scary images and lots of actions. I do not think you can rest for a few minuts before there is something else very interesting happening.This movie would have been the best movie of the year if it was directed better, written better (less clich) and if some actors/actresses had perform better. "},{"Title":"Holes","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed Bless The Child, and the good performance of Kim Basinger, but when all was said and done, I could not help dwelling on the films shortcomings, fallacies and holes.1 Length.  At 1hr 38mins, it is a good 35 minutes shorter than the average film nowadays, and this, while making it a shorter (and therefore more palatable...???logic???) for the punters, the film was unable to do justice to the themes and characters it created.2 The common fallacy among films that deal with themes of world domination and conquest.  Why America, and more specifically, why New York?  Why was the child born in America, and why was the bad guy looking in New York for it?  Surely if (as the casting implies) the child is the product of the stereotypical inbred mutant hicks (complete with red hair and feckles a la Carrie, 1976...also The Gift, 2000) of Southern US, then why New York and not Smallsville Texas?  These kind of issues are completely ignored, and indeed MUST be in a film this short.3 Bad guy.  It is either an amazing co-incidence that he found and married the mother, or there was some force that brought her to him.  Does he marry all drugged out homeless people? Or does he think the best place to look for mothers of children born on the special date is in rehab centres?  Again, undealt with.  Does he have supernatural powers or not?  How come he can cast a spell to make a guy want to commit suicide, and yet can be simply killed with a few lead pellets?  Earlier in the movie he manages to magic the bullets out of Kim's gun - why couldn't he do it with the FBI guy? Surely a supernatural guy deserves a supernatural death.4 - What of the nuns? How do they know that Kim is on her way with the child?  We never see her tell them she is on her way.  Also the obligatory FBI agent - when he is told that they have got Cody, he seems to know that Cody has been rescued and her recapture is news to him, yet he is never told in the first place.  When the nuns pray, are we to assume that because there are more of them, God is more likely to hear them, and give a quantitative response?  If they hadn't prayed, would God have just sat back and watched as his new messiah got diced?  If not, then why have the nun-praying scene when there are so many holes undealt with?5 - What of this mysterious Christian anti-occult cult led by Ian Holm?  Why don't they have superpowers like the occult guys?  All they do is get a young guy to drive a car for Kim, and then he dies before the getaway.  Why can't they become angels for a second, like the demon granny does?  That would have been cool.  This sub-plot came accross as just the lets-explain-some-of-the-rules part of the film, which should have come in much earlier.  Then again, they don't stick to their own rules, so I guess it doesnt really matter.It is my guess that the film was an adaptation of a book (these often make too many assumptions) and that there was some psycho reel cutter in the editing room who had shorter is better, shorter is better going round in his head.  The way I felt about the film was this nice dress rehearsal - when are you going to make the film?6/10 - hordes of unused potential "},{"Title":"Spoiled by CGI","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This film is a nice proof of the fact that the worst thing that has happened to the horror movies are affordabe CGI. The plot in itself is...well, very predictable but ok, and certainly something a good director could've worked into a classic. Alas - hey, we'll have to make this scene scary, how about working with lights, doing some fancy camera-work and sound effects... naah, let's just slap in a CGI monster, that's sure to scare them out of their seats. Right. There are scenes that work really well and have an inkling of an atmosphere, but the first sight of the computer generated devil bats made us burst out laughing - not perhaps what was intended.I'm a fan of the religious-horror genre and usually I'm willing to go at lengths with the suspension of disbelief, but I can recommend this film only for the camp value.A crying shame. "},{"Title":"Bless the audience, for they have erred...","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Poor, by the numbers (666) rubbish - everyone involved should know better.  Outclassed by Lost Souls, which itself was average at best.  Kim Basinger is lost in a sea of cliches in a film that has less direction than your average episode of Songs of Praise.Avoid. "},{"Title":"That's why they have RENT *before* you BUY!","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The movie started out drab and remained rather drab throughout.  Acting was terrible and the plot.. extremely predictable.  The movie would have made a lot more sense if they used factual information. Out of 5 stars, I give it 1 1/2.  B movie, low-budget... (oh and incantations are *usually* said in Latin) "},{"Title":"be catholic !","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  B-movie pro catholisism and anti self-help groups that doesnt succeed in converting anyone because of the silly non frightening special effects. WHEN is the serial killer trend gonna end?????Although shes good, whats Kimmy Basinger doing in it? Is she still paying off that million dollar dept? The woman playing Kims sister is good too. Christina Ricci is wasted. I feel like joining a cult.  "},{"Title":"Unsurprising horror movie","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The movie basicly is trying to be new Exorcist and conspiracy movie in one, failing in both.The story itself is quite simple, and overly used mysterious cult failed to shock or surprise. Kim Basinger character doesn't convince and neither does any of the characters in the movie. The actors seem unmotivated and Basinger acting is restricted to basic blank looks and screams. The lines like feel the anger, let your anger fill you make basicly laugh, script writer had probably watched Star Wars too much. Basicly the movie had quite many silly details, both in writing and directing.The effects are quite beautiful, although not perhaps used as well as they could be and they seemed rather industry standard from quality.The movie failed to create any sort of excitement or horror, and is far from such great films as the Exorcist. "},{"Title":"Hahahaha._________________got her head chopped off!!","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!My what a way to go Christina.  Yes Ms Ricci has her head chopped off in this movie.  Probably the highlight of the film.  Nah, not being fair here.  Let's say this movie needs a better director.  I loved the storyline.  But I kept feeling the editing sucked on this movie.  Like really bad.  It'd be towards the end of the scene and boom, they chopped the ends of the scene's.  And some storylines were left dangling.  Rushed perhaps is the feel in this movie.  Personally I loved Rufus in this movie.  I haven't seen him much since Dark City.  He's also in the coming Knights Tale movie.  I was hoping those angels at the end would nail him, but nope, bullets did him in.  That and he was a wimp.  Thought Kim was pretty darn good in this movie. 5/10 "},{"Title":"OH MY GOD........HOW THE MIGHTY HAS FALLEN","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I still cant believe Kim Basinger has sinked this low.I still cant believe Chuck russel has sinked this low.I still cant believe Christina Ricci has sinked this low.I am a huge fan of movies.Infact , Ive never really said anything bad about a movie in my life.I can always find something in a movie that I like. But this was not the case with Bless The Child.Absolutely nothing worked. Dialogue was terrible. Acting just as bad. None of it made any real sense. There were so many plotholes that I lost count. Even the F/X WERE BAD. I think the main problem is that the movie actually trys to take itself seriously.Ive never laughed so much at amovie in my life.It has to be the worst movie Ive ever seen.Kim Basinger should be ashamed.I feel sorry for Jimmy Smiths  "},{"Title":"Good Thriller","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  (spoilers)I am surprised to see all of the negative comments posted about this film. I thought it was great.  Excellent acting by all cast members.  Kim Basinger did a great job as Maggie, a single woman left to raise a child belonging to her sister.  The little girl who played Cody was outstanding.  You don't see that kind of genuine talent in most actors and actresses that age.  Rufus Sewell was also good in this movie.  My favorite performance was the brief apperance of Christina Ricci, as Cheri.  I was in total shock when she was killed in the subway.  Even though it was all special effects, the part where they beat her with crowbars and kicked her was so real it made me shake.  And when her head rolled off, that looked more real than any other decapitations that I've seen in other movies.I think this movie is well worth the money to rent or buy.  Everyone should see it at least once. "}{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Basinger is a pretty solid actress, when it comes to suspense.(ex. Final Analysis)Basinger fares well as the nurse who turns caregiver of her six year old niece. Ricci's role is equally good, but too small. The film lacked a believable plot, but it featured some chilling moments. Overall the film is very interesting and will keep you entertained. "},{"Title":"* 1/2, Kim's great, the film is not","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I love Kim Basinger more than most actors in the world but even I can't stand behind her on this one; she gives a languid and strong performance in the lead role, but even her abilities can't save this lame story from its mundaneness. Riding on the wave of spiritual thrillers that have been dominating screens of late, the story centers around a little girl who is supposed to have special Godlike powers, prompting Satanists to want to take her and do their own nasty things with her. What the girl actually has power to do is never disclosed aside from the occasional glimpse of her making dinner plates spin. Somehow, Christina Ricci pops up in an inexplicable cameo that goes nowhere. Really bad, but Kim's beauty and talent might make you forget everything else for two hours.  "},{"Title":"Hell awaits !","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie comes straight from the Vatican's P/R Department. Maybe the pope himself was script advisor for this one. To be true, it is an insult to intelligence, unbelievable from A - Z. Ok, it is supposed to be a supernatural thriller, but why do day always have to use the religious things. I mean, we already saw the equally dumb Stigmata and End of Days, but at least these movies have some nice cinematography, are well photographed and have some action sequences. But Bless the Child takes itself too serious. They are tying to tell us Drugs are no good - The devil is a very bad guy - Sects are very dangerous - The catholic church is the best - A car will explode when falling down a bridge, even before impact - A nun's prayer can safe lives. Sorry, I can hardly bear so much wisdom at once. The only thing this movie does is turning a good catholic into an atheist. There is not one single believable line. I don't know what actors like Christina Ricci or Ian Holm were doing in this. Don't they read scrips ? A bad agent ? A big paycheck ? Kim Basinger's performance is bloodless, the FBI Agent has no charisma, the bad guy's sidekicks are so dumb, the nanny is ridiculous, and the child is just banging his head. Only Christina Ricci and the blonde drug girl are convincing. Mr Russel, next time, please handle some intelligent script or at least, do not try to sell a goofy comedy as serious stuff.   "},{"Title":"-* (negative one star)","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Don Roos, author of The Opposite of Sex and Bounce, did an uncredited polish on the script, but it's difficult to imagine the script was actually worse off before his arrival.I don't actually see many films that would rate zero stars, but this one qualifies.  The movie is totally amateurish.  Other than the appearance of Christina Ricci, there's not a single thing here that wouldn't suggest this flick go straight to video.  Basinger is very bad, but she wasn't exactly given a chance with this material.  Toronto stands in for New York.  What ended up on the screen seems to be standing in for the real movie.  What did Mace Neufeld and Mel Gibson's production team see in this when they produced it?  Was there ever a movie here?  Did Chuck Russell screw it up, or did the studio?  That's a more intriguing mystery to me than what the cult wanted with the golden child.  B-A-D!   "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, but a horrible adaptation","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I'm fully convinced that makers of this movie never read the book. The book is about Maggie and her perfectly normal 3 year old granddaughter, Cody, and how they get help overcoming evil from a psychic, a priest and an FBI agent, two of which are conspicuously absent from the movie plot. And I suppose the producers decided to add in the series of murders (which are not in the book, either) to make the film more exciting. The only thing this script got right besides the names was Eric's character.The movie isn't bad as horror movies go, but I was much more horrified by how little it had to do with the book than any events in the movie.  "},{"Title":"This is a deeply flawed supernatural thriller that has an even shallower version of good vs. evil than Star Wars.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  There's a reason that this movie received such bad reviews, and I think that that reason has something to do with the fact that the movie sucked. Granted, there were a few genuine thrills in the film, but as a whole, this disappointing film parallels the insufficiency of  other failed supernatural thrillers, like the recent End of Days. Angela Bettis gives a creepy and unattractive performance as Jenna, the drug addicted mother of Cody, the blessed child. The scene when Jenna runs out on Cody early in the film, leaving her with Maggie (Kim Basinger) is so badly presented that it gives the illusion that she committed suicide instead of just ran off. The little girl who played Cody as a three year old girl was absolutely adorable, but you have to wonder why such a cute little girl has a terrifying gargoyle just outside her bedroom window. No wonder she's so messed up.While the religious cult trying to utilize Cody's powers for evil is the same old garbage, impressive performances and an interesting subplot save this film from obscurity. Kim Basinger is excellent as Maggie, Cody's aunt and guardian since her ninth day of life, and Jimmy Smits plays the part of the most interesting character in the film &#150; a former seminary student who decided to join the FBI as another way to fight Satan. Well, he gets his chance with the creepy Eric Stark, leader of a group of Satanists who want to utilize Cody's powers for their own purposes. (spoilers) There's nothing new here, and the relationship between Maggie and Cherry ( another good performance from Christina Ricci) is ridiculously unlikely from the beginning, but at least they were both well acted. Also, one of the film's few real thrills involved Cherry, after having been beaten to death in the subway but a bunch of satanic nuts. I don't care what anyone says, the part where Cherry's head rolls off is a great scare! There was another good scare that took place in front of the satanic church, but for the most part, the film was a jumbled mess of clichs. Besides that, it seemed like every five minutes, something stupid would happen. The scene where Maggie bursts into Cody's bedroom after hearing her scream from the other room is taken directly from The Exorcist, especially the part where she bursts through the door with a horrified expression on her face. This is blatant plagiarism, but at least it was followed by a sequence in which dreams and reality are effectively confused with each other, and this scene also makes an amusing comment about slow computers. There is a candlelight scene that is fairly effective, but that is ruined by the old Crying Statue trick, and Cody's dumb line, `She's sad, so sad. She's crying for us.' The return of Cody's mother when Cody is six years old is just weak scriptwriting, and the whole thing with the gargoyles, while impressive as far as the special effects, may have been a little bit excessive. But the worst things were the continuity errors and logical errors. For example, in the scene before Maggie crashes her car and drops it off of the bridge after being saved by some random hero, she wakes up out of a drugged sleep and she's sitting in a moving car heading the wrong way on a busy road. Clearly the bad guys didn't put her in the car and give it a good push, and it's obvious that SHE didn't drive herself there, so what the hell happened? Was the car remote controlled? And how about the scene where Maggie follows Cody as she is led into the dentists office, and when she gets upstairs, the dentist is just finishing? That is truly some lightning speed dental work. Then you have Maggie and Cody being chased into the subway by one of the creepy Satanists, and as she bangs on the subway door, breaking the glass in frustration, her true form, that of some sort of gargoyle, shows momentarily. If she is some type of demon capable of changing forms, why can't she get onto a freakin' subway car? I've complained too much already, I'm not even gonna get started on the mystery of the disappearing police backup.  Bless The Child is a run of the mill supernatural thriller with the ever-present religious undertones (or overtones, in this case). The only really interesting thing about the film is the investigation of the murdered children by the FBI, but we already know who the killers are. As a whole, the film is a mess, and the clichs are everywhere. Even the ending, when some Satanist runs up with a knife to kill Cody (or kill SOMEONE, at least), only to stop abruptly in shock when Cody turns around and looks at him. Yawn. And what better way to end a heavily clichd film than with one more clich &#150; `Are you alright?' `It's alright &#150; now.' Even Stigmata was better than this.  "},{"Title":"If you are a believer you are going to love this...","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Having just watched this movie I am very disappointed in the bad reviews it has received. Much has been said about the rip-off of the line from the Usual Suspects... The biggest trick the Devil ever pulled was making people believe he doesn't exist... My point is this, if that line is true, it might bear repeating. I was totally blown away by the way the good guys in this movie were drawn to and relied on prayers, (realizing they needed a higher power) and then we see how God answered those prayers. At certain points in the movie Angels, good Samaritans, appear and offer support with a kind word or a helping hand. Most of the time these looked and acted like regular human beings. I also liked the angle of the bad guy, having found a great deal of material wealth, fame and success selling the notion YOU are the only God, that is the lie God doesn't exist, or something to that effect, being a recovering person I have come to believe in a power greater than myself, and the power of prayers. It is refreshing to see a movie show this power. Hope it works for you too! "},{"Title":"not great","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Sad that a movie that looked so promising turned out to be so bad.  There isn't much to praise here, except a brief appearance by Christina Ricci, and the always-a-pleasure-to-watch Rufus Sewell.  He is good here as a cult leader/devil worshipper, but the rest is enough to put you to sleep.  Kim Basinger makes great worried facial expressions, but that's about all she did through the entire mess.  4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I'm surprised the rating on this movie is so low...","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  because I really liked it.  But then, I go to the movies to be entertained and if I stop thinking about my own problems for an hour and a half, I'm satisfied.  I will say, as a devout Christian, that if you're lukewarm on this subject you may not like it as much.  For those of us who believe in God, Satan, angels and the ongoing battle between the forces of good and evil, there is more to this movie than might appear; there is the promise that God never abandons us.    "},{"Title":"Curse the damn child","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Jesus Christ must be spinning in his grave. I have never, ever, ever seen such a terrible religious movie. Scratch that, I don't think I've ever seen such a terrible movie...final. The beginning of the movie is so terrible, I felt like walking out after 10 minutes. The feed you information without even trying to have it make any sense. They rush you through over 5 years of important info in less that 15 minutes. And the plot. P.U. It's so cliche. Oh, dear, a little girl is born with incredible powers but, those powers can serve evil as well as good. Come on! Like I haven't heard that one a million times before. And at least the others managed to produce something interesting. As for the acting, I think its worse than the story. I don't know what Kim Basinger has been doing all these years, but she certainly hasn't been practising. She delivers such a monotonous performance, I had to check for my pulse a few times. Sometimes to no avail. I'm not saying it was all bad(I'm lying, it was). Some parts were partially interesting. But only for a total of 5 minutes. The rest is pure crap.My rating 2.3 on 10   "}{"Title":"Bless the child steps into the category of another failed God Vs Satan thriller along with Stigmata and End of Days.","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The storyIts Christmas Eve and Nurse Maggie O'Conner (Kim Basinger) has a surprise visitor, its her long lost sister who she hasn't seen in years and now is a homeless drug addict and is burdened with a child. After her sister runs off Maggie is left with the child and as years pass she comes to realize that the child has autism and a very strange habit of spinning objects very fast on the end of her finger. After a series of child abductions and murders FBI agent and former trainee priest John Travis (Smits) monitors the movement of a devil worshiping cult who seems to be looking for a certain child blessed by the almighty. (No clues to whom that might be!) The filmBless the child steps into the category of another failed God Vs Satan thriller along with Stigmata and End of Days. Bless the child makes weak attempts to match the success of the Omen but it unfortunately lacks the same quality of performances and direction. The wafer thin plot is not exactly original and you can guess the story before it even happens. The film relies greatly upon special effects and to be honest they are not very effective. The naff opening scenes of stone Gargoyles and nasty little computerized rats do very little to enhance the attempted thrills and chills that make a good thriller. Christina Ricci who plays Maggie's sister's friend although making a small appearance produces a compelling performance. The scene where Christina Ricci's character tells Maggie where the child is then escapes down in a subway being chased by some angry Goths is fairly enjoyable and is one of few scenes that capture the audiences attention.Once again like in Eraser Chuck Russell produces another disappointing film and does not use the cast's talents to their full potential. With weak performances from the cast and dreary dated effects Bless the child fails to impress and although it just about entertains, a large supply of snacks and beverages are needed to keep you occupied. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the trialer","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Good but flawed...It wasnt twisted enough, quite predictable. The CG effects are quite good, but has the same plot as any other 'devil cult' type film. Also was a bit slow to start. (Ok im only really complaining about the picture as the bottom was blurred... but it wasnt good enough to be bothered about really...)Oh and theres a  nice bit with an Award BIOS Setup Screen... Look out for it... "},{"Title":"How very odd...good, but odd","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The film initially didn't seem to pick up any pace what-so-ever.  Usually in films that drag on and dont really get to the point, you start looking at your watch and wonder whether you should leave the cinema or not because there's a slight chance it might get better.  Bless the Child seemed very slow in getting to where it wanted to, but kept you interested all the way in a slow kind of manner which I found really bizarre.  Kim Basinger plays her part exceptionally well.  She acted exactly like you would expect a concerned guardian would.  Let's face it, Cody seemed a normal child, but her exceptional powers of spinning objects etc wasn't really shown in the view of anyone watching her (except the audience of course) yet people new something was different about her.  As for the satanists, well, when her concussion sets in and you can see what's really going on in the background, that's when the film really gets down to business.  Thoroughly enjoyed it. A few shocking parts too.  Eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"Devilish thriller - with a script right out of hell.","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  ANGEL HEART and DEVIL'S ADVOCATE both told great stories about dealing with the devil; - hell, almost even END OF DAYS comes up with a decent yarn about the forces of Darkness. But Kim Basinger's fight against Beelzebub and His allies must be one of the worst efforts. Badly acted (Kim seems to sleepwalk, whereas the sometimes refreshing Rufus Sewell most likely just came out of the Hasslehoff school of drama) and boring, the film drags on. Unconvincing SFX make us hate CGI even more. If The Devil's game is destruction of anything that's good, this film could've been executively produced by Him.  "},{"Title":"I expected more","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  After seeing the preview for the movie, i discussed it with my best friend and we decided to watch the movie together. WE aren't exactly Satanists, but we defend the Fallen Angel enough to be suspected to be his followers. We went to see the movie, expecting to see a movie, in which actual Satanists are shown the way they actually are and that's what we got. We saw the devil as we pictured him and that part i cannot complain about. The scenes were filmed and cut nicely, no comments on that either, and the acting was superb, in my opinion. The part i disliked was not much respect was given to both sides. The 'God-liking side' was given respect. Angels were not actually pictured as nobody knows for sure what they look like. But then showing what Satan looked like, is the same as showing what God himself looks like and they showed Satan. Also, the whole motto of good shall always beat evil' comes around again, and i'd expected more of a battle from the 'bad' side. This irritated my friend and myself, for we respect both sides. If one cannot make a movie discriminating black people or invalids, then i believe you cannot make Satanists seem 'wrong'. The rest of the movie was okay. The end was kind of fast, i must say. The surprises came at the right moments. I admit i was surprised at times, and there wasn't too much gore either.A respectable movie, i would say in short, two thumbs up, except the discriminating part. "},{"Title":"just another supernatural thriller","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  You can always tell if a movie of this type is bad if the audience you see it with laughs at the over-the-top scenes of gore instead of shrieking at them.  There are many of those scenes in this movie that are haphazardly strewn together with second-rate special effects and false tension.  What makes the movie so bad is that with the lack of a sensible plot and distinguished characters the audience can only look forward to what gross-out will be coming next for them to laugh at.  Granted, the acting is not is not atrocious, but it still can not be considered above average.  Kim Basinger tries to emote as realistically as possible, but she seems out of her league here.  Jimmy Smits gives an agreeable performance.  However, the actor/actress with the most potential, Christina Rici, is wasted by being in only two sequences.  This should wrap up my feeling on this movie it makes End of Days look like a good movie.  Enough said.  Final Grade D- "},{"Title":"Standard Movie, Good Special Effects, Bad Editing","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The best part of this movie would have to be the special effects, they are done quite well. The acting is ok, nothing special there. The plot is ok, but nothing special either. Unfortunately the editing was very badly done, as you will pick up in the subway train scene and in the diner scene too. Obviously no-one really watched this movie before it was released, or these would have been picked up.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie with good story","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is different from other cult movies. Beside the story is excellent, the stars acting is really good too and looks real and imaginative.The part that needs to be change maybe things such as the dentist scene which doesn't make sense at all and the part where the candle light magically, this part Kim's character do not feel nervous at all.Above all, this movie is worth watching. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I can't believe the overall rating for this flick is so low. This was a great movie that worked on every level, acting, script, dialogue, fx, pacing, action...Definitely the best apocalyptic movie I've seen in years. At least several times better that End of Days (sorry Arnold, I'm still a fan, though). "},{"Title":"Not another religo-thriller!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Oh Lord, hear this humble reviewer as he cries to thee for mercy in this year of thyself 2000.Lord, thou knowest all things which are in men's hearts, and thy powers are unlimited oh Lord. Why, therefore dost thou suffer Kim Basinger to be in movies where she doth not play a fallen woman oh Lord? Thou knowest full well that she is like unto a zither with but one string that can zith one note alone Lord.Lord, in thy infinite mercy and wisdom thou hast done some strange and mysterious things - all of them seemingly fatal to those thou visited thy mercy upon, Lord. For example Lord, Sodom and that other place no-one can spell were smitten with thy wrath. How then, oh Lord was this movie spared? Surely it was an abomination unto thy sight oh Lord with its pseudo religious blasphemy? Have mercy on the filmmakers, oh Lord.Lord, need I remind thee of the pain and suffering this plague of Millennium Fever movies is visiting upon thy people? Hear my cry, oh Lord, enough!Lord, there may be poor blighted souls out there tonight who thinkest in their heart, nay, in their heart of hearts that seeing this movie may be a good idea Lord. Hear my plea oh Lord to visit upon them such doubts as to the quality of the production and direction and script oh Lord that their hearts will be changed. Bring them into thy truth, oh Lord, and suffer them not to see - put out their eyes if they should shell out for this poor excuse for wasting time - it would be a better fate.In thy name, Amen.  "}{"Title":"A must-see spiritual thriller","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is one of those rare cases where the screenplay is vastly superior to the novel.  In fact, there is little in common between the screenplay and the novel other than the title, and that is a good thing.  The screenplay brings the battle between Good and Evil into much sharper focus than does the book, and dispenses with the book's muddy theology and theosophy.  The portrayals of the child's developing miraculous gifts and visions are little cinematic gems in themselves, and the vision of the weeping statue of St. Mary in the side chapel of the Roman Catholic church is particularly moving. The parallels between the temptations of the child and the three temptations of Christ in the wilderness are elegant theological touches. The portrayal of the gentle and fierce goodness of the child's aunt/foster mother by Kim Basinger are believable and engaging.  This is a movie that most will probably either love or hate.  Viewers who believe in the actual existence of God and Satan and the reality of the ongoing war between Good and Evil will probably love it.  In my opinion, this movie is on a par with the original Exorcist. "},{"Title":"See it!","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I went into this movie thinkin,man,this movie is going to suck I came out sayinman,this was a phat movie.People say it is a copy off of end of days but it isn't.The girl in end of days didn't have any powers.Codie(from bless the child)could heal people by just hugging them.And it wasn't at all like sixth sense.It had something more to it,like oh yeah.,Personality! The kid in sixth sense had no personlaity,that could be detected,hec did a great acting job don't get me wrong but,come on.I couldn't figure out what he was gettin at.well if I a good horror/devil/suspense movie see it! "},{"Title":"No Exorcist or Omen, but better than Armageddon","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kids do the darndest things.Young Cody, for example, can telepathically spin plates, toys, the dust in snow globes, all with a simple gyration of her body. If that isn't enough, Cody can even bring dead birds back to life.Such an ability would land most children on the talk show circuit, but it makes Cody a target for the head of a self-help empire that's really a front for...Satan!Such is the premise of Bless the Child, a movie that mixes murder mystery with the occult and supernatural and throws in a Bible's worth of clichs about the Catholic church, new age religion, and devil worship.It's a silly premise which makes it all the more important that the movie's stars, Kim Basinger, Jimmy Smits, Rufus Sewell, and Angela Butts, take their roles very seriously. Gravity is the order of the day as the underdog forces of good are confronted by the seemingly insurmountable power of evil.It all starts nine days after the Star of Jacob shines in the New York sky for the first time in 2000 years. Matronly non-believer Maggie O'Connor, played by Basinger, is stuck with a baby left behind by Jenna, her heroin-addicted sister, played by Butts.On the bright side, it turns out that young Cody, played by Holliston Coleman, has not been born addicted to smack, but the girl is different -- not quite autistic, but not the most communicative little dickens either. Cody is enrolled in a special school for autistic children run by some Catholic nuns and the years go by relatively peacefully.But one day Jenna returns, this time with a newly-married hubby in tow. Eric Stark, played by Sewell, is the said leader of the human potential pyramid scam, and he aims to harness Cody's powers and is not above kidnapping this pint-sized power source.From there the chase begins.Bless The Child has its share of tense moments and suspense, but falls well short of such classics as The Exorcist and The Omen. The camera simply spends too much time on Basinger and not enough on what the fuss is supposed to be all about. Coleman's character comes across as little more than a supernatural cigar-smoking monkey, and Sewell is simply unconvincing as the charismatic leader of a cult.But by the same token, Bless The Child is a far sight better than Armageddon, in which a pathetic Arnold Schwarzenegger takes on a surprisingly wimpy Satan. And other than a rather unnecessary rolling-head scene, the violence is portrayed without the gruesome'n'graphic that plagues many movies these days. "},{"Title":"A religious child-rescue Action film with Horror elements","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Going into this film I expected another supernatural-action formula in the vein of End of Days or Stigmata. Well even with SFX demons and spiritual visions this is a different kind of movie.  There are strong Christian overtones not indicated in the reviews.  The theme is about keeping faith and persisting in hopeless situations. The casting is good, particularly with Basinger and Sewell, even if the script skims over these archetypical characters.  The story is set up in a rushed, melodramatic manner.  A single doctor (Basinger) is visited by her junkie sister who leaves a newborn in her care and vanishes.  Six years later, sister returns cleaned-up and married to rich, self-reliance cult leader (Sewell), to claim her little girl Cody.  A custody conflict looks imminent, until the FBI investigator and former seminary student (Jimmy Smits) links a recent string of child murders to the cult leader.  From then on it's a back-and-forth battle over Cody, who has some kind of spiritual importance and is being tempted to join the dark side.  Some of these scenes are lifted out of the biblical gospels. The villains at the center of the cult are more clever than the heroes and seem to be everywhere, which maintains some paranoia in the film. The requisite gore, explosions and car chases are kept to a minimum in favor of tense confrontations and close-calls.  There were a few scenes that elicited the necessary horror. The conclusion was too convenient and lacked the irony I enjoy, but the pacing and tension kept me eager to see what would happen next. "},{"Title":"excellent film with (finally) a very positive message","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie over the labor day weekend and was very pleased .  The special effects were great and the suspense is kept at a high level throughout the film.  It's nice to see someone take a chance on a movie that actually shows God in a positive light and does such an amazing job of pitting the forces of good and evil against one another.  A fine film with a couple of violent scenes, but a nice change from the usual Hollywood cookie-cutter films. "},{"Title":"Bless The Child Well acted and well scripted","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Bless the Child is one of those movies where that's based on a book, but way different. Maggie O'Connor's (Kim Basinger) lives a well-ordered life, until her drug addicted sister comes to her house one night, drops off her child, named Cody,  and splits. Now Maggie has to take care of the baby. As the years get added on, Maggie starts noticed special things about Cody (played extremely well by new comer Holliston Coleman). After six years have passed Maggie's sister, Jenna (Angela Bettis), shows up once again and she wants her child back. She is with her new man Eric Stark (Rufus Sewell). They steal Cody. Maggie goes to FBI agent John Travis (Jimmy Smits) for help. As the movie goes on, Cody gets more and more special.  	The best actress in the movie is Coleman who outdoes Basinger. This is Basinger's 2nd film since her Academy Award win (for LA Confidential), the first was the major flop I Dreamed of Africa. The movie is good, it kept me on the end of my seat the whole way threw. Christina Ricci also appears in the film.   "},{"Title":"Well-intentioned misfire","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  BLESS THE CHILD is a cross between THIS PRESENT DARKNESS and THE EXORCIST, with all that implies.  Like DARKNESS, CHILD is earnest and has enough of a plot to hook us along, but has all the artistic savvy of a fifth-rate Stephen King piece.  Plot holes, dead performances, and overall hack work abound, which is too bad; the basic premise is, like THE EXORCIST, standard stuff which could have worked if someone had taken the time to buff up the writing and inspire the acting.  The film looks pretty good, and has one or two actual moments in it (I'm thinking of a couple notes of grace the little girl has when she hugs a homeless man and a sick girl), but unless expectations are very low, this will surely disappoint.It's interesting, too, that the script is shot through with authentic Christianity but plays fast and loose with a significant detail according to Scripture, King Herod, attempting to assassinate the child Messiah, has all boys in the kingdom killed who were born within a two-year span.  The film's mouthpiece, a former seminary student, reports that Herod had one specific date rather than the two-year net.  (See Matthew 216) "},{"Title":"Good Message","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  First let me start off with what I did NOT like. I did not like Kim Basinger.  (surprise surprise) She can't act (and the girl can't run either). (I didn't believe a single thing she did. She brushed herself off from the rain... it wasn't convincing.) What didn't help matters is that her character was dumb... dumber than dumb. Jimmy Smits' character started off on the right foot. (I liked the idea of an almost-priest turned FBI because he found a different way to fight it.) But his part became pretty dull and worthless. (Oh the part he had towards the end was just stoopied.) Again they put scenes in the movie's previews to incite when that's all there was to it (the evil face by the subway). The music was bad and gimmicky. The camera's slow motion didn't work for me at all.What did I like?  Rufus Sewell did his best to play a fairly decent villain. Christina Ricci's whole two scenes were suitable. Angela Bettis was okay in her role as a drug addict. I liked the child, Cody. I thought she (Holliston Coleman) did exceptionally well. I liked the religious images (both good and evil). It did get a bit cheesy (as buttertree would say) and some parts were fake (but I liked some of those fake parts too). I liked the angels' presence throughout the film. I liked the message The power of prayer. Evil exists. There is a God. We all live with the struggle between good and evil every day. God is with you.The greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn't exist. What people believe evil is now is 'politically incorrect.'I do crave for a really *good* religious thriller. If you don't - - I can see you hating this. (I laugh when I hear people rank on this film because I totally see their point.) This wasn't 5 star material; it could have been a whole lot better, but it was still better than Stigmata from last year. You know how some movies get better and better the more you think about them? I have a feeling this movie is just going to get worse. However, my rating today is purely for Holliston (the child) and the movie's message...* * * (out of 5) I'll get a warrant for this devil-lovin' b*st*rd. ~Mooniebutt "},{"Title":"A pretty psychotic movie","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I thought this was a very scary movie....very psychotic and disturbing.  I thought the actors were good, and the scariest part about the villian are his eyes (or actually, that one eye that only opens half way or something). I left the theater feeling all wierd, but by the time I had arrived at home and had finished discussing the movie with my friend, I didn't really think about the movie anymore.  It's scary enough that you get hooked into the movie, but not so scary that you will get nightmares.  Anyways, go see it if you have time, but prepare to be horrified and grossed out.  "},{"Title":"So-So","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Other than the special effects, the interesting thing about this movie was so many similar scenes as from The Exorcist. To witSingle parent, young girl with unknown (and unreal)medical condition. A hideous gargoyle, (demon statue) Imagined rats in the house. Cute mother/daughter bed-time scene. Mother running towards childs room to respond to screams. NYC subway scene. A bum sitting down. Person blind in one eye making a banging noise. Crucifix placed in child's room by housekeeper. A young religious character who questioned his faith (let seminary)and an older priest. A junkie connection in the story, (in Blatty's book, left out of movie) Broken or severed neck of minor character.Any more?  "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  It was among the best I've seen this year, up there with the Gladiator and X-men.  This movie put end of days and other movies like it to shame.  I was a little bothered by the excessive religious sentiment but it was needed to get the point across and worked in the movie.  I could have done with a flying baby but you can't have everything.  Why this movie isn't doing better in the box office I don't know.  Maybe if people would stop watching Bring it On and go see decent movies like this then Hollywood wouldn't make movies that suck as much. "},{"Title":"**1/2 out of ****","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I came extremely close to giving this movie 3 stars, but the ending ruined it. It's just too simple. The ending wasn't much deserved and I wish it had a more deserving and less predictable finish. Why does Hollywood think that killing one person - the villain - can make everything better? The good things about the movie are its characters and its story. I was expecting to absolutely hate this movie, but wound up liking it. It has bizarre and surprisingly creepy images, including some fantastic special effects. I also wasn't expecting such believable effects. It's a decent movie, but Kim Basinger's over-acting sometimes hurts the film. "},{"Title":"Misguiding Delight!","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie predicts its female child main character will certainly fulfil every satanist's movie-fetish, but on the contrary this movie performs an excellent twisted approach to the Holy Bible and actually illustrates the path of a true christian and the path of Jesus through different characters. The goth approach is definitely a winner to allure wordly outsiders. who suddenly appreciate something without realizing what they're witnessing! "},{"Title":"Spiritual Good triumphs over Evil story","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Those expecting a rollercoaster ride of thrills and special effects will be disappointed here.  This film is more about faith triumphing over evil.  There are good special effects and it does have good suspense, but it is mostly the drama the builds the story.  It starts out slow (mostly in dramatic for) before it quickens its pace.  Kim Basinger is good but Holliston Coleman and Rufus Sewell are the ones to watch.  The effects are ethereal and the final showdown between good and evil is more touching than edge-of-your-seat.  For an inspirational supernatural thriller, this is the film to see.  Some may hate it mainly because film's like this are hard to find (compare it to another like it, if you can). "},{"Title":"Excellent Religious Thriller","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Bless the Child is the best religious movie so far this year. It definitely beats out The Omega Code and Stigmata from last year along the religious lines. There haven't been many thrillers this year with probably the two best being within a week of each other in release(BTC and The Cell) most likely hoping for a repeat of The Sixth Sense. Kim Basinger and her young co-star had great acting in the film along with a brief outstanding role from Christina Ricca. All of the actors looked very well casted into their parts except Jimmy Smits who should have stuck with TV. BTChild sticks very close to the religious aspects unlike Dogma and gives very good special effects that add to the thrill of the movie. See this film. It is definitely worth the price of a matinee.  "},{"Title":"Certainly not the pinnacle of Basinger's career.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Certainly not the pinnacle of Basinger's career. It does, though, have its share of thrill and chill but overall it is a bit corny, and you may wonder why this movie was made in the first place. After all, it doesn't reach such a high level of quality as Agnieszka Holland's very underrated religious drama The Third Miracle. "},{"Title":"Dianetics is to Battleship Earth as the Catholic Church is to this movie","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The Catholic Church is facing a tremendously large problem, most of the members of the church are getting old, and this is true of both the worshippers and the leaders of the church itself. So this movie whether or not it was intended to do so, acts as a recruitment film or more accurately a propaganda film for the Catholic Church. This film has very obvious enemies, including one man, who leads what Christina Ricci calls the opposite of Religion, a cult that is very similar to Scientologist's Dianetics, in image and presentation. The members of the cult, when not in public, wear black clothing and trench coats and otherwise fit the image of the Columbine killers.What makes this film worse is that our main character has visions of flying devils whenever the evil lurks. The special effects are tremendously lame and would make any person who has seen what can be done with modern animation, snort.Thirdly and lastly, all of the heroes are Catholic. The mother of the child, the FBI agent and the child herself. Also the only way they make any progress towards there goal is by praying, not by the investigation process they teach you in FBI school.The movie is tremendously goofy, and lacks any real excitement but did give me a hankering for some wafers and some wine. Seriously, this movie does not belong in theaters but rather the CBN network or some other religous outlet. Just as Autumn in New York is just for women, this movie is just for those who are loyal believers in Catholicism and this movie give little room for those non-believers. "},{"Title":"garbage","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  a complete and utter pile of trash. kim bassinger was as lively as a brick. the drugged out sister was obnoxious and useless. smits did decently but a monkey dressed up as an fbi agent could have equaled this performance. the little kid was nothing special, probably end up dong barbie commercials for the rest of her life after this bomb of a movie. the plot was totally uninspired, not just borrowing, but stealing from several other movies, not to mention the numerous loop holes and incongruencies. by the end of this excursion into mental torture (especially the retarded Satan scene) i attempted to use my ticket stub to gouge my eyeballs so i would not have to witness the rest of this celluloid vomit. unfortunately i couldnt save my mind quick enuf before the angels came to save the day, along with tear gas wielding police officers. if you like this movie you will also enjoy stabbing a fork thru your neck.  "},{"Title":"Finally... an action film for Bible Camp","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I'll give Bless the Child 5 out of 10, and only because it gets better in the final third.There are some thrilling moments (important to have in a thriller) and they're well done. But the movie grows thick with religious overtones-- meaning it beats you with them OVER and OVER. I can imagine a convent erupting in cheers at the scene where nuns rally to save the girl-- by organizing a prayer group. It should be an exciting scene, but I'm the wrong audience. My sister, who's very religious and active in her church, would enjoy this film much more.The movie's weak points are the dialogue and character interaction. Despite Kim Basinger's desperation to get the child back, she seems to do everything she can to work AGAINST the agent who wants to help. Some character mood changes come too easily, while others wear a bullseye on their forehead the instant you see them. The good Samaritans, however, were a nice touch, and the subtlety of their characters was welcome.Some abrupt scenes make you wonder what they left on the cutting room floor. One such scene features Ian Holm. Despite His high standing in the credits, it's a cameo-- and his delivery is nothing short of blustery.I'm not a Basinger fan, but I wouldn't replace her or Jimmy Smits. The casting worked. I've read criticism that Basinger's glamorous looks are out of place and Smits's action-poor FBI agent wouldn't work on the NYPD. I can say the first is unjustified, and the second is inaccurate.Christina Ricci-- who I do like-- puts in the worst performance of her career. I've never seen anyone else UNDERact and OVERact in the same scene. Watch how she treats the cigarette in the diner, you'll see what I mean. I could understand if she claimed she just got her script the day of filming.The real reason I went to the movie was Angela Bettis, who had a small role in Girl, Interrupted. She befriended me at a film festival last year. She seems to make the tears come so easily, so again I'll blame the shortcomings on the script. But Angela, advice from a friend, find some other roles besides drug addicts. "},{"Title":"here we go again","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  i am getting so sick of these religious thrillers that all seem to revolve around the same theme...it has been done before plenty of times and BLESS THE CHILD is no exception.  yes it has some cool effects, but it adds nothing to this movie which needs more plot than anything.  most of all it needed more christina ricci. "}{"Title":"*puts eyes back in after clawing them out* SPOILERS","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Have you ever walked in mud? Like a bog or swampy area at a creek? You know you have to get across or at least out, but you are hindered, slowed, uncomfortable, and frustrated. I sat in a theater and experienced such sensations. What WAS THAT? I mean there I was thinking to self, ah well it will be a fun trippy romp It was hardly a bland, mediocre stroll. The opening dialogue, it just hurt. But first get OFF THE DRUGS what was that? Perhaps After School specials DID impact some youth back in the 70s because that sure smacked of one. (heh smack, get it? I just noticed that, smack, drug reference, I am silly)  Then the flat out slap in the face of bad stereotypes and misconceptions of both the church and satanism. I hardly care about offending in a movie, and couldn't careless about stereotyping and misconceptions if they are done right for a part, but this was just careless drivel that clumped around like a toddler in his dad's muddy work boots. (like that one?) I must also vent regarding Ricci. Um.. what was she doing there? Listen can you hear the sound of a girl kicking herself in the distance? her cameo was amusing to say the least. Her beheading I think was in my mind a subconscious escape for her from such trash, reminded me of Tim Robbin's death in Mission to Mars THIS MOVIE IS HELL *takes off helmet*  Ok maybe I am dreaming there. Still. So yes the movie was trash, but go see it to have a giggle. Ya know... this makes me wonder if Jesus ever spun a plate to show his anointing? "},{"Title":"how can anyone like this movie?","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Have we lost all sense of taste?  This summer has proven to be a multiplex crapfest and we just keep swallowing it down and licking our lips for more. Everything out has been so bad that some can actually find this movie okay by comparison.  Well, heck, can't we expect a little more than okay. There are those that will say that I expect too much from movies, but I think that everyone else expects too little.  True, I would like to see the occasional movie with some higher purpose, some sort of voice and a bit of artistic integrity, but I can also appreciate nothing more than an enjoyable story.  Yet, this summers crop of weeds hasn't even been entertaining, its just been bad.  Laughably bad.Why in God's name would the satanic cult take that little girl to the Dentist!  Did no one else even realize that that was a screenwriters crutch? Bad bad bad.I became a registered user just so I could write this little diatribe in the hope that one person out there will stop seeing horrible movies such as this one. "},{"Title":"An ill-conceived mess","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Where do I start?  Bless the Child is a flop, a horrendous, horrible flop.  The dialogue is awkward and unintentionally funny at the most inappropriate moments (Ricci They make thing happen to people.  Baaad things. As opposed to what?  They're satanists, for God's sake!). The performances are surprisingly bad, as well, especially Basinger's emotionally distant Maggie, and Ricci's rather pointless turn as the requisite good-hearted yet troubled Goth chick.  Smits is in full Bobby Simone mode, which is fine but altogether uninteresting, and Sewell gives us his best impression of the Big Bad Wolf.  He really needs to get that wandering eye of his fixed.  What else... Oh, the pacing is mind-numbingly slow, the plot wafer-thin and predictable.  The music is oppressive and gimmicky.  The CGI is especially pointless, and is unimpressive at that.  But ah, the religious and historical themes...Bless the Child does a spectacular job of getting as many Judeo-Catholic cliches in a single movie as possible.  Why, there are the kindly nuns in full habit, something which, while plausible, is rather unlikely nowadays.  (Lumi Cavazos, what are DOING in this movie?)  There's the eccentric old theologian who lives in an eccentric place.  There's the really Catholic Hispanic nanny.  There are evil minions who dress in all black - so chic!  And then there are rosaries and doves and white lilys and crying statues of Mary and blah blah blah...Plus, you can tell no one on set was actually Catholic as they quoted from the Bible (the St. James version with its archaic thees and thous that sound so much more *mysterious* even when no one can understand them) ad nauseum.  Now, I'm a lax Catholic at best, but come on!  I'm sure even real Satanists are unhappy about their portrayal.  This movie is ludicrous.  Don't waste your money.  The only pleasure I derived from it was the good long laugh I had with my friends as soon as the credits started.  Anyone who knows *anything* about religion, history, or the real world will laugh at this already bad idea gone so horribly wrong.Somewhere, God is having fun with irony...   "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie and it was really good.I was very happy to see a good horror/suspense movie.Kim Basinger is great.What is the problem with the rating of this flick.5/10...this movie deserves at least 6.5 or 7.I recommend Bless the Child to anyone here who like horror movies with suspense and a religious theme add into it.GO SEE THIS ONE! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great Thriller","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT i almost brutalized my poor husband in that poor place. That rat scene was just pure horror. That alone made the movie a thriller. I feel they should have let the little girl speak more even quote from the bible. it is awesome and a little drawn out but only so you can get the big picture. And Jimmy smits with his fine self did a really good ob, i thought at the end once he witnessed the angelic scenes that he would go back to being a priest. I would definitely recommend this movie, but 13 and over and no one with nightmares.  "},{"Title":"When will Hollywood get it right?","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Supernatural thrillers have never been a strong point for Hollywood, but when it's bad on so many levels and then resorts to action cliches to end it out you've really got a mess on your hands.My first issue is why oh why does Hollywood think that the battle of evil forces is only fought by Catholics?  Is there some sort of mysticism that Catholicism portrays that's supposed to make it more believable to us?  Personally, I'd like to see a spiritual warfare movie fought by one of those charismatic, snake-throwing Appalachian churches where they actually focus on using spiritual power to overcome evil.  Not some nun who sees a statue of the virgin Mary crying and gets this tingley feeling about her.  I want to see a force come out of a person to fight a spirit, not just see someone running around until they see a bright light that expunges all the demons from the room.According to the Bible, God considered Mary a very holy lady (being a virgin was only part of it) and that's why she was chosen to bear the Messiah.  In Bless the Child we have a very spiritually gifted girl born to a crackwhore.  That in itself wouldn't be so incredulous if the movie attempted to explain why this girl was the chosen one.  But no, we're left hanging.  We're just supposed to watch this girl perform miracles because... that's just the way it is.All the reasons listed above make this picture truly uninteresting.  Sure it's easy to follow, but that can only be accredited to the shallowness of the plot.  I just can't get into a girl with unexplicable powers being tossed around in a custody battle between a confused aunt and a New Age motivational speaker.  Especially when his plans to use the girl for further empowerment of him and his followers are never explained either.And then we get to the end where there's a car chase scene (bet you didn't see that one coming!) and a whole legion of police officers who let the main characters wander off by themselves with no weapons only to show up at just the right time to save the day.  Please don't accuse me of spoiling anything - did you really expect anything enlightening or new?  Even a good ending couldn't have saved the movie from being so bad.While movies like The Fallen and Stigmata also had their share of problems, they at least had the guts to venture on their own and become their own movie, explaining in their own way why the spirits acted a certain way.  I get the feeling Bless the Child wants to transcend its genre by borrowing elements from it - the worst elements.* (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Excellent delve into the spiritual aspect of the world.  Pretty accurate in accordance to the bible, of how we live every day.  This movie had a lot more truth than fiction.  Not overbearing when it came to the Demon visions, and the angels' presence in the film as well. "},{"Title":"Gripping and authentic...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Put on your seat belts for this one, it will run through all of your emotions. It's a journey through a gruesome series of occult murders that leads to a chosen child. Kim Basinger brings her big screen performance back to top notch in this movie, and Jimmy Smits does fine job as well. But, the show stoppers in this movie were 6 year old Holliston Coleman, who plays Cody to perfection, and Rufus Sewell who masterfully plays the part of Eric Stark. This movie will startle you and constantly make you think two steps ahead. The only minor criticism I might have is that Jimmy Smits' character is almost mirrored to his NYPD Blue personality. Well worth a trip to the theatre. "},{"Title":"Funny, crappy, movie","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie for all of the wrong reasons.  It seemed like this should be on MST3K.  The movie was one of the worst, yet best horror movies made. It doesn't even care how bad of a movie it is, and doesn't check up on itself.  There is so much to gripe/compliment about it.First, mistakes in the movie.  The movie is set in New York, yet many of the buildings have the word Center spelled Centre.  The movie was, therefore, filmed in Canada.  This is further affirmed by a brief glance of a Maple Leaf on a police car towards the end.  And is cemented in when, at the police station, while looking at a police report, the pages have the word Ontario printed at the top.  This all makes for good laughter, especially when talking to your friend.Next, the plot.  It is basically the plot from End of Days if they tried to kill the girl when she was six.  That movie was awful too.  It has a little bit of The Servants of Twilight mixed in.  So, who can point out that this was an original movie?Also, the child does not do anything.  So can spin plates in self-defense. She doesn't do anything out of anger, the best part of the movie, but she does not even defend herself too much.  However, she does have one bad-a** line in the movie, seen in the trailers.  In response to the order Jump if you believe in God she replies After you.  Great line.**spoilers****Spoilers** Next, Kim Basinger, while a strong role, starts off badly.  She starts by searching out the evil guy's cult.  Then, she e-mails him.  The e-mail is I need to talk about the girl.  Call me.  I mean, who would actually call the mother/aunt of the girl that he just kidnapped, unless they want ransom, which he does not?**Spoilers****Spoilers** Also, how do the nuns know without an explanation the situation exactly? I mean, this saves repetitive explanations, but that could have been avoided also.  The nuns also bring in God's angels with a mass prayer.  That was humorous.**Spoiler** Finally, the cult is a satan-worshiping cult.  Using it, the movie says that all Goths are satanists.  And all atheists who believe in self-empowerment are satanists also.  That was just ridiculous.  It also seemed like it was against Scientology.All in all, the movie was funny, and fun to watch.  As a movie goes, it was horrible, and awful, considering that you knew how everything would end. So, skip it, unless you like doing the MST3K thing.5/10 "},{"Title":"WAY over bashed","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Sure this movie isn't perfect, but it is a hell of a lot better than the reviews may lead you to believe.  I've seen a lot of stupid comments out thereNot Really Scary - no duh, it isn't a horror movie Lame Special Effects - since when do special effects make a movie good/bad? Poorly edited - Um, no, it is done the way it is for a reasonIf people would stop taking movies so seriously, and learn to enjoy them, perhaps everyone would be a lot happier.  "}{"Title":"Just plain bad.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I usually like supernatural thrillers, but this movie was just plain bad.  Bad writing was coupled with bad acting and bad special effects.  I hate to even give it this much attention, but I will feel better if I can discourage a single person from seeing this cliche' ridden, big-budget  abomination.  Now I have to mourn the two hours of my life that I can never regain. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal plot, but very well done.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The plot, like most movies today, is nothing new.  A special child to be won over in the battle of good versus evil.  It was not as scary as I anticipated from the trailers, although I did still feel a bit jumpy and squeamish with some scenes.The special effects were good (and mostly believable), the casting was terrific, and the acting was *superb*.  Even if the plot doesn't grab you, I HIGHLY recommend seeing this movie for the acting alone.  One of the better quality movies this season. "},{"Title":"Better than most recent attempts","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  As many movie critics have said, there has been a glut of movies about devil worship.  From really bad End of Days, to almost really good Stigmata. Bless the child is for the most part more of the same, but presented better. The scares are more realistic and less contrived, and there is less reliance on Deus ex Machina. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I heard","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I read a few reviews that didn't like this movie but I went to see it anyway today and I must say it was better than I thought it would be. Althought the acting isn't top notch I liked the story and thought it was well writen. I suggest that if you like these types of movies then go see it, you'll most likely enjoy it. If your not, you probably won't like it. "},{"Title":"Overdramatic...this movie has been done before in 1000 different ways.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"   This movie had potential, but it ended up falling on its face.  The storyline is an all right one 6 year old girl with special powers is hunted to be used for evil purposes.  Too bad these special powers are never really shown.  All she seems to do is hold slight telekenises and sense when the Devil is at hand.  oooh, scary. *slight spoilers ahead*~but anyone with a brain can see them coming halfway through the film.  This is the other thing that was terrible about the movie.  The concept of good and evil was entirely too simplistic.  God, or the Powers of Good, help this little girl at only one juncture, but seem to be absent during the rest of the film.  This emphasized how stereotypical it is.  And the Devil is magically defeated at the end, practically without a fight.  I kept waiting for the rest to take place, but to no avail.  The bright spots were Coleman (the little girl) and a few spare plot twists that managed to keep it interesting.  Too bad Christina Ricci didn't have a bigger part, because she was the best actress in the whole rotten production.  I gave it a 6, simply for nice imagery.   "},{"Title":"Good.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I want to start this comment out by saying I never saw L.A. Confidential. I have never seen Kim Basinger at her best. In fact the only thing I have seen her in besides this movie was her acting debut on an episode of Chalies Angels (it was a good episode though). I just don't really think she is that great an actress. The best way I can express it is that if Kim had been born a man, she would have been born Keanu Reeves.Now onto the movie. The acting was well done, the special effects were spectacular (and they were not depended on, this was not a special effects flick), and the movie did not depend on the actor/actresses fame to bring in the crowds. Christina Ricci is a very good actress, she played her part very well, but it was a very small part, contrary to the way it might seem from the previews. Jimmy Smits, the guy who died a little while back on NYPD Blue if you don't remember him from anything else, played a major role as a FBI agent (i hope the irony isn't lost on you) and gave a very good performance and the little girl (played by Holliston Coleman, a newcomer to movies but some might know her from a TV movie last year called Supreme Sanction) is a very good child actress (something there is a real shortage of in America right now *cough-Anakin-cough*). Rufus Sewell played the lead villain in the movie (you might remember him best from playing the lead in Dark City) and, much like his Dark City performance, he was very powerful and a joy to watch.The movie could best be desribed as Firestarter meets Stigmata. Cody O'Connor (Holliston Coleman) is a child with special powers of a heavenly nature who comes under the eye of satanist Erik Stark (Rufus Sewell). The movie centers around Rufus' attempts at converting Cody for his own purposes and Cody's caretaker and aunt's (Kim Basinger) struggles to get her back.I would highly recommend this movie for people that like a good Theological movie along the flavor of Stigmata or conspiricy movies along the lines of Firestarter.Overall I found little wrong with the movie other than the fact that Ricci had such a small part when I expected a larger one and the fairly wooden actings of Basinger (although, in her defense, she did have a few good emotional scenes).I'd give it a 93 out of 100. "},{"Title":"Same old problem","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT Despite some fairly good performances, this movie leaves you unsatisfied with too much detail of a story with not enough real facts.  This story would have been a lot better if they left it up to the audience to figure out if the girl was really the Christ -Child and if the devil was really behind the plot to get the girl.Instead they spoil it, like Hollywood does, by showing all the demons and put all these special effects for nothing. Another loop hole that irritated me was the end chapter where Jimmy Smitts is being attacked and then is let go to run after the imposter child.  If I were a villain I am pretty sure I wouldn't make the same mistake by letting the good guy live to kill me in the end.  Could you get any dumber? "},{"Title":"Seven Dollars That Could've Bought...Something Else","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  It would be a shame for me to not start this review without a brief telling of my first encounter with my idea of a woman I was a ten year-old boy with a mouthful of popcorn, backwards cap, sneakers, average kid, really. Sitting in a movie theater with my cousins and brothers watching My Stepmother is an Alien, and then Kim Basinger, in all her heavenly glory, rips off her nightie. Right off! I think I may have sprang right there. I mean, probably hyperventilated and everything. Spewed popcorn rows ahead. She was WOMAN. And ever since that moment of my life, I've segued from hardcore crush on Vicki Vale to having a fondness for her, she's like the pretty girl everyone hated. Well, Kim Basinger, you know what? It's your own fault people are mean to you. Or it's your agents. Lady, you've done some good work and you have a pretty well-deserved Oscar to prove it, but usually you pick the DUMBEST movies. While you read a script, do you READ the script? Or do you just think that your Oscar got you whatever you want? You still have to earn it! Why don't you just do a USA original and stick the stake in the heart of your career. And lady, you do look good. You have aged very gracefully. Thank you for making me the horniest ten year-old in America.And, damn it! Let someone else pick your next movie. Bless the Child is so filled with hate and vengeance and every other mean emotion imaginable, not to mention so poorly written, you have to wonder if these people were hired straight from the Unsolved Mysteries re-enactions team. It's also formulaic, absent of any interest in it's own characters and frightfully dull.Bless the Child begins with your usual Christmastime glee. Maggie O'Connor (Basinger) rides the bus home from work, talks to a woman about God, angels, stars, pretty everyday stuff and then mistakes her crackhead sister Jenna (Angela Bettis) for a homeless person. That's because they haven't spoken in two years. The audience gasps with surprise. And Jenna now has a child (hence the title) who is only nine days old. And Maggie is actually surprised to find junkie paraphenilia when she goes through the backpack for diapers. Then she knocks Jenna silly. Maggie is obviously a scapper, a fighter! Duh! That's why we all know when Jenna runs out the door, leaving her new baby daughter with Maggie, stealing the money from Maggie's purse like a coward, that the child is just so much better off now, anyway. Because...that's right, the child is blessed.And this is how the whole movie plays predictably. Except for one beheading, a couple of vehicular homicides, and some computer-generated dream filled with giant, red-eyed rats, this is a run-of-the-mill good vs. evil telemovie rip-off. The most embarassing thing is, everything in this movie was out of place with such strain and effort. It was basic and they had the nerve to make it appear as though they had spent hours on each detail. Is it so basic, actually, that a child, even a non-blessed child, would perfectly understand.I bet this movie, as all movies are, was expensive to make, really. Probably $7 or 8 million for Basinger, who actually isn't that bad in her role, but I do have that fondness, $2 for Jimmy Smits to read his lines like he's pulling from a teleprompter as an FBI agent who, like Maggie, is a non-practicing Catholic.I'd further guess $1-2 million for scenery-chewing ham/villain Rufus Sewell as Eric Stark, a former child star-cum-junkie who turns all satanist and starts a Rediscover Yourself and Flee the Needle Freak Within club or something.  At the same time in his life, Eric begins the crusade to find the child who was born so, blessed, I suppose for lack of a more predictable word. How convenient that mother of such child is a junkie! What inexplicable luck for the villain!**Note to Alanis Morrisette THAT is irony, ten thousand spoons when all you need is a knife or a no smoking sign on your cigarette break is bad luck, but And isn't it bad luck, don't ya think? doesn't have that ring to it, I guess.  You could hire these screenwriters to pen your next album. They got the basics down. And I'm sure they're lookin' for work.ANYWAYS...back to the point maybe $1 mil for Christina Ricci in a role that was built to earn some budding actor her SAG card. But every other element of the movie turned it's back on reason, too, so why would the burning question of how such an accomplished young actress got her wasted self into this mess have an answer? Oh, yeah, answer is above one million dollars. Nice work if you can get it.Let's throw in another $5 for Chuck Russell, the director. Some people make him out like some great auteur for some music videos he did in the eighties, a Nightmare on Elm Street movie and Jim Carrey's The Mask. But after seeing Eraser and now Bless the Child, I think he's a wolf in sheep's cloth. He's like Eric Stark. Pretending to be a friend to those in need. Taking in junkies like Jenna, nurturing them, nourishing them. But, all too late, you realize you've been sucked into a little corner of his sick, poorly-written world from which there is no escape.With an additional $10 million in production and extra labor and $10 or 15 in marketing and an extra $10 for a few cool special effects and you've got yourself a little $50-60 million Satan-themed thriller, which are pretty big these days, in case ya hadn't noticed.Well, when those boys that spent all that money sat down and saw where all their money went, I wonder do they realize that they wasted sixty million dollars for me to waste seven?    "},{"Title":"Spoiler-Beware the good guys","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Beware spoiler--This is extremely well done and well acted, unfortunately, it is no less a propaganga vehicle than some work which was well done for Hitler.  It would not be an excuse for the author or the screenwriter to plead innocence of motive.  But, Mam, I think those guys are fine.  Well they are far from fine.The so-called good guys here, the psychologists and their nurses who administer virulent, mind altering drugs currently to school children right in our schools; and their running dogs, the deprogramers who have kidnapped even Catholic priests and Protestant ministers(I kid you not) are not good guys.  The subject of these pages is the movies.  This was not a movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie... a must see...","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Excellent casting, excellent plot... kinda loses focus at times, but overall, a really good movie... worth a watch! If you are in for gory horror... the Evil Dead kind... this is not it...But, if you are for a more subtle kinda horror movie... THIS IS IT! "}{"Title":"dull, predictable","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  It seems we've seen this movie before - part Sixth Sense and part God vs. the Devil flick (the latter being churned out at least twice a year by studios recently)...What sets it apart? Not much, by my standards.  The acting overall is standard fare, but good on the part of the young actress who plays the child. The cinematography / scenery / art direction is often wonderful in this type of film (Ninth Gate, anyone?), but failed to win me over this time. The plot is so highly predictable and clichd that my friend and I figured out the ending down to the minute details about 20 minutes from the end.  On a good note, there's a darkly humourous scene involving a cop and a car. That's all I'll say...Watch it if you must, but do yourself a favour and wait until it hits video stores - it's cheaper that way. Note to Ricci fans don't let the trailers fool you - Christina only has a small role! "},{"Title":"A spiritual battle","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie. It was evil vs. good. Satan vs. GOD and demons vs. angels.God had a plan for a little girls life and satan tries to stop it.This is not a movie for young children because the battle is intense and frightening.  "},{"Title":"Bad review for Bless the Child","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This was a very poor movie that had the potential to be much better than it was, a current trend in movies it seems.  The dialogue was cliche, the actions of the characters made no sense about 90% of the time, and there was not one second of the movie that could not be predicted at least fifteen minutes in advance, usually an hour or more in advance.  With the exception of the Holliston Coleman and Christina Ricci (who has a total of about two minutes of screen time), the acting was overly dramatic or just plain bad. If this script had be re-written to remove the religious cliches and the cheesy dialogue, and if the director had found a way to get decent performances our of usually great actors, this movie could have been amazing, however as it stands this movie left me laughing when I should have been on the edge of my seat, and sighing and nodding my head when I should have been covering my eyes.  If you are tempted to go see this movie, save yourself the money and go rent The Omen, The Exorcist, Rosemary's Baby, and The Seventh Sign, and Jacobs Ladder.  You will see basically every scene that you see in this movie, but you will have the benefit of enjoying decent acting, directing, and screenwriting. "},{"Title":"This is about as bad as it gets","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is about as bad as it gets, given that you are using professionals and not making a deliberate joke. With the exception of one shot towards the end involving a-by this time- greatly expected special effect, there isn't a single moment of this film that isn't hackneyed, overdone, ineffective, or just plain dumb. Noone I saw it with could take it seriously for more than the first three or four minutes. It wasn't even just the people I was with, half the theater began to start loudly groaning and making comments just as loudly as us  in order to get our money's worth out of being in the theater.This is a genuinely awful film. I've never seen a movie undermine itself so consistently. The special effects seemed to designed in such as way as to have you not care about the special effects. (My personal favorite was when Satan himself is created out of a great swarm of rats, only to disappear without saying or doing anything. What, he just wanted to say hi?) The script was worse than paint-by-numbers. It also kept insisting on double-telegraphing it's biblical references, as if hardly anyone in North America were really familiar with these things.You just keep asking yourself, who puts up the money for this kind of thing and how come they never check up on their investment? "},{"Title":"Paramount wasted money on Bless the Child- Don't make the same mistake!!!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Bless the Child was perhaps the most predictable, and boring, disappointment of the year.  I had high hopes for this movie, and it had all the ingredients for a suspenseful, engaging film; good cast, good special effects, interesting idea for a plot.  Unfortunately this project was handed to the wrong people.The plot (if you could call it that) was terrible.  The characters were underdeveloped, the story never really hit on anything interesting, and nothing was explained in detail, making it really hard to get into this movie.  The parts of the movie that were supposed to evoke feelings in the audience just seemed cheap and contrived, because there was no follow up, no big payoff.  It was like a bad TV movie with expensive special effects and big name actors.Even pricey visual effects couldn't make this movie worthwhile.  There were a few scary parts that might make you jump in your seat, and a couple gruesome images that might stick in your head, but that will be the only thing you'll remember about this easily forgettable movie.It's also a real shame that such talents as Kim Basinger, Rufus Sewell (who I affectionately call lazy eye), Jimmy Smits, and Christina Ricci were wasted on this undeserving film.  They did what they could with their meager characters, especially Holliston Coleman, who played the child.  Despite very little to work with, she put in a good performance.  I'd like to see her in a better scripted movie; it's a shame she had to debut in this pathetic piece.I do not recommend Bless the Child unless you are really, really bored. And even then, I bet you could pick up your remote and find a made for tv movie that's more interesting.~amiatra~ "},{"Title":"Laughable Formulaic Nonsense and Bad Cliches","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Had it not been for the fact that I saw this movie with my movie buddy and the two of us were able to giggle our way through it in the back row, I would've left shortly after it started! We were in a packed auditorium on sneak preview night and I'd say a good half of the crowd was giggling as well. Frankly, I'm embarrassed they made this movie. I would have recast the movie this way  Jimmy Smits recast with Homey the Clown. Kim with Kathie Lee. Satanic bad guy Rufus Sewell with Peewee Herman. Pouty little angel child with the Rock. "},{"Title":"Dark and depressing!","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie recently in an advance screening.  I really did not like it--too dark and depressing for summer entertainment.  In fact, the entire plot of the movie was distasteful to me.  Just my opinion--others may actually like it. "},{"Title":"Definitely, 2 very enthusiastic thumbs up!!!","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I recently caught a screening for the film Bless The Child, and I must say that although at first I was concentrated on my hot date, my attention quickly swayed to the film. This is, surprisingly, a very good film. To anyone who has seen the preview of the film and said, well, this is a cheap rip off of every supernatural thriller in the past year, and plus I would never go see a cheesy Kim Basinger movie cause she makes chick films, get that notion out of your head. This is, by far, the greatest supernatural thriller that has emerged in the past years! Although some elements in the film are a bit cliched, the script is very well written with a couple surprises here and there, the directing is fresh and entertaining, and the casting is great; Basinger especially whose performance will turn you into a believer that she isnt only a chick flick movie star. I give Bless the Child 7 stars, and recommend it to everyone "},{"Title":"God Awful Mind-Number","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  My expectations for this film were not too high. I thought it  would be a good way to kill 2 hours much like End of Days or  Stir of Echoes. All I can say is that this film stole two hours of my life and I want them back.The doped-up way everyone in the film, especially Basinger,  delivered their simplisitic dialogue made the audience rather groggy as well. That is, when they weren't laughing out loud at the each ridiculous plot development. This is a movie about a drug-addict who gives birth to what could be the reincarnation of the Christ-child and abandons the child with her sister (Basinger). Eventually the mother comes back with a new, rich husband, a self-help media god and takes the kid. (There is actually a scene where Basinger e-mails the kidnappers the message Please call me. Did she forget they just kidnapped her daughter?) There was melodrama where there should have been none and nothing in places there should have been something.Christina Ricci's brief role is poorly acted and implausible. Rufus Sewell has the evil charm of a carrot. And I think the little girl was actually a faulty animatronic on loan from Disneyland. The dialogue is appropriate only for a saturday morning cartoon (They do things to people...BAD things). And each plot twist can be seen ten minutes before it happens. I was bored and insulted. It was just plain dumb. NOTHING clever  "},{"Title":"A cross between The Omen (reversed) and the Sixth Sense.","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is a movie about a cult of devil worshippers who kill innocent children until they find the gifted holy child they have been searching for. they find her and try to convert her to the dark side.it was ok, had some fun and campy scenes that makes one truly respect a set of knitting needles! it had a few good jumps and startles and some impressively ugly looking demons. overall it ended kinda hokey. not for kids or for people who are afraid of occult-oriented films. "}{"Title":"A real Nail-Biter; Holliston Coleman (the child) was terrific","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Bless the Child was extremely engaging.  The musical score was gorgeous, the special effects creepy or luminous (depending on the scene).  The story was edgy, with a slow unfolding from normal life to being ensnared in a hidden web of evil that keeps you on the edge of your seat and jumping.What makes this film unusual was that while you feel the horror of a fly being slowly wrapped in a sticky evil web, you also get glimpses (but did you see it or not?) that a finger might be moving to bend the web and (maybe) provide an escape... It's a side that's not often shown in a thriller, and it resonated with my own experience of overt evil opposed, if at all, only through tiny faithful decisions based on glimmerings of hope.Basinger and Smits give solid performances, Angela Bettis was absolutely perfect as an edgy, strung-out addict in way over her head.  Sewell makes a great bad guy, with a thin veneer of charm barely covering a menacing black evil.But the real surprise was Holliston Coleman, a kid who was only 6 when this film was cast and turned 7 as filming started.  I didn't think you could get this kind of performance from a kid this young.  Coleman is the Child, so as you might expect she is completely central to the film.  They took a huge risk centering this film on such a young child; the film would not have survived merely a good performance -- it had to be  great, and Holliston Coleman delivered.  The really tough part is that she's locked in her own silent world most of the film (as if she's listening to something we can't hear) -- so she has to convey this huge range of emotions purely in her looks, her eyes, the way she carries her body.  I was astonished.Go see Bless the Child -- it's a thrill ride that also presents an interesting way of seeing the world, or the other world... "},{"Title":"Biblical bilge.","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" What the hell happened to Chuck Russell? He made the most entertaining of the Elm Street sequels, did a cracking job on the '88 remake of The Blob, and gave us the excellent The Mask (which in turn gave us Cameron Diaz)&#x97;films that were pure unadulterated fun. But after churning out silly but entertaining Arnie actioner Eraser, his promising career seems to have slowly disappeared down the pan, a situation helped in no small part by this dire, end-of-the-millennium biblical horror. With Bless the Child, it seemed as though Chuck had forgotten everything important he had ever learnt about film-making.Unlike his previous movies, Russell fails to inject any originality or charm into proceedings, and the result is a lifeless and heavy-handed horror with woeful CGI, a movie designed for undemanding mainstream audiences; in short, it is the epitome of bland 90s popcorn horror. The plot is a weak rip-off of The Omen and the central performances are terrible Rufus Sewell hams it up as an occult leader who tries to turn a supernatural little girl into a tool for Satan; Kim Basinger is unconvincing as the child's concerned guardian; and Angela Bettis proves thoroughly annoying as the girl's junkie mother. Christina Ricci, who is also fairly high up the cast list, is wasted in a completely pointless minor role.3.5 out of 10, generously rounded up to four for Ricci losing her head and some dude getting knitting needles in his eyes. "},{"Title":"Nice Premise but Terrible Execution","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Let's be honest, Kim Basinger isn't the greatest actress out there and this film is just further proof.I liked the premise of this film and here are spoilersThere's a young girl born to Kim Basinger's sister who was born under the same star as Jesus. Kim's sister is a drug addict and promptly leaves the baby with Basinger. As time goes by, it becomes clear the girl is not quite normal. At first, its unclear whether she is evil or good, but that suspense is quickly dispelled as we see the girl bring a dead bird back to life and other acts. Well, it turns out there is a cult that worships Satan but poses as a self-help group. The leader of this group knows that anyone born under the aforementioned star is blessed with special gifts from God. He seeks to either turn the child or kill them, which he does to several children. At some point, Basinger's sister turns back up under the influence of the cult and they kidnap the girl, but Basinger gets the help of FBI Agent Jimmy Smits to help. There are some chase scenes and a few fight scenes and a final confrontation at an old church.The general plot line is decent, but some of the acting is terrible. Some of the dialogue is just dumbLike when Basinger pulls a gun on the cult leader and says I've never shot a gun before! Why would she say that?Or when she goes to the police and says her (adopted) daughter has been kidnapped and the stereotypical uncaring police officer blandly says calm down... Really??Iam Holm is in this film, but don't blink because you'll miss him. He plays a wheelchair bound former priest who battles evil cults and tells Basinger about the cult. That's really the extent of his role.If they had made this movie without Basinger and really worked through the plot and took more time with it, this would have been a good film, but as it is...eh, you can find better. "},{"Title":"Bless the Child, fix the movie","Date":"24 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Bless the Child lives and dies on all the absurdities of its genre. Good Christians will be offended, intelligent people will be annoyed, and horror lovers will be bored. The movie's effectiveness goes only as far as it's having a bit more adrenaline than some of its equally unholy brothers and sisters like the Seventh Sign, the Ninth Gate, and/or Lost Souls. As lame as Bless the Child is, At least it won't put you to sleep. Although anyone who does fall asleep is not gonna miss much. The only people that I can recommend bless the child to are satanists with a sense of humour.Kim Basinger could not act even if her life depended on it, something that the casting director of Bless the Child has not taken into account. Her line delivery here is atrocious, as is the case with pretty much every member of the cast save Jimmy Smits. Indeed Bless the Child is a typical case of people serving the function of chess pawns. They are pure wood, and have but to be moved from here to there by a film maker who doesn't really know how to play. Perhaps it is a lack of talent or money, but Bless the Child doesn't try very hard. There are times when it comes close to being laughable. Take for instance a handful of demons in human form, who kill their chosen victim by beating him/her like the LAPD from twenty years ago. I don't see why morphing back into monster and biting someones head of isn't a more effective method. Perhaps such a creative decision was neglected because Bless the Child lacked convincing effects or was too sissy too enter the red zone. Indeed very little blood gets, spilled in this movie. What little computer graphics there are look way out of date, but they make for some interesting shots. The utterly dopey climax gives us one rendering of Satan (as a beast not a man) unfortunately this version has got nothing on that featured in End of Days made the previous year.Bless the Child is not unwatchable, but it's far from likable. Such a movie as this one, with its blatant silliness, lack of scares, and unoriginality is hard to recommend. "},{"Title":"The reincarnation of Jesus is a semi-autistic girl with a drug-addict for a mother?!?","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Horribly mainstream & unexciting horror/thriller guff, featuring all the occult religious themes we've seen way too many times in cinema efforts around the turning of the century. It's all there God, the Devil, Hell and the end of the world as we know it! Seriously, why were all directors and scriptwriters so obsessed with Christianity back in the year 2000? Anyways, Kim Basinger &#150; clearly still recovering from her unexpected success role in L.A. Confidential &#150; stars as the heroine/nurse Maggie whose tiny little universe is all shaken up when her estranged and drug-addicted sister (Angela Bettis) drops off a newborn baby girl and immediately disappears again. Maggie always wanted to have children but couldn't, so she gladly raises little Cody and slowly discovers she's gifted with exceptional powers. Quite ironic, everybody initially thinks Cody is autistic and they even send her to a special school, but turns out she's actually the savior of humanity, so...little mistake there! Meanwhile the miraculously reformed sister returns, accompanied by a satanic cult leader pretending to be a health-guru (Rufus Sewell). Just when you think it can't get any sillier, there's an ex-priest turned copper helping Maggie in her battle for custody. As to be expected, Bless the Child is a pretty lame movie with too many overlong & tedious dialogs and no excitement. Director Chuck Russell tries to evoke some false scares with his sub plot about a child murderer on the loose, but that's all rather pointless. The endless speeches about Good VS. Evil are almost as boring as reading the Bible itself and all the 'homages' to classic horror titles are just irritating & redundant. A diabolical nanny looking exactly like the one in The Omen? Come on... The only really good performance is given by Angela Bettis and the roles of Christina Ricci and veteran actor Ian Holm are not much more than cameos. There's no gore or even any special effects, naturally, apart from two unintentionally hilarious scenes involving fake over-sized CGI rats. Don't watch Bless the Child unless you've never seen any classic religion-themed horror before in your life, so you don't know what you're missing. "},{"Title":"What a winner!!","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" What a winner this movie is. For all you thriller fans, this one is not to be missed! I am a somewhat fan of Kim Bassinger's but was very surprised by her performance in this movie. I am a bigger fan now that I have seen this. The plot was well written and very entertaining from start to finish. The storyline is very easy to follow, flows along nicely and has the right amount of twists and turns to keep you guessing. Great casting and superb acting from the entire cast, with special credit to the special effects guys. Special effects were very well done and it was an 'edge of your seat' ride all the way through! I highly recommend this movie for a good nights entertainment, you wont be disappointed! 9 out 0f 10!! "},{"Title":"The Devil vs.GOD or Good Vs. Evil!!!","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"                     If you like horror films which  have some dealings with the Bible and its scriptures and the spirit world, this is the film for you!   Kim Basinger,(Maggie O'Connor),People I Know,'02, gave a great performance as a sister who wants to protect her sisters child and keep her safe from the desires of the Devil.   Angela Bettis,(Jenna),Toolbox Murders,'03 is Maggie's sister, who looks all worn out from the use of drugs and being also married to the devil who is Rufus Sewell(Eric Stark),Extreme Ops'02. Eric tries all kinds of temptations with Holliston Coleman(Cody),Run for the Money,who has great angel like powers that the devil wants to control. Jimmy Smits,(Agent John Travis),Angel,'03, plays a great role as an FBI special agent who was also going to become a priest in his early college days, which helps him understand the spiritual powers of the Devil.   The Devil manages to have Maggie O'Connor almost drive off a bridge in NYC, which is a very exciting scene.   If you are a Kim Basinger and Jimmy Smits fan, this is a great film to view!! "},{"Title":"Simply frightening...and not in the way they thought it would be.","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Honestly, this is one of the worst films I have ever seen.  Case in point Kim Basinger steals her niece back from Rufus Sewell, and her niece is then stolen back from her.  She calls Jimmy Smits, and says Oh my God, they have Cody!  He says Stay right there, I'll come to you! as if he is just so surprised that Rufus has Cody. This scene is, of course, problematic, because Kim never even told Jimmy that she had Cody back in the first place; as far as Jimmy is concerned, Rufus still has her.  Also, he does not know where to find Kim, but finds her anyway.  There are a number of huge plot holes exactly like this until, in the end, you really don't care what happens because it will all be solved in some impossible way anyway. Yuck, what a sloppy movie!  And the DEVIL thing in the end is hideous, which is just plain stupid.  Why would the devil be ugly?  According to every religious book, the devil is a fallen angel, and supposedly one of the most charismatic ones.  Why would he be hideous?  Who would do anything for someone who looks like a skinned ram?  Watch at your own risk. 1/10. "},{"Title":"dont watch this movie!","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  why oh why did kim basinger do this movie?  the man looking for the ideal child that could help him with his god, which happens to the evil god with some outcasted teenagers as his bodyguards.... i dont see what kind of powers that she is supposed to possess in the first place, and the movie kinda makes me think that the man with the evil god is just a crack addict with his skinny crack addict girlfriend who just overdone it really bad.  (F+ F) "},{"Title":"When asked to watch this movie, quote Cody; After you.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The only reason I watched this movie  was because I got it for free. I work in a video store, so I will literally watch just about anything. For some reason, Hollywood seemed to go through this religiousphase, where it was pumping out movies about characters whoare blessed, or have some religious phenomenon happen tothem, a.k.a. Stigmata.  Back in the seventies, there seemed to be afascination with possession and the devil.  I don't know.  PerhapsI'm over-simplifying it.  Still, this has the feeling of being a veryoverused plot, and in the end, it drags it down.  That, combinedwith the very average acting and the simple script with little, if no,redeeming qualities, makes it a B movie, in my opinion.   If you area fan of this sub-genre, or Kim Bassinger (or Christina Ricci), byall means, watch this movie.  I'm not guaranteeing you'll like it, butyou have a better chance of being entertained than someone likeme, who has no interest in any ingredients of this film. Cody is the niece of Kim Bassinger's character.  I don't remembermuch beyond that, besides the fact that Cody also happens to beblessed and this results in many bizarre happenings.  Take outthe fact that she is blessed, and you have just about any horror/ suspense movie.  Keep it in, and you have about two-thirds of themovies out there.  3/10 "}{"Title":"** out of 5","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  If you can't beat 'em, rip 'em off, is that not how the saying goes? Let's take a history lesson shall we? In 1968 an Oscar winning film about a group of devil worshippers trying to take a women's baby way from her was made, it was called Rosemary's Baby. In 1976 Brain De Palma brough us a smash hit with the tale of a tormented teenager with special powers named Carrie. In 1995 David Fincher shocked audiences as he turned Kevin Spacey into a ruthless serial killer in the chilling Seven. Also in 1995 a priest turned cop tries to save a women and her child from the Archangel Gabriel player by Christopher Walking in the very scary Prophecy. In the new millenuim films like End of Days, Stigmata, and Lost Soulds failed at depicting good and evil in Biblical porportions. So with that said I don't see why this film needed to be made. If you have seen at least one of the above listed films there is really no need to see this extremely dumb and totally unbelievable thriller about a cult of satanists who are killing off children until they can find the one they are looking for and turn her against God. But it is up to the childs aunt (Kim Basinger doesn't need to worry about any Oscar nominations here) an a dective who couldn't quite cut it as a priest (can anyone say Prophecy?). The story tries to deal with issues of religion and put all its key players on different levels but relies more on atmosphere than character development. In fact the only character we know anything about is our villian, who isn't that interesting in the first place. The script is unbelievably bad and instead of providing any chills this movie tries so hard to be serious it is downright boring. There is really only three reasons to see this bland thriller 1) Jimmy Smits as the dective, 2) the great special effects and 3) Christina Ricci who's role was much to small. If you are looking for some genuine chills instead of a bunch of cliched religious propaganda see the films I mentioned before, you will thank yourself in the mourning.    "},{"Title":"the struggle between good and evil is here !","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I have to say it has been a long time since I have seen a movie this good it has everything in it the struggle between good and evil angels and demons a cult looking for kids it is well done smart and scary with a lot of depth i found it to also be visually stunning with a lot of new ideas i love this movie!  "},{"Title":"A Horror Movie For Intelligent Horror Fans","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I've often heard Bless The Child compared to The Omen but the simualarity really doesn't decide weather or not Bless The Child is a good movie or not. Bless The Child has the ability to captivate the audience in a way the Omen did not.  This is mainly because of a strong performance by 7 year old Holliston Coleman who plays young Cody one of the central characters and the main driving force behind the story. Holliston, is very believable as the young girl who a satanic cult believes will one day become a saint.  Her charm and beauty easily captures the audiences heart from the moment she first appears on the screen.  Throughout the movie Holli displays a wide range of emotions from sadness to overwelming kindness and a wonderful ability to bring the audience to tears without saying a word. Holli's performance alone is reason enough to see this movie, but she's also backed by a wonderful supporting cast including Jimmmy Smits as an FBI agent skilled in the investigation of occult related crime, Kim Basinger as Cody's aunt who raised her from the time she was a baby, Rufus Sewell who plays the evil cult leader Eric Stark wonderfully I might add, Dimitra Arliss who plays the evil nanny (or the Mary Poppins from hell as many people call her) beautifully.  If you're looking for a typical teen slasher film avoid this movie since even though it's scary it only has two really violet moments. You're not going to see your teenage bimbette running into the woods when she should be calling the police in this one nor are you going to see young Cody start using her powers to burst people into flames ala Carrie (which if they had choose to go that route the movie would have never been good since I don't believe Holli could portray evil she's too sweet and lovable)in this one. This film is intelligent, well written and has one of the best casts you could possibly hope to find.  "},{"Title":"...Am I supposed to be impressed?","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Jesus,where do I start about this movie,well for one,it is completely boring,twoit has a stupid story,and threeit is a complete rip-off of The Omen.Bless The Child looked good when I saw the TV spot,so my sister rented it,so I thought I would take a peak at it,and I did and I hated it!It is probably one of the worst movies ever made.The acting was okay,but it still doesnt achieve the goal that a Horror movie should.Bad story,boring movie and a rip-off of the Omen make Bless The Child a big hated.It was so bad,I turned it off after the first 30 minutes.I give it a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"IF the writers had stuck to the book they would have had the next big horror movie on their hands","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The Book Bless the Child by Cathy Cash Spellman is absolutly fabulous.  REally Scary.  THen there is the movie which bears almost no resemblance to the book.  DIfferent Plot. Different Charecters,  Different story.  Why oh why would they do this!?!?!?!? If they had been faithful to the book this movie would have been one hell of a scary ride.  If your  in the mood for a good scare go straight to the book! "},{"Title":"0 out of 5 stars","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  It's tough to decide which is worse Kim Basinger's performance or the film itself.  This is one of those films that make you wonder how many people at the production company had to be paid off to give it the go-ahead.  Supposedly a supernatural thriller surrounding the Jesus-like qualities of a small girl (Coleman), it takes so much from other higher-quality films (`The Exorcist' and `Stigmata' to name only a couple) that it's wonder how it turned out so lifeless and laughable.  At its best moments it plays out like a very bad after-school special, and at its worst looks more like a Saturday Night Live sendoff of the supernatural movies it is trying to be like.  Absolutely no redeeming qualities.  Bad, bad, bad. "},{"Title":"Terrible waste of time.","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've seen in a long time. Terrible lines, bad acting, dumb plot. I actually thought for a moment that I would give a religious based move with B actors a chance.  It was such a dumb movie I don't even know where to begin. Do not waste your money or your time. "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly the WORST movie of 2000","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  2000 wasn't known for it's good movies.  In fact, most of the films released were just plain dumb. At the top (or bottom) of this list is Bless the Child, the most trite movie of the year.  Seeing Kim Bassinger's horrible performance in this movie makes me want to take back her Oscar for L.A. Confidential.  Bless tries to be intellectual by throwing in Bible quotes and hinting at theological ideas of good vs. evil....but quotes and theology do not a clever movie make.  One quote was even a blatant rip-off of The Usual Suspects (the greatest trick the devil ever pulled...etc.)  This movie played out like a rehashed religious thriller (see Exorcist) without any charm, wit, or ANYTHING!  The acting was horrible. The dialogue was horrible. The plot was horrible. The script itself was horrible. The whole movie was horrible. Words cannot express how offensive this movie is to those with any taste in cinema.  Not only that, but the filmmakers decided that the evil characters should hide behind New Age Religion...basically stating that if it's not Catholic/Christian, it's from the devil.  Oh grow up!  This movie wanted to be the Sixth Sense with it's mystical edge...but where the Sixth Sense had a wonderful plot/dialogue/character development/and especially acting, Bless the Child had...well, to tell you the truth, nothing.  I did not enjoy one single aspect of this movie, aside from laughing myself silly at how utterly ridiculous this movie was. "},{"Title":"A Historical Turkey","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies ever made, so staggeringly bad that one wonders how those involved in making it can stand to be seen in public. The plot lurches from pointless non sequitur to pointless non sequitur, characters appear and disappear who are completely inconsequential to the storyline, and the action frequently pauses so that someone can deliver an expository monologue that is invariably banal and dull.  The only real mystery this movie raises is why Ian Holm, one of the finest character actors working, came within a mile of this noxious script.  He, Jimmy Smits, Chritina Ricci, and Kim Basinger should all hire new agents.  At least they can all take comfort in having been a part of cinematic history.  This is one of the all-time low points of the medium.   "},{"Title":"Trite and pedestrian","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This film is a dreadful attempt at producing a supernatural thriller pitting the forces of good (God) against evil (Satan).  This script is abominable.  The story is utterly unimaginative in its premise and the dialogue is incredibly bad.  The behavior of the characters, especially Maggie (Kim Basinger) is often incongruous and sometimes ludicrous.The story is about a modern second coming of Christ, with the little Christ girl being born to a drug addict (Angela Bettis) and left with her Aunt Maggie.  The child is being sought out by the disciples of Satan with the intention of converting her to the dark side or killing her.  The army of inept devil worshipers keeps kidnapping her and our mousy heroine single handedly keeps outwitting them and stealing her back followed by interminable car chases pursued by a stretch limo.  Meanwhile, a group of nuns gets together and prays aloud that God will protect Maggie and the child in one of the film's most laughable scenes.  All this culminates in a showdown between God and Satan including some lame visual effects.A number of reputable actors are wasted on this hack script.  Jimmy Smits is a good actor who gives his standard solid cop portrayal.  Kim Basinger can be excellent in the right role.  She is good in sexy roles, certain dramatic roles and has even proven to be an effective comedian at times.  However, an action heroine she is not and will never be.  The most convincing performance is given by Angela Bettis as Jenna, who looked genuinely strung out on heroine.Supernatural thrillers provide unlimited possibilities for creativity and imagination.  This pedestrian script is a trite treatment of a familiar story that is poorly written and directed.  I rated it a 3/10.  If you are intent on seeing a ridiculous supernatural thriller see `End Of Days' with Arnold Schwarzenegger.  At least you will get some good action footage with your tripe. "}{"Title":"poor","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I rated this film 3, but i'm not sure if i is worth this. I was very disappointed after watching it. The story is absolutely unimaginative, the old 'good vs. bad'. Except for Christina Ricci all the actors made a really poor performance. My advice If you want to see a good religious thriller watch 'Stigmata'. "},{"Title":"The worst film I have EVER seen.","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Where can you start with a film like this?  The bad acting?  The unimaginative plot?  The lame special effects?I won't be using any character names to discuss the film because I didn't care enough about any of the characters to remember their names.  Kim Basinger was horrible, even considering the role she was given.  She begins the movie as your random, everyday person.  Then her junkie sister shows up with her child.  Now what do you suppose happens next?  Of course.  Junkie takes money from sister and leaves child behind, because we all know that junkies care more about their next fix than their kids.  The dialogue between Kim and Junkie is predictableKim You should take better care of your kid.  Don't do drugs.Junkie Who cares?  I like drugs.Kim That's just wrong!Junkie You're just jealous because you can't have kids!(paraphrased)And so the truth is out, as if it wasn't apparent by the fact that Kim is mid to late 30's, lonely, and not dating, something which was made clear in the first minute of the film.  Kim can't have kids.  So now she has one she can raise as her own... until she's taken away from Kim (which MUST happen, you know).Urgh!  I just get all disgusted thinking about it, and this was just the first 10 minutes of the movie!!!  So anyway, the kid's magic ability seems to be a combination of offering encouragement to the homeless and spinning plates through telekinesis.  How these talents are supposed to save the world, I don't know.Other things learned from Bless the ChildChristina Ricci is a professional enough actress to know that if you must do a bad movie, keep your role memorable and very, very brief.Demons are made of leather, and visible only if your niece has been kidnapped.There is an exact number of nuns needed to successfully pray for divine intervention.If a cop investigates occultism in connection with murder, he's widely considered a crackpot.And apparently, shooting people inside a church does not anger angels.I can't go on.  This was worse than Xanadu. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've seen all year","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Now I've seen some real stinkers in my time, but I have to admit, this has got to be the worst movie I've seen all year, and definitely up there on the worst movies I've ever seen.This movie uses religion in a very shallow and cheap (oooh, the devil is scaaaary!) way to scare and shock, and manages to do neither.  The only thing that really scared the bejesus out of me is that a movie like this could get a green light.For one, the acting is purely second-rate  Kim Basinger whines and sighs her way through this movie with puppy-dog eyes throughout.  Jimmy Smits proves he should have stayed on TV.  Rufus Sewell is your run-of-the-mill intelligent yet psycho antagonist.  I could swear I've seen Christina Ricci play that same character in a few other movies.  I'm sorry, I just expected a bit more out of this cast!Two, the plot is excruciatingly horrible.  I'm not familiar with the book this movie is based on, but come on now, it has to be better than this. The religious aspects of the movie are completely over the top, yet shallow. Things keep popping out of nowhere (Where does Kim Basinger keep getting all of those cars?!).  And the holes....by god...here's an example  Kim Basinger calls Jimmy Smits, who is in NYC, for help. Where are you? he asks.  She replies, I'm at a diner about thirty miles south of Albany, and next thing we know, Smits arrives at the diner in a helicopter.  Is there only one diner thirty miles south of Albany??  I guess so....And finally, the direction...a travesty...the pace of the movie flip-flops, the special effects are very second rate, the cult members look like something out of a bad teenage horror movie from the 80's, and it all adds up to a completely boring, color-by-numbers thriller.Please, for the sake of humanity, avoid this movie at all costs...you will thank me later...go see The Devil's Advocate if you haven't already and witness what a religious thriller should be.  If you are forced to see this movie, try not to think at all, and you may come out of the ordeal without brain damage....this is the kind of script that can only come about by monkeys in a think-tank. "},{"Title":"Uneventful Trash","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I only saw this film because my girlfriend wanted to and I did try hard to enjoy it but it sucked big time. There are so many plot holes and hard to swallow plot elements. For example are we really supposed to believe that Kim Basinger is the sister of someone who is about 24 years younger than her? What on earth was that evil nanny supposed to be? What was the point in taking Cody to the dentist? And why did this film build up to such an unsatisfying climax? For a film that tried to draw its power from supernatural hokum the ending was spectacularly ordinary. The acting was exceptionally poor throughout and I am very surprised that Chuck Russell churned out such a piece of manufactured garbage. If you take equal parts of Rosemary's Baby, Devil's Advocate, End of Days and that awful Winona Ryder film Lost Souls, mix it up with a large dose of badly recorded ADR (99% of the film's dialogue) and you have this film. It might have been better if Christina Ricci had been in it more. I swear, she must have been in it for about 5 minutes absolute max. I also must mention the absurdly fake SFX that polluted the whole film. What were those flying demons supposed to be anyway? I give this film a big 1/10 "},{"Title":"ick.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I didn't know the Catholic Church made propaganda films as thinly veiled horror movies. ugh. wait for the network versions. the editing for t.v. won't make the slightest difference in content. Even the really cool special effects can't save this dog of bad dogma. "},{"Title":"I think I'm going to be sick...","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  From the opening credits of Bless the Child, something isn't right.  Twenty minutes into the film you start to realize nothing about this film is right.  A simple, contrived plot is made even worse with terrible acting and some of the worst special effects ever put on film.Kim Basinger plays Maggie O'Connor, the nave aunt of Cody, a six-year-old child who possesses supernatural powers and is later kidnapped by self-empowerment guru Eric Stark (Rufus Sewell, quite possibly the only salvageable acting in the film) in order to help him rule the world alongside Satan.Virtually everything about the film is poorly conceived.  From the robotic actions of every member of the cast to a screenplay that is nothing more than a series of broken puzzle pieces used to justify later action.  In an unsuccessful attempt to keep audiences intrigued, the filmmakers place Maggie in one overly dramatic scene after another, with her always escaping a life-threatening situation at the last possible second.  Even the New York police are portrayed as bumbling fools who would be lost without the help of Jimmy Smits' character, an FBI agent specializing in the occult and a former seminary student.  Credentials that never become necessary since Maggie continuously avoids help and pursues the occult group on her own.The special effects in the film are even worse as spirits take the shape of glowing lights and a roomful of rats looks like a scene from an animated cartoon.  The climax of the film is even worse with most of the film's budget going towards a five second look at Satan.In a summer filled with movies that break the boundaries of creativity and special effects, Bless the Child is a waste of time and money and should have gone straight to video, if it has to go anywhere.0 out of 5  "},{"Title":"Silly with bad acting to boot.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  After being abandoned by her mother, baby Cody grows up to learn how to spin plates round and round without the use of hands. This attracts the head of a cult who has been wanted for murders of several children, all the same age as Cody. We then see the movie twist into a whole religious showdown between Heaven and Heck as Cody seems to do more than just spin plates. Very uninteresting from the get go, simply because the acting is just terrible. The opening scene with the mother and Maggie was too funny to take seriously (cute baby though) and the special effects of gargoyles seemed to do nothing but make the movie worse. Being a little bit over dramatic with Cody 's powers later on seemed to ruin the mood too. Not recommended for anyone who wants their money 's worth. "},{"Title":"Pretty boring","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I wouldn't usually say this about a horror movie (because most of the time they are good), but this movie is a complete waste of time.  Sure some of the acting is good, but it is overshadowed by a lame plot about devils and god and crap.  This type of film was made last year (called End of Days) except that film had better acting and a good idea at the helm.  This time, the two main characters are repeated- Arnold is Kim Basinger and Gabriel is Rufus Swell.  Not a good film by any means.  Christina Ricci gives an almost credible bit part as a warning person.  C- "},{"Title":"The Omen meets The 4400. An excellent thriller.","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" A film's success is not dependant on originality. (Which with all the thousands of films made, is an unfair criteria.)If there are strong cast performances, a gripping storyline & good SFX, as this film has, the chances of enjoyment are high. The Omen and The 4400 both feature children with certain gifts, that make them desirable to organisations. Cody, an autistic girl has telekinesis, healing abilities, compassion and belief in God. She is neither saccharine or brat-ish, making her a delight to watch. Her foster Mum and the cult leader make excellent adversaries. The SFX creatures are menacing whenever they appear and there's a great gore scare. (An essential ingredient in this horror fan's opinion.) The other little touches work well too. If you liked The Omen or Maia in The 4400, you won't be disappointed. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Better then the other ones","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Between Stigmata, End of Days, Lost Souls this an Stigmata are the better of the four. Bless the child kept me in suspense the whole movie. The story was really good. The f/x werent that bad either. What I liked most about this movie is the fight between good and evil. How angels help out the good guys through out the movie. One thing I like about this movie is that Good always wins in the end. Thats all I'm going to say. You'll have to watch this movie and see for yourself. But honestly i thought End of days is tacky. Lost Souls was boring. This had some good suspense in the movie. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes these kinds of movies. I know this wasnt as good as the Exorcist but in my opinion this movie is in second place. i also recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good horror movie. "}{"Title":"A Good But Underrated Horror Movie.","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I am a great fan of 'horror' movies, so I expected to like Bless The Child, and I did. I think it was quite underrated though, which is a shame because I thought it was really good. Of course it's not brilliant but there are many other movies out there which are much worse. I thought Kim Basinger gave a good performance and so did Christina Ricci, even though she only has a couple of scenes here. See Bless The Child if you like horror/thriller movies, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Could'a Been a Contender!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Having read the many comments about this movie by people who seem to either hate or love this movie (mostly upon religious lines), I feel I must comment...This is at best a mediocre movie with a fascinating and beautiful concept behind it.  Not being strongly based in either pro-Christian or pro-Devil worship (For there is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so. - Hamlet, Act III), I want to comment on the movie itself.Director Russell is not a good director of actors.  He doesn't get the best out of them.  Rufus Sewell can be very good if made to dig into himself and perform, here I felt he was just mailing it in.  Kim Basinger is wonderful when reigned in and not allowed to vamp, here she over-emotes to a fault. The other actors seem to just throw their lines in as an afterthought and the director has left them there to rot.The special effects are simplistic and not realistic enough to overcome the unintentional comedy of bad effects (try Plan 9 from Outerspace for a good laugh sometime).  I just couldn't find myself really involved in the outcome of the movie, the climax was much too wooden and staged.That being said, the concept is delicious.  The battle between good and evil and the incarnated child who will lead us to salvation are great themes and are the best reason to see the movie.  These alone save what could have been a magnificent movie.  Too bad such a good story was put into the hands of such a hack director. "},{"Title":"For true believers only!","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The struggle between good and evil, from the simplistic and superstitious point of view, is a popular theme for shockers aimed at the Christian audience in general, and the Catholic in particular.  Those of us who find fantasies about gods and devils rather comical, along with analogous tooth fairy and the boogeyman under the bed business, will view such a plot as unintentionally amusing, but for others, evidently, such silliness must be truly frightening.This variation on the fool's plot is different from others of the type in that the salvation character is given as a little girl, rather than a boy, but otherwise it is standard hokum.  The devil is out to take over the world, but Jesus has come back...as a girl?  Wow!  That much would be astonishing enough except that the writers failed to take advantage of the point.  Instead, it's just another example of adults acting like fools, doing the wrong things, going in the wrong directions, and so forth, thus complicating the plot. "},{"Title":"Holy Drek","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Well we've seen about a movie a month for the last 18 months dealing with battling the devil. This film isn't as bad as `Omega Code,' but then what is? This is horrible enough though, and the reason they thought they could get away with it --they HAVE in fact made money -- is because such films have entered the realm of commodity.  What that means is that there are enough premanufactured parts and premanufactured audience perceptions that all it takes is a lesser craftsman to satisfy the formula by simple assembly..Great films can invent parts of society. Commodity films mirror parts of the society that are mature, reducable and thoroughly premarketed. What's depressing about this is that it successfully exists as a commodity. It says that fundamentalists and political consultants have succeeded in reducing the world of many people to the simplest dynamics of good and evil; a simplicity so profound that the mere appearance of code words mitigates the need for a story, for acting, indeed for any cinematic skill whatsoever.If anyone is reading this and considering seeing `Bless,' please don't. It says too much about the dumbing down of society. If you are looking for a more intelligent film of this type, see `Ninth Gate.' "},{"Title":"Bless the producers of this mess - let them see the light and repent for their sins","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Oh yay Good vs. Evil. Light vs. Dark. God vs. Lucifer. Do we need another one of those? Not if it's of this weak calibre.Look there's a child. Isn't she cute? She's `special'. She is a force for good but - oh no! - an evil man, Eric Stark, wants to take her to the dark side. By having this crucial girl on his side, he hopes to shift the power balance to the side of evil. Can the girl's aunt (who is change of her sister's daughter when the sister, a drug addict, left her at the doorstep) save the child? Will evil win? And will I care?Script? Let's see those clichs - pack 'em in. Evil rats? Check! Old wicked nanny figure? Check! Soft-spoken-devil-figure-prone-to-angry-bouts? Check! Black garbed followers? Elite but mysterious group dedicated to God? It's a go! Flat dimensionless characters? We're going. It's all quite dull, and has been done better in many other such movies involving similar themes (`The Devil's Advocate' for one). There's a lack of tension - you know the outcome from the outset and I, quite correctly, picked out those marked for death and those for life. No surprises and lots of `oh whatever'.Acting? I'm not sure why Bassinger selected this script (for the reasons above). Certainly she's the best thing here but she still seems tired and worn throughout the movie (never mind the fact her character often displays the common sense of a congenital idiot).  Rufus Sewell - the force of evil - is the usual smiling, collected, sort that was far better portrayed by Pacino in `The Devil's Advocate' (and even by Gabriel Byrne in the weak `End of Days'). Christina Ricci puts in a nice small role here, but alas she's not on screen long enough for us to enjoy. As to the girl at the centre of the fight, the would-be-pawn of God. she's actually not that great (or at least wasn't created well). She smiles, gives an odd look, is quiet and so forth in an attempt to appear mysterious. I was not buying it, and found the whole act mundane. And Jimmy Smits, the detective helping Bassinger find her kid, looks like he walked straight off the set of 'NYPD Blue' so judge him from his work there.`Bless the Child' is contrived and weak, adding nothing new to its genre in any shape or from. It's not quite dull but you do not care less about the characters (try as the cast might). It was not worth my time and it won't be worth yours. Don't bother. 2.5/10. "},{"Title":"This movie was Awful!!!!","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" If anyone has ever read the book they would see how bad this movie truly is! The little girl is supposed to be her granddaughter, not her niece! It is a struggle between good and evil, but they have the deities all messed up! In the book it's Egyptian mythology that takes precedence, not Christianity. Not to mention the movie is missing about 12 whole characters that really help the story along. Like the nanny that is supposed to be taking care of Cody, she is not in the movie! The swear the writers didn't even read the book! And if they had they would have seen how much the people who have read it would hate it. I wish this movie had never been made. "},{"Title":"Supernatural Fan","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is an excellent movie. I am now looking to buy it for my collection. Anyone able to help with a South African outlet? Kim and Johnny made a great partnership and I hope to see them act together in more movies. To those who negate the excellent vote I am tired of seeing nothing but reality shows. Come on guys, it is a movie. Much better than blood guts and gore that some of you subscribe to. Kim, you are an amazing lady, and Johnny, well all I can say is YUM! Supernatural is a great way of escaping the daily grind and you are not a blood guts and gore fan. At least with supernatural you can think with your brain (I assume you all have some?) and not with machine guns and knives. "},{"Title":"Nicely Done Spiritual Thriller, Very Underrated.","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Bless The Child is a very nicely done supernatural/spiritual thriller that is vastly underrated and easily overlooked. Maggie O'Connor (Kim Basinger) is a single woman who was recently left by her husband. Then, on Christmas Eve, her estranged, drug-addicted sister, Jenna (Angela Bettis) shows up with a baby, and ends up disappearing, leaving Maggie to take care of the baby girl, named Cody. As Cody grows older, Maggie notices things about her - like how she seems to be hearing things nobody else can, and has magical healing powers. While a series of child slayings (all children born on a certain date, strangely enough) are occurring in the city, Jenna resurfaces out of the blue with a husband, Eric (Rufus Sewell), a leader of a cult-like religion, and the two demand Maggie to give Cody back to them. A mysterious girl with a connection to Eric and his cult of Devil-worshipping followers, Cheri (Christina Ricci) reveals more about their intentions to Maggie, but ends up murdered by the cult after she tries to leave. Now it's up to Maggie to stop the cult from initiating (or killing) Cody, in a battle of good versus evil.Very suspenseful and nicely written, Bless The Child is an interesting and refreshing take on a story that has been done many times before. Similar to The Omen in some ways, but also quite different, the story is a very interesting one at that, and kept my interest the entire way through. There are some genuinely suspenseful scenes and some really pulse-pounding moments that are brought out nicely and really get you on the edge of your seat (I am really big fan of supernatural thrillers of this type, so this film was really a treat). The plot itself starts off very well, and as the film progresses, becomes more and more interesting and involving. I liked the entire story and I thought it was very well written and not at all hard to follow. I was rooting for Basinger the entire time, just like was intended, and wasn't once bored at all with what was happening on screen.The acting isn't bad either. Kim Basinger leads the cast, and plays the heroine well. Jimmy Smitts is good in his supporting role as a detective trying to help Maggie, and Hollistan Coleman, playing the part of the young Cody, displays a very innocent and adorable character (she actually reminded me quite a lot of my niece). Rufus Sewell is very good at playing 'evil', and Angela Bettis (I've always liked her) is again excellent in her role as Maggie's sister. Christina Ricci (like her too) also has a semi-small role as a troubled girl who was involved with the religious cult, and even with what time she has on screen, is excellent. The characters are all brought to life and very well fleshed out, which is a major attribute to overall effect of the movie. Some of the CGI effects were a little unnecessary though, but I suppose it was the director's vision of bringing actual evil to life, could have been done in a better way though. The film's conclusion was kind of predictable, but it wasn't bad in the least and it fit with the rest of the movie.Bottom line - Bless The Child is an excellent supernatural thriller film that fulfilled all of my expectations, and had me on the edge of my seat. It's a very original (and interesting) take on a story that's been done many times before, and is ultimately rewarding in the end. Highly recommended for fans of thriller films, you won't be disappointed with it. 8/10. "},{"Title":"It's a parody... right?","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I really didn't plan on watching this... Just sat idly clicking away, when this movie came on. At first I thought it was your typical movie-of-the-week - but something compelled me to keep watching. That something is called the soccer world cup, in combination with me not having cable. In other words I was desperate, and resigned myself to watching what looked like a very dreary drama. A couple of hours later, I'm sitting here with a big grin on my face, giggling like a lunatic... Because holy crap - is this for real? My god, I've seen some stinkers in my time, but still... I'm still laughing! Best send up of the cute little kid is the only one who can save mankind genre in, well... It even had the compulsory demonic flapping things (making me wonder, if these beings are able to enter our world, why do they spend all their time hanging around grim, foreboding buildings? Are these the supernatural version of the common pigeon - too dumb to do anything except flap and poop?) Is there some charity for desperate film makers that hands out clichs by the bucketful, free of charge? Did someone take some sort of drug that forever robs you of the ability to think even one original thought? Are they just really really stupid (those famous 16th century European druids writing their runes and sacrificing humans left and right...)? Is it the old chimps&typewriters thing? Naah... Nobody could take this cheese fest seriously. It has to be a parody. That's my story and I'm sticking to it. "},{"Title":"The good thing about this movie is that it makes you appreciate other movies.","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" OK, so we've probably figured out by now that after winning an Oscar, an actor or actress often makes some bad career choices. Cuba Gooding Jr went from Jerry Maguire to Chill Factor. Kevin Spacey went from American Beauty to Pay It Forward. And of course, Kim Basinger went from L.A. Confidential to Bless the Child (actually, her next movie after her Oscar win was I Dreamed of Africa, which I heard was pathetic).Anyway, Bless the Child isn't god-awful. BUT HOW MANY MOVIES HAVE THERE BEEN WITH BOTH CHILDREN AND THE DEVIL? So at worst, this one was probably just unnecessary. But the good thing about these kinds of movies is that they make you appreciate good movies even more. "}{"Title":"Holliston Coleman Does a Nice Job","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" It takes a brave person to willingly view a film with a 95% rotten rating on the Tomatometer but when the cast includes Angela Bettis, Christina Ricci, and Ian Holm you begin to get interested. Then when the same critics are overwhelmingly praising an exercise in excess like the new King Kong, you begin to wonder if their judgment can be trusted about a film like Bless the Child. Not that Bless the Child is a small independent film, it had a $40 Million budget although there is little sign much of that money actually made it onto the screen; except the DVD has far more extensive special features than a low-budget production.Anyway, if you are curious enough to view Bless the Child and if your expectations are modest, you should find it a pleasant surprise. Not because of Ricci (who has only two scenes although both are done well). Or because of Holm (who makes an extremely short appearance of little consequence). And not because of Bettis, although she gets a fair amount of screen time and has one especially good scene at the start of the film. And not because of top billed Kim Basinger and Jimmy Smits, who give competent if unexceptional performances.The real star is young Holliston Coleman (best known as the Me in the television movie Miss Lettie and Me) as six year old Cody. Director Chuck Russell (The Mask, Eraser) gets a restrained but glowing performance from Coleman as a six-year-old savior sent by God to restore mankind's faith. At the start of the film, a strung-out Bettis brings then 9-day old Cody for a long over-due visit with older sister Maggie, a NYC psychological nurse. Once Maggie starts fussing with the baby, Bettis sneaks out, leaving Cody behind to be raised by Maggie.At first it is thought that Cody is autistic but when she starts resurrecting dead birds and performing small scale miracles her Aunt Maggie (Basinger) begins to realize that she is something else. Without the right actress and the right level of performance this whole idea would be truly awful, but Coleman deftly alternates between playful and serious, giving the character a believability that has to be seen to (dare we say it) be believed.The suspense is provided by a self-empowerment guru named Eric Stark (Rufus Sewell), who is actually an agent of the devil and intends to kill Cody if he cannot turn her to the dark side. Stark first appears about midway into the film, which begins to go steadily downhill from that point.There are a couple of good thrills (including a bedroom full of rats), one great scare (the nanny's face changes suddenly and unexpectedly into that of a demon), and some lame special effects stuff that doesn't work well (Maggie's drive against the flow of traffic). In a cool and perversely funny scene Maggie threatens Eric with a gun and he says, Are you really going to shoot me? Right here in front of Cody? Maggie simply tells Cody to close her eyes. "},{"Title":"yet another 'possessed child' piece of crap","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kim Basinger looks bored stiff- as well she should- in this dreadful pseudo-religious garbage, yet another exasperating 'possessed child' movie, though this time there's a slight twist. This kid's meant to be the Messiah, not Satan, so instead of devils with horns we get shiny white lights floating around which are meant to be angels. Leery-eyed villain Sewell tries hard to conceal his British accent, Ricci makes a brief appearance before her head gets chopped off, Holm turns up to spew some crap about something or other&#133;it's hard to care what's going on, even with the talented cast, because the dialogue is so bad and the countless plot-holes so huge that you're left with one question. Did any of them read the script before signing on? "},{"Title":"Not Awful but not Great, that is for sure","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie had its moments, some really bad, not it is not a bad way to spend an evening (and I would watch it a million times before the passion of the christ and its insults to every religion out there and mel gibson's ego and madness in bringing it to the masses and the asses who actually paid $$$ to see it!)Sure, some parts made me laugh out loud (explain how she ended up driving that car and woke up just before she drove it off the bridge -- remote control? mind control? who knows!) and as a Canadian the geographical errors were downright glaring but it was really not THAT AWFUL ... it is better than anything Mike Myers has ever made and Rufus Sewel is funnier than Mike Myers will ever be...take it with a grain of salt and watch it on TV where it deserves to be. "},{"Title":"Occult atrocity","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" BLESS THE CHILD (2000) * Kim Basinger, Jimmy Smits, Holliston Coleman, Rufus Sewell, Angela Bettis, Christina Ricci, Ian Holm.'The Omen', 'Carrie', 'The Exorcist', 'Jacob's Ladder', 'The Sixth Sense'&#133; and any other occult themed thriller are way better than this melange of the aforementioned with Basinger as the very protective (and very dim-bulbed) aunt of a mysteriously gifted girl whose specialness catches the eye of looney tune cult leader Sewell with nefarious thoughts for the future. Just plain awful and makes wonder if its too late for The Academy to take back Basinger's Oscar. (Dir Chuck Russell) "},{"Title":"You're a Very, Very, Bad Movie! Go to Your Room!","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm very glad that I didn't spend money watching this dreary movie in the theaters. Everyone was spending so much time being oh-so-serious and I busted out laughing throughout the entire movie. Apparently the filmmakers wanted me to take this movie seriously. This easily could've been another sequel to the Scary Movie series.*Possible Spoilers for anyone who seriously thought that the producers would spend the money to actually film the movie in New York City*Though I gave up on this movie 1/4 of the way through, I spent the time pointing out the various Toronto landmarks including Yonge Street standing in for a few NYC streets, the Toronto Transit Commission subway trains standing in for the NYC Transit Authority and in a dramatic stunt sequence, the Bluewater Bridge in Sarnia, Ontario, which did a great job standing in for the 59 Street Bridge (a.k.a. the Queensborough Bridge). I mentioned this to a Canadian acquaintance. His response ...how lame.Lame is a good description for Bless the Child. "},{"Title":"It's a good film","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  well, bless the child is a film with a story. it gives you an idea about Satanic sects and the war between Good and Bad, God and Satan. main characters are great, also the baby, who is a little great star. It's a real good film, and for this reason I voted it with 8... "},{"Title":"WTF?","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I give this movie a 5, but as I am a true satanist I will comment this movie from the research the authors did to write the script.First of all, they are mixing all things in one major nonsence, Satanists do NOT believe in the existence of God nor Satan. The ones who do believe that are the Luciferians (a bunch of wackos if you ask me). So this guy that appears to all as a Satanist, he is not; I wanted to get this clear because when Detective John Travis is looking for the cover of Eric Stark's book do what you will, will what you do, he notices that the exact same phrase is written down in some other book below Dr. LaVey's picture (for those who need information, Dr. Anton Szandor LaVey is the founder of the Church of Satan..a simple organization for Satanists that pay taxes..), why am I remarking this? Simple, Satanists and Luciferians are not best friends precisely.So, WTF was that about Satan appearing in the rotten church? If we stand by the movies principle of Erik Stark being a satanist, he could not believe neither in god or satan, because they are christian deitys and this is not precisely christianism...NOR anti-christianism... for those of you who dont know, Satanism was practiced even before Christianity appeared (no, we dont burn churches, no we do not hate christians..).. So why if Stark was a satanist, he was playing along with that sh*t of the Holy Book?.Back to the rotten church.. that was a tasteless from Stark to choose a place!! Satanists (and I imagine Luciferians too) are known for their good taste and high class.. So then, keeping the plot of satanist Eric Stark, why would he hire some drugadict punks to do their dirty work, satanism is a religion based in responsability! We dont do drugs, we do not harm our body. One of the golden rules of satanism is Responsability for the Responsible that's as simply as being responsible for your own acts.Last of the thing I have to mention is the dates, why that myth that everything should be connected with the number 6, 666 was, originally a code name for a roman emperor who hated and killed christians. The number of the beast (originaly) is 9... dont know why, but it is.But well...I believe I should be accustom of Hollywood wrecking out my beloved religion.. but oohhh well..Peace \m/ "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Talent down the drain. Another devil movie! Yikes! What were they thinking of? LOST SOULS. THE CALLING. STIGMATA. Now this! Maybe it lost something in the translation to video, since my family saw it in the movies and basically liked it. I saw it on a big-screen TV. Kim Basinger was simply slumming. And call me ageist, but she struck me as a bit long in the tooth for this role. The bad guy reminded me of something out a Jim Carrey flick. "},{"Title":"Ho hum","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  2/10I watched this movie on Aussie cable last night... and boy did it suck.  Such a waste of acting talent for Rufus Sewell (for more and far better Rufus try Dark City...) and Jimmy Smits, a deeply dreadful script, and cheap special effects to boot.  Kim Basinger was useless too, her oscar was deserved more by the script writers and the director than due to her performance in LA Confidential...there are far better movies in the catholic-crisis-of-faith genre than this... stigmata for one... so i say if you like the ole heaven v hell good v evil stuff, try anywhere but here. "},{"Title":"Deathly dull and tired supernatural thriller. Avoid.","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Being a fan of both supernatural/apocalyptic thrillers in the tradition of 'The Omen', and of Christina Ricci, I eagerly looked forward to this one. I was hugely disappointed. This is one of the dullest and most uninspired Satanic re-hashes from the recent batch of similar mediocre fare ('Lost Souls', 'End Of Days',etc.etc.) There is absolutely NOTHING here you haven't seen before, and added to the complete lack of suspense, the one dimensional characters, cheesy FX, and plodding direction from hack Chuck Russell, this movie is to be avoided, unless you've run out of valium. And by the way, Ricci has two brief scenes, that's it. "}{"Title":"Engaging enough while you're watching, but nothing special","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Decent conspiracy theory/Satanist movie updated with a custody battle twist. Kim Basinger is non-offensive as the heroine, and Jimmy Smits plays a toned-down version of his role on NYPD BLUE. Satan just doesn't seem very scary or menacing in this picture, and his brief CGI appearance is just too fake. The little girl is quite good. If you're a fan of either Basinger or scrumptious Rufus Sewell (who manages an OK New York accent), check it out. If not, no need to bother. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A good 'child' spoilers","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  In this smart and scary religious thriller Kim Basinger plays a nurse who becomes the foster parent of her younger sister's little girl, Cody Holliston Coleman. It turns out that Cody has supernatural powers that attract the Forces of Darkness and she gets kidnapped by a millionaire Satanist played by Rufus Sewell. Predictable fun. "},{"Title":"Has its flaws, but still a good addition to the genre...","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  It seems recently, films dealing with the occult and the supernatural have exploded.  The director of Bless the Child even makes reference to that exact point on the DVD.  Of course, Rosemary's Baby, The Exorcist and The Omen are the old-time classics of the genre, but more recently, we've been treated to Stigmata, End of Days and Lost Souls.  Now, we have Bless the Child to add to this group.  I have seen all the films I listed above with the exception of End of Days, which I am planning on seeing soon.  I have to confess that I didn't care for Rosemary's Baby (!!), and really liked Lost Souls (!!).  I have always enjoyed this type of movie, and was looking forward to seeing Bless the Child, and finally picked it up recently.  For the most part, I was really impressed with the film.  I think the box office was hurt by the unfair trashing the movie received from the critics.  No, it's not on the same level as The Exorcist, but few films are. The major players are good in their roles, and I was especially impressed with Rufus Sewell in his role of Eric, the leader of New Dawn, a Satanic cult masquerading as a self help clinic.  I came to really hate his character and enjoyed watching him get eviler as the movie went on. My only complaint with the performances would be at the beginning.  The early scenes with Kim Basinger and Angela Bettis in the apartment seem a little to scripted and don't flow very well.  Small thing, but it may put off some people for the rest of the movie.  Lastly on the negative, some of the sets and backdrops look too staged.  The rooftop scene of Eric's apartment comes to mind. I was relieved to see the director using restraint with the special effects.  Too often these days do movies get overloaded with F/X that look silly and distracts from the story.  In Bless the Child, there are only a handful of scenes that have computer generated demons, and each time the effects are top notch and welcome.  It made me wanting to see even more, and that usually doesn't happen with today's movies.  Good job!To wrap this review up, I thought Bless the Child is a welcome addition to a genre that I have always enjoyed.  It's not a perfect movie, but with today's studio system, not many are.  If your a fan of the genre, I wholeheartedly recommend Bless the Child.My grade B "},{"Title":"Marginally entertaining","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie with low expectations and I think that helped.  Bless the Child is by no means a great movie but it is entertaining nonetheless.  The film suffers from a number of plot holes and flawes and is filled with hollywood cliches.  Still, I was moderately entertained and found myself caught up in the story so not a complete waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS!!!An Omen wannabe.  Look folks when you create a character that is omnipotent and omniscent (as the little girl proves to be) it is simply ludicrous to have her take crap from the weeny head-devil honcho.  You have to develop her weaknesses (i.e. her kryptonite) in order to explain why she would allow herself to remain in her perdicament.  Also a psychological aspect could have explained why the girl listens to the guy (i.e. he is invidiously kind, manipulative, etc--here he is just an ass). And if the devil types are so powerful, why on earth don't they just kill Kim Basengier's character as they could have so many times?  "},{"Title":"There's only so much that can be done with this sort of material","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Bless the Child is a frustrating movie insofar as it's well-made in certain ways, but its good qualities aren't enough to save it from ordinariness.  If it had been made prior to Rosemary's Baby or The Exorcist, it may have been groundbreaking; but now, it's just another Catholic-horror, Satanist-conspiracy, we're-in-the-end-times flick, defeated by its familiarity.  The cast includes Kim Basinger, who I'm not a big fan of, but she's acceptable in a non-sexy, single-mom (aunt, actually) role, learning that her little niece's touch of autism may in fact be a touch of the divine; Rufus Sewell, who played the heavy in A Knight's Tale, as the millionaire head of a New Age self-help movement that turns out to be a Satanic cult (there's a stretch); Jimmy Smits as an FBI agent (he's done this sort of work before, in The Believers; the dialogue makes a film-buff's reference to it, when one of the cops refers to him as the guy who broke the Santeria case a few years ago); Christina Ricci as a street junkie; and Ian Holm (!) in a one-scene role as a scholarly priest in a wheelchair.  While the CGI effects are good, they're also pointless and gratuitous; for the most part, the movie actually would've been better without them.  Bless the Child is better than Lost Souls and somewhat better than The Ninth Gate (both of which also squandered talented casts and directorial flair on warmed-over Satanist nonsense), but what kind of praise is that?? "},{"Title":"one of the worst","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This was one of the worst films I've had the displeasure of seeing. The sort of sappy religious iconoclasm and the comical, almost cartoonish depiction of Satan's minions (as we all know, kids that tag walls and skateboard are one step from being devil worshippers) was almost pathetic in its banality. Can't believe Kim Basinger (who was fabulous in 9 1/2 Weeks) has sunk this low. Good movies of this genre include Devil's Advocate and Stigmata. This one's not worth the celluloid it's printed on.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I've ever seen","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  How bad can a movie actually get? Well, it must be difficult to find many movies worse than this contrived pseudo-religious garbage.Bless the Child was almost physically painful to watch. Not only because it is so bad, but because I pity the people involved in the making of the movie. No screenwriter or director sets out to make a bad film. People have put in a lot of hard work to make this movie and it is sad that it turns out to be one of the worst films I have seen in the last ten years or so. Everything about this film is bad... Story line, screenplay, directing, acting et cetera. Words cannot describe what a mess this film is. Do _not_ rent Bless the Child! (1/10) "},{"Title":"Pretentious much?","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Pretentious, pretentious, pretentious. I don't know about you, but to me, it was like the whole movie just screamed out loud how clever the filmmakers thought they were being. Guys, just for starters, the smooth Satan (or smooth Satan follower) act is really old by now. And all those scenes were it was like a Religious Infomercial... I'm telling you, the only reason I stuck around until the end of the movie was just to be able to bash it completely, heh.No, really, it's one of the worst movies I've seen lately. I'd say it's even worse than Devil's Advocate when it comes to horror grandstanding...Don't pay to watch this. Wait till a friend rents it, watch it with them, and then make fun of how they wasted money on such a thing. "},{"Title":"This is what the Omega Code was trying to do!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is by FAR the BEST movie with a religious theme that I have EVER seen. As a seminary student who is into film, I try to see all of these kinds of movies as they come out.  I've been pleased with some of them (End of Days, The Exorcist, The First Power, The Prophecy) and totally disappointed by some (Stigmata, Omega Code.)  But this movie did what none of those others did it stayed (for the most part) true to the Catholic/Christian system of beliefs that the film claimed to be about, without warping it into some universalist faith (Dogma, Stigmata) and without sacrificing quality of film (Omega Code).  The angels and demons being visible to Maggie as well as the obvious power of prayer reminded me of a Frank Peretti novel.This film was extremely well acted with the possible exception (ironically) of the super-star lead, Kim Basinger.  She did not react with the horror that a normal person would in the same situations, but often like Vicki Vale. Someone like Demi Moore or Bridget Fonda would have been a lot better in the role, but on the whole this movie was excellent.  I rate it a 9 1/2 out of 10 as measured against other religious thrillers and an 8 out of ten on a general scale. Keep an eye on the cute but haunting child lead.  She was amazing! "}{"Title":"What a joke! *Possible spoilers*","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Boring occult horror movie about Basinger bringing up a God-like child and one of the Devil's angels trying to convert (or kill) her...or something like that.  It's hard to tell..the writing is bad, the pace of the film is VERY slow and the acting...Basinger is horrendous--she was so good in L.A. Confidential--what happened here?  Chritina Ricci is very good in her minor role--too bad she only has two scenes.  Jimmy Smits is in it for the money.  Rufus Sewell, however, is superb.  He's very handsome, has blazing hazel eyes and radiates a combination of sex and evil.  When he's on screen, the movie picks up. When he's not there it's very dull and very stupid.  Rent The Omen instead.  Avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"Too much unexplained and left out","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The book which was very long and detailed and offered explanations for things and really put a great story behind the events happening. I had hopes for the movie but sadly it failed on a big level.If you read the book then watched the movie you will be disappointed that so many interesting details are left out and that some things are not accurate.If you have not read the book but watched the movie, you will still be disappointed because you will find the lack of explanation for what's really going on and why confusing.I recommend just reading the book. Its so much better and you won't be able to put it down.This movie is just a huge mess. "},{"Title":"|Small spoilers| Pathetic battle, of Good Vs Evil.","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Bless The Child is an excruciating experience, to go through. There is no suspense to be found, and the actors are often slumming it, and to be honest I didn't blame them. Bless The Child often feels like a straight to video production, featuring an A-list cast. Kim Bassinger can be a credible actress, but here she is overwhelmed with crappy material. Are we really supposed to believe That Basinger's fatal gunshot wound in the end, can be healed by an angel, just like that?. I believe in god, but that was too far fetched for my liking. It's also very slow for the most part, I often found myself having trouble, paying attention to the silly plot. Bless The Child was a movie, I avoided for years, due to all the bad reviews, but I needed something to rent, so I thought why not?. I also found the kid abuse to be extremely unpleasant. Dangling a kid off a high roof, is supposed to be invigorating?. Bless The Child is one of the worst Horror/Thriller's i've seen in recent memory.Performances. Kim Bassinger is OK, but often looked bad, due to the terrible script. Her character doesn't give us enough information, nor does it have enough development, to make us care. For her age, she certainly looks good, though. Christina Ricci gets 1st rate billing, but is barely in the film. Jimmy Smits is OK as the cop, but has done this part, before. Holliston Coleman is the best actor in the film, and that's pretty bad. For her age, she gives a remarkably steady performance, I was quite impressed. Rufus Sewell gives an amusingly hammy Satan worshiping, performance. Angela Bettis is OK as Jenna, but overdid it in some scenes. She did good in looking strung out, though. Bottom line. This movie certainly needed some blessing, because I was bored senseless with this movie. It's as bad as you've heard, believe me. Not recommended, there are much better films of it's type out there.1/10 "},{"Title":"Rambling trash","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This was a terrible film. The acting had great potential with the big names that were on the cast list so I blame the direction (or lack thereof) for the lackluster delivery, non-existent screen presences and slow movement.The plot was rambling and predictable; it was only my die-hard film fan friends that encouraged me to stick it out. I thought that it was ending at least thrice only to be disappointed in the final scenes. There was no real denouement, character development or moral lesson as would have been rightly expected from a potentially great script. The effects were hazy and obvious, reminiscent of Technicolor or the bad old days of smoke and mirrors.The character's were clichd and exaggerated portraying only the obvious arch-types of villain, victim and savior-savant. A pathetic attempt all round, I would recommend this title only for the most devoted fans of the supernatural horror/thriller genre. "},{"Title":"Untidy little film about God vs the devil, OK but should have been much better.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I saw Bless the Child on DVD and it is curious to watch the making of extra which is 9 1/2 minutes of interviews with the director, producer, and several of the actors. About 80% of it is telling each other how wonderful they were. They weren't wonderful, the direction made the film look silly a number of times, and the actors, even the supporting actors, often were not believable. Still, I enjoyed this film, and its median rating of 5 or 6 is about right.slight SPOilERS - The central idea of the story is good. God does exist, and the devil still tempts us. This is told with a modern-day steward of the devil (Rufus Sewell) on Earth, looking for the child to whom a star pointed on its birth, December 16. Mirroring biblical times 2000 years earlier, the young child, who is destined to be a prophet or saint, is sought out to either be converted to the dark side, or killed. In a pivotal scene the bad steward says, If you believe in God, jump from this high building and He will save you. The little girl, 6 now, eventually says, You first.Several places during the film, where a good person is in one bind or another (subway doors closing, car hanging off bridge), someone shows up to save them, yet no one else sees them and they disappear after the act.  Angels. Eventually good triumphs over evil.  "},{"Title":"Pray for Maggie's baby.","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  A true anomaly in the contemporary cinema,Bless the child seems to belong to an era which brilliantly began with Rosemary's baby (1968) and continued throughout the seventies (the exorcistthe omen 1,2 and 3,the changeling )and petered out with dismal works such as  prince of darkness in the doomed eighties.It begins pretty well,as some kind of melodrama ,when Basinger takes in her niece her junkie sister cannot take care of.But it falls apart in the second half,giving way beneath the weigh of its religiosity.hints at the gospels are ponderous the writers proudly quote the prodigal son parable,the massacre of the innocents,the temptation of JC in the desert,and other episodes I forgot.God Himself intervenes,probably thanks to the nuns' prayers.The new stepfather gives the girl a sinister nanny ,Damia ,(a tribute to Damien,who knows?),in the grand tradition of Billie Whitelaw's part in the omen.Kim Basinger tries her best ,but it's not much of a comeback  "},{"Title":"Very underrated movie, of course.","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"   I wish I could say I was surprised at the bashing this movie is taking here, but I'm not. Something that seems strikes me as a little odd, however when a boring, silly film like The Last Temptation of Christ (apostles with NEW YORK accents? How brilliant.) comes out, atheist types line up to see Christ being portrayed as just a regular guy who was just as weak and corrupt as the rest of mankind. They then praise the film as a masterpiece, a more realistic account of Christ than the one the Bible gives, as if they had some sort of inside knowledge about Jesus that those silly Christians just don't have. They then get on boards like this one and preach to Christians about how narrow-minded and silly they are for having faith in something, and even tell them that they have no right to be angry or upset when their God is portrayed this way. As if upsetting Christians isn't the primary reason trashy, overrated films like Last Temptation get made in the first place. Well, that and greed, since people will flock to see such a controversial (read blasphemous, degrading and disrespectful) film. But then, whenever a movie like Bless The Child is made, portraying Christ as a force for good and a savior to mankind; as someone higher and more powerful than common humanity, atheists also line up to see it, strictly for the pleasure of denouncing it as Christian propaganda. They then go on to exaggerate its every flaw and make it sound like the most horrible film ever made. They really hate movies that dare to suggest that the assurance that There is no God but you might be false. Similarly, a lot of people really seem to bristle at the suggestion that there are people who work against God and would kill for Satan. That's so unrealistic!, they proclaim. Tell that to Charles Manson (in case you don't remember, he was a leader of a cult of drug addicts and devil worshipers who thought he was some kind of dark lord and gladly killed for him), or Richard Ramirez, or one of the hundreds of devil-worshiping killers or cults that have existed throughout history. This movie isn't so unrealistic, when you think about it.  I also find it very odd when a Satanist gets huffy about being accused of being, well, a devil-worshiper. Don't be silly. You follow a religion named after the adversary to the Christian God, and then you get all offended when people think you might just be a bad person. Perhaps you should expect that reaction among sane people. Come on, you can't expect to brand yourself with the name of the enemy of God and man, and be surprised when it gets a reaction. If you are, that suggests that perhaps you're playing around with something you don't understand. I pray you'll grow up some day and see the truth. Sorry for the rant, but the way this movie is portrayed here is ridiculous. It's by no means the greatest movie ever made, but it's a good little film about good triumphing over evil. It's about love, faith, and the power of prayer. The child actress in this film is wonderful; she plays a believable and sympathetic character who possesses a vulnerable, fragile quality, as well as a quiet strength. She brings tears to your eyes. The supporting cast is good, Rufus Sewell, Christina Ricci, Ian Holm, Jimmy Smits and Kim Basinger all perform well. The story isn't flawless, but it holds your interest throughout and, if you're a believer, it's also quite emotional at times (whether you're Catholic or not). The movie manages to be frightening and thrilling without a bunch of gratuitous gore (although there is some) and nudity. But it also inspires us; it leaves us with a sense of hope and with the message not to be afraid to recognize evil and to stand and confront it with God's help through prayer and faith. That isn't a bad thing at all. So I would recommend this movie to people of faith and people with open minds. If you're a die-hard atheist or a Satanist, you probably won't enjoy it, unless watching movies you've decided to hate beforehand is one of your hobbies. There seems to be a lot of people who like to do things like that. But if you don't like it and decide to review it, try to be honest about its flaws and shortcomings instead of getting carried away with your emotions and preaching your non-belief to the rest of us. Or can't you enlightened ones manage it? Okay, now I'LL stop preaching. Sorry about that. "},{"Title":"This film needs an Exorcist!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Whatever talent Kim Bassinger may have shown with L.A. CONFIDENTIAL is now totally gone. The acting is as bad as Jimmy Smitts' toupee! Just what we need another ROSEMARY'S BABY/EXORCIST/OMEN/ rip-off. Pop-eyed Rufus Sewell is a good actor in a bad movie. The sad thing is he doesn't even realize it! At least Bassinger gives subtle signs like what the hell am I doing in this 'let me throw my career in the toilet' film throughout. "},{"Title":"The Worst Mover I've Ever Seen","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Bless the Child is, without a doubt, the worst film (no, movie) I've ever seen. Rufus Sewell and Kim Bassinger both bottomed out their careers with this trite, preachy, joke of a movie. I don't know if the director was a preacher, or just a nut with an agenda, but I was almost offended with the amount of fire and brimstone in the movie. And the fact that the films one bright spot, Christina Ricci, dies after 5 minutes of performance makes the movie complete crap. "},{"Title":"Meretritious Garbage.","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Unbearable schlock. Kim Basinger adopts her sister's child, a little girl who turns out to be the Second Coming or something. Jimmy Smits is the FBI investigator called in on the case when the girl is kidnapped by Rufus Sewell and his gang of thugs. They run an outfit called The New Dawn. It poses as a self-help program but is really a Satanist church.It's all mechanically slapped together with multiple borrowings from The Exorcist and Omen and their devolved descendants.Everything is predictable except that which is completely arbitrary. Hordes of skinless rats come and go without explanation. Angels appear as fuzzy balls of white light. Gargoyles sometimes fill the sky. Sometimes not.The performances by some of the talent are okay. Basinger doesn't do badly, for instance. But nothing could save this piece of unspeakable crap. Rufus Sewell, as the Satanist-in-Chief, has these goggle eyes. He's so exopthalmic that the whites completely surround the irises. And if he blinks even once during the entire film, I must have missed it because I was blinking at the same time.It's not worth going on about. How do the kids put it? Oh, yes. It sux. "}]