[{"Title":"A brilliant film","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"92 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing out the Dead, unfortunately, has fewer fans than it deserves. Why? Because this isn't simply a New York movie, or a movie about a paramedic, or about euthenasia, despite the ostensible setting and plot points.Instead, Scorsese has created a cinematic myth about how haunted modern existence can be, and what it takes to be saved and find grace in a seemingly godless world. His vision of New York is all literate existential comedy, not a window into the rotten Big Apple. Mere satiric commentary on the tragedy of life in New York is for journeyman directors; Scorsese is doing something else entirely here.In other words, this is that really rare beast--a literate film that is, first and foremost, still a great movie. In the plot and its implications, there's more here of Flannery O Conner or Virginia Woolf than there is here of, say, Tom Wolf. More pariticularly, Bringing out the Dead does with masterful filmmaking what Joyce's The Dead did in prose. This film is a truly eye-opening investigation into how the living exist in the shadow of the dead and dying.The film accomplishes this incredibly difficult task on many levels--the cinematography alone should give you a clue that this is definitely not Taxi Driver or Goodfellas--there's something more sublime here (the beauty that American Beauty explains wonderfully is shown everywhere in this film, but Bringing out the Dead is less mundane, simple and character oriented). Every shot is right, and the numerous computer effects here--on display almost for their own sake in The Matrix--are here poetically put together by a master director.So, just for it's approach to a subject that few movies or directors would even attempt, this film will be a classic. Oddly enough, one of the few movies it can be compared with is Hitchcock's Vertigo, which confronts the same issues in a different way. Scotty's (Jimmy Stewart) desire to raise the dead is as strong as Frank's, and audiences didn't much like Vertigo when it was released either.The acting, the music, the incredible photography--they're all great, if you realize you are watching a literate, funny, well-plotted (as opposed to simply plotted) meditation on the ghosts that increasingly inhabit our technocratic dwellings.Too good for a grade see it on the biggest, best screen you can while you can. BTW--it's better the second time.     "},{"Title":"Hard To Watch, But Worth It","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"58 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Frank Pierce is at the end of his rope. As portrayed by Nicolas Cage in Martin Scorsese's Bringing Out The Dead, he is a burned out, alcoholic, insomniac New York City ambulance driver tormented by the ghosts of those he failed to save -- specifically, the ghost of Rose, a young, asthmatic woman he couldn't bring back. The movie is basically a snapshot of Frank's life -- three days of hell as seen from his vantage point  a speeding ambulance by which a blurred, uncertain, frightening, and often oppressive world flies.Frank tells us at the movie's outset that he hasn't saved a life in months, and that he's beginning to believe in things like spirits that leave a body and don't want to come back. He's starting to feel like a grief mop, like his only real responsibility is to bear witness to death and suffering. Frank and his partner Larry (John Goodman) are attempting to resuscitate a heart attack victim as the movie begins, and as the man's daughter Mary (Patricia Arquette) looks on in horror, Larry is successful in pulling him back from death's door. The overrun hospital, however, shoves him into a corner and keeps him drugged up, shocking him back to life when necessary. Mary tells Frank she hadn't spoken to her father for a long while before his attack, and in fact had often wished he were dead, but that now there's nothing she'd like more that to just hear his voice again. She was once a junkie but has now been clean for months, she tells him. Frank seems moved by Mary, seems to want to save her -- perhaps he thinks if he can save her, he will be able to let go of the pain of losing Rose.Frank's developing feelings for Mary provide a counterpoint to the insanity he encounters on emergency calls with his partners Larry (John Goodman), Marcus (Ving Rhames), and Walls (Tom Sizemore). Sometimes the calls involve merely picking up the local smelly drunk Mr. O, their most frequent flier who seems to think the hospital is a nice place to sober up. Other times they involve matters that are much more serious, like resuscitating a heroin OD in a club (a great scene) or assisting in the allegedly virgin birth of twins (haunting, and one of the movie's many examples of religious imagery). But no matter where Frank goes, he sees Roses' face -- he sees her everywhere, she comes to him in the guise of the nameless street people that cross his path.There really is no plot to Bringing Out The Dead, and that's a good thing because the movie isn't meant to be a straightforward narrative. It's meant to be a snapshot of a man's soul, of his inner demons, and a conventional plot would only cloud the movie's real point. The narrative thrust comes mostly from Frank's interactions with his partners -- each of them representing a different approach, a different way of dealing with the pain brought on by this nerve wracking job. Larry (Goodman) seems to be able to block out the emotional aspects of his job, he seems to see his position mainly as a means to an end, and in fact he tells Frank he'll be a captain one day. Marcus (Ving Rhames, in a scene stealing performance) puts all trust and faith in God, believing that if someone dies, it's just their time to go. Walls (a scarily effective Tom Sizemore) is a borderline psychotic, terrorizing patients (including dread locked street person Noel, well played by singer Mark Anthony) and bashing in his ambulance headlights with a baseball bat.If these three provide the kinetic thrust of the movie, Frank and Mary provide it's emotional center. Frank finds himself drawn closer and closer to Mary, and in fact he tries to rescue her when she resorts to visiting scummy drug dealer Cy Coates (the excellent Cliff Curtis) at the Oasis, a scarily shot urban hellhole that seems to be a local haven for drug dealing. She needs some respite, however temporary and narcotic, from the pain, and in this sense she has a link with Frank (who drinks on the job and taps into his own medical supplies to get high). The movie seems to be saying that these two people need each other; perhaps each has what is needed to soothe the other's hurt.Bringing Out The Dead is the fourth collaboration between Scorsese and screenwriter Paul Schrader, and it touches on their familiar themes of faith, guilt, hope, and redemption. Much has been written about the similarities between this film and Taxi Driver, Scorsese's 1976 ode to urban rot. I feel these similarities are somewhat superficial. Though Frank and Travis Bickle are both lonely, disenfranchised, ill people, Frank wants to help people; Bickle just wants to clean the trash up off the streets. Bickle lashes out in rage; Frank lashes out in fear and desperation. Schrader's screenplay offers satisfying levels of complexity, so that ultimately, towards the end, when Frank does something totally unexpected and morally ambiguous, we understand exactly why he's doing it and can sympathize.Of course, from a technical standpoint Bringing Out The Dead is flawless. Ace lensman Robert Richardson (who previously worked with Scorsese on Casino) gives the city an appropriately gloomy, sick look, and his work is especially effective in a scene in which Cy dangles from a sixteenth floor balcony while fireworks explode behind him. Thelma Schoonmaker's expert editing is, as usual, outstanding -- she gives the fast paced scenes the charge they need, and provides some dizzying sped up camera effects during the emergency call scenes. Scorsese's choice of music is great, as is his work with the actors. Sizemore, Anthony, Curtis, Arquette, and especially Rhames are all good, but it's Cage who must hold the movie together, and he succeeds with a towering performance that is easily his best work since Leaving Las Vegas. Cage is cast perfectly here; his tortured, implosive Frank Pierce is an indelible character.Bringing Out The Dead is not for everyone. The movie's lack of a conventional narrative arc will probably confuse and alienate some viewers, and the way it uncompromisingly looks into the darkest corners of human nature with an unflinching eye will disturb others. Yet these qualities are Scorsese's hallmarks, and this film has links to many of his other works -- the confusion of After Hours, the emotional indecision of The Age of Innocence, the alienation of Taxi Driver, the spiritual search of The Last Temptation of Christ. Bringing Out The Dead is not easy to watch, and at times it's hard not to look away. But it's real, and it stays with you.  "},{"Title":" Bringing Out the Dead is another Scorsese Masterpiece","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"56 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Director Martin Scorsese and screenwriter Paul Shrader, these two names alone stand for excellence and brilliance, put them together and you havebrilliant film making history as witnessed by their former collaborations (Taxi Driver, Raging Bull and The Last Temptation of Christ).  Add the totally compelling and very real Bringing Out the Dead to that list.  Based on the novel by Joe Connelly, a former EMS worker, Bringing Out the Dead follows three long nights in the life of New York City paramedic Frank Pierce (Nicholas Cage) as he navigates through the life and death situations of the last era of the mean streets of New York City, the early 90's, all the while attempting to hold on to his sanity by a thread.Scorsese creates a very real New York (before the gentrification of the Giuliani era) that is rarely seen in films.  This is not the flashy and glitzy New York that is often shown in most movies. He goes deep into the psyche of a city that is crammed with 9 million people, some who are struggling just to stay afloat.  As the character Mary says, You have to be strong to survive in this city. Some of the scenes in the movie are so memorable and haunting such as Frank's hallucination of actually pulling people literally from the steam shrouded pavement and bringing them back to life and the harrowing, almost Christ-like sequence where Frank is saving a drug dealer from death as he dangles from a balcony.Nicholas Cage, one of our finest actors working today, gives a brilliant performance of great emotional range that is draining to watch.  You literally see him coming unglued piece by piece. This is his best performance since Leaving Las Vegas.  Patricia Arquette (Cage's wife) gives a very moving and subtle performance of a person who has been to hell and back while struggling to maintain some balance in the jungle.  Goodman, Rhames and Sizemore turn out good performances as always playing Cage's co-pilots in the nightly journeys.  Also standing out are Latin singer, Marc Anthony as a homeless crazy and Cliff Curtis as a drug dealer who provides an oasis for the stressed-out individuals of the city.  An excellent director and a great script are a perfect formula for producing top-notch performances by actors and Scorsese and Shrader bring out the best in theirs.With it's story of the lead character Frank cruising the streets making narrative comments about life in the city, comparisons will be made naturally to Scorsese's other brilliant work Taxi Driver with it's main character Travis Bickle, but those comparisons are normal and stop right there.  Where Travis Bickle wanted to save people who did not need saving, Frank Pierce reaches out to people who desperately need saving, but does not always have the power to save as in the case of the homeless girl Maria, who haunts him constantly. Also Scorsese is too highly intelligent, creative and the ultimate professional to retread the same waters, he never takes the easy road.  A Scorsese film is like any great film, it takes time to take it in and digest, because there are so many different layers added that need to be looked at long after the last reel finishes.  This is a powerful piece of filmmaking proving once again that Martin Scorsese is one of the all-time great directors of this century.  Highly Recommended. × × ××  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As an emergency physician and film buff, this film is one of my favorites. Martin Scorcese utilized excellent film technique with his inventive camera shots integrated with a dark comedic plot (check out the triage nurse) to create a bright modern cinema masterpiece with rich characters, comedic irony, and a sense of perseverance against overwhelming angst and the dark underbelly of modern urban life. This film is a classic on a par with Harold and Maude, and the King of Hearts. Three thumbs up- (I'm dysmorphic)... In any case, this movie deserves to be watched by anyone involved in healthcare and anyone involved in EMS activities. "},{"Title":"Surreal, strange, special and very, very good","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This surreal portrayal of a stressed-out depressed, alcoholic and generally weird paramedic is a movie you cannot watch just like that. I recommend watching it late at night, but not too tired, since you have to be quite alert to catch everything that's going on.The basic plot is about an ambulance driver(Nicolas Cage can act!) who hasn't saved anyone for months and begins to doubt he can save anyone anymore. He drinks booze and coffee and the result is a great mess. This is not a beginning to the end kind of movie. When the movie ends, nothing is really solved.The acting is pretty much flawless. Nicolas Cage does his best performance to date, and his paramedic buddies and the people he encounters are all very well portrayed. John Goodman is a fat, sweaty but somewhat likable paramedic, Tom Sizemore(!) is a psychotic ambulance driver who has his very own view of the job, Ving Rhames is a delivered Christian who takes the job as an opportunity to save souls, Mark Anthony is an interesting street weirdo, and Patricia Arquette is a weary woman who loses her father.The imagery is very good too. New York whizzes past, full of lights and darkness. It's gritty, it's moody and it's surreal.If you can stand a little unorthodox cinema then you'll like Bringing Out the Dead. But be sure to be in the mood, or the experience will be very different.Oh, and I salute all the paramedics and other health care heroes out there. If your job is anywhere near this movies, you're the greatest. "},{"Title":"One of the boldest movies of the year. ***1/2 out of ****","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"35 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"   BRINGING OUT THE DEAD  (1999) ***1/2Starring Nicolas Cage, Patricia Arquette, John Goodman, Ving Rhames, Tom Sizemore, Cliff Curtis Director Martin Scorsese Running time 120 minutes Rated R (for gritty violent content, language, and drug use)By Blake FrenchMartin Scorsese's Bringing Out The Dead is one of the only movies I have ever seen that does not remotely glamorize its subject matter. That is something that does not come naturally in the world of film. Movies glamorize almost everything they face matters with; whether it's violence, drugs, sex, or other behaviors. Movies persuade, advertise, and sell incorrect messages to hungry and excepting pedestrians. Not only is Bringing Out The Dead an anti-violence, drugs and glamour film, it also manages to deliver its message through one of the most talented actors in Hollywood clearly and understandably. This is one of the year's most unsettling and uncompromising productions, and also one of the year's best.Bringing Out the Dead offers no story in its existence. But there is no actual need for a plot here, due to a strong, precise narrative through-line and focused point of view seen through its central character. He is Frank Pierce (Nicolas Cage), who narrates the film with a sense of depravity. He and his buddies, Marcus (Ving Rhames), Tom (Tom Sizemore), and Larry (John Goodman), work the evening shift at New York's Hell's Kitchen as Ambulance Drivers for an emergency hospital. They live a life full of stress, sweat, and desperation. Frank often comes to work pleading for his boss to fire him. The opening scene, which properly induces the desperate and gritty lives of the main characters, features Frank and Larry, being called to the home of Mary Burke, whose unhealthy father is having a heart attack. They stabilize him, rush the man to their emergency care facility, and go on with their lives.Now, where many lesser movies would have developed a romantic subplot with the Mary character and Frank, Bringing Out the Dead is too focused and skillful to do that. There is affection between the two. But Frank is in such a position in his life that he just isn't prone to fall for a woman. Nor does he give in to any of the many hookers standing on the street blocks tempting him to keep them in business. He is on the verge of an nervous break down, and the film never pretends otherwise.While for the most part, this movie didn't give into any major distractions or side-subjects, it did have several flawed and unexplained subplots. The story featuring Frank constantly being haunted by the ghost of a young girl he lost some time ago isn't really explained enough. Nor does an unusually bizarre scene later on payoff featuring Frank saving lost souls in pain beneath the streets of New York. And there seems to be an extremely dangerous drug featured in the movie, which strangely appears at the overdoes scenes where Frank is called to--this isn't detailed enough to pay off either. I do realize the purpose of us not knowing about this medical issue; we don't have the knowledge because Frank doesn't. But I still think there may have been a way to inform the audience on the context of this material, without making the hero look stupid. Also, the film is over narrated by Frank, who sometimes describes his interesting past experiences through words, not flashbacks or visions, which would have been much more intriguing.Scorsese makes no sense of the chaotic, unorganized, unsettling medical experiences patients go through in the emergency room where Frank doctors in. The style he uses to depict the film in is flawless in this justification the camera angles are mind-warping and fast paced, the atmosphere of the movie is gritty, with blood and vulgarism abound. The characters pace frantically as they travel across one end of the building to the next, not sure to where or whom they are going. The characters also are injected with a deep sense of lifeless scrounge, as they stare and gaze into each other's eyes, only to discover there is nothing in each other. In some aspects, this film is like Saving Private Ryan a tantalizing hell.And Nicolas Cage delivers yet another fascinating performance here. His character is empathized with the entire way through, even if narration is used instead of illusion. He manages to depict his character through the torment and emotional damnation required. He pursues profoundness in scenes where his character realizes happiness in itself. I fell like I saved someone, mutters Frank to himself. Good job, Frank. You saved yourself.Brought to you by Paramount Pictures and Touchstone Pictures.   "},{"Title":"Powerful  and  engrossing cinema from a truly great team.","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Frank Pierce is a member of the Nork York paramedics, serving the Hell's Kitchen district he is witness to some terrible incidents. As he starts to crack under the pressure of the job, and getting no help from a succession of zany partners, Frank may just find solace with an ex-junkie girl who's father he brought in dying of a heart attack.Martin Scorsese can never be accused of not being adventurous, after dabbling in Eastern spiritualism with 1997s Kundun, he returns to New York and tackles a wing of America's tortured heroes. Based on the novel by Joe Connelly, Bringing Out The Dead is at times a difficult watch in many ways, but it's haunting poignancy is told with brilliantly adroit ease from one of America's famed directors, whilst it has to be said that the humour that is in there is darkly genius in its execution. We are along for the ride with haunted Frank for three days (and nights) as he and his borderline bonkers partners deal with overdoses, heart attacks, drunks and a notably cynical virgin birth! As Frank starts to see ghosts of people he couldn't save in the past, Scorsese and his team treat us to an adrenalin fuelled nightmare, the editing (Thelma Schoonmaker) is swift and explosive like, Robert Richardson's cinematography framing certain aspects of this journey with impacting deftness, and then we have the soundtrack.Scorsese is always a man who takes great care in sound tracking his movies, in fact few modern day directors can touch his knack for a perfect soundtrack. Fusing Motown with 70s Punk Rock would seem an odd combination, but all of it works as the paramedics start to feel the strain and (in some cases) as the mania takes hold. It's rare to hear a New York Dolls track in a movie, to hear a Johnny Thunders solo track is as rare as a dog that speaks Norwegian, and here the use of Thunders' You Can't Put Your Arms Around A Memory is pitch perfect, impacting so. Such is the use of early Clash standards as our protagonists feed off each others precarious mental conditions, it's a soundtrack to savour basically.Nicholas Cage plays Frank Pierce, and it's a great performance full of restraint and honesty, it's the sort of performance that his detractors tend to forget about such is its emotive simplicity. Tom Sizemore (wonderfully manic), Ving Rhames, John Goodman and Patricia Arquette fill out the cast and all do fine work, but I'm sure they would be the first to acknowledge the excellence of Paul Schrader's screenplay. This piece is far from being a masterpiece, but with it's intensity sitting side by side with a paramedics need for coping, it's clear that Scorsese and his talented team have made one of the most astute and undervalued pieces of the 90s. 9/10 "},{"Title":"probably one of Scorsese's best","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is grossly underappreciated.  This represents director Martin Scorsese and writer Paul Schrader at their best.  They gave us classics like TAXI DRIVER, RAGING BULL, and THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST, but they've outdone themselves here.  Yeah, it's a masterpiece, but one that's not easily accessible.Nicholas Cage plays Frank an ambulance driver who hasn't saved anyone in months, a man who is feeling guilty and about to break under the weight of the suffering and sorrow he sees in New York City.  Scorsese, always working with religious sensibilities, turns this film into a three day descent into the underworld, with Frank being raised to life on the third day, just like Jesus was.No story to speak of, but then that's the point--the lives of ambulance drivers are largely plotless.  It's got the same strengths as other Scorsese classics--visually stunning, uncompromising in its portrayal of the darker side of human nature, and a dead-on portrayal of people at their most desperate.  Add to that an almost dreamlike quality that makes the streets of New York look like some metropolitan hell.  The thing that sets this film apart, however, is a genuine compassion for its characters.  Scorsese's an excellent filmmaker, but he could sometimes be accused of portraying his characters a little coldly.  This film is all heart, all the way through.  This is the Scorsese of TAXI DRIVER and MEAN STREETS, the Scorsese who takes chances on projects that really mean something, the Scorsese that was missing in GANGS OF NEW YORK. "},{"Title":"Urban Jungle","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In Bringing Out the Dead, Nicolas Cage plays Frank, a graveyard shift EMT technician in New York City in the early 1990s. In classic Scorsese style, the themes of masculinity, subcultural underground interaction, and fast paced film editing combine to form the frenetic basis of Frank's neo-noir lifestyle. The film is dark, urban, and also blackly comic, relying on strong masculine characters to provide energy and humor. Overall, Bringing Out the Dead appears to be heavily influenced by film noir. Frank, the protagonist, is at the end of his rope in a rather solitary and stressful job and he often finds escape from the ghosts of his failures through alcohol. Patricia Arquette plays Mary, the femme fatale character and woman in distress Frank seeks to save. The film is uber-urban, set mainly in the nighttime ghettos and hustling districts of New York City, and the major events center around various city dwellers. Frank's adventures in life saving are highlighted by the colorful characters of City life, including prostitutes, drug addicts, homeless persons, insane persons, goth-punk death rockers and the ubiquitous 'Mr. O.,' the smelliest destitute to plague Our Lady of Perpetual Mercy Hospital. Frank is led by Mary into the narcotic underworld, and meets the proprietor of 'The Oasis,' a charismatic dealer with a passion for tropical fish and silk robes.Many of the lighting techniques also serve to emphasize the urbanality of the surroundings, often combining music and fast paced editing. The darkness of the City night is contrasted with the searing halogen of the hospital, and the sunlight that creeps through the window at dawn mocks Frank's insomnia. Indeed, the movie ends at dawn, with Frank nodding off to sleep. This is very similar to the traditional horror movie ending at dawn when the nighttime monsters are relegated to their nocturnal lairs. Editing techniques are feverish and accelerate in pace as the movie progresses and Frank's hysteria mounts. Many of these sequences involve a montage of the flashing ambulance lights, 360-degree camera rotation, blurred traffic lights and shots of the crazed driver behind the wheel. My personal favorite scene is when Frank is going to answer a call, and the montage is set to R.E.M.'s What's the Frequency Kenneth.Overall, most of the main characters are the male ambulance drivers/EMTs. These characters, Frank, Tom, Marcus and Larry, exude a kind of unquestioned masculinity, which they prove through various means such as violence, excessive flirting, and alcohol consumption. Tom is a violent, hair trigger macho who enjoys pummeling transients and minorities. Marcus is a smooth talking black man who chain smokes stogies and praises Jesus. Larry is an overweight everyman, wanting to start his own paramedic business. Frank is a Marlboro smoking altruistic cowboy with a drinking problem and insomnia. At some point, most of the characters engage in drinking (liquor) while on duty or at least in the ambulance. The characters names are also quite masculine, especially in contrast to Noel, a man who is a drug addict of ethnic descent that is never arguably fully a man.Inherently, Scorsese's New York City is an urban jungle that will break any man who is not strong or tough enough.  "},{"Title":"A very under looked film","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing out the Dead is the most underrated film ever done by Martin Scorsese. It is one of the most well made films I've ever seen and is one of my favorite dramas of all time.The film focuses on a paramedic called Frank played by Nicolas Cage. The film focuses on 48 hours of Frank's life as a paramedic and all the horrific things he has seen. As well as that Frank is also haunted by spirits of people who he couldn't save, befriends a young women called Mary played by Patricia Arquette and a whole range of strange partners.The actors that Scorsese has chosen are a weird bunch as they're not really in Scorsese's other films and they're not really big name actors. As well as Nicolas Cage there's also supporting roles from people like John Goodman, Ving Rhames and Tom Siezmore. Everyone does a fantastic jobs even the actors who have much smaller roles than others.This is much more surreal film than most other Scorsese films as we go into Frank's mind.The reasons why this films succeeds is just that you really care about this characters and while the film dosen't really have much of a story it grips you the whole way through.It also has a great soundtrack which includes artists like Van Morrison, R.E.M and the Who.Overall the film is quite different to what you're usually expecting but it grips who the whole way though and it gets a full 5 star rating form me. "}{"Title":"Tragic.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I, hardly alone, worship Scorcese with a passion, and will defend to the death even minor efforts such as NEW YORK NEW YORK, AFTER HOURS and THE COLOR OF MONEY (though not KUNDUN).  He is the true inheritor of Michael Powell in his reckless daring, joyous excess, subjective empathy, stylistic verve and innate conservatism.So please, can I just say, and stay within the IMDb guidelines, how much I disliked this film.  I will state my displeasure mildly, and you can multiply my negativity by quite a lot.  The story, as has been repeated, has been done, better, before.  The style and spiritual crises are too comfortable and not won from the traumas of the story.  The dialogue and performances bear little relation to invention, entertainment, truth or real life.  The whole project exudes one word jaded.  I was profoundly, distressedly, shockedly (sic?) disappointed. "},{"Title":"The movie was a waste of time!","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having watched the trailer of Bringing out the Dead, I looked forward to some kind of redemptive redeeming film making.  It wasn't there.  I've never been more disappointed in a film as I went in with high expectations.  If I wanted anthology of grief from Nicolas Cage, I could write him a letter asking him how he felt.  This film had some good parts, but they were to few and far in between. . . There was no credible story line.  As a dark genre, the movie failed and was lost in the flickering lights of illogic.I had the poor sense of remaining through out the length of the film, and wished I would have gotten up the numerous times I felt I should leave. Just about ready to leave Ving Rhames made me sit back down.  I was never more disappointed in a film, as it never seemed to go anywhere, and left you feeling you shouldn't gone anywhere either.  "},{"Title":"Narrative-wise it is unsatisfying but it has style and pace that makes it worth seeing","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Frank Pierce is a New York City paramedic. We join his story when he is facing down a double shift of graveyard work despite being burnt out and tired he battles through. Facing the ghosts of those he has lost on the job, Frank tries to help the usual junkies and heart failures but gets involved with Mary when he gets called to her father's heart attack. Despite his tiredness, he tries to help Mary's more emotional pain.My plot summary for this film is weak, I know that. However it is not weak because I am in a rush, it is weak because the film's narrative is also weak. The basic set up is interesting and this carries the film for the first hour but after this the film tries to settle into more of a story then it falls to bits. For the first half of the film the action is carried by it's visual style and it's pace &#150; it is effortless to watch and is very slick and interesting. Indeed whenever the film stays away from it's story with Mary and focuses on style then it is most enjoyable. It may be very episodic during it's stylish tour of those in need of help but it's is enjoyable nonetheless. However when the film tries to follow a thread with Mary it becomes dull and you realize that this may have style in bucket loads but the substance was given out using an eggcup. For this reason I found it ultimately unsatisfying despite being worth a watch for Scorsese at work.As a director he really pulls out the stops, it looks great and is visually never dull even if it's narrative is. The soundtrack is also very good even if it could easily be accused of excess in the same way as the visuals could be. Even though this is Scorsese's film, the cast still do OK if not great.Cage is convincingly washed out for the duration even if isn't as good a character as he hoped. Arquette is not quite as bad as I've seen her but she is still quite poor here. She isn't great and it is partly her fault but also the fault of the material &#150; after all she is given the poor narrative to carry. Goodman has presence if not much to do while Rhames and Sizemore really enjoy their OTT characters. Anthony and Turturro add to the film in minor roles (Anthony being especially good) but I didn't feel like Curtis worked in his role even if he was another well-known face and I was amused by Reyes in a pre-Scrubs medical role.Overall this is a film that is all about the ride and, for that, it's worth seeing. I enjoyed it's energy, it's pace and it's style in terms of visuals and music, however the narrative is episodic at best and weak for the rest of the time. The best performances are mostly OTT, befitting the excessive mood set by Scorsese's direction but as enjoyable as it is on a stylish, pacey level it isn't satisfying as a total film or as a story.  "},{"Title":"Another successful Scorsese/Schrader collaboration (spoilers)","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's not surprising that lots of people compare Bringing Out the Dead to Taxi Driver. Both are Martin Scorsese/Paul Schrader collaborations, both deal with the seedy underbelly of night-time New York and both deal with strung out individuals driving, er, vehicles. But comparisons are unfair. One, because any film is going to have a hard time living up to Taxi Driver, and two, despite their surface similarities they're very different movies.Bringing Out the Dead centres around a paramedic named Frank Pierce (Nicolas Cage). He can't sleep and he hasn't saved a person in months. And to make matters worse, he keeps on seeing the face of an eighteen-year-old girl who died in his arms. Needless to say, he isn't in the best state of mind.The start of the film is a little unconvincing. Yes Scorsese's camera-work is electrifying but the voice-over and its delivery feels clumsy. It feels like something out of a B-movie or a bad novel. But then once the film settles down, it steadily improves.The primary focus of the story is Frank's relationship with the daughter of a cardiac arrest patient he brought back from the dead. In her he perhaps sees a chance to redeem himself &#150; to make amends for the mistake he made with the homeless girl he couldn't save. But although he wants to help her through this difficult time, he may have unwittingly made things worse. The man he saved was dead for too long, and so now he's in limbo. As a consequence, the man's alive but not completely aware, and so therefore his new existence revolves around a routine of minor heart attacks and shocks to bring him back to life. This has a negative effect on his daughter Mary (Patricia Arquette), a reformed drug addict who falls off the wagon as she tries to hold her family together. And so all this misery has been inflicted because of Frank's desire to save lives.And in Frank you have a man who has been progressively worn down by his surroundings. We hear from him how great it is when you save lives, how the world seems to shine, but recently he's been unable to do any good. And so while Travis Bickle's problem was violent alienation, Frank's is impotent empathy. He wants to make life better, but when there's so much misery around him, he feels like he's swimming against the tide.It has to be said that Scorsese's direction is often better than Cage's acting at capturing this weariness. Cage's performance certainly isn't poor, but it is uneven. In one dire bit of acting, after having woken from a drug-fuelled dream, he just shouts incoherently like some B-movie monster. And the facial tics and jerky movements feel overly familiar. But then in other scenes he can be excellent.But like I said, Scorsese's directing is stronger than the star's acting. Through time-lapse photography he captures the fractured passage of time and the frenzied emotions of the characters. And through his use of lighting he captures a frightening vision of urban hell while shining a bright halo on the film's hero. After all, at one point, Frank likens saving someone's life to having god pass through you. And in a wonderful hallucinatory dream sequence we see Frank reach into the ground to bring the dead souls of the people who have died before him back to life. This is the kind of power he wishes he had. He wishes he could rescue those lost souls &#150; to drag them back from purgatory or hell and give them and him a second chance at living a normal life. Because this job makes Frank suffer &#150; his burden is almost religious. And at one point he literally begs to be fired. But in a great comic scene, his Captain won't have it. Because they're understaffed, his Captain refuses to terminate Frank's contract, even though that's exactly what Frank wants. So even though he's promised that he'll be fired in the future, Frank knows he has to keep carrying this burden on his shoulders.And in the film we see Frank work with three different paramedics (played by John Goodman, Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore respectively). Each one deals with his hellish situation in a different way. Goodman seeks solace in food, Rhames in god and Sizemore in violence. Frank is the only one who is tackling the awful situation head on and as a result he can barely take it. He even has to resort to booze and drugs to numb the pain.And at the end Frank even takes the life of Arquette's father. Every time he sees the man he hears him speaking in his head, asking to be put out of his misery. At that moment he's borderline psychotic, but it's still a mercy killing. He's just tired of seeing people suffer &#150; both the man and the man's daughter. So in a way we're kind of asked to see Frank as a modern saint, a man who carries the weight of the world on his shoulders so that others don't have to suffer as much as he does. He's the complete opposite of Travis Bickle, whose suffering was brought about by self-absorption.And although the end of the film sounds a little pat, with Frank finding the love of a good woman and finally getting some much needed rest, it doesn't feel contrived. This is what Frank needs &#150; he needs someone who can understand his burden and he needs someone he can share it with. Only then can he rest and return to some semblance of normality. "},{"Title":"i can't sleep either.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It took so much brain power to find something decent in this film that i could not sleep for 2 days. This movie was so bad it drove me to insomnia. i tried to sleep, but Cage in such a horrible role disturbed me to no end. the makers of this film need to find a better job. "},{"Title":"Cage,Scorsese & Bringing Out The Dead Delivers","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing Out the Dead is a film directed by Martin Scorsese.It stars Nicolas Cage, Ving Rhames, John Goodman, Tom Sizemore and Patricia Arquette.It tells a story of Frank Pierce,a paramedic on the brink of physical and emotional collapse.The screenplay was written by Paul Schrader and it was based from the novel of Joe Connelly.It is about 48 hours in the life of a burnt-out paramedic Frank Pierce is a Manhattan medic,working the graveyard shift in a two-man ambulance team. He's burned out,exhausted, and seeing ghosts, especially a young woman he failed to save six months before. He is no longer able to save people as he simply brings out the dead. We follow him for three nights, each with a different partner Larry, who thinks about dinner; Marcus, who looks to Jesus; and Tom, who wallops people out of frustration. Frank befriends Mary,the daughter of a heart victim he brings in. She is an ex-junkie, angry at her father but now hoping he'll live.Once called Father Frank for his efforts to rescue lives,he sees the ghosts of those he failed to save around every turn. He has tried everything he can to get fired-calling in sick, coming in late, delaying taking calls where he might have to face one more victim he can't help- yet he cannot quit the job.This is another Scorsese film achievement as he brings to the screen the life lived by people in the health care profession particularly the paramedics.It was definitely a dark and compelling film. Cage brings to life excellently a paramedic who has somewhat lost hope in his profession to save people from dying.Aside from Cage,the rest of the cast and the film makers are also commendable to bring to life this realistic and brilliant film.I myself could relate to the emotions of Frank and the disturbing experience watching it being a in the health care profession myself.In summary,Cage,Scorsese and Bringing Out The Dead delivers!!! "},{"Title":"Rerun of Taxi Driver","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What's happened to Martin Scorsese?  As if the remaking of Cape Fear wasn't bad enough now he's remaking his own movies!  Bringing Out the Dead is basically a rehash of Taxi Driver--a man pushed to the brink by the urban hell of New York.  It's well-directed (of course) and well-lit but Nicholas Cage and Rosanna Arquette are AWFUL.  Cage being lousy is no surprise--Arquette I expected more from.  Despite the fact that they're married in real life there scenes together are completely blank--no fireworks, no attraction, no nothing!  Unfortunately, they're together most of the film.  The supporting actors are terrific--Ving Rhames, Marc Antony, and especially Tom Sizemore.  But the movie has been done before, the lead actors are lousy, script predictable...what's the point? "},{"Title":"I didn't know what to think.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If people ask me if I liked the movie, I won't know what to tell them. I want to say it was great because it was it was intense, and compelling. The cinematography was better than great, but I expected that. The scenes were emotional, and I found it difficult to pull away from the movie at any moment. I loved the blurry, zoned out feeling that pervaded throughout.However, I was left feeling purposeless. It was like Taxi Driver would have been minus the last half hour. When I got to the end, I kept thinking, is that it? What was the point? What is going to happen now? Wonderfully filmed, a great mood, but it didn't GO anywhere or DO anything. It was three days in some guys' life with no real resolution or climax. When the ending came I said, Oh, this must be the ending. --Not because the movie felt complete, but because it was finally sufficiently movie-length.Nicolas Cage played the exact same lost, moody, self-absorbed character that he played in City of Angels. Ving Rhames surprised me with a terrific, well-developed character.I would recommend that people see this movie, and watch it for its mood; however, if you need a movie to have a plot and a purpose, don't expect to walk away satisified.  "},{"Title":"Bringing Out the Old, Tired Scripts","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Paul Schrader and Martin Scorcese have been down this road before, haven't they? When the screenwriter and the director collaborated on 1976's Taxi Driver with Robert DeNiro, they examined the underbelly of the city as seen through the eyes of a psychotic cabbie. With Bringing Out the Dead, they examine the underbelly of the city as seen through the eyes of a slowly unraveling paramedic. But don't worry folks, it's not the same movie at all!Nicholas Cage, who by now has How to Play a Burned-Out Character soldered onto his brain, plays Frank Pierce, an EMS who is haunted by visions of people he couldn't save. Cage's facial expressions careen wildly from wide-eyed, goofy grins to mopey, woe-is-me blank stares. Frank Cage isn't a character as much as he's an amalgam of all that's wrong and right about the seamy side of every city in the world. He's a zombie driving the streets at night, waiting for tragedy. And he's been able to push away all of the reality and concentrate on just the saving of lives. Until now, anyway - one girl with whom Frank grew up in the neighborhood slowly degenerated into a drug user/addict, and Frank always seems to feel some sort of remorse for her death. Why her, and no one else, is a mystery.Among the characters (not people, characters) that Frank encounters during a 48-hour period are Mary Burke (Patricia Arquette), whose father Frank brought into the hospital. Mary, an emotional shell much like Frank, is clearly in the movie only to serve as a romantic foil to Frank. Perhaps not too coincidentally, Mary seems to run into Frank an awful lot, so it's no real shock to find out Frank has eyes for her. And that's all well and good, because a movie that wallows so much in its own self-perpetuated malestrom of depravity needs a female presence to kind of balance it all out, as if one extra shot of estrogen will offset the testosterone-laden atmosphere. Sadly, it does not. Mary doesn't rise above the decadence and seediness of the city; she is merely immersed by it. Even worse than the one-dimensional characterization, however, is the flat delivery by Arquette. No master thespian she, Arquette speaks each line in such a dull monotone that you want to slap her just to get her out of the rut she's in. That kind of delivery makes sense when you first meet Mary, because she's in shock from her dad going into cardiac arrest. But there's no need for her to keep that up. So what exactly is the point of this movie? That the city can be a nasty, dangerous place? That bad things can happen? That drugs are evil? Wow, such profound thoughts! Let me write these down. If you're looking for pearls of wisdom, try another movie. If you're looking for searing action, this might work for you, but it's sort of a tempered but of action. "},{"Title":"One of Scorsese's most underrated","Date":"4 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing out the dead is a 1999 American film, starring Nicolas Cage and directed by Martin Scorsese. Although many critics praised it as one of the year's best movies, it failed at the box office and remains one of the least known Scorsese's pictures. The film is about Frank Pierce a burnt-out New York paramedic portrayed by Cage who works the graveyard shift in a two-man team ambulance. Although Frank used to be very good at his job, lately struggles to keep up because of his exhaustion and depression, especially because he cannot forgive himself for the death of a young girl that he was unable to help, and finds shelter only by drinking alcohol. The film doesn't follow a clear plot line, instead it chronicles three days of Pierce's life where every night he shares his shift with a different person. The first night with ambitious Larry(John Goodman),the second with religious Marcus(Ving Rhames) and the third with crazy Tom (Tom Sizemore). In these three days we experience Frank's mood swings and the relationship he starts to develop with Mary (Patricia Arquette), daughter of a man he helped and former junkie. Nicolas Cage is excellent in his role while Ving Rhames is very good as well. Martin Scorsese returns to his favorite New York in a movie that as expected drew comparisons with Taxi Driver. Overall a quality movie about a difficult subject and one of Scorsese's most overlooked.My rating 7.5/10 "}{"Title":"Brilliant film with paramedics and urban jungle, a crazy ride","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just love it when Nicholas Cage takes on these types of roles, where he plays a slightly crazy to full crazy characters. Ving Rhames also puts on a pretty entertaining performance and I really enjoyed these characters dialogues. In fact I liked almost every exchange of dialogue in this movie. Okay the plot is about Frank Pierce(Nicholas Cage) who is a paramedic that tries to help people in the street of Manhattan. He gets some pleasure out of his job, but for the most part it's like a living hell for him. Now I haven't really experienced the lifestyle in the early 90's, but it seems pretty crazy and obnoxious how the movie portrays it. Especially inside the hospitals, I never seen a hospital that crazy and hectic. The way New York is shown in the early 90's is pretty gritty with a lot of people trying to stay afloat. Scorsese has made some brilliant films in the past and I really enjoyed this movie as well. Nicholas Cage was the perfect actor for this role and the way he cruises the streets in a ambulance while making narrative about the city life was entertaining although somewhat random at times. This is a film making done very well and powerful as well. Engaging movie with some great and entertaining performances. I especially liked the dark serious humor in this. Highly recommend anyone to see it.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Scorsese's dark vision of New York transfers from Taxi Driver to Ambulance Driver...","Date":"23 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing Out The Dead (1999)Top 10 - 1999Martin Scorsese, a maestro of cinema returns to his favourite theme that is New York City. Scorsese knows New York and he loves his native city. Where Woody Allen pays tribute to his adored city, Scorsese examines the problems, complexities and densities of one of America's most fascinating cities.Bringing Out The Dead is about a burned out NYC paramedic, haunted and shattered by the intensity and obscure nature of his job. The film takes place over 3 nights as he rides with 3 insane co-workers. The film is adapted from a novel written about New York paramedics and the difficulties and physical and mental testings of the job. The screenplay is written by Paul Schrader who also wrote the script to Scorsese's awesome Taxi Driver. Again, using Frank (Nicolas Cage) as his lens to the dark and shady corners of New York's 'barrel of humanity', Scorsese examines issues such as decay, degeneration and the meaning of death and life in certain respects. Are these poor, miserable, drugged beings crawling the streets at night really alive. This time it is New York of early 90s as opposed mid 70s in Taxi Driver.Nicolas Cage provides an impressive performance and is supported by an array of very talented actors that include Ving Rhames, John Goodman, Tom Sizemore and Patricia Arquette.A very good film, not a masterpiece, but proves that Scorsese never derails when it comes to making good films.8/10 "},{"Title":"Is Life Not Way Too Unpleasant Without Acceptance and Sympathy?","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Frank Pierce's duty is to turn up at the aftermath of a violent incident, or a heart attack, never really in any pleasurable part of New York City, and take a crack at not only aid but encouragement. Frank is played by Nicolas Cage, first seen in the movie's opening closeup on his sleepless, disheartened eyes. Scorsese's Taxi Driver 23 years earlier opened identically. He coasts the avenues of Hell's Kitchen with a succession of cronies, in a three-day spell throughout which he floats in and out of sync with everyone else. He suffers delirious mirages of a homeless teenage girl whose life he fell sort of saving, for whose fatality he craves in vain to compensate. He gets shafted by his good intentions, finding patients who frantically want the kind of help he is powerless to give.Scorsese and Schrader introduce us into a chaotic mess of emergency room hustle-bustle, but no matter how many people we meet and how many things are happening at once, we see and hear it all as either the concentration, periphery or white noise of Frank, who saunters through it benumbed to the sensory overload. As the first night drags on, there are more overlapping morsels like the head nurse walking a patient out saying, My conscience just will not allow that, then telling Griss the patient would like to leave. But Griss clearly has to force the man out the door. Then the head nurse is focused on Frank's new delivery. What was all that about? We have just as much of a clue as Frank does. But then the first night is also punctuated with calm, sober dialogue between Frank and the woman whose father he rescued earlier. No ER anarchy, no rock soundtrack. Just distant street sounds and two intimate voices. Then the energy begins slowly cranking up again.Cage's highly Scorsesean main character suffers terrified worry that he will in no time confront another life he cannot rescue, and starts trying to get sacked. Almost immediately, Cage connects with Patricia Arquette, exceptionally playing the daughter of a cardiac victim whom he saves early in the film, and who goes to see her father constantly at the hospital. Arquette approaches Cage regarding her empathy for others, which from our perspective urgently contrasts Cage's feelings of having exhausted his empathy, which is depicted strongly through the cynical throwaway gags that pepper the film with a callously funny sense of humor.Like nearly every Scorsese movie, this black comic descent through the stages in a nightmare shrewdly has no genuine plot, as the paramedic's days comprise no introduction or ending. On the contrary, their lives are an indeterminate state of wholesale dismay. A very big part of Scorsese's intention behind his entire filmography is to remind us that cinema can move us directly and intensely. Scorsese continually goes for broke. He makes movies that many other directors would be interested in making, only he makes them as well as they can be made.Nicolas Cage is, or if he does not climb out of this bottomless hole of consecutive disasters I should say was, an actor of a magnificent variety and, because of the hilariously diffident earthiness that makes him so likable, he is rash and reckless when it comes to emotional ease of use. And thus, he will go as far as you need him to for a character, and this film is easily his best performance since Mike Figgis's Leaving Las Vegas, which despite only having been made four years before was a long way down Cage's chronological filmography at this point. I like his lack of any real inborn ardor, which makes him seem less cultivated than an actor should be, which is not true. Because of his removedness, he just does not have a problem doing a wide range of different movies in spite of their quality. In Bringing Out the Dead, one of Scorsese's few and later films that breaks from his pattern of troubled anti- heroes on behalf of a dramatic hero journey, Cage personifies the heartbreak of a person who makes indispensable effort in the world and is proficient, but in a job that is by no means ever done. "},{"Title":"Fever of survival","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Frank Pierce (Nicolas Cage) is an ambulance driver, who suffers from insomnia caused by the guilt of the people, who died under his watch. So in the night of New York this man, who is hanging with his finger nails from the jagged edge of his fleeing sanity, tries to scrape his road together before it's washed away by a tidal wave of self blame and insanity of the city.From an act of faith Pierce and his co-worker Larry (John Goodman) get to place, when Mr. Burke's (Cullen O. Johnson) heart decides to give up. When it seems, the man is dead Frank suddenly finds a pulse and the man is rushed to hospital, where he lingers between life and death, while his family is hoping for a miracle. And this is the time, when Frank meets Mary (Patricia Arquette), daughter of Mr. Burke, of whom Frank slowly finds a way, or a reason, towards his salvation.'Bringing Out The Dead' is loaded with serious and heavy content, but in the same time it's loaded with refreshing splashes of dark humour, which helps to balance the film so, that it doesn't turn into thick and murky pathos. The humor springs from the general insanity of the whole world and from the people Frank meets on his odyssey the patients, the co-workers, families of the patients or just about anyone, who lives under the flashing neon lights of the night.Nicolas Cage does a superior role as Frank. I very rarely think much of his work, he usually is rather mediocre, but this movie show WHY he still gets work. He suits playing a character, who is slipping out, falling down and beaten. A man gripping the threads of his life, while trying to figure why.Also the side characters are manned with great actors, who manage to flesh their characters into interesting and complex people. Marcus (Ving Rhames) is a cigar smoking womanizer, who is always trying to strike the God within the thick skulls of addicts. Tom Wolls (Tom Sizemore) is almost a lunatic, rummaging the city for blood, waiting the city to scream for his aid. But to place it in contrast, we get to wonder who is more insane for real, Frank or Tom, when they are doing their rounds together.Martin Scorcese directs almost with fever like rage. shots are short and the film is filled with fast cuts and hallucinations. In places the film is like a music video with flashing lights and pounding music. It all enlightens the world Frank is living in artificial, yet still humane, but in some weird mutated way, which isn't suitable for normal people to live, but fits to the druggies and drunkards and hookers and dealers. And all this while the police and the paramedics are trying to safe the humanity from itself, so the souls saved can go and get themselves in the same mess they were saved from. "},{"Title":"Another great Scorsese movie","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing Out the Dead is a movie about city degradation. Just like Taxi Driver. Director Martin Scorsese and writer Paul Schader deliver a unique movie 23 years after Taxi Driver. Well, I don't fell like comparing both movies. Not at all, I just want to point out they are quite similar. As I mentioned, the main topic appears to be the city degradation, seen through the eyes of the main character who in this case is Frank Pierce - a ordinary paramedic. Is ordinary a proper word? Maybe no. Frank sees terrible things every night, his optimism has vanished, because he realizes how dark and horrible life might be. Frank sees death, blood, craziness, but he should remain a normal person. Otherwise, he will lose his job. That's why there is a part of the storyline where Frank wants to get fired.Discussing a single character in such details means there is a good performance over there. And that's true. Nicholas Cage in one of his best roles. He makes his character both likable and repulsive. At one point, you sympathize him for being a good guy who tries to understand strange individuals. But then, you dislike him for paying too much attention at Mary Burke's personal life, trying to save her from drugs and underground life. Mary Burke is played by Patricia Arquette. Her character is introduced early in the movie. She is a daughter of a dying man, Frank takes to the hospital. A very confused girl with no idea of the meaning of life. The rest of the supporting cast is not that impressive, but characters like Tom Wolls, played by Tom Seizmore, appear in some very emotional scenes. Schader draws a line which represents Frank's life. Basically, the movie begins with introducing the viewer to an average paramedic who just sees life in a different way. But gradually, Frank changes. He doesn't like his job anymore, he is tired of the madness he is forced to be witness of every single day. He becomes a new man although new man sounds too bright for his way of living life.Good points in the movie- I already wrote about the character study which is presented in a masterful way. Frank and Mary are characters that provoke the audience in many ways.- The performances. Cage and Arquette. Kinda connected with the above factor. This is one of those movies where you can't imagine another actor playing the main character.- The movie is hard to watch. Most people point that as weakness. It is not a weakness. When a movie drives you in his essence and you become an important character so to speak, that's just another great part of the experience. You can't blame the film for being too heavy and outspoken. That is life with no exaggeration. The movie is less Hollywood style than almost any Scorsese movie, I've seen. It's depressing, it's dark, it's ironic and I even dare to call it a dark satire.Bad points - it's hard to say. Maybe the movie is flawless, but it does not include your type of moral issues so that you give it a 10. Maybe that's my case. I am serious, there is no weak point, I could think of. It's just not that unique.Overall, I recommend Bringing out the Dead to everyone. Different viewers will see different human values and will take different lessons from characters's mistakes. That's why the movie succeeds in making the audience part of the journey. It's not the best Scorsese, but it's highly underrated. Definitely among the best character studies of the 90s. Film about darkness and the invisible door that does not allow us to break it and see the light. "},{"Title":"Nick Cage At His Best, Again!","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wow.Bringing Out the Dead is one of the finest pieces of cinematic art I have seen from Scorcese. Featuring an outstanding cast (especially Cage) and a rather quirky, fun story, the film follows the adventures of a paramedic.Offering both a chilling (and, in some ways, twistedly humorous) look into the everyday happenings for a paramedic on the job, and some interesting (and again, twisted) mind work, the film focuses on Nick Cage's struggles to come to terms with what he lives through day by day, as well as the struggles of his colleagues.Kudos goes also to the cinematographer, who pieced together an amazing visual experience to accompany the outstanding script and acting.8/10. "},{"Title":"Another Masterpiece From Martin Scorsese!","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" like i said its a masterpiece, and is definitely underrated, but i guess i get why some people don't like it.................................all of the acting was great especially from Cage,Goodman,Rhimes, and Sizemore, but for some reason Patricia Arquette really annoys me, but i guess she was OK, it was shot wonderfully and cleverly which is the main highlight from this excellent film, but sometimes i guess it does get a little to weird but it always changes and gets better, when it starts to wander around, mainly the performances and the visual of the movie save it, it is definitely a strange kind of film for Scorsese to experiment with, but he did an excellent job, definitely does really compare to any of his other well known movies, but is probably one of my favorites of his........................................................this film is about an exhausted, little eccentric paramedic, who is seeing ghosts, a spirit of a little girl that he didn't save is what haunts him most and wont go away, the film itself follows him in three days,with three different paramedics and a daughter of a man he brings in to a hospital..........................................................i most definitely recommend this movie to anybody, but don't be expecting it to be like anything else Scorsese has made "},{"Title":"Once the movie takes real pace, it becomes quite a good movie.","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" At first I had a hard time watching this movie. There wasn't a real clear plot line and the movie made a pointless impression. However halfway trough the movie, the movie began to take pace and the story and characters took more form and everything became clear. That, plus a few moments of brilliance, make Bringing Out the Dead a good and perhaps also underrated Martin Scorsese movie.Basically the movie doesn't have a main storyline. It follows paramedic Frank Pierce (Nicolas Cage) during his work in New York. At first the movie doesn't really seem to go anywhere and everything makes a rather pointless and perhaps even dull impression. But Bringing Out the Dead is in fact a wonderful character study. We more and more begin to understand Nicolas Cage his character and why he is burned out as the movie takes more and more form. There are some plot line elements in the movie but I in fact don't really like those elements. The movie would had been better if it had zero plot in it. The character Frank Pierce already says enough and becomes interesting and intriguing enough to carry the movie on its own.The movie has a good supporting cast and I especially will mention the crazy Tom Sizemore and an almost unrecognizable Ving Rhames (it at least took me a while to realize that it was him) as colleague paramedics of the Nicolas Cage character. Also Marc Anthony impresses as the homeless and 'crazy' Noel, who returns multiple times in the movie.The directing by Martin Scorsese is sublime and so is the cinematography and editing. The movie is professionally made and is a good looking one. The movie has a dark atmosphere which works well for the 'story' and feeling of the movie.Bringing Out the Dead is not a movie for just everyone, since it has some unusual elements and it isn't as simply constructed as other Hollywood movies, which make the movie a bit of an hard one to watch at times. It was an unusual and unique experience to watch this movie and it was something I wouldn't had wanted to miss. Give it a shot, you might very well end up liking it.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Powerful, haunting, and apparently misunderstood.","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I finally got the chance to rent this movie. I've spent a lot of time thinking about it after seeing it, and thought I would come to see what reactions some others had. The responses seem to be evenly split between loved it, very moving and hated it, no plot. I belong in the first group.BOTD is not an enjoyable movie. It's grim and relentless. Don't watch it for entertainment. Watch it for a look into a tortured soul, and a reminder that not everyone has to live in a third-world country live in a combat zone.Nicholas Cage gives an outstanding performance as an overworked, burnt-out guy on the edge of sanity. He's torn between sticking at his job in the hope of once again being a savior and the growing feeling that he is no longer able to save or help anyone. This razor divider is captured brilliantly in two recurrent themes -- his attempts to get fired because he wants out but can't bring himself to quit, and the long delays when the radio kicks in and he has to fight to bring himself to answer it one more time.Some of the other posters seem surprised that Nicholas Cage should give a great performance, but it's really not surprising. He's always been a great actor. True, he's often gone for the bucks in things like Con-Air, but while he's been given bad scripts I don't think he's ever delivered a bad performance. I've never been offered a multi-million dollar check for anything, but I bet it's pretty hard to turn down.It's a little disappointing to see so many people complaining about the lack of plot. Story-telling is not the only reason to make a film. Another one, and more central to film itself, is the opportunity to show us the world as others see it. In this respect BOTD succeeds completely. I had a friend who was an ambulance driver in the city. He was never wanted to talk about the job, because he plainly found it nearly impossible to describe what it was like to people outside the experience. After seeing BOTD I think I understand a little more what he was unable to say.Every performance in the movie rings true, and the script is excellent. The only misfire for me was that occasionally the sped-up cinematography was overused. The result was that there were a couple of points where I suddenly felt the connection to the characters snipped off by the imagery.On the whole this is a minor quibble in an otherwise outstanding film. 9 of 10 "},{"Title":"Dark,mendacious,disturbing,harrowing world of Scorsese's America.","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One can't say enough of this man.And finally having both Scorsese and Schrader collaborate again,you should expect a lot.Scorsese's America is always a dystopian,dead America.Where the streets are filled with urban decay.Where people are looking for light,redemption,looking for a way to get out.And no one knows America better than Scorsese.He knows every street of every city.He knows how to command the lights and cameras to make the roads look perfect.A paramedic is on the verge of killing himself.He's tired,worn out,half-dead,he's dying each and everyday,trying to stay alive.He's desperate to quit his job,and give up.He wants to go to sleep but can't.Something worse is yet to happen to him.For six months,he's been bringing in the dead.Not a single soul did he save,and he can't go on.He sees ghosts coming to haunt him.He sees all those dead he couldn't save coming after him,especially a girl whom he failed to save and she blames him.And we get deeper into his harrowing life as a paramedic in a dead city for the next three days.Three partners,three nights,all dead people coming in the hospital.He is sucked in by this job and this city.He would consider himself the luckiest man on the planet,if he could save just one person .Not even a baby lives through his hands.What's the worse can one ask for?Worse yet,he gets too close to a patients daughter who seems to have disconnected herself with life.All this and more sums up what a life a paramedic lives.There's never been a proper,focused film about the lives of paramedics.We never know how they feel when they have to get someone injured or near death to a hospital.We never see how they react psychologically and physically when they deliver the dead.What they go through.How disturbed they get.Well,this is one movie you need to watch to believe.One of my all time favorite actors and among the best,Nicholas Cage never lets you down.He's done many kinds of films and roles,and he's been perfect at all of them.His versatility as an actor needs to be admired and followed.And here,he only proves what a powerful actor he truly is.Tom Sizemore,Ving Rhames,John Goodman,Marc Anthony,and Arquette are all effective and memorable.Especially the psychotic idiot character Anthony plays and Rhames Jesus-loving driver.This film is filled with disturbing,dark content throughout.You really get this disgusting feeling when you see the city's decay.You feel horrified to see what these paramedics have to go through,and how they are affected by the situations psychologically.And it just doesn't get any more disturbing than this.This film has a close resemblance to the world of The Taxi Driver.Hell's Kitchen has never been this hellish.And you feel it through Scorsese's camera work,his command of lights and angles.You would never see a city in a way Scorsese would show you.His America is always the most different.It always feels the most different,and looks unique.He really shows his mastery in this film.It's a true piece of art,and he makes it very entertaining.He's got a unique vision.He manages to eliminate the scripts flaws and really proves that a master is always a master,an experienced director always knows the best.I would love to see more collaborations of Schrader's and his.He's really proved he's a true genius,and wonder why they didn't give him a nomination for his work.The cinematography is stunning.It explores the city and creates a weird,fascinating world of its own.It's got pitch-perfect editing.It's a remarkable piece of modern film-making from Scorsese,and Schrader's script is terrific.Although,the film drags and sometimes has no clue what it's doing.It sometimes goes clueless and just plays around.But you feel the effect of its dark subject.And of course,it features a grand soundtrack.A funny but really dark and striking black comedy.Filled with moments of wit and genius.An original piece of work.Definitely Scorsese's most under-appreciated.****/5 B+ "}{"Title":"An obscure masterpiece by Scorsese","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A comparison between Martin Scorsese's most recent two films - Bringing Out The Dead and Gangs Of New York - goes to illustrate the scope of the master director's genius. In direct contrast with the grandiose epic that is Gangs Of New York, Bringing Out The Dead is a dark, almost claustrophobic, intimate movie that takes place more within a man's soul than in the streets of New York.The soul belongs to Frank Pierce (Nicolas Cage), a paramedic who is haunted by the ghosts of people he could not save and feels the very things that make him real are slipping away from him. Following four years of mediocre to horrible action films (The Rock, Con Air, Face/Off, 8 MM, Gone In 60 Seconds, Snake Eyes), Bringing Out The Dead was Cage's most impressive performance since Leaving Las Vegas at least, and one of the finest performances of his career, and it reminded viewers that Cage is still one of the finest character actors in Hollywood, and always at his best when playing disturbed, off-beat characters. Frank Pierce is indeed disturbed, and the entire film is shown through his eyes, making it a difficult - often intolerable - dark, depressing, surreal experience. It focuses on character development much more than it does on the plot - but all of the characters are merely mirrors to reflect Pierce himself. Three co-workers - played by John Goodman, Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore, in this order, each one representing a different way of coping with their stressful and demanding line of work, shed their respective light on Cage's character, as do his relationships with the daughter of a comatose patient, played by Patricia Arquette, and with a mentally ill patient played by - surprisingly impressively - Marc Anthony.Bringing Out The Dead tells two stories - one is of the insanity and hopelessness of a busy, understaffed E.R - A much more bleak and disturbing view than that of the TV series with that title - and the other is of the private insanity and breakdown of Frank Pierce. Between the two, the viewer hardly has time to catch his breath. The film is brilliantly manipulative, combining editing, cinematography and music like only Scorsese can to create a truly hypnotic and staggering experience. It's not an easy movie to watch by a long shot, and I can understand perfectly well why so many reviewers didn't enjoy it. Still, give it a chance; it's a real work of art that's well worth your time. "},{"Title":"One of Scorsese's weakest films...","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was able to see the new Martin Scorsese film, Bringing out the Dead, at a screening on 19th street on August 3rd. (I've supplied this info so that you'll know this review is for real).Scorsese's new flick is a meandering, plotless film, completely unsure of itself from start to finish.  The story is centered around a troubled paramedic (Nic Cage) who's haunted by the ghosts of those he's lost on the job and is, it seems, on the verge of a complete nervous brokedown.That's the story.  At times, Dead is quite funny, using a dark-comedy-like strength to carry the picture.  But Scorsese's film implodes in its attempts to be compelling.  Partly due to Nicolas Cage's dull and lifeless performance, and partly because of Pat Arquette's underwritten and underacted one.  The breathe of fresh air in this fog-filled flick is Ving Rhames, who exudes energy.  When he's on screen, the hunger for greatness is gone, but when he's off screen, you're drooling for more.  Scorsese gets over-stylish, making his film seem more like a music video and less like the Martin Scorsese that has made some of the finest films of this century.  Grade  D+ "},{"Title":"A True Masterpiece.  One of  Scorcese's Most Underrated Films.","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's no Goodfellas. It's no Raging Bull. And it's no Taxi Driver. It's Bringing Out the Dead.This film is an INCREDIBLE visual piece. Just as Michael Mann is to the Nightlife in LA, Scorcese has New York nailed down pat. The film is an unbelievable take on the individual. Films about the individual is what Scorcese masters, and it's films like this that'll immortalize Scorcese forever. Fine, Nic Cage is no DeNiro nor Keital; however, that's what makes this film so great. I actually think Cage's performance in this film was BETTER than Leaving Las Vegas. This was Scorcese playing the role of the psychologist as he examines the psychosis of a man on the edge of life. I'll admit it that the story was thin; however, the underlying theme of loneliness and how two people come together (even though I still feel the ending was very similar to Wong's Fallen Angels) under the trance the legends Bobby Richardson's STUNNING camera work and Schoonmaker's beautiful cuts makes this film a complete stunner.I still feel that the Last Temptation was Scorcese's best work; however, I really feel this film deserves A lot more credit than what it gets. A definite must see for any film enthusiast, any filmmaker, any scorcese fan, and for anyone ho just wants to experience film-making at it's best, from today's best. "},{"Title":"Pronounced dead at the box office","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing Out The Dead is the worst film of the year that I have seen. I can't believe that the theatres allowed this film to be showed. I didn't see any type of plot or point to making the film.The only thing I enjoyed about this film was Ving Rhames. Rhames exploded on the screen with comedy that revived the audience for a short while; however, when he left so did my attention.I wasn't really sure what the film was about because the plot was so confusing. I thought it was pretty poorly put together. It seemed Cage and a partner that he was given at the beginning of each shift would collect people from the streets and bring them to a hospital and do it again when they were done. I did not see the point in a film that would have a plot like this. "},{"Title":"Lively, Polished Rawness, not a Masterpiece Though","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After getting established, directors run out of their own bank of ideas. They cast about for something new and interesting -- and/or they become craft for hire. The former has more integrity, So when a book with real gas appears, Hollywood jumps on it.The good here is that there is some strange atmosphere here to be mined, and Scorcese does well enough. The surprise here is that Cage fits the recipe he's usually too obvious an actor. But here his externality works to emphasize the character's rawness. Plus his partners are more internal in contrast.The bad. Scorcese should know better how to adapt for cinema. There's some nice work here, like the three quick flashes of the daughter in the waiting room. Like the shots of the ambulance going down the road. But it is grafted on to a written narrative, and all the really good images are from voiceovers.I have conflicting feelings about the common use of songs. It seems like a cheap shot if the visual values aren't strong. On the other hand, Van Morrison is used so effectively I'm truly impressed. "},{"Title":"Ambulance blues.","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Martin Scorcese's heroes have always been some of kind of ChristsTaxi driver is the most prominent example,but the boxer in raging bull is another one.It was downright embarrassing he totally missed the point when he made his last temptation Nicholas Cage is another modern Christ (check the poster),and the last picture leaves no doubt about it when he and Patricia Arquette look like a pieta.More a chronicle than a real story,this is a two-hour wandering through the deepest worlds of human despair.the hero experiments helplessness,culpability and remorse.His victims ,so to speak,come back to haunt him and he's gradually slipping into madness.It's hard to be a saint in the city .As always in Scorcese's movies ,the soundtrack is particularly good ,including REM's what' s the frequency Kenneth? and 10,000 Maniacs'these are days(from an album called our time in eden!).The cinematography is often dazzling when the ambulance goes thru the neons at night.Nevertheless,if you're feeling down-in-the-mouth,avoid. "},{"Title":"You couldn't imagine anyone else playing Frank but Cage.","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Now this isn't going to be everybody's cup of tea, but it's probably a fairly accurate representation of working as a paramedic in New York. Nicholas Cage plays Frank who seems to have a few mental problems like the vast majority of Cage's roles. Frank is haunted by the ghost of someone he couldn't save - Rose. The supporting cast are very good with Tom Sizemore outstanding as per usual. "},{"Title":"Another cinematic powerhouse from Scorsese.","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Prior to its release, Bringing Out the Dead was hyped as Taxi Driver Redux; but it received mostly lukewarm reviews and was a commercial failure. Tragically, few people may be able to appreciate this movie for the near-masterpiece it tries to be.  Critics complained that Cage, formerly regarded as an edgy actor, wasn't in top shape for the lead here, but at some moments his performance is unforgettable.  (The drug-induced meltdown is as intense as movies get.)  Credit should also go to Tom Sizemore, besting Goodman and Rhames as best supporting player.  And highest kudos are due to the cinematography team, whose splicing gives every scene a razor-sharp energy. "},{"Title":"an intense and captivating movie experience","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gloomy and atmospheric, this riveting urban drama focuses on a burned-out paramedic who's obsessed with his job and haunted by the memory of a lost patient. Looking for a way to redeem his past mistakes in the desperate hope that it will grant him solace, he frantically patrols the streets of Hell's Kitchen during the hectic graveyard shift for just one chance to save someone else's life. Slowly paced but consistently gripping, hypnotically detailed, and often graphically violent. Filled with pitch-perfect performances, and occasional jolts of humor. Unsettling at times, as it's intended to be, but well-made and worthy of praise. *** "},{"Title":"NYC Medic who worked the area of the film during the era.","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Joe Connelly's novel is visually representative of the underbelly of a gentrified New York in the late 80's and early 90's.Paramedics and EMT's working theWest Side and Hell's kitchen faced two health epidemics concurrently; Crack cocaine and AID's (pre-antivirals, when patients were often isolated, stigmatized and wasting away in single room occupancy hotels with ironic names like Malibu Suites and Hotel California. Joe draws from the rich texture of the first generation of medics in NYC that included many vietnam combat medics and hippie's - all true 'characters', with individualized coping mechanisms for the stress and burnout associated with the job. Convincing heroin O.D's that they were touched by Jesus after reversing their OD, suburban fire buffs who had near sexual experiences while watching tenements burn to the ground, trauma junkies who were not satisfied unless covered in blood and even the medic who takes his frustration out on the same patient who he must transport each time he drinks or abuses  drugs - are all true. Cage underplays Frank well but the real treat are the cast of hypomanic characters dancing around him. The 'Rose' sequences are fantastic.  while the Cage - Patricia Arquette scenes don't work as well.  Not for all, but if you dig ER, Trauma on TLC or other medical reality shows or interested in EMS then or now, enjoy.  "}{"Title":"*** 1/2 out of ****","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With Bringing Out the Dead, Martin Scorsese returns to the same territory as Taxi Driver, with Nicolas Cage starring as Frank Pierce, an ambulance driver burnt out from his job and in desperate need to save someone.  Like Taxi Driver, it takes place late night on the streets of New York, with a main character on the brink of insanity.  However, while there are surface similarities, the characters and themes are completely different.  Taxi Driver is about loneliness and the struggles of a man out of step with society.  Bringing Out the Dead is about guilt &#150; Frank is haunted by the `ghosts' of those he failed to save.  Scorsese and writer Paul Schrader carry over their wit and humor from Taxi Driver, only to a far greater extent, which gives the film a strange tone.  There are numerous spots that walk the line between harrowing and hilarious - laugh out loud jokes interspersed with violence and blood.  What is the result?  Somehow these two mix together well to capture the strange insanity of the life that Frank lives.  This odd mixture will be sure to put off viewers, and it doesn't seem quite right at parts, but on the whole it is quite effective.The only thing this movie lacks that Taxi Driver has is an unforgettable main character &#150; Frank is a fully developed character, portrayed brilliantly by Nicolas Cage, but he doesn't have that uniqueness that Travis Bickle had.  Everybody can see a little bit of Travis Bickle in themselves, but Frank's situation is so unique that at times it is difficult to relate to him.  In fact, at times, he is even overshadowed by some of his partners, who are hilariously insane and over the top, superbly portrayed by John Goodman, Ving Rhames, and Tom Sizemore.Perhaps the comparisons to Taxi Driver are unfair &#150; Bringing Out the Dead stands firmly on its own two feet.  It's not perfect, but it is an incredibly ambitious project, and Scorsese and Cage deserve kudos for even taking the chance of making this film.  When all is said and done, the merits far outweigh the flaws, and this goes down as a valuable addition to Scorsese's canon.  "},{"Title":"Hell's Kitchen","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hell's Kitchen`Any call can be murder, any stop can be suicide, any night can be the last . . . and you thought your job was hell.' - Paul Schrader.This film I reviewed called Bringing out the Dead (1999), was a hit. Bringing out the Dead was directed by Martin Scorsese and was written by Paul Schrader.  I thought they did a wonderful job in creating this movie and must of did a lot of checking into the real life of a Paramedic in New York. The lead role was Frank.  (Nicholas Cage) Frank is a Paramedic in Manhattan Hell's Kitchen division.  As Frank is working the night shift, he suffers from Critical Incident Stress also known as burnt out syndrome.  He lost his wife, his family, and at this point- - his mind.  Like many other Emergency Medical Service personnel, Frank has been consumed by his career.We follow Frank for three nights with three very differentpartners who each have different ways of dealing with the pain that comes along with what they see out on the streets.  Larry (John Goodman) hides behind food, Marcus (Ving Rhanes) uses his love for women and Jesus, and Tom (Tom Sizemore) is consumed by anger and sadistically beats up his patients.Frank becomes involved with Mary (Patricia Arquette).  Mary is a recovering drug addict who is tortured by her less than perfect life. Mary's father, one of Frank's patients, is fighting to die while everyone tries to keep him alive.  Meanwhile, Frank is relying on his nightly drink and his Vitamin B cocktail to keep up with his sleepless routine.  Frank is haunted by visions and voices of his lost victims thought out this film. The visions being of Rose, an eighteen-year-old asthmatic homeless girl that Frank couldn't incubate.  Also the voice of Mary's father begging Frank to help him die.While this film has all the Hollywood characteristics we would expect, the writer and director tried to portray accurately the hell that men and women of Emergency Medical profession see and feel daily.  Nicholas Cage was perfect for this role of Frank Pierce; his tone of voice and body language was very convincing.I think it was refreshing seeing a film about Paramedics in which they portray them as humans with emotions and feelings.  As opposed to the typical cardboard cut out of a hero.  Knowing people in this field, they do not view themselves as heroes, but only as people who have a job to do.  A job in which Emergency Medical Professionals sometimes live or die for. "},{"Title":"Looks Great","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I like that Scorsese uses good cinematographers for his films and they almost always benefit the material. In 'Kundun' he used Coen regular Roger Deakins and in the two movies that sandwiched it, 'Casino' and this, he used Robert Richardson, Oliver Stone's Main Man.Scorsese has said that he chose Nic Cage for this role in part because of his eyes. Cage's eyes have a soulful (or soulless, depending on your view) look to them and they suit the story well. He's long been an actor like no other. Since he often champions himself as a Method actor and because of his own OTT histrionics he gets the obvious comparisons to Brando, and his personal favourite, James Dean. But if you really *think* about it and try to compare, he's not really like anyone.It's a shame that he won his Oscar for 'Leaving Las Vegas.' Because he thought the only way he could avoid the post-Oscar slump (remember Jeremy Irons? Jessica Lange?) was to stay in the public's view with mind-numbing, embarrassing, 'mah-baby' movies his reputation as one of the recent great actors was tarnished.He's one of the few people I can see nowadays working in this film. His then-wife (maybe again-wife, I don't know) Patricia Arquette with her incredible blue eyes is only OK. But if you're like me and you can't get enough of these odd, goofily charming ladies like Arquette -- who can go from lovely to horrific in the blink of an eye -- having her is a vacant pleasure.Tom Sizemore, John Goodman, Ving Rhames, each playing a Cage sidekick on his hellish ride as a medic are all fine with Sizemore being especially memorable. The latin singer Marc Anthony is fun as a drugged-up in-need-of-water-but-can't-have-it hospital patient.If someone drops the ball here it's Scorsese. I despise it when people will jump to the easiest comparison between a director's works and here that comparison is to 'Taxi Driver.' Well, duh. But the only reason that they are any more similar than any other Scorsese movie is that they are both about *ahem* guys who drive around aimlessly in their own isolation.There are some wonderfully hypnotic scenes in the movie, and for me the most easily visualized is the one where Cage and Arquette are speaking at an apartment door.Call me a fool, but out of the Scorsese movies I've seen, 'Mean Streets,' 'GoodFellas' and to a lesser extent 'Casino' are the only ones I've ever enjoyed. 'Taxi Driver' was long and boring when I watched it, redeemed partially by that great sax score. 'Raging Bull' is unseen by me, so I won't comment. This one isn't so much a good movie as it is a well-crafted one.A part of me wants to resist the allure of attaching a star rating to the movie -- it just seems to concrete. But after all, when you ask a friend whether or not to see a movie you want to know whether or not to see a movie. So for this, my first official 'review' at imdb I give the film2 1/2 out of 4 "},{"Title":"one major drawback","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been, as advertised, Taxi Driver II, that is, a masterpiece of Mean Streets with a reverse, transcendent ending--except for one fatal flaw the casting of Patricia Arquette in the crucial role of Mary.  The fact that she was Mrs. N. Cage at the time leads to the obvious speculation that there was a package deal involved, and her performance detracts from the film tremendously.  Ms. Arquette is a very limited actor and her lines are delivered clumsily and without conviction.  The same limitations apply to Tom Sizemore's talent as well, however his over-the-top delivery and mugging seem to fit in with the insanity of the narrative, whereas Mary's character is supposed to be the bedrock, the spiritual center, even if (or because) she is a damaged soul--which, again, Arquette fails to convince.  Otherwise, the film has much substance, both thematically and stylistically, and is recommended as a character study in stress and madness, and a meditation on death itself.  A great soundtrack too... "},{"Title":"How can we sing king alpha's song in a strange land?","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is about being haunted; personally and emotionally plagued by the residue of what has passed. For those of who have been haunted before, this movie speaks volumes, and itself is haunting. For those who haven't ever appreciated what it is to be haunted, this movie will probably be lost on them. How do we get past the grief, guilt, and dissonance of honest intentions that lead to disaster? What do we have to go through and what do we put ourselves through unnecessarily? Frank's suffering in the film is the struggle to even work his way up to these questions. His pain is manic, the pain of the seeker, not depressed like the pain of those who have surrendered. It is the moving, searching, pain that makes the movie so haunting because it is our existential model - to deal with our troubled lives as we continue to live them. I find the film the complete opposite of depressing. Instead it offers great encouragement. As a piece of film, it is almost reproachless. It baffles me that the musical content could be questioned. The lyrics of the songs chosen, as well as their musical atmosphere, are in wonderful accord with the movie. TB Sheets is the recurring claustrophobic theme of the film. You can't put your arms around a memory highlight's the draining consequence of Frank's fixation. The slavery-themed reggae (including Rivers of Babylon playing enticingly in the background) of Cy's Oasis is obviously connected to a message of what leads one to drug abuse and keeps one there. And most beautifully, we're left with a sparse lush instrumental that fades us NOT TO BLACK BUT LIGHT. It is a beautiful, wonderful film that serves as an affirmation of so many things. "},{"Title":"Snow Falling To The Sky","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have never really known what to think of Nick Cage as an actor, but the guy can be pretty cool at times, and it is not like he sucks. In fact, I think he probably fluctuates more than any other actor I know of. It is my belief that in Bringing Out The Dead, however, it is not so much Nick Cage's acting that is the draw but seeing something that we haven't seen before on film (I'm sorry but the old sitcom Emergency just does not cut it). Bringing Out The Dead has a real pulse, and I think it is largely due to the cinematography, photography, camera manipulation, and let us not forget, a pretty wacky story that despite some lapses, is still very believable, not to mention straight up cool!  Is Martin Scorcese the reason that it the movie is a hit for me?  Probably so (though I cannot claim to be a big fan of his).  It would have been a 9 if it were not for a few slow moments; therefore, I believe an 8.7 is in order for a job well done, and a movie that is certainly not a waste of viewing time.  It might just make you laugh (or even creep you out a bit).  I just hope I would not have to call on these guys to get me to the E.R....Alive!!!!!  "},{"Title":"My nights will be lonely and dark","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is about a paramedic played by Nicolas Cage who travels around with great pain. This isn't the kind of movie that will make you any happier. Instead of hearing music, the only thing Nicolas Cage hears on the radio is human misery.The beauty of this movie lies not on the outside but within the small things. When he and his partner (John Goodman) arrive at a patient, he asks the family to put on some familiar music. He says to the family that that sometimes helps to bring them back. Some people already will stop believing this movie within this small scene and will give it up. Because for them this is just ridiculous.  Why would anyone come back by playing some music?  But it isn't about the patient. It is about the family. With the music, the people will start to think about the happier times and the good things they had together.Some people will not believe these things. Some people say that it is depressing that paramedics can be like Frank, the character played by Nicolas Cage. Why not?   Instead they should get some more information of this film because the movie is based on a novel by Joe Connelly, himself once a New York paramedic.It isn't always easy to not get involved with the misery you see everyday. These people are only human. Thank god for that! And this paramedic is very good at his job, he does it day after day, but he realizes that there never will come an ending at this. It doesn't matter what day it is, what year. Every day somebody dies, somebody lives. Nicolas Cage is terrific as the paramedic. It was his best performance since Leaving Las Vegas. Also his co-drivers like Ving Rhames and John Goodman were great. Martin Scorcese does a great job directing this movie.In a little time soon, we will be together. And not so long after that, we'll not leave forever. But until I reach that point, my nights will be lonely and dark  "},{"Title":"The Psycho Movie of Psycho movies","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am the perfect target audience for weird movies. And when I seen that Martin Scorcese & Nick Cage teamed up for a movie about burned-out paramedics...I had flashbacks of taxi driver. This one doesn't quite live up to that but it is great... It was disappointing that John Goodman didn't get more of a role...It has been evident that he (along with Ed O'Neil)have been breaking their typecasted roles and narrowing on more serious ones. If you are in to Tom Seizmore though this movie is definitely up your alley. He plays the perfect maniac clobbering an ambulance with a ball bat. Overall Bringing out the dead is a rather lengthy day-in-the-life-of flick. But if you're like me and need your occasional fix of cinematic wackos being turned loose in society...I recommend none better "},{"Title":"A solid laugh for those seeking dark comedies","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps it isn't even a comedy, but if perceived in the correct manner, Bringing Out the Dead is hilarious and brilliantly written/directed. The characters' quirky traits, along with the illusion of madness and internal conflict, make this film a crackup. If you liked Very Bad Things, you will surely enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!!!! I relate to Cage's character.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you like Taxi Driver, then this movie is something you shouldn't miss. It stars Nicolas Cage, in his best performance to date, i thought he was better in this movie then in Leaving Las Vegas. It's funny because if you read my review on Taxi Driver I explained the way i related to Travis Bickle in the fact that i sometimes get fed up with all the trash on the street and Newyork City can be a depressing environment sometimes. Now in Bringing out the dead, I relate to this Character played by Cage even more. I am a Newyork City Emergency Medical Technition and it can be very stressful. I beleive it is one of the most rewarding jobs, as Frank explains in the movie, when you save a life, it is as if God is you for that moment I find that to be true, but when you can't save a life, guilt takes over. I loved the acting in this movie. Scorsese brings the best out of his actors. Ving Rhames is hysterical and amazing. Tom Sizemore also is great as a nutjob who craves blood and violence. Patricia Arquette is always good at playing dark gloomy characters, and Nicolas Cage by far steals the show. I found some scenes hard to watch, it's as if i was watching a video tape of myself on a daily shift through manhattan, but I must say, it was all entertainment. I rate it a 9 out of 10. 4 stars **** "}{"Title":"Not real likeable, but well done","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was another one of those movies I'll rent when my wife is out  of town and I want to see something she'd never get into. I can't say this is anywhere near one of my favorites, but it was well done. This dark, grimy story of a medic going through his personal wringer because he can't save anyone and is haunted by visions and ghosts is a bit of a chore. Yet, because the direction is strong and creative, the actors perform with considerable depth and there is occasional hope and redemption, it's still one I would recommend -- with a little caution at least. You feel at the end that you've gotten some insight and some quality, even if the experience doesn't otherwise feel particularly good. "},{"Title":"A reasonable combination of eerie shocker & medical drama.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was, for sure, a new style of direction for veteran- Hollywood Gangster movie- master, Martin Scorsese. It steps totally away from even a single beam of light from the violent, crime dramas that Scorsese has made himself famous with. Nic Cage is nicely cast as the unhealthy, bored and tired medic, sickened and irritated by the jokey and cheeky behaviour of other medics such as Ving Rhames. Let alone haunted by the ghosts of the people he's been unable to save. After removed from working with an uninterested slob of a medic, played very typecast by John Goodman, he is moved to work with Rhames. But when Cage is onscreen with menacing and brutal natured medic, Tom Sizemore, that's when the real sparks fly. Sizemore is arguably the most outgoing actor in the film and provides a great sense of lust for brutality, while showing untimely dark, sincere humour. The direction was very stylised, as the city flashes past the ambulance window yet the medic's lives crawl in slow motion inside the ambulance. The only downside, it seemed about 20-30 mins too long, surprisingly. And it seemed to end in a strange, unfinished place. Still, a better movie than most people make out.   "},{"Title":"a harrowing ride","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am not generally a fan of gritty, depressing films, but something about this caught my attention. Granted, I am a huge Nicolas Cage fan, and will watch him in a lot of things I'd otherwise not sit through. I fully expected this to be one of those films, but I found myself drawn into his world, and mechanisms for dealing with it (as well as those of the other diverse characters). It seems sort of a slow-moving film, despite the veneer of being some sort of action movie. Maybe this is true of Scorsese's work as a whole...I haven't seen enough to judge, but in this case it seemed to enable me to just go along for the harrowing ride that made up his life.I'd consider this definitely some of Nic Cage's best work of late, and look forward to seeing it again...I have a feeling this is one of those films that you get more out of on subsequent viewings, and would encourage anyone who hated it first time around to give it another chance. "},{"Title":"A good trip","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Dark and sick - I enjoyed it very much. I believe that many people might leave it/turn it of feeling disgusted, basically people who don't understand what it is about, because they do not share the experiences and feelings it is about. But if you ever have worked in an overoccupied hospital or something of the like or have experienced moments in your life when it seemed to be some kind of ghost train that could best be survived by laughing at it, you might enjoy it too. Also if you are fond of very black humor taking place in real life situations. Don't let me be mistaken when I'm talking about black humor. Of course it is not mainly a comedy. But I laughed heartily at several places when nobody else in the theater did. Cage is GREAT. There are several big scenes, most of which have probably already been mentioned in former comments, and many ideas in the script you certainly haven't seen in other movies before. I recommend watching it on a big screen for the driving scenes and also drugged - not that I wanted too advice you to do something which is illegal in your country you could for example drink more and more beer while the movie runs, the better to identify with the hero. "},{"Title":"Not better than the book but still an amazing film","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most amazing films i ever seen in my life.Altough is not better than the book (but which film is?. Great Cast , Cage is one of my favorite actors and he is unbeliveble in this film, for those who don't agree with just look at his eyes the whole film.But Don't read anymore reviews. Just Watch it. "},{"Title":"A movie that keeps you thinking even after it's over...","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  1st watched 7/18/2000 - 6 out of 10 (Dir-Martin Scorsese) A movie that keeps you thinking even after it's over.Although erratic in where it is going, this is okay because the movie is played out like real life rather than a plot in a typical movie. Character portrayal rather than thriller.  "},{"Title":"A Disturbing Film About a Disturbing Field of Work","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Honestly, 'Gene Hoke' already wrote everything that I thought or felt about 'Bringing Out the Dead'. Tremendously difficult to watch, this movie's two hours feel like 20. I kept wondering if it was ever going to end and I wanted to get away from it. Not because it was bad, but because it was exhausting, irritating, disorienting and depressing. In other words, it perfectly demonstrated Frank's every day existence. Small wonder he turns to drinking too much and bashing windows with baseball bats. He is sedated by his over-exposure to the horror that people enact on themselves and each other, and it is driving him insane. His one joy- saving lives- seems to be slipping from him as well. I'd actually like to know the percentage of paramedics who abuse some substance- I bet it'd be through the roof. I personally know quite a few paramedics, and although this film is extreme in some of its depictions, its disturbing qualities truly reflect Frank's profession. Paramedics truly are haunted by those they can't save, they come home with blood and the smell of burned flesh on their clothes and don't notice, they are crazy-nervous and incredibly jaded. Why anybody would choose this job I don't know. But I think they are both very brave and quite foolhardy- a description that also serves this film well.    "},{"Title":"hill street blues for ambulance drivers","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This flick is a little like Fort Apache The Bronx meets Apocolypse Now.  It is almost TOO gritty and too intense to be realistic.  However, it is so well done and so original that it's very worthwhile.  Especially enjoyable as black comic relief are Nicolas Cage's unbalanced partners Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore.  Film deals with heavy subjects like euthanasia, suicide, and drug addiction.  Not for children.      "},{"Title":"An analysis","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I read the story of Bringing out the dead I thought this was a mystery thriller. When I saw the first 15 minutes I thought Paul Schrader wrote another big city ballad of the same kind he did it with Light Sleeper before. At last, nobody really seemed to have realized what a cynical comedy Martin Scorsese did with this the film tells the story of three days in the life of an ambulance man called Frank (Nicolas Cage has given a great performance once more), whose daily surroundings consist of illnesses, drugs, junkies, prostitutes, gang wars, suicides and maniacs. It seems to be a sign of destiny that all his patients die under his hands. After a while his attitude turns from desperation into cynicism, because death becomes something normal, something trivial. Finally there is also the question if death isn´t the salvation from a painful life the people have to live in this kicked district of New York..? When stops life being worth living? could be the basic topic of the story. It´s a very unusual film from the man who created masterpieces like Taxi Driver or Raging Bull, it´s a film that you wouldn´t expect from Martin Scorsese Bringing out the dead contains a lot of dark humor and it´s laid under with loud and speedy rock´n roll music; the movie is filmed in a rapid cut and has very often the style of a video clip, what is an excellent possibility to show the inner and outer chaos Frank is living in. For some of Scorsese´s fans this movie is very hard to like and it is really not for everyone. Those who can accept this fact awaits a great film! (9/10)  "},{"Title":"Beautiful observations of excelling in lifestyle","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A one-dimensional rating scale is not enough to measure some movies; people who are into pure action might want to stay away from as beautiful masterpieces as Eyes Wide Shut, people who are after drama might not necessarily want to see the violence in The Green Mile and those who want a love story will probably not want to sit through the dullness and apparent apathy of Bringing Out the Dead. For those of us who enjoy a change of format every now and then, though, Bringing Out the Dead is as beautiful a love story as Fight Club is a mystery one. I've seen this film twice now; the first time was in a theater in France, where the one notable thing was the translation of the F word to Mon dieu de la bordel de merde which is pretty funny in itself. The second time was yesterday on video. The major difference was this last time I was able to relate to what is really happening to Cage's character throughout the film because of me recently going through a similar phase in my life One of the themes of this film is how to deal with - and different ways to deal with - a very stressful profession which gives the story a lot of its pace with brilliant performances by the cast (and Marc Anthony and Ving Rhames adding a lot of flavor and humor to the film). What struck me, though - and the film's tagline should really have been different as far as I'm concerned; You have to keep the body going until the brain and heart recover enough to go on their own - is the beautiful evolution we see Cage's character go through through the film. Starting out as an apathetic - almost robotic - body just going on driven by the fear of slowing down and facing his ghosts and life without drugs, things happen throughout the film to finally allow his brain and heart to recover and for him to really start living and feeling.Anybody who has been through a phase of their life where nothing can really touch them - a depression, drug abuse or just an unfortunate choice of workplace - should really be able to appreciate this film, and the - in relation to where the films or most depressions or drug abuses start out - amazingly brilliant and happy ending. I might be just projecting stuff here, and I know there are several other themes in this film, but this sense is what made this film really touch me and I will watch it several times more. "}{"Title":"The Taxi Driver comparison is inevitable, but the film doesn't even hold a candle to it","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The biggest problem of Martin Scorsese's Bringing Out The Dead is not that the story parallels on many of the same theme's as his brilliant Taxi Driver (one of the best films ever made), but it is that the story is nowhere near as absorbing or compelling as Taxi Driver.  Scorsese does an admirable job with a rather weak story here, throwing in some incredibly chilling and unconventional filmmaking sequences and topping it off with a patented Scorsese killer soundtrack (featuring two songs from the first Clash album in their glorious entirety!!!), but in the end, this film comes up short of making any impact on the viewer.I don't think Nicolas Cage's acting in this film is the problem, as many others have cited, its just his character is so weakly developed in the script that you cannot feel for him in even close to the same way you feel for a Travis Bickle or a JR (Harvey Keitel's character in Who's That Knocking On My Door? and the brilliant Mean Streets).  You can sense his loneliness and his desperation, but his character is still as thin as a wet paper bag.  The other characters in this film are also unremarkably thin and bland.  It's a shame all this great filmmaking work, style and execution had to go to waste on a story that wouldn't have made a great film no matter who made it.  I give it a 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Scorsese hasn't lost his touch.","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing Out The Dead is a fiery passionate film, which displays Martin Scorsese at his best. It can be compared to Scorsese's classic, Taxi Driver. The film show three days in the life of Frank Pierce( Nicholas Cage), a burned out paramedic. He is constantly haunted by ghosts of those he couldn't save, and, like in Taxi Driver, the violence of the streets of New York. But whereas in Taxi Driver, violence inspires Robert DeNiro to kill, in this film it inspires Nic Cage to save lives again. This is all brought to screen, thought masterful filmmaking (Scorsese at his best).  "},{"Title":"Certainly one film worth watching","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw this film, I thought to myself what a terrible movie. However, I gave it a second look because of the talent that was attached to it.When I saw it the second time, I found it to be much better because it really showed the life of a paramedic at its worst. I enjoyed how Martin Scorsese told the story of what paramedics go through on a daily basis. Nicolas Cage, John Goodman, Patricia Arquette, Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore come together to make Bringing Out The Dead.Cage is one phenomenal actor who brings a lot to this film including character depth. With every scene he is in, Goodman is adds presence to the film; you just know he is there. Arquette is an actress that can be counted upon to deliver a moving performance with every role she takes. Rhames and Sizemore are perfect as the supporting cast for this film.Bringing Out The Dead is not for the light at heart. It is also one of the underrated films of 1999.Thumbs Up. "},{"Title":"Tactile and moving, a dramatic landscape","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing Out the Dead is a portrayal of one man's end-of-the-line experience as a paramedic in New York City, and another fine peice of work from director Scorsese.  Nicholas Cage has resuited himself in his Leaving Las Vegas tortured soul garments, and virtually storms through this film with both a sense of paralyzing melancholy and phrenetically head-spinning franticism.  The plot itself is fairly nonformula, but elements of the film are a bit derived, eg., the excessive use of hallucination/flashback to constantly remind the viewer of Cage's character's pain/agony/regret, etc. The outstanding performance in the film comes from Ving Rhames, an ambulance driving holyman with just a dash of worldliness thrown in.  Tom Sizemore, more and more the ubiquitous character actor, is often at his best when playing obnoxious, dangerous, machismo types...and he plays that role here with bravado.The direction is top-notch, of course.  Scorsese lends to each of his films some sense of intimacy with the lead characters that few others can.  In Bringing Out the Dead, in particular, he brings us deeply inside Cage's character's near-insanity and hopelessness by barraging us with senses of claustrophobia, agoraphobia (the ultimate hell of which is the surrounding megalopolis), intimate crime (ala, a sense of caring lent to a dying drug dealer), and paranoia.Overall, this was a satisfying viewing experience.  While it would be ill-advised to compare this work to something like Goodfellas, BOTD is a well-rounded work with only a few Hollywood cliches.  And, these days, the latter comment is becoming an increasingly necessary compliment. "},{"Title":"Life in the Ambulance lane","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are some jobs where the attraction is not obvious. The work is stressful, not well paid, and the beneficiaries of the labor not always appreciative. High amongst such jobs must be the New York paramedics who attend all manner of medical emergencies. Many of the calls are caused by drugs or violence and many of the patients are repeat customers.Martin Scorsese knows the mean streets well, as he demonstrated many years ago in Mean Streets and Taxi Driver. Here he has adapted a semi-autobiographical novel by an ex- N Y paramedic to produce a portrait of a man living on the edge in a job that brings him to the brink of despair, yet which also has its positive side. Saving a life says Frank Pierce the fictional paramedic is like falling in love, the best drug there is. As the movie opens however, it is quite some time since Frank saved a life and the job is running him ragged. His co-workers are pretty bizarre, hardly surprising given the pressure they are under, and the hospital he brings his patients to is a chaotic zoo. He is starting to see the ghosts of people he was unable to save. He attends a heart attack victim and becomes involved with the man's daughter. Every day is a struggle to stay sane in a mostly mad city.Frank is played by Nicholas Cage, who catches his character's edginess precisely. We understand at the end what drives Frank; he really does get a buzz out of helping people but he is slow to realise the price he is paying. Self sacrifice is fine and dandy, but there comes a time when there is nothing left to give. In the end the buzz is not enough.Cage is supported by several other fine performances including Patricia Arquette as the heart attack victim's daughter who is a bit of an edge dweller herself, and John Goodman, Vinn Rhames and Tom Sizemore as three other semi-demented paramedics. There is also an amazing range of street people, hospital staff and patients, all colorfully rendered. Frank never sees them as freaks, and as a result, neither do we. Almost all the action is at night (Frank seems to do the midnight to dawn shift) and it is in the dead of night that the weirdest things happen.The DVD version is worth seeing for an interview with the original author, who is surprisingly young and un-burned out looking, and one with Scorsese, who gives a lucid account of what he was trying to do in the film.  "},{"Title":"Not compelling - a waste of time","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have found the positive reviews posted here very interesting since I have had such a negative experience with this movie.Non-traditional narratives are usually something I enjoy, but I felt this movie was very ineffective in conveying its story arc.  The characters seemed flat and uninteresting, and I simply didn't believe the romance that was being portrayed. The attempts to convey distress, fear, dispair, and emptiness just fell flat for me.  The plot the movie was trying to convey seemed hackneyed and not very compelling, and the resolution was unsatisfying.Visually, it was beautiful, but the storytelling seemed very weak. I was surprised that they were able to make what would seem to be inherently compelling story material into something so bland.  I was very glad to finally see the credits roll! "},{"Title":"A1 - ignore at your peril","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just a few short words - mainly provoked by the ignorance of previous posts. Reading the other customer reviews after watching this film, I was shocked to see it described as plotless, inaccessible, and generally as a sort of forbidding, impenetrable arthouse flick (I've nothing against forbidding, impenetrable arthous flicks, by the way) Well it isn't. There is a plot, the fact that it isn't rammed in your face constantly shouldn't put you off. This film is accessible, moving and at times very very funny (the scene in the nightclub, Cage's attempts to get fired) I genuinely don't believe some of the negative reviews this has got. "},{"Title":"wonderful..","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion this is one of the most brilliant and smart movies signed by Scorsese and Schrader.. it goes all around the character of Cage, that is finally become a good actor, and it wonderfully works as an experimental movie, full of ralenti, accelerations, living lights, and even a scene filmed backward! This is a real masterpiece!I give 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Scorsese scores again","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorsese is in my opinion the best director working today and one of the greats of all-time. Bringing Out The Dead joins the list of brilliant pictures he has made which includes Raging Bull, Goodfellas, Casino and The Color of Money.It tells the story of a hellish weekend in the life of a NYC paramedic (Nicolas Cage). He is troubled by visions of a young girl who he was unable to save. Cage is brilliant, as usual. Ving Rhames, John Goodman and Tom Sizemore are very good as the rowdy paramedics Cage rides with. The lovely Patricia Arquette (Cage's real-life wife) is good as the daughter of a patient Cage brings to the hospital. I don't think I'd ever seen her in anything before.Scorsese continues his tradition of making engrossing films with strange and interesting characters with a great choice of music. He is a great New York storyteller, with Spike Lee and Woody Allen right alongside him. This is a very good film. It's not Scorsese's best and maybe not even in his top 10, but well worth watching. Even one of Scorsese's lesser films would be better than alot of other director's best.    "},{"Title":"haunting drama that works","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"   Half of everybody I know who has seen Bringing out the Dead doesn't like it. I compare it to Taxi Driver and After Hours. Nicolas Cage plays a strung out ambulance driver who desperately needs to save someone. His job has taken a toll on his mind and health. After receiving a call to help a junkie's dying father, Cage gets involved in her life. Most of the action comes from Frank interacting with with the hospital doctors and nurses and dealing with deranged patients. The film had great acting aside from Patricia Arquette. She is extremely beautiful it just so happens she hasnt had a great role since True Romance. John Goodman, Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore brilliantly play Cage's co-workers. This film portrayed the streets like it should, tough, gritty and mean. One of the best scenes of the film is when Ving Rhames gets a group of neo-goth weirdos to hold hands and pray to God to awaken their overdosed pal. Haunting and in some ways touching.***1/2 **** "}{"Title":"A Great Mess","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not one of Scorsese's best, but worth a look. The thing you have to keep in mind is that the film is supposed to be how Frank (Nicolas Cage) sees the world, not neccessarily how it is. Great photography & editing. Cage gives a suprizingly effective performance. If this can can act this well he really ought to be ashamed of himself for becoming Jerry Bruckheimers whore. "},{"Title":"As a whole, not so good. Picked apart, definitely some good stuff.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I started watching this movie with my non movie buff boyfriend (note one of his favorite movies is BLOODSPORT).  He was nodding off about a half hour into the movie, and though I'm a huge John Goodman (The Big Lebowski) and Nick Cage (Leaving Las Vegas) fan, I didn't find myself too awfully into the film either.  I really hate renting movies and not watching them though, so after the boyfriend was in bed, dreaming of another Die Hard sequel, I'm sure, I went ahead and started the movie again.  I'm not sure what I thought of it.  I know that I couldn't stop watching it, I wanted to know how it'd turn out and what was going to happen.  But, after it was over, I said aloud, 'now that SUCKED!', and felt kind of guilty for saying so, it sort of felt like one of those movies that you think you're supossed to like, but you don't.  I'm not going to see it again, and I don't think I'd recommend it to friends, but I do think it'll stay with me, some of the scenes were wonderful.  Also, if I pick apart the movie, I can find some great scenes. I really didn't enjoy that Rose business.  I don't want to ruin the whole Rose business for anyone who hasn't seen the movie, but I just don't see why he was so haunted by her.  The casting was superb, though, the characters were great.  I loved Tom Sizemore's crazy Tom Wells character and really enjoyed Ving Rhames performance (I forget what his name was in the movie). His character was a wonderful contridiction, with religious rants coming out one side of his mouth, and lewd jokes out the other.  I loved that he wasn't playing a badass, also.  Maybe it's my tiny little crush on Cage, but it irked me to see him so strung out looking, I kept wanting him to soak in a tub for a few hours, but he played his character well.  I wish John Goodman's character could have been a little more quirky or crazy, he plays such a wonderful psycho.  My favorite characters in the movie by far though was the comedy relief characters, Cage's boss, who refused to fire Cage, but kept promising to do it another time, and the security guard at the hospital.  I don't think I'd want to make him take his sunglasses off.  I thought Mark Antony's portrayal of Noel was probably the most disturbing performance, I'd like to see him again. And, though I'm a fan, I'd say Patricia Arquette's performance was the least believeable or enjoyable. Wonderfully cast, fun to pick apart, but all together, it left me wondering if maybe I should've gone ahead and settled down with a book instead of a movie. "},{"Title":"Good, but dated.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Frank Pierce is an ambulance attendant and for three days we see his life, what he endures, what he needs, and what we already find out soon into the movie this guy needs a hug. Can we say TAXI DRIVER all over again? Twenty five years ago, this would be an excellent sequel of sorts to TAXI DRIVER, but it's not and for a movie that's set in the early nineties, it does not feel like it at all. Best line of the movie is the police officer who threatens, Don't make me take off my sunglasses! Although the parts with the old man in the coma were somewhat weird, Noel was a good character and he helped show Frank how to cut loose at times. A good movie for a movie buff, or someone who has a lot of free time, but would anyone else want to feel depressed watching stuff like this? "},{"Title":"Movie B  DVD B","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing Out the Dead	B/B+			5.13.00		2.351/5.1 	First Viewing		169 EnhancedCage and Scorsese should have been a home run, but instead is merely an infield single.  The movie looks and sounds fantastic, but the story is not strong enough.  They chose to push everything slightly over the top (the radio conversations, each of Pierce's partners, etc.) when the story might have been better off played straight.  "},{"Title":"Not so good","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorsese is one of the greatest directors of all time. Even if every film he makes the rest of his life completely sucks, he'll still be the best living American director. Unfortunately, Bringing Out the Dead isn't one of his better efforts. The film follows the life of a burned out paramedic over a couple days and his struggles in coping with the lives of victims he couldn't save, one in particular named Rose.  He sees the 18 year old girl's face everywhere.Everywhere.This thing was overdone to the point of being annoying. Being the layman I would never try to tell or even suggest to Martin Scorsese how to direct a film, but I think, in my opinion, this would have been one of those things where the phrase less is more might have fit.There are some good scenes in the film, but overall, it wasn't one of Scorsese's better jobs of directing. Some of the shots took away from the scene, in fact, watching this film made me think it was directed by some up-and-coming Scorsese wannabe, not by the master himself.It's really well cast, as is every Scorsese film, but being that Cage and Patricia Arquette were actually married at the time, it's amazing how little screen chemistry they had together at all. The script wasn't very good and I hate to give a Scorsese film a bad mark, but this film just wasn't that good (have you caught on that I love Scorsese?).If you want to see a film by Scorsese that works on every level, watch Raging Bull. "},{"Title":"Half and Half","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't quite know how to review this movie.  During the first half, I was sort of sitting there in a rather disconnected, blissful state, watching as these interesting scenes and dialogue played out on the screen.  This was not a movie that drew me in, but rather one that absorbed me into myself.  I felt disconnected from the story, but there was a strange sense of bliss in the experience, the sounds, the lights, the action, the music, the characters, the whole experience of this world created on the screen.Right about midpoint in the movie, it started to drag.  I started to feel the length of it.  It felt too long; I had apparently seen enough.  The second half was more just an exercise in waiting to see what happened next or wanting to see how all this turned out.  It was rather boring.This was not Scorsese's best picture, by a long shot.  I don't agree with Ebert's 4-star rating.  None of the actors were working at the peak of their talents.  Perhaps if it had been an hour shorter... -- I was generous in giving this picture 7/10. "},{"Title":"Another Scorcese gem","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although not a masterpiece as many of his films are, there is a lot to like about this very good film from Martin Scorcese. Harsh, gritty, but also very entertaining and quite funny, Bringing Out The Dead combines a decent plot with some very nice performances from a good cast, as well as some very nice cinematography. Tracing the descent into exhaustion induced madness of an overworked paramedic (Cage), the plot isn't great, but has enough twists and decent sub plots to keep you interested. Although headlined by Cage, the supporting cast steal the show. Both Tom Sizemore and Ving Rhames overshadow Cage, with Rhames' performance as an evangelistic EMT making the movie for me, not to fault the neurotic Sizemore, but Rhames steals the show. Neither Cage nor Patricia Arquette shine in their respective performances, but thankfully neither need to. NZ movie fans should also keep a look out for an (undersized) cameo from an up and coming Kiwi actor. The other major highlight for me was the cinematography, and musical techniques. Scorcese uses some very effective visual tricks, as well as some creative editing, and although used extensively the musical side is very good, and adds a lot to the general feel. The only fault in the film was that it drags a little, it seems much longer than its 2 hour length. But this is far from a major flaw, and my overriding feeling is one of satisfaction at a job well done by both cast and crew. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Two great elements in a decent movie.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think that two of the best things about this movie are the fantastic cinematography and visual style. The movie is full of frenetic, unnerving and perfectly over-done camera movements. The movie characterizes Frank's confused and over-worked psyche through these camera pans and blips of fast motion. I believe that if I were as strung out as he is, this would be my world.The other enjoyable part of this movie would have to be Tom Sizemore. He always seems to have a screw loose in his movies, and apparently does in real-life as well. He manages to portray anger, malice and brutality without the hatred that usually accompany those things. This contradiction is much of what makes his character so intriguing. He's the kind of person you would never want to meet. He'd probably bash in your tail-lights just for a good laugh.The plot of the movie itself seems loose, drifting away from any of it motifs before it explores it fully. This is a positive and negative on the movie. If someone asked me what this movie was about, I'd be hard-pressed to tell them. Despair, maybe? Hope? I feel as if I experienced Frank's delirium, but not his other emotions. "},{"Title":"Bringing out what?","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Man, oh man. The other day I was flipping through my movie stubs and I fell upon this one. The truth is, I don't remember one frame from this film. Not only was it rather forgetful and pretty out there (even for Scorsese), it just seemed like a waste of everyone's time.Take a look You got Cage, Arquette, Rhames, Sizemore and Goodman. These are great actors. I mean, their really just pitch perfect. Then you got the screenwriter Paul Shrader. This guy is amazing. He just writes so beautifully. And then, you got Martin Scorsese, who is the king of gritty filmaking. So I ask, what the hell happened???How did these great actors get together with this great writer and this great director and only come up with this film? It wasn't alright, it was terrible. The film just goes on and on and you always feel...well, you don't what your feeling. The film doesn't have a real plot, it just kind of meanders all over the place. My film teacher just keeps on telling me about the main character having a dramatic need. What the heck was this guy's dramatic need? Wear a frown for two hours?This movie could have been revolutionary, instead, it was a waste of time...Sorry to be so blunt. "},{"Title":"Sheer madness","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cage plays a paramedic on the edge.  His life working in New York is filled with trying to save the lives of druggies, gun shot victims, crazies, and street whinos.  He is tormented by the fact that he hasn't saved anyone's life in over a month and still laments over the death of a young girl that he couldn't save. Scorcese rocks man.  He captures the essence of the New York madness and what these guys do for a living.  Man it is nuts.  Cage is so out of it, a guy who barely sleeps that he can't even get out.  His boss keeps telling him Look I'll try to fire you tommorrow, I am trying, but the city needs you tonight.A total enjoyable thrill ride, where comparisons to Taxi Driver abound, but somehow you don't mind.Rating 8 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"A psychological roller coaster ride!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A most unusual movie, I can't think of a single character who wasn't on or, moreso, over the edge. Intelligent ideas lurk beneath the insanity and that, along with an impressive cast list (particularly notable are Nicolas Cage, John Goodman, Patricia Arquette and Ving Rhames) and a lot of very funny dark humour, succeeds in making this a really good movie, worthwhile seeing. Definitely a thumbs up for Scorsese. "},{"Title":"Scorsese and Cage combine for a stunning cinematic experience!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorsese has outdone himself in what must surely go down as one of the most visually and emotionally vibrant films of recent years. Despite being ignored by both the cinema-going public and the Academy (not even a cinematography nomination) this film will be viewed retrospectively as one of the finest of its time. Cage conveys both his character's depth and emotional state wonderfully in a performance which is every bit as intense as his in Leaving Las Vegas, leaving the viewer with an unforgettable impression of his character's mental state.Scorsese and Schrader once again combine to create a cinematic experience which is both rich and challenging, whilst at the same time avoiding the predictable conventions of commercial Hollywood cinema.Without doubt, in a few years this film will be recognized as a modern classic. "},{"Title":"Cage powers in Scorcese Masterpiece","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nicholas Cage proves that he is about the art of acting and making worthwhile movies. He went through that bout of making knock-about action movies, but in Scorcese's dynamic tale of 48 hours of soul-searching Cage shows his talent. Mixed in with great performances from the rest of the cast Cage holds his hand up for a possible oscar nomination in the role of a haunted paramedic. Scorcese's movie is a difficult concept and very un-nerving. Particularly Tom Sizemores role. The ludicrousy of his act is made to fit perfectly into scale of the onslaught which is witnessed. Scorcese's camera is once again roving with weird angles and peculiar editing techniques. This is his style and emphasises once again that he is the only modern day director to dare push boundaries. Whether they work or not its breath-taking to watch.  Memorable. "},{"Title":"Grim but absorbing.","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although the film is dark and grim and everyone in it seems to be crazy, it was very absorbing. Nicholas Cage plays a much deeper role than he has of late, one in which his pained expression comes in very useful indeed.I went to see this film as a last choice but really quiet enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Great topic, but just a very good film","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the first hour of Bringing Out the Dead, I was amazed. Here was a film, which was able to show the feelings of a frustrated paramedic. Well, most paramedics I know are somehow frustrated. There is just one reason for doing this job Saving lives, helping people, all this gives you a great feeling. But what happens, when all those people die? Everyone who has worked as a paramedic or in a hospital, will deeply identify with Frank, the man portrayed by Nick Cage.The movie plays like a counterpart to Scorsese's Taxi Driver, which was also written by Paul Schrader. It is set in New York, but plays in the early 90th instead of the 70th. Therefore the visual style of Bringing Out the Dead seems like an mixture of the nightly, but also strong colors known of Taxi Driver and the cutting and camera-movements of our MTV-times.It seems like a comment, when Scorsese and Schrader drive their characters to pick up people, who could have been victims of Travis Bickle.Unfortunately Bringing Out the Dead changes it's point of view after this first, outstanding hour. Scorsese seems to zoom away from the emotions of Frank and shows a newborn saint. Frank mutates to a Jesus Christ doing his holy job in the hell called Manhattan. While it first felt, like we were watching with the eyes of Cage, we are now seeing a real world of surrealism. I think that did no good to the whole picture. It is very well directed and  is convincingly acted. I feel sorry, for what had been, if the film had not changed its tone, but it still is a must-see, not only for Scorsese-Fans. "},{"Title":"Another powerful journey from Martin Scorsese.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" With Bringing out the Dead Martin Scorsese makes a welcome return to the dark streets of New York City. The film deals, in a typically Scorsesian way, with the hellish life of an ambulance driver who is haunted by images of people he failed to save. Like other archetypal Scorsese heroes in the past, his innate sense of guilt causes severe internal suffering which can only cease after a series of redeeming acts at the end of a bumpy journey. Only this time the source of the hero's guilt is a direct product of his working environment and it is rather specifically designated to the people, and one in particular, that he didn't manage to save.Scorsese masterfully recreates the driver's microcosm with unflinching accuracy. The everyday pain which makes most paramedics and doctors to become insensitive to the limit of cynicism, the grim reality of the NYC slums and the human despair come dynamically into surface through Scorsese's direction. The supporting characters contribute greatly to the whole structure and Nicholas Cage's performance is excellent. All these elements together with a wisely chosen style that doesn't shun some funny moments from surfacing, help the film to overcome some contrivance of the screenplay which makes the expected redemption scene rather dramatically inert and somehow unconvincing. However, I hardly know any other recent movies that are so intelligently concerned with existential issues and that so consistently avoid any convenient resort to cynicism, a crowd pleasing device that has been widely used recently. A must see. "},{"Title":"Not Scorsese's best, but still a good film","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Bringing Out the Dead on the day of its british release and it lived up to my expectations. I think the people who are criticising the lack of the plot seem to miss the crucial pointa conventional, straightforward (like one reader said) plot wouldn't have been appropriate for the themes Scorsese and Schrader are talking about here. The film deals with the psychological impact the ambulance work has on Nic Cages character and this simply requires a rather abstract, delirious way of storytelling. The characters are all convincingly portrayed as in general Scorseses description of NY is highly absorbing. The well- chosen soundtrack, Richardsons photography and Thelma Schoonmakers' editing are -as always in Scorsese's pictures - brilliant. Nicolas Cage and Patricia Arquette give solid perfomances though one reader was totally right in saying that, given that both are a real-life couple, there is indeed not very much chemistry between them (but maybe that's because it's supposed to be; due to the distance between their two cha- racters). The supporting actors were brilliant John Goodman is always reliable, but Ving Rhames was simply SUPERB. His appearance is in combination with the portrayal of the city the highlight of the film.And yet, though Scorsese is on his terrain with the religious theme of salvation and christian motives -the Holy Mary symbol in front of the hospital, the drug dealer in a positon comparable to Christ on the crucifix -, it lacks the drive and the energy of his seventies and eighties' films Taxi Driver, Mean Streets and Raging Bull.But in the end the film has so much style and quality that I consider Bringing Out the Dead (besides Tim Burtons Sleepy Hollow) as one of the first good films in the new year. "},{"Title":"Makes E.R look like a Kindergarten","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't really know what to expect with BOTD but the intensity of the opening sequence grabbed me and didn't let go until the end. At it's peak had an almost Apocalypse Now / Catch 22 feel to it with the madness of Cage's character's situation really  penetrating your mind.The way that the film treated death was a scarily realistic one that also carried a truly spiritual edge to it (Scorcese's experience with Kundun must have helped him out here as it does seem to have a Buddhistic attitude.)The cast were magnificent with Rhames coming out on top. The camera work and Schoonmaker's outstanding editing resulted in some incredible and awe inspiring imagery. I don't ever recall seeing such a beautifully shot close-up of a person's face.This film is draining but it pays back in spades what you as the viewer invests.See it and be amazed by one of the only truly great filmakers of our time. "},{"Title":"Good Enough...","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For a two hour movie, this went incredibly quickly, and I didn't even notice my butt going numb on the hard cinema seat. Some very atmospheric shots lead to a kind of 'trippy' feeling, but this only added to Nicolas Cage's masterful performance as the overworked ambulanceman. "},{"Title":"Not the 'Chief d'Oevre' I expected,but..","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok,listen up,with these people involved you expect no less than an excellent film,right? Well then,you'll be disappointed. This doesn't mean 'BUTD' is a bad movie,oh novisually it's quite stunning,the actors give a first-rate performance (Tom Sizemore,above all),it's just that...I don't know. I probably expected the greatest thing since sliced bread and all I got was a good movie. IT's probably my fault! 7  "}{"Title":"Very atmospheric, very exhausting","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very good Scorsese picture that has been unfairly compared to Taxi Driver. The lead character in this one, brilliantly played by Nicolas Cage, is essentially a good man, an ambulance driver fully aware and afraid of his impending mental collapse. The film is exhausting, but a triumphant atmospheric achievement, immersing us in neon light, bumpy movements, jump cuts, dissolves, slow-motion, fast-motion and subjective camera to bring us into the head of a man who has not slept in weeks, and exists on an unhealthy concoction on coffee, whisky and Marlboros. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric, disturbing, funny, the superlatives can't come quickly enough!","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Being a huge Cage fan I have been disappointed by his recent pictures, whilst none of them have been 'bad' per se, they have been not up to his usual standards.Partnering such a versatile actor with such a determined director like Scorcese hitting the subject matter that Scorcese does the best, social breakdown in New York equals a masterpiece.All through the film you are bombarded with rich visuals and each character has a real depth of their own.  The film follows Cage as a New York paramedic over 72 hours of his life and battles with his own fears and insecurities.The thing that makes this film stand out is the depth that each character has, even the smallest parts are presented in such a way that you are able to build up a complete mental character about them, especially the hospital staff, the security guard and triage nurse in particular.There are parts which should be harrowing but are incredibly funny, as you are definitely seeing life as a medic from a medics point of view and as such you sink into their very black sense of humour.All in all the film is beautifully scripted and directed by the only person who could have made this film possible.Watch out for the cameos by Scorcese himself and Queen Latifah as the radio dispatchers, they are worth the price of admission alone.One to watch at the Oscars...  "},{"Title":"Nicolas Cage tops off a great cast","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Once again, Nicolas Cage just blows me away.  His best since Leaving Las Vegas.  Almost all of the rest of the cast is great too.  Ving Rhames, Tom Sizemore, the scolding intake nurse, the 'oasis' drug dealer.  The sound track is fantastic.The only thing that didn't work for me was Patricia Arquette's performance. I think she should have played the ghost Rose, and the young actress playing Rose should have played Cage's love interest.The scenes with just Cage or Cage and his partners or Cage and his patients are great.  But Cage and Arquette left me cold.Still I would highly recommend this film for everything else in it. "},{"Title":"More of an acid trip than a movie","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A downright odd experience to see.  Full of rapid fire images, blaring rock songs and characters who are universally INSANE.  This movie had to be set in the New York of the early 90's not the Disneyfied version of today.  The characters are an assortment of mad city workers and its victims for, as the characters say This city will kill you if you're not strong enough. No.  The city doesn't discriminate.The film has a few flaws.  The chief among them is the overuse of voice over, a problem Cage seems to face in all his films.  The real problem with the voice overs is they are not needed.  They explain too much that might be better left to the imagination of the viewer...sadly this is not something the American filmgoer is generally credited with.  Overall one of the best films I've seen in 1999.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Scorcese film","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was another great movie from director Martin Scorcese. I liked the effects, such as weird camera angles, and speeding up the action, and the ghost scene. I also liked the other characters (Goodman, Rhames, Sizemore), who were all a bit loony and didn't really help Cage's characters emotional problems. Bringing Out The Dead is a bit like Taxi Driver (Same director) except the taxi is replaced by an ambulance. I suppose a good title would be Ambulance Driver maybe....This was an awesome movie, GO SEE IT! "},{"Title":"Good, not great by Scorsese's standards","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If anything, Scorsese' overlooked '99 offering demonstrates that while the legendary filmmaker hasn't lost his touch like so many directors of his generation, his new work can no longer be as relevant as it was in the previous decades currently he is trying to adapt to new cinematic trends while retaining his landmark style, which is never a good indication of continuous influence. The Big Apple is once again the setting, this time through the eyes of Cage, the ambulance driver hanging onto his last wits. The film begs for comparsion with Scorsese's twenty-five year old masterpiece starring De Niro as another New Yorker on the brink of insanity, and deservedly so. But as soon as the two pictures are juxtaposed, one will find that they have very little in common. Taxi Driver was set to a slowly escalating creschendo, ending in a massive explosion of nerves, unraveling amid a hauntingly realistic sqalour of 8th avenue and the neighbouring harbors of vice. The so-called update moves along at a feverish pace without major changes or startling developments, and looks as if it was adapted from a graphic novel or a comic book the city and the people that we are exposed to are overexaggerated and simplified in their depravity. For a director of smaller calliber, the end result could have been lauded as a great achievement, but for Scorcese, while certainly not weak, it simply cannot reach the artistic heights of years past. On the positive side, the theme of the supernatural (Cage apparently sees ghosts of victims he could not save) is addressed better than in The Sixth Sense, and the soundtrack is as expected, fitting and exciting. Unlike Copolla, Lucas, and especially Spielberg, this New Hollywood School survivor still has something to say without having to consult with audiences or execs first. "},{"Title":"GREAT SUPPORTING CAST!!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A very dark look at the life a of paramedic going through a tough time. This was a average movie, and I loved Ving Rhames performance as the paramedic always wanting to have fun and a very religious man. The rest of the supporting cast does great especially Marc Anthony playing a crazy guy, but the leads are not as good. Directing was well done by Scorsese.The story is 48 hours in the life of a burnt-out paramedic. Once called Father Frank for his efforts to rescue lives, Frank sees the ghosts of those he failed to save around every turn. He has tried everything he can to get fired, calling in sick, delaying taking calls where he might have to face one more victim he couldn't help, yet cannot quit the job on his own. A typical scorsese film, very dark, and well worth the watch.  "},{"Title":"Masterful Acting, Editing, Cinematography & Directing. but weak storyline","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  From an artistac stand point this film was great, but the plot was weak, but that really didn't ruin the film. With terrific supporting peformances by Ving Rhames, Tom Sizemore and especially John Goodman, Bringing Out the Dead is one of the only good films that has come out in 1999. "},{"Title":"NYC EMS So close to being GREAT","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think Martin Scorsese has a lot of potential in dark comedy. Rent AFTER HOURS, one of my favorites and one of his greatests, and you'll see just what I mean. When the exciting trailers of this film popped up in movie theaters, I was expecting a twisted black comedy that only Marty's visuals could deliver. When I went to see this, that's ALMOST what I got.The problem with this movie, which is set on a few nights in early 90s NYC, is that it wants to be serious along with that evil, foaming grin underneath. Nic Cage plays paramedic so deadpan, you'd wish someone would pump him full of adrenaline! But, like the stonefaced DeNiro, it is only to show the almost innocent protagonist in the center of urban mayhem. Besides, he hardly has much to be happy about, since he hasn't saved too many lives lately, and it turns out to be right in sync with Patricia Arquette's quiet-riot acting.Scorsese knows how to give us the news. He focuses on Cage's tired, steel blue eyes as it is drowned by red light from the ambulance. He also has an equally good ear for music. The great, great, great blues riff T.B. Sheets by Van Morrison opens up our odyssey in the graveyard shift of EMS. The squealing harmonica goes perfect with Cage's despair, as he just wants to get a vacation and some sleep, instead of having another life in his hands that will only die in his care.When the film opens, he is joined by John Goodman (who is always good, but plays it light here) as they head to save a heart-attack victim from the directions of dispatcher Martin Scorsese himself. When I first saw them head for the rescue, I wondered why they were moving so sluggish and calmly up the stairs. Then I got the idea. It's late, they do this almost every half hour, and all they look forward to is the drink afterwards (especially depressive Cage). This is where Cage meets Arquette, and after saving her father from dying (through the almighty voice of Sinatra on vinyl) they rush him to a full-as-it-is hospital.With every call to duty, there comes something new and exciting to watch, and this is where the film grows on you, in time, as it moves on, instead of hitting you from finish to end. I kind of liked that, and I have a feeling that the second time I see this, I'll like it even more.The supporting cast is truly great, especially Ving Rhames as Cage's very religious partner, Marc Anthony as a whacko who is dying of thirst and wants to die himself from time to time, Afemo Don't make me take off my sunglasses! Omilami as Griss (a great character), the very funny, tounge-in-cheek Captain Barney played by Arthur J. Nascarella, and the smooth respectable drug dealer Cy played by Cliff Curtis. Tom Sizemore has played too many psychopaths, but this is one of his best characters. As for Cage, he gradually got into the rhythm of the film, but I felt Scorsese's constantly moving picture was trying to make the film look exciting over Cage's stiffness.All and all, I do think this is a good movie. I did want another AFTER HOURS (I still do as a matter of fact), but the direction Paul Schrader's story went was quite the opposite of disappointing. There are some great shots, especially one with Cage in a parked ambulance with Goodman. He looks at his partner with envy as he takes a cat nap, and his face fills half the screen while the other half contains blurred street lights of blue and yellow. It's beautiful. And the sequence where Cage takes a pill to relax at Cy's oasis and goes into a trip, is one of the best in the movie! "},{"Title":"A film about mental and physical survival","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very powerful and well-executed film about surviving but not just in the physical sense.  It's also about surviving the incredible psychological stress of being in a job with death, chaos, and madness.  The characters are well crafted (though I found some characters a little borderline 2-dimensional but the focus isn't on them anyway) and likable and the writing is intelligent and thought provoking.  To those who said it had no point I think you may have been confused because there were several.  It thinks about the guilt we put on ourselves that we shouldn't but most importantly surviving (on many levels coping, living, keeping same).  There is triumph and tragedy, joy and heartbreak and while this isn't the most uplifting film of the year it's powerful and full of hope.  Wonderful moments.  Plus you get to see Nick Cage give a couple of very creepy smiles. "}{"Title":"Greatness is Close at Hand","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is no doubt in my mind that Martin Scorsese is the single greatest filmmaker to come out the Movie Brat Generation.  His films are far superior to most and he has a consistent quality lacking in most directors. In this film he is in great form and continues to be the guiding light of American cinema.  This new film finds him reteamed with Paul Schrader, this the best writer/director team in modern movies.  The film has a very Catholic outlook and is a seemingly endless display of the Christian beliefs.  Nicolas Cage is very good, his best performance since Leaving Las Vegas.  The belongs to Scorsese though no one could take this away from him. The film is  a modern day Taxi Driver.  It lacks that films brilliance though.  Bring Out the Dead is the best film I have seen all year.  It is far superior on an intellectual level than American Beauty the only other real rival so far.            "},{"Title":"A glimpse into the psyche of a NYC paramedic.","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Even a not-so-great Scorcese film ranks up there as a very good film.  Such is the case with Bringing Out the Dead, his film about a paramedic, working the night shift in some of New York City's grimiest neighborhoods, who can't seem to shake the ghosts that haunt him.Nicolas Cage plays Frank Pierce, a man on the verge of a nervous breakdown, hoping to get fired from his job because he, himself does not have the strength to just leave.  Pierce is particularly troubled by the memory of a young girl who died in his arms after a drug overdose months earlier.  He sees her in the faces of everyone he drives by, echoing those words Why did you kill me Frank?The story is a snapshot of three nights of his life.  We follow him and his partners on various calls, treating, saving and carting various members of the community to an emergency room that seems to double as an asylum.  The first call is to an older man whose family is beside themselves as they stand over his bedside.  He meets the daughter, Mary Burke, (Patricia Arquette) the only one capable of holding things together.  Throughout the rest of the story, and between other calls, Frank meets up with her, as she waits for news on her dying father.  We learn that Mary has her own ghosts and that she is slowly falling apart.Frank's partners are all insensitive to the horrors of their job.  John Goodman's Larry goes with the flow, waiting impatiently for the end of his shift.  Ving Rhames' Marcus talks of his job like a soldier would old war stories, and his main concern is that surly radio dispatcher who he would love to date one more time.  And finally, Tom Sizemore's Tom throws himself into his job with a maniacal zeal, eager to jump head first into the horrific jungle that he serves.  Bringing Out the Dead seems to lack the disturbing undertone so prevalent in Scorcese classics such as Taxi Driver and Raging Bull, but that is not to say that this is not a good movie.  The story moves along nicely.  Even though Scorcese' sword seems to be dulled in this venture, his sharp direction still manages to cut through.  Cage is perfect as a man over the edge.  He has been to this territory before in films like Leaving Las Vegas and Wild at Heart, playing a character that knows he's disturbed only because he can't get a handle on the crazy events that surround him.  Arquette does not prove herself to be a great actress in this effort, but she puts forth a slightly above average performance, because she is complimented by her real life beau, Nic Cage.  A scene with the two of them in the back of the ambulance, holding on as the van bumps up and down, a great soundtrack in the background, is some of the finest acting I have seen this year.  They say nothing, yet so much is conveyed.All in all, Bringing Out the Dead is worth seeing.  Scorcese fans will get their fix of this directors work, this time as he comments on the tragedies of the American medical system.  Others might find this appealing in the way one would when slowing down to get a better look at a car accident on the highway.  As always, Scorcese treats New York City as a hellish snake pit.  Even the most impressive elements of this fine city are blackened by the gritty lense of Scorcese's camera.  "},{"Title":"An okay film that should have been better","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I will give credit to Martin Scorsese. I thought the cast was incredible and the cinematography was amazing. Although I don't work in the EMT/Paramedic field, the film seemed pretty realistic as to what the life is like of a burned out paramedic. To the man who didn't like the film because it portrays all Paramedics as burned out washed out alcoholics, this movie did not do that. It simply portrayed one or two out of the many that were in desperate need of a career change. There were a few things in the movie I didn't like.1/Plot hole-I thought Nicholas Cage's character actually quit the second time around. Next thing you know he's back at work the next day like nothing happened. Did he take his job back and just not let the viewing audience know???  2/ Noel's character was overall very disrupting,annoying,and overemphasized. I was hoping that somebody would kill him after the first half hour into the movie. I realize the makers tried to portray that on certain shifts, paramedics see the same people over and over again they can't stand, but this was played out too much. 3/The whole scenes where Nicholas Cage's and Patricia Arquette's characters wind up at that drug house, just didn't seem to fit in. I would have liked to have seen some romance between the 2 characters built up more. All in all...I give this 6/10. "},{"Title":"A great cast without a cohesive script or point.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this film a week after it premiered to find out if anyone liked enough to recommend it.  Unfortunately, I couldn't anybody.  The trailers were enticing even though I am not a huge fan of Nicholas Cage. To my no surprise the film has a feel of Taxi Driver sans Martin Scorcese  is the director of both films.  It's a well photographed film with a great sound track and a competent cast.  No script...no story...no point! "},{"Title":"I got a good nap in.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  It was boring and there was no real plotline or anything.  It was like A Day In The Life Of A Crazy Paramedic or something.  It was pointless and dull. If it weren't for the nice little nap I had in the comfy chairs the $6.50 I paid would have gone COMPLETELY to waste...DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"A great cast without a cohesive script or point.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this film a week after it premiered to find out if anyone liked enough to recommend it.  Unfortunately, I couldn't anybody.  The trailers were enticing even though I am not a huge fan of Nicholas Cage. To my no surprise the film has a feel of Taxi Driver sans Martin Scorcese  is the director of both films.  It's a well photographed film with a great sound track and a competent cast.  No script...no story...no point! "},{"Title":"See it for the filming and for Nicolas Cage's performance","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kudos to Scorsese -I loved the way this movie was filmed, but the story had no climax.  You kept waiting for it and then the credits rolled.  I normaly hate Nicolas Cage, but he did a surprisingly good job in his 'tormented paramedic' role. I have never seen SO many people walk out of a movie and I saw Trekkies in the theatre- that was a mistake (if you saw it you'd know what I'm talking about). Maybe I should have read the book. "},{"Title":"Wait for video","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, to be honest I found the picture quite boring and it never really seemed to go anywhere.  I found it difficult to care for the characters.  I couldn't find the plot no matter how hard I tried, although there were several sub-plots that I also found difficult to get into.  Overall, I wouldn't waste the $7.25  Better off waiting for video or maybe even a cable release "},{"Title":"Great fantasy, shame about the reality","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An ambitious and unusual film like Bringing Out the Dead invites admiration and sympathetic consideration. Martin Scorsese takes us where we do not want to go - the meanest streets of New York and the pain and desperation inside the central character's soul, so well portrayed by Nicholas Cage. He makes imaginative use of filmmaking techniques in so many ways the series of girls on the sidewalk, ALL of whom have the same haunting face, the scene where cage pulls up dead characters from the streets. Some shots shown the beauty of the night time New York skyline, when the sordid details of drug dealers and addicts, hookers, drunks, killers, the dying and the losers are all invisible.It is a film which also invites you to think about it and this is where the difficulties arise. The more you think about it, the more the imbecilities apparent in mindless drivel like Double Jeopardy are also obvious in this more complex and serious work. The fact that the fantastical elements are rooted in a very gory and gritty reality means you cannot ignore the inconsistencies as you might in a stream-of-consciousness fantasy such as The Matrix, which did not even bother making up any rules as it went along. Both Double Jeopardy and Dead depict a very violent vehicle crash, which MUST have killed or at least badly injured the occupants. Yet, in both films the occupants are able to scramble out of the upturned wrecks and run away, just as Tom and Jerry can spring back to life seconds after being squashed by a garden roller. Of course, no inconvenient policemen show up to check the drunken paramedics' breath  or charge them with leaving the scene of a crash. In both films, the crashes are irrelevant to the main thread of the story and could easily have been omitted to reduce both the budget and the idiocy count.Similarly, the paramedics' manager has no hesitation about assigning an obviously unfit driver to shift after shift and does not ask embarrassing questions about the wreck. Nor does he force Cage to see a counsellor, or sack or suspend him. Is the New York ambulance service this deep in trouble?  Maybe Scorsese is trying to portray an appalling unending nightmare where you cannot even escape by being sacked, just as even the terminally ill patient cannot escape to the peace of death, but is continually dragged back by zealous doctors to suffer further agony. All I felt after a while was that the story was not going anywhere and the tiresome absurdities undermined any interest I had in exploring the characters' spiritual misery. "},{"Title":"The work of a master.","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With the recent death of Kubrick, Scorsese is now one of the last living masters of film.  He can say more with camera angle and lighting than most directors can say at all.  Bringing Out the Dead again justifies his title of master by bringing the viewer along on a long slow ride into hell and back.  Scorsese is, as has become customary, blessed with a cast of amazing talent including John Goodman, Ving Rhames, Tom Sizemore, and the first on-screen pairing of husband/wife pair Nicholas Cage and Patricia Arquette.  Scorsese pulls no punches in the tale of a NYC paramedic in a slump, unable to save a single life.  The story seemingly deals with a million different sub-plots, including euthanasia, drug use, and the stress induced by the save them at any cost mentality of the Hippocratic Oath.  Nick Cage tenders an Oscar-worthy performance in his roll of Frank Pierce, and Patricia Arquette is likewise amazing.  The only complaint I can muster is that in certain places the movie seems to drag uncomfortably.  Even this drag, however, is obviously Scorsese's intention, allowing the viewer to identify that much more with his subject-matter.   "}{"Title":"We Are All Dying, Mary Burke","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nicolas Cage is the tormented paramedic Frank Pierce who can't save a soul in the Martin Scorsese/Paul Schrader movie, Bringing Out the Dead (as oppose to bringing BACK the dead).  It is, unfortunately, not one of Scorsese's better movies.  We see Frank's angst to such excess (he says at one point that he is a grief-mopper rather than a paramedic) that it blocks out anything else in the film.  There were glimpses of promising material here - the conflict between deciding when a brain dead man should die,    the extraordinary tensions paramedics face and the interesting interactions Frank has with three of his sidekicks  an all too brief encounter with Larry      (curiously underplayed by John Goodman); and match-ups with Major Tom and Marcus (with both Tom Sizemore and Ving Rhames hamming it up), and a circumscribed romance between Frank and Mary Burke (played with touching melancholy by Patricia Arquette).  All laid aside in favor of portraying a man on the verge of a mental breakdown because he cannot run away from his maddening job nor his self-imposed guilt over the death of a teenage girl (which the filmmakers rammed down our throats by repeatedly showing the figure Rose).   Stylistically, Bringing Out the Dead has Scorsese's trademark scenes of urban squalor in streets that are not just mean but also unhealthy.  There are the prostitutes who don't even bother to look like hookers any more, the black hospital security guard who imposes his will by threatening to pull down his sunglasses, the imaginary hands of street victims reaching out from the sewers and gutters as Frank raises them from the dead, and the impaled drug dealing on a railing pointing to the New York skyline as the blow torch's embers turn into fireworks.  But we also get the same stereotype scenes of overworked emergency room personnel and overcrowded conditions that render everyone impersonal and inhumane; save, of course, Frank.  But poor Frank cannot be put to rest any quicker than Mr. Burke and when we do finally reach a conclusion, we have to wonder why it took so long.  Bringing Out The Dead started out as one note but one note does not make a movie.     "},{"Title":"Bringing Out the Haggard!","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Man oh man, Nic Cage is haggard in this film.  If there were an Oscar for being haggard, he would be hands-down winner.  Has he slept in three years?  By comparison, he's Rip Van Winkle in 8mm.  Nic you're a gifted actor and an Academy Award winner--grab a nap.Oh, and given that Patricia Arquette is his wife is real life, they have absolutely no chemistry in this movie.    "},{"Title":"Movie was Dead On Arrival","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Date viewed 10/30/99. Review I was pumped to see the latest effort from Martin Scorsese. I like Nicholas Cage, Ving Rhames and several other of the supporting players. Unfortunately, this collection of talent managed to produce an incredibly dull, unmoving film. Cage is an ambulance jockey who keeps seeing the face of a girl he 'lost' on a call months earlier and he questions if he still 'has it,' after losing his passion for the job. I was as drawn to his character and the others as you just were in reading my last sentence. There is nothing remarkably interesting that happens in this film, and I could come up with no reason to care for anyone or anything in the movie. There was some nice, gimicky photography, but you wouldn't expect less from Scorsese. Rhames did a decent job playing Samuel L. Jackson playing a Tarantino character, but perhaps was a little on the annoying side. I would say this was a dark comedy except there was very little that was funny in it. To recap, this movie was not dramatic or funny, and didn't make me care for the characters. If someone offended me by offering to take me to this film, I would reply with perhaps the only truly funny line from Bringing Out the Dead -- Don't MAKE me take my sunglasses off. - AJH "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After what Scorsese has shown so far, I went into the movie with very expectations. And I must say I was disappointed. There are great moments, and some of the shooting was truly tremendous - but most parts seem to be weak copies/remakes of Taxi Driver. It's not a bad movie, it just depends what you hope to get out of it. "},{"Title":"A mixed result from a filmmaker still clearly very talented. But his vision of New York is pure fantasy.","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A mixed result from a filmmaker still clearly very talented. But his vision of New York is pure fantasy. To quote Anthony Lane from The New Yorker'This film takes place in New York City,' we are told; but it doesn't. It takes place in the New York of Scorsese's chivvying, red-hot imagination; just as Woody Allen keeps unveiling a city more blithe and harmonious than any we recognize, so Scorsese has dug in his heels and clung to the scabby, arousing plague-pit of Taxi Driver. That work was rooted in the known; this one blooms out of a perverse nostalgia, out of a refusal to admit that most people now walk the avenues in undramatic fear.and later'Someday a real rain will come down and wash all this scum off the streets,' said Travis Bickle to himself a quarter century ago. Not even as distinguished a fantasist as Martin Scorsese could have foreseen that the role of the rain would be played by Rudy Giuliani. "},{"Title":"Short and to the point","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know what movie everyone else was watching, but I saw one of the biggest disappointments of the year with this film. Nicholas Cage and the rest of the cast were good, but this movie missed its mark, big time. I was hoping Tom Sizemore would have taken that baseball bat to all of the low lives they had to pick up!!! "},{"Title":"Not as good as expected","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In a summer/fall full of so many great movies, this one was a disappointment.  The previews hinted that the movie was going to be a dark comedy, kind of like Fight Club (a GREAT movie).  I wasn't prepared for it to be so grim and depressing.  It had some awesome shots, and a few funny scenes. It also had the potential of a great supporting cast, but they came and went so quickly that I felt no real attachment to them.  The only character that was developed well was Cages - you could feel his pain. There were some really poignant scenes, but many got lost as the movie dragged on... the movie felt like it was 2 hours long.  "},{"Title":"May all be part of a master plan","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've rewatched a few Scorsese films lately, and without exception I think I enjoyed them more than I did first time round. I don't think I've always appreciated him enough. I've enjoyed the technique of course; enjoyed the energy and the impact and the tumbling intellect; I enjoyed You talking to me? and I heard some things and all that iconic stuff. But I think I was actually too young to appreciate the underlying complexity of the texts - Scorsese's extraordinary powers of analysis and organization. The ones I liked most - King Of Comedy, and The Color Of Money (which I haven't seen for a while but feel would still hold up as his most underrated work) - were in a way more accessibly sculptured, befitting their more austere thematic preoccupations and the mental landscapes of their protagonists.Although Bringing Out The Dead is being regarded as a sort of contemporary revisit of Taxi Driver (the same writer, Paul Schrader; another troubled protagonist who works the night shift among the low life of New York City), it seems to echo The Color Of Money at least as much. In that film, Paul Newman was a former pool prodigy, far removed from his youthful vivacity, reduced to a smug wintry complacency. It was one of Scorsese's most sombre films, as precise yet in a way as abstract and self-contained as pool itself (near the start, Newman describes the essence of excellence at pool as becoming someone...a student of human moves, but later realizes how such calculation stifles his art, such as it is). Some viewed Color Of Money as somewhat self-effacing (if not a hack studio job). Bringing Out The Dead has as haunted an air about it, but with a much more volatile - that is to say, typically Scorsese-esque edge.The paramedic profession, as seen here, exists in an agonizing limbo - a frenzied witness to extreme pain and suffering, but lacking the relative power over life and death granted to the full-blown medics. A witness to too much horror, Cage (in his most wide-eyed, unnerving manner; a dream sequence relatively late on, where he imagines the dead emerging from the earth, reinforces the sense that he's almost vampirish in his gauntness) has become tortured by the notion of spirits leaving the body and not wanting to be put back; he now measures the city in ghosts per square foot. The film is crammed with religious and spiritual images and themes - from the somewhat ethereal lighting scheme, to the evangelical exuberance of one of his partners (Rhames), to an alleged virgin birth in one scene, to a near-crucifixion in another. At other times, the film often carries the sense of a world turned on its head, stripped of reason Cage begs the chief to fire him, but the other won't comply, so Cage wearily keeps turning up for work; one disturbed patient will only climb into the ambulance as long as Cage assures him he'll be killed on reaching the hospital.These devices seem far from subtle when I list them like that, and the film exhibits a rather narrow scope in its preoccupations and incidents. It keeps looping back to the same locations and characters; not just Arquette and her dying father, but to other patients encountered on successive nights. Compared to some other films, it has relatively little interest in evoking New York itself, confining itself to the narrow, sometimes almost disembodied territory of Cage's experience. But it doesn't seem overdone or didactic. And even though it builds, as did several of Scorsese's earlier movies, to a redemption-centered finale in which Cage alleviates at least some of his own suffering by tasting that power normally reserved to others, the tone as the film closes is distinctly restrained and muted.If one insists on comparing it to Taxi Driver, then the earlier work has the greater bravado and panache - the Bernard Herrmann music and the operatic blood and the You talking to me? and all the rest adds up to almost too serendipitous a collection of highlights. It's possible to remember the film in fair detail while drawing a blank on what it was actually about. Schrader, in his film Light Sleeper, has already experimented with an older, more clear-sighted version of Taxi Driver, stripped of the almost romantic depiction of self-actualization and achievement. Bringing Out The Dead seems to be Scorsese's own reexploration of that territory. His technique is as fresh and spellbinding as ever - he uses the tools of cinema as comfortably as a steering wheel - but whereas Taxi Driver may have got away from him and become its own problematic myth, the new film is all his own.Too much so for many viewers, for the film will not be a financial success. An uncharitable summary would be to say that the only difference between watching any given fifteen minutes of the movie and watching the whole thing is that the latter course takes eight times as long; that the film lacks passion and discovery and internal development. But Scorsese loves and reveres the great American directors (Ford, Hawks, Hitchcock, etc.), and surely knows how many of those directors made films - at around his stage of life - which were regarded at the time merely as pale retreads of earlier and better works, but are now treasured as great mature, reflective masterpieces. Against that background, the relative failure of Bringing Out The Dead may all be part of a master plan. And if that's not so, if it's merely a failure and no more - well, after all he's done for us, I'd say he deserves a break. "},{"Title":"Kundun spends after hours on the mean streets of NYC.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"   I can see why this film is bombing at the box office. It is too good for mass consumption. I hate saying that because it sounds elitist and there are many great films, like The Sixth Sense and Titanic, that do great BO.  This is one of Scorsese's best films ever. The stream of consciousness narrative is daring stuff and Scorsese brings it off beautifully. The excellent novel by Joe Connelly was like this and he must be very happy with the way it has been brought to the big screen.  This tale of a ambulance driver haunted by his work is loaded with horror and humor. How do you deal with the job without laughing a lot of it off? This film is very funny. The cast performance is some of the best ensemble work I've seen this year. Ving Rhames is absolute joy to watch preaching the Lord while having fun with the sin. But the movie hinges on Nic Cage's ability to become unhinged. Needless to say this is some of his best work ever.  The film takes a lot of chances with speeding and slowing up time (but it never takes it out of order). The cinematography by the now legendary Robert Richardson finds parts of heaven in the hellish streets of New York City. His work calls attention to itself (especially the way Cage is often lit) and is some of his best work ever.  Like Goodfellas, Scorsese uses rock songs to underscore the tempo of many of his scenes to great effect. The tech credits are outstanding. It does drag a bit near the end but redeems itself at the end.  This film is just about as purely cinematic as Scorsese has ever been. Some of the visions that Cage has are risky and will haunt you long after the film is over.  An older couple walked out of the showing I saw and another (older) couple complained how boring the movie was throughout, because they didn't get it. Some of the critics who really liked this film said it didn't involve you emotionally. It touched me deeply, but then I'm a TV news photographer who wished he has never seen some of things I've seen.  This film walks a very high wire without a net and stays on it 90% of the time.        "},{"Title":"Intensity, and a bit rule breaking.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sometimes you have to keep the body going until the mind and heart catch up. In modern writing technique, it is generally considered heavy handed and gauche to actually state the point of your story in the actual story. Better to illustrated it, than to tell the story and then tell people what to think of it. Bringing Out the Dead is an example that sometimes --- and only sometimes --- you can get away with it and still have a good story.In this case, it works, because it is not a moral or a singular point, but a statement of life, expressed on more than one level, and we can see as the film unfolds how the statement transforms from one sense to the next. The statement which first comes out of Frank's mouth about something seemingly unrelated, ultimately resolves itself into the key to his own dilemma. Not actually a solution to the horror of his day to day existence, but an answer at least.But most of all, if I had to sum this film up with one word it would be intensity. If you like intense storylines, Bringing Out the Dead will certainly not disappoint. I dislike using a cliche like roller coaster ride, yet it really is  appropriate. You laugh one minute, then you're angry, laugh again, then get depressed; you're brought up and down so much that when the ride is over, you're exhausted and it takes you two days to figure out what you thought of it all.   "}{"Title":"Visual masterpiece, Great Actors...","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing out the dead is not for everyone. Either you really love this film or will hate it.  If you like Martin Scorsese films and appreciate the great talents of Nicolas Cage this film will be like a feast.  This is probably Nicolas Cage's greatest performance since his days as Sailor in Wild at Heart or Ben in Leaving Las Vegas.  This is a part Cage was born to play  a miserable, gloomy man who hates his job and is going through his own personal hell.  In addition, the feel of this film is incredible.  The support cast with the exception of Patricia Arquette is incredible.  Tom Sizemore, Ving Rhames and John Goodman all shine and leave you asking for more.   The story is not really the issue here. Don't expect some deep plot with twists and turns...its about the hellish life of a paramedic and his own world.  Appreciate it for what it is. Grade  A- "},{"Title":"T.B. Sheets","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Scorsese takes an only an average script and turns it into an entertaining movie.  Ving Rhames,Tom Sizemore and Cage all give great performances.  Patricia Arquette on the otherhand seemed to have no character at all.  Some unique and amazing camera techniques made the movie for me, especially when driving in the ambulance.  THis movie wont appeal to everyone though, the guy next to me was asleep and I had use the army wakeup thing on my phone to get him to stop snoring. The only weak points of the movie that I saw was the performance of Arquette, along with this wierd ghost named Rose that seemed really cliche as far as ghosts the come back to haunt people. And some scenes early with John Goodman were a little dull and pointless.  Not that he was bad its just his character didnt seem to very well written. Throw in a great soundtrack and some suprisingly wicked humor and you got yourself a good movie. 8 thumbs up (out of 10) 0 "},{"Title":"Just hope you don't need an ambulance...","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Actually, I liked Scorese's latest offering, at least from a technical view. The lighting and music really helped set the stage for the scenes, and at times you felt as drunk on guilt and sleep deprivation as our reluctant hero. Some of the 'flip' shots were enough to make you loose your lunch. Storywise, it was oddly hollow, but I think it fits this movie just fine. The situations Frank kept finding himself in were hollow. Nasty. Smarmy. Hopeless. Futile. Still, the unusual story of an EMT on the edge of sanity was very compelling, and I decided by the end of the movie it was well worth my time. It's quirky, but it grew on me.  "},{"Title":"A stunning movie","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The ads for Bringing Out the Dead make the movie to be about Nicolas Cage's character, a burnt-out EMS worker, and the spiritual rebirth he undergoes.  For me, at least, this move is really about the state of NYC, and the desperation of the lower classes in it.  I saw this movie as a profound statement on today's society, seen through the eyes of an EMS worker, the people who deal with those with the toughest luck.It's not hard to find the positives in this film.  It's greatest aspect is the stunning visual imagery, not hard to imagine in a Scorcese film.  It presents the slums of New York as a terrible, terrible place full of drunks, violence, and out and out desperation.  At times it seem like the world, as it spins around Cage, is going out of control.The acting, also not surprisingly is excellent.  Ving Rhames, one of the best actors of today, is great as Cage's Enlightened co-worker.  Tom Sizemore is great as the guy who's burnt out in a different way.  Patricia Arquette is very good, and Cage really pulls it all together as a obvious, yet subtle lead.The only real problem I found was this movie couldn't quite decide what it was about.  Was it about NYC, about EMS workers, about euthanasia, the point seemed to jump around a little bit. This may add to the effect- perhaps when you see it, you get your own conclusion, as I did.This move deserves to be up there with Scorcese's other works. "},{"Title":"A wild ride into New York's streets of hell","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nicolas Cage is my favorite actor of all time and I have enjoyed almost all of his movies (exceptions Snake Eyes, which gave too much away too fast), but this was a nice comeback for him. The soundtrack is wild, along with the movie when he is in high gear trying to save lives. A typical Scorsese film, told through the eyes of one character, who is telling life as it is. The plot is strong, and the characters are good supporting players, especially Ving Rhames who is hilarious! If you are a Scorsese or Cage fan, it is a worthy viewing. "},{"Title":"Scorsese's unique blaze of light and color is under-appreciated.","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Right away, this film is being criticized for being to similar to Scorsese standards such as Taxi Driver and Mean Streets. Let me put this to rest right away. The only similarity is the setting. Scorsese uses slow-motion shots of smoke rising out of manhole covers to tease us. He makes us think he's losing his edge, and can't find another unique angle to his often-visited Hell's Kitchen, but he certainly does. Everything is centered around Nicholas Cage's character, Joe Connelly. Most of the events that come about stem from the overcrowded, understaffed ER where this paradmedic brings his patients.Though the setting may seem grim, this film is packed with effective comedy, like GoodFellas, that offsets our first impression.  It puts the viewer in an awkward and uncompromising position to accept the warped frame of mind that possesses Connelly for the entire three days. He is burnt-out, on the edge of his tether, and heading nowhere fast. The remarkable-as-always production design and cinematography set us reeling into a hyperactive, intense, and hallucinatory mission for Joe to settle with the ghosts in his head.A very unique cast of supporting players grabs our interest from minute one. John Goodman, Ving Rhames, and Tom Sizemore are all excellent. This film has been criticized for not having a plot. I won't try to pretend there is one. Paul Schrader's screenplay uses very implicit causality to submerge the viewer into the world of not only a paramedic, but a man struggling to make sense of his profession and his life. Even though Nicholas Cage isn't as much of a presence as Robert DeNiro, but we can feel for his character as much as we can for Travis Bickle. The final fact of this movie is that it is one of the most artistic and interesting Scorsese has ever done. It is, by no means, a half-baked project. An intense array of light and color creates a dream-like atmosphere in a world none of us has ever been, even though Scorsese has taken us to this very LOCATION before. It is a very intense, entertaining, funny, and thought-provoking film. And as a side not, this is by far the most effective of Scorsese's pop music soundtracks. It is not so much a narrative film as an excursion into the nether regions of the senses, like 2001 A Space Odyssey. Don't let the negative reviews scare you away. "},{"Title":"Best Cage performance in years","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nicholas Cage can be extraordinary or he can go over the top.  He needs a strong director and with Scorcese he has one.  His eyes were perfect.  In general this was a strong and art driven film.  The depiction of Hell's kitchen feels too overwrought, however.  But Cage takes you into the angst of his character and the film worked better on that more intimate level. As usual in a Scorcese film, music is an equal and compelling character all its own. "},{"Title":"Felliniesque","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I recently saw an interview on PBS featuring Martin Scorsese. In the interview he stated that he's been watching a lot of Italian films from directors such as Federico Fellini. After seeing Bringing Out the Dead I can see the resemblance between the film and Fellini's style. I can sum the entire movie's style with one word Felliniesque. For those of you that are unfamiliar with Fellini's work he tends to turn reality in to a surreal fantasy world filled with archetypes. Bringing Out the Dead certainly does that with a little mix of Terry Gilliam. Since Terry Gilliam is another talented director that creates fantasy worlds and exaggerates, Bringing Out the Dead is what an episode of ER would look like if he were to direct one. Another great technical aspect is the cinematography by Robert Richardson, the man responsible for offbeat camera work such as Natural Born Killers.In conclusion Bringing Out the Dead is a great film for those that like offbeat cinema and are simply looking for something different. I advise who ever sees this film to keep an open mind.  If you are looking for a Felliniesque film of the 90s this is your best bet.  "},{"Title":"A film that haunts you for days, and a Rorschach test","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first review posted does the film a great disservice, mainly because the author seems to have let all the subtle symbolism slip right past him.  Not surprising, maybe  who expects complex religious and psychological metaphors intertwined with the characters of a sort of uptempo film noir?We all should, when Schrader and Scorsese are involved.  What other film would rate the disjunctive classification drama/comedy/horror?I find the film's images and characters returning to mind repeatedly in the week since I saw the film, each time taking on a new color or character. It has flaws  the voice-over can get a bit heavy-handed, the Patricia Arquette character could be a lot richer and more human, the camerawork and lighting occasionally cross the line from conveying a strong personal style to just showing off.  But the central drama movingly conveyed by Nicolas Cage, a man who feels trapped by his failures and yet both seeks and offers redemptive kindness, is utterly compelling.  When the redemption that we see involves bringing one hopeless and worthless human being back to life, and surreptitiously assisting in the ending of another life, you aren't dealing with any simplistic notions of good and evil.  Cage's character says at one point, I realized that my role is not to save lives but to bear witness. That's the mission of this film, and it succeeds rather remarkably.It also seems to function as a sort of Rorschach test, judging by the viewer comments.  Those who can't find a clear plot thread and don't like ambivalence and uncertainty find the film tedious and annoying.  Others find it brilliant.  It seems as if different audiences see very different films. "},{"Title":"Not up to Scorses's usual high standards","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"   If we're lucky it will go mainly to art-house movie theatres so that those of us wanting to be spared a boring couple of hours to ooh and ahh over Scorsese's self-indulgent lyrical of a downbeat NY hospital and emergency service will know to get a video out instead. Perhaps New Yorkers will see more in the movie than I did (even though I've visited NY many times and love the city and the films about it). I'd second another IMDb reviewer who said of the movie Scorsese's new flick is a meandering, plotless film, completely unsure of itself from start to finish. The story is centered around a troubled paramedic (Nick Cage) who's haunted by the ghosts of those he's lost on the job and is, it seems, on the verge of a complete nervous breakdown. There - that saves me wasting new words on it. "}{"Title":"For people who like to watch movies not get spoon fed storylines","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A film the does not depend on unending dialog to move along the story. The story is of a man trying not to lose his mind while dealing with the high stress of his job. The story is told visually not verbally. I would reccommend this film to anyone who enjoyed films like Taxi Driver or 2001 A Space Odyssey. The acting is very good. The cinematography is superb. There is one overhead shot that turns the New York Skyscrapers sideways that is beautiful. Grade B  "},{"Title":"An ordinary paramedic?","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An ordinary paramedic?  Naw!  Did you see the way Cage is lit?  Did you see the closing scene with Patricia Arquette?  Did you see the 'virgin' birth? The parallels to Christianity are wonderful.This is an excellent film--visually eye-catching and beautiful even the 'grotesque' can be beautiful.  It demands a little thought on the part of the audience, but it's fun--it's a ride to enjoy.  Cage is perfect (it's good to see him as himself and not some pseudo-action figure of Hollywood's creation).The cinematography was good, the editing too.  I loved it! "},{"Title":"This should win Scorcese his long-deserved Best Director award.","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There wasn't a single scene I would change in this masterpiece by one of America's finest directors.Watching Nicolas Cage deteriorate in Leaving Las Vegas, I thought he was a better actor than he was allowed to be by the script he was given. Watching him go crazy in this film convinces me of how good he really can be.There are some intensely disturbing scenes in this film -- not the usual blood and gore kind of disturbing scenes so popular with the kiddies, but scenes of the dark side of NYC street life that are all too real.  The cinematography, directing and editing of these scenes are masterful. Counterpoint to all this is found in the tenderness and humour woven seamlessly into the fabric of the plot.Arquette  What's wrong with the doctor in there (emergency)?  He keeps mumbling and poking his eye when he talks to me. Cage (great deadpan, brief pause, and says, as if it should be obvious) He's working a double shift.  Calmly, like talking to someone who clearly should see how all this is normal and to be expected. Hilarious.Cage, in ambulance with IV line, O2 mask, seeing his partner staring at him, only then aware of how he might appear  These are hard times, Tom.  Had to laugh out loud.This is a great piece of work that entertained me by involving me in the characters and the story line, disturbed me by the content and travails of the people I saw, and uplifted me ever so gently, not by speechifying but by stubborn nuances of human compassion in the midst of, well, hell.This film is a 10 out of 10, and should earn Scorcese the Oscar for Best Director that he has long deserved.  I'll see it a few more times. "},{"Title":"Not what people might think !!","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay to start, I think this film is about Cage's acceptance of death and his acceptance that he can't save everyone.  I think in the end he realizes that even though he can't save everyone, the ones he does save will mean a lot. The filming of this movie was fabulous, the shots and changing from normal to fast speed kept my eyes on the screen at all times.  This movie has a lot of different things going on and at times people may be confused but if they stick it out and watch the whole movie they might find they take something away from this movie other than a headache.    "},{"Title":"Scorsese's best since Goodfellas.","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorsese is back where he belongs, searching for redemption on the mean streets of New York.  Bringing Out the Dead is certainly the director's best work since Goodfellas, maybe even since Taxi Driver, this picture's companion piece.  There is barely an unnecessary frame of film; the visuals remind you where Spike Lee and Quentin T. got their inspiration, and the performances are excellent from top to bottom.  Cage is fine, in his less-goofy mode, but I was really impressed with the work of Ving Rhames, John Goodman, Marc Anthony, Tom Sizemore and Mrs. Cage, as well.  I had been kind of down on Scorsese, recently, especially after the bloated Casino,  so I was really pleased to see Haig Manoogian's star student get back to basics.  Plus this made me want to listen to the Clash again, for the first time in years. Marty rocks! "},{"Title":"Scorsese doing what Scorsese does best.","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In Bringing Out The Dead, Martin Scorsese sets the screen ablaze >with flashing lights and Nicholas Cage's dead eyes.  As we >travel along with Cage in his burned out state, we are treated >to all the glories that New York has to offer in the night.  The >film is fused together by images and sounds that scorch >themselves into your mind.  As Cage tries to get over the ghost >of a girl who haunts him, his partners handle their jobs in >their own different way.  John Goodman worries about eating, and >not repeating the same meal.  Ving Rhames brings the gospel to >the dregs of society and orchestrates a resurrection.  Tom >Sizemore handles his job as if it were the front lines of a war. >With a rock and roll soundtrack that compliments the images on >screen, Scorsese revisits his old haunts from Taxi Driver and >Mean Streets.  Unlike the characters from those films, Cage's >character isn't destined to fail in his life or have it cut >short.  He is out in the streets trying to save lives, >  "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing Out the Dead is a moving nest of paradox;  a weekend that lasts forever, inhabited by men that never stop running;  a bright night lit by neon, morning that looks no different; the desperate need to save others in order to save oneself; that those looking outward do not see but they shine, those turned inward peer into reality through blinds and their faces collapse until they are no more than a pair of endearing eyes.  Infused with darkness, the movie still haunts well after viewing, but it is not fierce, there is a wonderful peace to it.  A witness may wonder what happens to our quixotic hero, yet the ending gives one that sort of rest that he worked so hard for.   "},{"Title":"Delicate, powerful, sprawling and near perfect","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have my card just about filled for best picture nominees and Bringing out the Dead is at the top of the list. The film is a sucess, it does not fall prey to the common mistakes of most films. It does not trip and stumble through a clumsy set of circumstances, marred with product placement and cliches. Instead, it takes its time, laying out the framework for an extrordinary group of people, and the extraordinary circumstances they are faced with. Nic Cage is back to form, and commands praise for his flight from depth and depravity to a delicate redemption, hinging only on his hope and heart. It is a joy to watch all the factors weave together to create this film. I would have to say that this is not for everyone, however. If you are more drawn to bubble worlds in films, people that are one sided and situations that are reminent of Friends, go see something else. But if you desire to be drawn in, and given the gift that is the message and the vision of this film, to be challenged and entertained, touched and challenged, then by all means, GET THAT TICKET!!! thanks martin! "},{"Title":"Overall, I thought it was a good movie.","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the Martin Scorsese's film Bringing Out The Dead  last weekend. The story is about a paramedic(Nicholas Cage) who is haunted by ghosts and is on the verge of a nervous breakdown. It is quite funny at times. Overall I thought it was a good movie and I would recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"Not the best Scorsese's films, but certainly up there...","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie where we get to see the world through the eyes of a paramedic named Frank Pierce (Nicolas Cage).  He rides in an ambulance heading from emergency to emergency throughout the New York City neighborhood where he grew up.  He is burned out on in his job and it shows.He has to work with some pretty odd co-workers of the likes of Larry (John Goodman), Marcus (Ving Rhames), and Tom (Tom Sizemore).  He has a quiet, yet touching bond with a woman (Played by his wife, Patricia Arquette)who is the daughter of a heart attack victim he has rescued.This is not scorsese's best film, nor his worst.  I think it is better than most, but will not be remembered as one of his more memorable undertakings. I believe the weakest point of the movie is the fact that the plot and characters don't grab hold of you the way his classic films have.  On it's own, however, it stacks up against almost any movie released by Scorsese wannabees.I enjoyed the many comical moments in the film, which I won't spoil you by telling you them.  It has heart, and is well acted.  The Soundtrack is typically great.  The music fits right where it should, and makes the movie in some spots.  It runs about 2 hours and when you're done, you feel for this guy and the lightning pace with which he lives.This one's a keeper in the end. "}{"Title":"I am an artist, always looking how movies are cut.","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nicholas Cage and his movies are always on my movie agenda. I was so disappointed in the content of this movie, that I want to write a letter to all concerned.  What happened?  Didn't someone notice in the screening room, that this movie could have been a great movie, but was not?  If it was only what I expected, it would have been an Oscar nominee.  But, someone really dropped their ball.  Please, please, please tell me that I didnt really see this movie and the real Bringing Out the Dead will be released next month. Nicholas Cage only touched a fragment of his acting ability. This movie was a great vehicle for him.  It should have been divided into three parts 1) The crazy and truly technical view of the paramedic, 3) The absolute losing of his mind in a truly creative way including the cinematography and 4) falling in love, being grounded, having a realization of life (as in Raising Arizona, even)...then on to saving more desparate people..  Thank you for giving me this opportunity to express my view.  Please, Nicholas, talk to your director or call in the troups. "},{"Title":"Went nowhere fast and kept on going!!!","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First let me say that I love almost every Scorsese movie ever made. No one can argue that the guy is a master. But what was Scorsese thinking with this movie? I mean there was just nothing compelling about this movie except for the great cinematography. The script and story were little more than a watered-down version of Taxi Driver.  For such a talented director and cast, this venue just provided nothing for them to work with. So sad. I want my 2 hours and 7 bucks back!!  "},{"Title":"Scorsese can't make this film work","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nicolas Cage is surprisingly effective in the role he was given, and it takes a good deal for me to make that comment, but Bringing Out the Dead just couldn't save his best performance since Vampire's Kiss. I have since decided that my antipathy towards this movie as I left the theater was due to my expectation that Scorsese make a Scorsese picture. Take out the manic driving scenes (most of which you see in the television ad and might as well be Oliver Stone), and one other telltale Scorsese trademark and this movie could have been made by almost any reasonably capable director. That disappoints me, and although I laughed some, and tried to let Marty speak to me, it just wasn't happening. Two Dallas Stars out of Five.  "},{"Title":"Rather odd for Scorsese, but still excellent","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" . Nicolas Cage does a good job of portraying a man who is tried of going out all the time trying to save people, but he never seems to save any of the victims. Weird characters are bound, especially Noel, portrayed by Marc Anthony who is a homeless maniac. Highly recommended for those who enjoy urban dramas. Listen for Martin Scorsese's voice as the ambulance operator on the radio. "},{"Title":"This movie is definitely worth seeing.","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say that Martin Scorsese is the greatest director to ever walk God's green earth.  Nick Cage was delivered his character right into the hands of the audience who received it with their arms wide open.The cinematography was awesome and the dialog and storyline blew my mind.There is one thing that you have to do for this movie or any movie.  You must get rid of all the other people's thoughts you have obtained and walk into that theater with only your opinions.  Thus you should not have any opinions on this film at all.However, I am still going to voice my opinion.  My friends thought the film was disturbed, but I thought the acting was great the story was great and the directing was spectacular, but I am bias because I am a huge fan of Scorsese films.  This movie is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Scorcese Hits Again","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Scorcese is brilliant.  There I've said it.  I know lots of people say it, but it's my turn.  His latest effort, Bringing out the Dead is awesome filmmaking.  It is essentially a character study (similar to Taxi Driver) about a pre-Giuliani New York City paramedic (Nicholas Cage is his best role since Leaving Las Vegas) searching for a means to cope with the pressure of his job.  As he moves in and out of sanity, he struggles to become the saviour that he is meant to be while being redeemed for all of those whom he could not save.If you didn't like this movie, see it again.  Watch how Scorcese uses the camera to put you in Cage's place.  Look how he uses the camera to create the frenetic pace of Cage's life while simultaneously conveying his mental instability.  Cage's facial expressions alone are enough to show the viewer the hell he is experiencing.  I won't even go into the use of overexposing the film stock as to give Cage an ethereal glow (he is the savior).Another aspect of Scorcese's brilliance is his use of sound.  Let's just take the soundtrack.  The music not only mirrors the action directly but also ironically (Red Red Wine plays at the bloodbath at the Oasis), the harmonica in the opening scene can  easily be mistaken for the ambulance sirens, etc.Although this movie has technical flaws who cares?  After all, I'm sure the mafia isn't really like it was portrayed in Goodfellas.  But that's Hollywood. "},{"Title":"vintage Scorsese","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing Out the Dead is a near-perfect combination of director Scorsese, screenwriter Paul Shrader and actor Nicholas Cage.  It is a mirror-image of the tale told in Taxi Driver; where Travis Bickel saw the horror around him and sank towards darkness, the main character here, Frank Pierce, keeps struggling towards the light.  The burden Pierce places on himself, to save every hopeless case he comes across as a paramedic, drives him slowly crazy until he finds salvation and redemption unexpectedly.  Nobody, NOBODY edits better than Scorsese, and his style makes you appreciate how bereft of talent other directors are.  Cage displaces DeNiro as the quintessential Scorsese actor, giving his best performance ever.  The material isn't QUITE at the level of Taxi Driver or Raging Bull, but it is far superior to most of what passes for movie entertainment today.  Definitely worth seeing in a theater.  To quote a cliche, one of the best films of the year. "},{"Title":"Intellectually gratifying; emotionally, not quite so.  Ultimately worth seeing.","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What I found fascinating about BRINGING OUT THE DEAD is its edginess, its ability to keep me off-balance, and the contradictory aspects of the film, including my own thoughts and feelings throughout.Ambulances and emergency rooms are the ultimate vehicles and settings for life or death situations.  Appropriate for this film.  BOTD's characters are constantly crossing back and forth over the line of mortality.  Some simply exist in both worlds simultaneously  We see the living dead, figuratively and, in the mind of Frank the ambulance driver, literally.What about the characters' own desires?  Frank nearly begs every day to be fired from his job, but his captain apologizes that he can't fire him.  Noel the junkie begs for water even though it may kill him.  Indeed, he begs to be killed, but nobody, not even his disease, seems to be able to help him out.  He's brought into the emergency room every night, yet he's the liveliest character in the whole film.Throughout the film, we're jarred between fantasy and reality.  The frenetic, out of control fantasy sequences are easier to take than what would be considered real.  Even the ghost that haunts and horrifies Frank looks charming.  In the realm of reality, I found myself actually relieved by a traffic accident.The black comedy is, well, black comedy.  The humor sometimes seemed cheap, but it made sense in a situation where life is cheap.  The cinematography and editing were expert, though seemingly over-the-top, unless one appreciates their contrast to the gritty, ugly reality that inspires it.I had conflicting reactions to practically every character, wanted them to live and die.  And even then, when I wanted them to die, it was often for their own good.  For my own good as well?  So I can stop the suffering&#133; whose suffering?  If you've seen the film, you'll know why this is particularly appropriate.I have to say, though, that I have mixed feelings about the film itself.  I appreciate the film because of its ability to make me aware of my feelings throughout, how complex emotions are, and how confounding the world can be. On the other hand, I realize that there were some emotions missing for me love, for instance.  I felt fear a lot.  Anger, too.  I felt tense, relieved.  I laughed, I cringed, and I screamed at points.  Occasionally I had time to feel sorry for some of the characters.  But those moments were so fleeting.  The film moved so fast that there was no time to settle into the sympathies that really engross me and tear me apart when watching a film.  The intellectual engagement trumps the emotional engagement.  And I can tell because that's what's stayed with me after leaving the theatre.Is this what Scorsese intended?  Was he saying that what was happening to me was happening to Frank the ambulance driver?  If so, I would think the end would be more effective, that I would be affected as Frank was.  Sadly, I wasn't.  If that had been the case, I would call this a truly powerful film. Not that I want to see a three-hanky picture, but I do want to experience all the emotions, so that I may examine them in myself, as well as on the screen.Unless you're fragile when it comes to seeing violence and suffering, see this film.  "},{"Title":"My comments are probably more exciting...(hopefully)","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing out the Dead.  When I found saw that Martin Scorcese was reuniting with Paul Schrader, I thought this movie must be good.  It's not.  Plain and simple.  Nicholas Cage plays Frank, a down on his luck paramedic.  Frank cannot seem to save anybody's life anymore, so he turns to whiskey as his savior.  Patricia Arquette plays Mary, the daughter of a patient Frank has brought into the hospital.  These two are the two characters we see the most of the movie and it is difficult to see why.  Cage gives his usual performance, and Arquette hasn't been good since True Romance.  The story centers around Cage and never really develops.  I found myself waiting for so much more to happen and it simply didn't.  The beginning of the movie sets up a good plot, but Schrader doesn't do anything with it.  The movie stands still, with many scenes repeating each other throughout the movie.  John Goodman, Ving Rhames, and especially Tom Sizemore are vastly underused in their roles.  The directing is good in this movie, as usual with a Scorcese flick.  I would only recommend this movie if you are an insomiac and need to catch a quick nap. "},{"Title":"It is good","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's funny how some folks need to either love or hate a film. The fact that somebody gave this film a D+ rating is astonishing to me. This movie is good. No, it isn't Taxi Driver and for me had very little in common with it aside from some smoke rising from the streets. The cinematography is worth the admission alone. This is Cage's best work in a while. For me it resides near After Hours. The only film Scorsese's ever done that I didn't especially like was Cape Fear. Go see it and relax. Every movie doesn't need to turn your life around.  Oh, and there's nothing wrong with a thin plot. "}{"Title":"Fast paced, thrilling movie","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a thriller. It was exciting and kept me on the edge of my seat. At times I was wondering what is the point of this movie but I think I came away realizing that is the point of the movie. There was definitely some disturbing images and it was meant to be to that way. The juxtaposition of the slower paced scenes almost seemed to bog down but it is like the parts of a roller coaster ride where it slows down at times just before the fast and fun times. "},{"Title":"Realistic... I'm Afraid","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a former paramedic myself in one of the worst parts of Toronto, I must admit that aside from exaggerated moments, BOTD is actually an extremely realistic view of a day in the life of an EMS worker. Some of the thoughts were very obviously written by a real paramedic. Such as actually USING your training less than 10% of the time, or being a misery mop.My wife criticized the movie as not going anywhere. I think that's exactly the point. You punch in at the start of your shift and punch out at the end - in between anything goes. No patterns, no system, no logic. Maybe you'll have an opportunity to save a life but more than likely you'll take turns with the cops on who will be hauling the next drunk. And believe me, some of the crazy antics aren't so far fetched (many are however). You can work with a different partner - a completely different personality - every shift. Not like the endless line of heros in ER or Third Watch.The fact that I can even offer this sort of insight after almost 10 years OFF the job (I'm a businessman now) is a testament to the impact of this film. Not just for paramedics (although I suspect this will become a sad favorite), but for everyone who wants to know what the city is REALLY like. "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece, but better than most think","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I personally thought this film was superior to Taxi Driver.  Martin Scorsese decided to take on one of my favorite themes, the decent man driven crazy by the realities of work, and ran with it.  This film pulsates with the jittery, moment-to-moment horror of the paramedic on his beat.  The imagery is fast-moving and hallucinatory (it looks like Robert Richardson brought in some of his Oliver Stone tricks for this one), and the soundtrack is typically propulsive (though the shoddy sound system in the theatre I saw the film in had the music drowning out some of the dialogue).Above all, this was a great portrait of a man grappling with the realities of a job that no human should reasonably have to perform.  People are almost too fallible to have to dive into this kind of pain and degradation, but no one else can do it, and the nakedness of the desperation on display in this film is quite impressive.  Nicolas Cage walks a dangerous line in his performance, and Ving Rhames steals the show with his exuberant attack as a holy-rolling cynic who chalks his own life-saving up to Jesus...so as not to deal with the messiah complex seizing Cage's Frank Pierce.Over all, this is a perceptive, grim, and sad picture.  It doesn't offer the catharsis of a more tidy drama like Titanic, but it does offer the hope for something better.  And in the real world according to Scorsese, that'salmost enough.   "},{"Title":"A Seeper (and maybe a Sleeper)","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I left the theater after this film not knowing if I liked this film or not. I still don't know if like is the correct term, but 24 hours later I can recognize that Bringing Out The Dead can deliver a significant wallop.On the surface, it is rather dull, although it has its frenetic moments. The performances of the actors don't seem all that great. You're not going to see anyone quoting this film in any .sigs any time soon. And, finally, it seemed like the film edged too many times into trying to be a rock video with the overabundance of soundtrack pieces. Those are the generic negatives of the film.On the other hand, when the film ended I was so enrapt by the picture that I had lost track of time and was surprised when the credits started rolling. Cage's character's quest for redemption and understanding in a world I would never want to visit makes the film rather a difficult pill to swallow, but I found it to be spectacularly fulfilling when that pill's effects finally kicked in hours later. I would never want to work a job that potentially meant life or death for the client. Nor would I want to be exposed daily to the dregs of society. But Scorsese has managed to show me why some people do do this day in, day out. He made you care for people that in reality you wouldn't want to. He makes you see that the pressures we may feel in the office are pretty meaningless. And he points out that saving a life is not necessarily the same thing as saving a soul.This will go down as one of Scorsese's weaker films in the view of the masses, but it is by far the most thought-provoking picture I've seen in 1999. "},{"Title":"Lacks dramatic punch","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you see this movie alongside Scorsese's similarly themed Taxi Driver, you have to conclude that the director is not at the height of his powers.  In fairness, he is hampered by a terrible screenplay.  The overlong movie, a series of events over 3 days in the life of a burnt-out night shift paramedic, plays like 3 episodes of Cops.  There is no dramatic tension, nothing builds.  We don't even learn anything about the paramedic, played listlessly by Nicolas Cage, nor is there any development in the character.  A would-be romantic interest, played by Patricia Arquette, doesn't pan out and isn't very interesting anyway.  Throughout the movie, Cage is haunted by the ghost of a young girl whose life he couldn't save.  This constant re-appearance (in Cage's imagination, characters sometimes morph into her) is so repetitious that it becomes comical before the long-awaited end of the movie.  There is some good nighttime New York imagery by Scorsese and his director of photography, otherwise this movie is a big-time disappointment. "},{"Title":"Hauntingly different but good","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine you have a job that is so depressing you start to lose your faith and the world seems to grow darker.  You're an ambulance driver, you work the graveyard shift and see all kinds of suffering and death.  To make it worse, you haven't saved a life in so long you begin to think you can't do any good.  This is the problem that drives Frank Pierce (Nicolas Cage) into depression, alcoholism and hallucinations.  He hates his job so much he begs his boss to fire him but he won't.  Just like purgatory he's stuck with no way out.To add insult to injury, most of his partners on the job are just as crazy or out there as he is.  Larry (John Goodman) is the sanest of the bunch. His main worries revolve around what to eat and where he wants his career to go.  Marcus (Ving Rhames) rants and raves about religion.  He's constantly making a scene while Frank does the actual work.  Then there's Tom (Tom Sizemore) who is just plain crazy.  A paramilitary type who can do his job in the thick of it, but often goes postal when it gets too much.  Be thankful you don't work with any of these guys.This is a hauntingly uneasy movie.  It is a strangely interesting movie that is all about suffering and how it is a part of life.  The title is a humorous reference to the movie Monty Python and the Holy Grail.  "},{"Title":"America's best director in peak form","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Another visually exquisite film from the best director in America, Martin Scorsese.  While the story may be a little thin, from a pure filmmaking standpoint, Bringing Out the Dead is masterfully rendered.Cinema, at its purest, is not a distillation of painting, literature and drama, but rather a unique entity that transcends the very elements it draws upon.  Most films are merely mundanely photographed scenarios, devoid of imagination.  In Bringing Out The Dead, Scorsese deploys the full arsenal of his creative genius -- fluid camera movement, expressive lighting, stunning camera angles -- to create an aesthetic experience that only cinema can provide. "},{"Title":"Technically amazing, horribly lacking in the plot.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The visual aspect of this movie sent chills down my spine, From the way Nick Cage just glowed, The frantic speed of driving sequences, and the brutal reality of the gore but, in terms of the plot, I wasn't impressed. The intensity in the visual arts really weren't conveyed in the script but I think Martin took a mediocore screenplay and made it the best movie it could possibly be. Nick was decent, Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore blew up the screen, Patricia Arquette wasn't as intense as the movie but, that could have been intentional. Things were occasionally unclear, but overall, It ruled. "},{"Title":"Even Scorsese's bad days yield good movies","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Man, Scorsese has it rough - make a merely very good film instead of a great one and it gets trashed. True, BOTD is not on a par with Raging Bull, but it still packs a wallop.The film features all the traditional elements of Scorsese - the pop music (some of which didn't work so well and some of which was perfect - I particularly liked the use of UB40's Red Red Wine), themes of guilt and personal redemption, rampant Catholic imagery, even some frozen beef carcasses a la Goodfellas in one scene where Frank (Nicholas Cage) tries to resuscitate a hypothermia victim.The film features some absolutely gorgeous camerawork, and a good script (albeit not Schrader's best), but hopefully Scorsese's next work will break some new ground. This is his home, and he knows it well, but I'd like to see him tackle something different in the future, like he did with Kundun. "},{"Title":"Classic Scorcese","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing Out the Dead is kind of like Taxi Driver for the 1990's.  It is also one of Scorcese's most frenetic films, and contains classic Scorcese editing and cinematography techniques.  The look of New York's Hell's Kitchen is accomplished brilliantly, and there is excellent use of classic rock music to accentuate the many scenes.  This is a movie that you will be thinking about in your dreams.  It's power is not immediate but I found myself haunted by the many images contained within this darkly funny, haunting movie.  Nicholas Cage gives a refreshingly strained performance as the emergency response officer who is haunted by the ghosts of a patient he could not save.  The supporting actors are all basically one-note but that is the films design, and they all do a wonderful job, particularly Ving Rhames.  If you are a Scorcese fan you will like this film.  It's not his best, but it is a very good movie all the same! "}{"Title":"It's no 'Taxi Driver', but...","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The problem for a master director like Martin Scorsese is that each new film is compared and contrasted with his best work. I am not surprised, therefore, when I read reviews from people who were disappointed in the film. That is too bad. I suggest that people take a film for what it is, rather than enter the theater thinking Martin Scorsese, Martin Scorsese and expecting a masterpiece. Just like 'Kundun', this film is a near masterpiece in it's own right that accomplishes what Scorsese wished to accomplish at the time he made the film. Even someone so skilled at creating driving dramas (no pun intended) can take a step back to focus on something new. I will agree that 'Bringing Out the Dead' is not as easy or enjoyable to watch as 'Raging Bull' or 'Goodfellas'. However, it's psychological impact is only slightly below those other masterpieces. As for the acting, I'm beginning to really see that Scorsese has a magical touch with actors. Obviously, he was lucky enough to meet Robert De Niro for his best work, but there have been other actors along the way who benefitted greatly from working with him. Harvey Keitel, Joe Pesci and Ray Liotta all did their best work with Scorsese. Sharon Stone became credible for the first time in Scorsese's 'Casino', and now it seems he has lifted Patricia Arquette to the next level as well. No, Arquette is no Katherine Hepburn, but this is the most gritty, real performance of her career. Joined by the heartfelt portrayal by Nicholas Cage and solid work by Ving Rhames and John Goodman, the ensemble cast is one of the best this year. I think one of the key problems people have had with 'Bringing Out the Dead' is that there are no 'up-points'. In 'Mean Streets'(Johnny Boy and his antics), in 'Taxi Driver'(Travis' attempts at Cybil Shephard), in 'Raging Bull' (Jake's fierce battles) and so on, he always gave the audience something juicy to bite into in the midst of all the despair. In 'Bringing Out the Dead', we are forced to live every gruelling moment with Frank (Nicholas Cage), and perhaps it is too much for some people. "},{"Title":"The Master Returns","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would just like to ask all of you that complain that this film is plotless one question.  What is the plot of Taxi Driver, or Raging Bull, or even Goodfellas?  There is none.  They are all examinations of a life, which is exactly what Bringing out the Dead is.  It is a character study at it's finest, and what Martin Scorsese and Paul Schrader are the masters of.  A plot in this film could only destroy it.Bringing out the Dead uses cinematography and editing to convey the mental subjectivity of it's main character, Frank, better than any film I've seen since Taxi Driver.  Scorsese's relentless risk-taking camera reaches new hieghts.  Nicholas Cage's performance is his best since his Oscar role in Leaving Las Vegas.  And Ving Rhames continues to prove that he is one of the most versatile actors in film today.Bringing out the Dead is an examination into the mind of a man seeking redemption and ultimately finding it in himself.  If you are looking for a plot, or convention, for that matter, see a typical film like Fight Club that is nothing more than Hollywood trying to be cool by making a music video of violence.  If you want to see filmmaking at it's finest, by it's finest filmmaker, see Bringing out the Dead, which will stimulate your eyes, ears, and most importantly, mind. "},{"Title":"A movie about paramedics that will make you sick","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Um, why was this movie made?  Where was it going?  What was the point?  Was there a plot or a story?  These are just some of the questions an audience member will ask him/herself after surviving this movie.  There's no need to go see this movie.  If you dig hospital/paramedic drama, stay home and watch E.R.,  or something.  Or maybe go to a hospital and see it all happen live.  "},{"Title":"Fallen angels of mercy","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The real star here is Robert Richardson, cinematographer of the Oliver Stone canon and of CASINO, who has established himself as one of cinema's protean self-reinventors. All his recent work, from CASINO to U-TURN to BRINGING OUT THE DEAD, differs from the Richardson style as much as it expands on it, and his vision of Manhattan-as-hell--a high-tech update of TAXI DRIVER's sulfurous fog--is his most dazzling work to date.The whip used to beat this movie so far has been that it isn't a masterpiece on the order of TAXI DRIVER or RAGING BULL. True enough--but have you watched any Sarah Michelle Gellar movies lately? To be fair, there is a weak link in this chain--the screenplay by Paul Schrader. Filled with literary dialogue (presumably lifted from the source novel), it often plays the way Schrader's TAXI script read before Scorsese's tampering--Camus-y, stilted, tweedy. And Schrader doesn't do as good a job of setting up the disintegration of the conscience-attacked paramedic hero (Nicolas Cage) as he did in his earlier lonely-man movies. That said, it remains a clear-eyed and potent movie, not looking or feeling much like other Scorsese work. It's particularly evocative in its suggestion of paramedic life as a sort of reverse angle on combat life--a constant barrage of violence in which the protagonists un-shoot, rather than shoot people. (This may be Scorsese's closest take yet on a Sam Fuller war movie.) A most un-Catholic act of mercy brings down the curtain on this latest Scorsese redemption saga; its biggest surprise may be the best performance in it--a downcast-eyes, quietly authentic one from Patricia Arquette that brings you back to Marlon Brando and Eva Marie Saint feeding pigeons on that tenement rooftop. "},{"Title":"Natalie Merchant in a Scorsese film?","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  BRINGING OUT THE DEAD seems like it was directed on auto-pilot. Bland, lifeless camerawork and a pace to rival a snail. Scorsese tries to spice things up every once in a while by trying to make a mini music video in between the tedious talking head scenes. No good. The D.P. Bob Richardson has done photography for Oliver Stone. It's now evident that Stone is the real genius behind his mis-en-scene. The lighting is beautiful in DEAD, but the composition is unimaginative and flat-out boring. The whole thing looks like it was shot on a soundstage somewhere. The acting is another weak link. Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore do a great job, but Cage is no longer able to convey any sort of believability. We're never allowed to forget that this is Nicholas Cage - movie star. And he is ACTING like a strung-out paramedic. His wife doesn't fare any better, having to read dialogue so on-the-nose that it's hard to believe Paul Schrader had a hand in writing it.The story is weak to the point of being non-existent. So we're left with a bunch of episodes following the deterioration of a paramedic. But there's no insight into this strange and unique world. Haven't we seen all this before somewhere? Add some pretentious and obvious voiceover, and you've got a real winner.You're going to see it anyway, just because it's Martin Scorsese, the genius. Just be aware (as with Kubrick's EYES WIDE SHUT earlier this year) that even a genius is not perfect.  "},{"Title":"Fun to watch but...","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing out the Dead is vintage Scorsese.  The camera work seems like there is a magician holding the camera.  The film is never boring to watch and the characters are rich with fun idiosyncracies.  But the film is sort of hallow.  It might be story problems or it might just be that seeing American Beauty and Fight Club days before had my brain ready to examine something that never materializes.  See it to form your own opinion but to me the film is visual masturbation.  Fun but nothing but a mess at the end. "},{"Title":"VERY Enjoyable film","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had the opportunity to see this film at a screening in Manhattan this week. I enjoyed the film and thought that it was original (which is uncommon in recent film). I especially liked the soundtrack which was an odd selection of music for such a serious topic. IE REM - Whats the Frequency Kenneth, Natalie Merchant - Forgot the name. I would highly recommend this film to anyone.Ciao,  "},{"Title":"Crazy Nic Cage, Scorsese and Schrader...","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing out the Dead is a lesser know Scorsese film from the 90's. I love crazy Nic Cage and this is one of his better performances. Bringing out the Dead is stylish, nightmarish journey through sleazy, gritty nights of New York. I liked some parts of it but as a whole, Bringing out the Dead is kinda flat.I loved whenever the film went crazy. I loved the crazy and bizarre partners played by Tom Sizemore, Ving Rhames and John Goodman. The most of the supporting characters were wonderfully crazy and messed up that it was joy to watch them. Plus Nic Cage is just wonderful in this film. The soundtrack, as usual for Scorsese film, is great. The stylish direction and cinematography was just right. I love these type of visuals in gritty urban environments.There were two problems to Bringing out the Dead. First off, Patricia Arquette is a flat line in the film. She is a fine actress and can do well, but here just seems out of her element. And the other thing is the pacing of the film. When the film slows down from the crazy, it's painfully slow and dull. And it's mostly fault of the casting of Patricia Arquette. Because all the slower character scenes dragged because of her lifeless performance. And that's really it.Bringing out the Dead is a fine effort from Scorsese/Schrader. If you love crazy Nic Cage and are big fan of Scorsese, then I strongly suggest seeing this film. If your looking for a fun, light entertainment, then this is not going to be it. "},{"Title":"Riding With Death","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Martin Scorsese's last film of the 20th century takes place back in the early 90's and it serves as an accurate and engrossing portrayal of what that decade was all about. Scorsese created an eclectic, hyperactive, and pulsating movie that is absolutely mesmerizing to watch.The film stars Nicolas Cage, who gives a phenomenal performance as the alcoholic paramedic Frank who's psychological stability long ago slipped away. He drives an ambulance through the streets of a desperate, gritty New York City practically from dusk till dawn. The entirety of the movie happens over the course of a few nights. Frank drives the ambulance like a maniac, but it seems to be the only way to keep the ghosts of the people that have died in his arms away. Frank's partner is Larry, a middle aged family an who serves as a sort of rock for Frank, keeping his psychosis in check. But Larry is only there the first night, and Frank's descent is fast. He meets a girl who's father has had a heart attack, and he falls for her. But it is not as if she can save him; in fact she is probably worse off than he is.Nicolas Cage is excellent as Frank. His performance is certainly over the top, but that is by no means a bad thing. Cage absorbs himself into the character, creating a man who is visibly on the brink of a nervous break down, and who we can easily identify with and understand. John Goodman plays Larry with a subdued and calming aspect that acts as a nice foil for Cage early on. Patricia Arquette gives a subdued and excellent performance as the wounded girl Frank tries to save.The script was written by Paul Schrader, who wrote several other films for Scorsese, including Taxi Driver and The Last Temptation of Christ. Schrader delves deep into the character of Frank, but never reveals too much. We are left with questions that cannot be answered about all of these characters, but we see many of them in their most revealing moments.Scorsese directs this movie with a eccentric fever that he has never replicated. The entire movie is from the point of view of Frank, and so we get a dazed, delirious look at the City and its inhabitants. Scorsese deals with themes of alienation, death, and the crack epidemic all together in one huge lump of insanity, all while maintaining the clearest of storytelling. While a simple description of the plot may make it seem like a subdued and lengthy character study, it is in essence quite different. Scorsese's directing turns the film into a drug induced meditation on life and death.Complete with a soundtrack that includes The Clash, The Who, and The Rolling Stones, Bringing Out the Dead is a forgotten masterpiece of Martin Scorsese. The movie is hypnotic to watch and hard to pull away from once it sucks you into its insane world.thatguythatlikesmovies.blogspot.com/ridingwithdeath "},{"Title":"What a blow","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've seen every movie pictures this man had made since Mean streets, except for two of them this one, which I've just watched, and Kundun, the other movie he made just before Bringing out the dead. After The age of innocence and Casino, this director should have been allowed to make a film every year for the rest of his life. But the 1990's were not a good period for him, because for the exception of Casino and Goodfellas, his films made not enough money. And that's the way this industry is going now. This movie is not nice. It'll give a blow if you accept the challenge it's a nightmare, an hallucinate journey by a man who's falling in pieces. Paul Schrader screenplay is a tormented one, not easy to hear or watch. Nicolas Cage have made a lot of crappy performances after winning an Oscar for Leaving Las Vegas four years before this one, but not here. He's very good, even rather calm in a film where everybody else is overacting. Cliff Curtis, Tom Sizemore, John Goodman, Marc Anthony and Ving Rhames are good also, even if they're playing very strange people who are easier to perform. I've fallen for Patricia Arquette. Scorsese has gotten better during those years to direct beautiful women (Pfeiffer, Stone, Diaz) and getting the best from them. "}{"Title":"Holy defibrillator! Holy mouth to mouth respiration! Holy ambulance calls!","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one heckuva movie, a little long but one heckuva movie.It's black comedy through and through. Some scenes and lines, in fact quite a few, had me in deep laughter. It's satire and parody with a strong undercurrent of seriousness.Think The Hospital from 1971 with George C. Scott and you get the idea. This is The Paramedic.I don't see any deep messages here or even any great acting, but I do see a very well assembled series of incidents that hang together and illustrate a number of themes without being preachy. New York City is once again shown as a loony bin with more than its share of loony people, but I get the feeling that it's the same in every city, village and hamlet in a crazed America that is drugged out. Nick Cage is totally stressed out and feels guilt over having lost one person, but he represents all sorts of people in all sorts of professions who are looking for some sort of feelings of accomplishment in their lives.A very good movie well worth your time. Be prepared for some blood but it's not gratuitous and there's plenty of comic relief. The latter virtually sets the mood of the film.Scorcese did a great job putting this one together. "},{"Title":"Dead of Night","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Hard edge and garishly filmed big city horror story about paramedics working in the hell that's Manhattan's Hells Kitchen and trying to be able to do their job as well as keep their sanity while doing it.After driving emergency ambulances and confronting crazed and drugged up persons for five years paramedic Frank Pierce, Nicolas Cage, has just about reached his breaking point. Working long hours, on the graveyard shift, and not getting any sleep Pierce's only consolation for going to do his job was the people that he and his partner Larry, John Goodman, are able to save. It's when earlier in the year when Pierce came across a dying from a drug overdose junkie Rose, Cynthia Roman, that his life went on a downward spiral. Feeling responsible for Rose's death Pierce has lost his ability to keep himself from getting spooked in dealing with the sick and injured persons whom he cares for. Pierce now feels that with him on the verge of coming apart he'll be more of a determent instead of help to them.It's when Pierce and his partner Larry are called to the Burke apartment to save Mr. Burke, Cullen O. Johnson, who just suffered a massive attack that his already screwed up life as a paramedic is starting to get even more screwed up. With Mr. Burke pronounced dead he suddenly, on life support equipment, comes back to life and is rushed to the emergency ward of the nearest hospital! With Mr. Burke's daughter-whom he hasn't spoken to for three years-Mary, Patricia Arquette, at his side everything is done to keep her father alive with him or his heart being constituently, as much as a dozen times, shocked back to life. It's during that time that Pierce and Mary get very close to each other in caring or looking after the comatose Mr. Burke. With their greatest and most suppressed fears, about life and death, coming to the surface.For the next 72 hours both Pierce and Mary go through a major change of life while Mary's dad is in the intensive care unit at the hospital. Pierce has somehow connected with Mr. Burke telepathically who informs him that he doesn't want to live anymore and, for those caring for him, to let him die in both peace and with dignity. While this is happening to a now grief stricken Pierce his mind is also flooded with memories of Rose and how he somehow was responsible for her death! A death that Mr. Burke whom Pierce is now desperately trying to save wants!***SPOILERS*** Nicolas Cage was never better as the totally brunt out paramedic Frank Pierce who in what he confronts night after night is slowing losing his humanity in his caring about and saving his fellow human beings. Patricia Arquette is touching as Mary Burke who's now reunited with her dad, who disowned her, under the worst and most trying of circumstances possible! With him literally dying right in front of her eyes as she helplessly watches! Besides John Goodman there's also Vig Rhames and Tom Sizemore, Marcus & Tom, as Nicloas Cage's or Frank Pierce's fellow paramedic ambulance drivers who have gotten used to the dead and dying that's all around them. This makes them think of Priece, who hasn't, as being some kind of a nut or loose cannon and are afraid to work with him.**MAJOR SPOILER** It's at the end of the movie that Pierce overcomes his guilt feeling about Rose and everything else that has to do with his job of saving lives on the mean streets and hot and cramped apartments of Hells Kitchen. It's Pierce who finally ends up seeing that life as precious as it may be when one is healthy enough, in mind & body, to enjoy it can be a terrible burden when its, artificially, forced on someone against their will! It's then that Pierce, against everything that he believed in, did what Mr. Burke wanted him to do in freeing him from the life that he, after his heart attack, ended up with! "},{"Title":"Another blackly-hued portrait of New York City on behalf of Schrader and Scorsese, as a paramedic running on regret and thrill seeking is explored.","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Similalry to 1976's Taxi Driver and 1992's Light Sleeper before it, 1999's Bringing Out the Dead is a gloomy and downtrodden revisiting to New York City for one of, or the infused combination of, Paul Schrader and Martin Scorsese; a journeying around the streets, the drug dens, the raves and the sordid living conditions of most of the city's inhabitants as the lead at the centre of it all struggles to balance everything he sees, feels and experiences. The crucial difference between the three examples lies with the role of the lead, with similar thematic ideas of said films being played out from the point of view of someone operating as a paramedic more-so a drug dealer or homicidal loner. Here, the lead is a paramedic named Frank Pierce (Cage), a man scooting and shooting their way way through Manhatten in the early hours of the morning, mostly every morning, with an array of different assistants.From the opening few scenes set in a hospital reception area, Scorsese brings to life a rag-tag bunch of extras; a group of victims that are victims of themselves and the city around them as personalities, stories and predicaments are got across. It sets the tone for what's to come, a looking at those that are somewhat unwell and need some serious attention. Bringing Out the Dead deals with its lead and his attitudes to what's around him, having Pierce see the city for what it is; seeing it what it does to people and balances this with his own struggles in coming to terms with dealing with what has happened in the past. The film begins with a shot of an ambulance before going on to present Pierce's eyes; this systematic establishment of a world-weary guy and what he uses to observe everything that goes on around him with the white, metallic bubble of four wheels and a load of first aid in the back he sits in and observes from.That sense of the world around him and the grime that comes with it frightens Pierce, indeed arouses his attention and makes him feel worse, than all the medical procedures and people's drastic physical condition that he must deal with on a regular basis. Frank sees the pain in this world brought about by drug taking and gunshot wounds, but an additional cause for his call outs might be the city as a whole, a wholly item that spawns suicides just as it does house all the perpetrators for other examples of wrong-doing and ill-health. The location is just as much-a character, with its own downtrodden traits and habits, as anyone else.Pierce is running on a tragedy prior to the film's events of not being able to save a young woman named Rosie. He believes he's able to sense whether certain people are close to death or not when around them, and this persistent desire to continuously seek out the 'ultimate rush' in saving a life when all seems lost is a consistent and demanding strain on the man. In a film that sees a number of people feel the need to garner a sense of importance in carrying firearms and searching for a thrill similar to Frank's in maintaining a drug habit, Pierce's round-the-clock prowl for that adrenaline rush might see him connected more to these people than first thought. Of course, he is on the inside of this white safe-haven looking out at everything around him; a little slice of health-care and heaven inside a fifteen foot space, garnering a different perspective to the same things the street-dwelling sorts see.Nicholas Cage's portrayal of Frank Pierce sees Scorsese channel two different sorts of roles that Cage had previously embody. His role as a saviour, indeed a 'hero', caught up in a somewhat volatile situation amidst some pretty scummy individuals sees him maintain flaws, yes, but attempt to garner the best possible result out of the situation regardless. Running on his roles as a disgraced individual now having to make do as a convict attempting to deal with the threat of terrorism in 1997's Con Air; as well as an out of his depth chemical weapons expert in 1996's The Rock, Bringing Out the Dead combines this with not only the visuals of something like Leaving Las Vegas at certain point, but a real sense of despair and down-trodden infused emotions that Cage's character maintained during that 1995 film. In Bringing Out the Dead, he is both the hero saving lives amidst all the chaos as well as the guy on the way out due to his line of work; the regularity of this work and the habit he possesses in chasing that mostly exclusive thrill, or rush, in saving a life.Cage's character works with three different people throughout the course of the film, but it is a young woman named Mary (Arquette) whom he meets through he father's heart attack that he bonds with best, a person that appears to be the only level headed person left in the city not corrupted in any form, although her pain and anguish links her character to Pierce through the psychological strain they're both suffering. Scorsese peppers the film with moments of fleeting comedy without ever exploiting any of the situations they're placed within nor does he loose face with the overall study of this man and his emotional plight. Tight; unnerving and nicely grounded, Bringing Out the Dead is a concentrated and interesting effort from Scorsese. "},{"Title":"Quite impressive but underrated","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the next movie after Scorsese launched the superb biopic Kundun (you can hear the Tibetan Buddhist bell when the Touchstone Studio Logo appears). Bringing Out The Dead (BOTD) tells a story about an ambulance paramedic named Frank Pierce (Nicholas Cage). The story begins when he and another rescuer, Larry (John Goodman) saved a man named Mr. Burke from heart failure. Mr. Burke is saved but coma, while Pierce is getting close with his daughter, Mary (Patricia Arquette). Pierce somehow he can feel the death's souls present around him, specially the soul of Rose, the street girl whom he failed to save. Rose is looks like haunting him. This condition, the pressure from his job, and the burden that he hadn't save nobody's live for few months make him stress. The top of his peevish is when his ambulance&#151;ride by Marcus (Ving Rhames)&#151;had accident because Marcus is drunk. Pierce later followed Mary goes to some kind of sanctuary named Oasis where he use drugs and hallucinating but can take Mary home. The climax of the story is when he decide to end Mr. Burke's live because according to him and visualized to the audience, Mr. Burke asked him so (in coma condition). The Frank Pierce character is interesting and so human. He struggle with his believe that saving others is important and exciting, and he show us that live as a rescuer is worthy. The story of BOTD is simple to be followed, yet it quite entertaining and have good messages. The character Noel (Mark Anthony), a lunatic man in the street is a little bit cliché but still have an important significance to the dramatic flow. The music and the cinematography is Scorsese's signature. Overall, it's quite impressive and enjoyable movie by Scorsese. Too bad, it's underrated. "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't actually know it was a Scorsese film while I was watching it for the first time, a while ago. Loved it from the beginning to the very end anyway. Especially the ending -). The thing that impressed me most was the story itself (and the way it's been shown). As I see, it's the idea of coming changes to one's life just because it's time to, which is obviously too deep for the most Hollywood flicks, but here is definitely living fine just because it's Scorsese, who brings really epic and humanity-value sense to his every movie. And the system of signs, dialogues, personalities and feelings that are shown, as it comes to me, defines the life that Frank's beginning to live in the end as more natural then in the beginning of the story, and that happens because of all that weird and bad things happening to him. So I really liked it. I think it's a great story and a great movie, definitely not only and not really just about tough days of a sensual paramedic guy. "},{"Title":"You will be mad that you wasted your time!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My fiance and I watched this movie and were angry at the end that we wasted our time!  You will want to turn back time so that you NEVER watched it, it is so bad.  Words cannot express how bad it is!I liked Scorsese's films The Age of Innocence and Taxi Driver and I LOVED The Last Temptation of Christ, so it can't be said that I don't like Scorsese's work.Bringing Out The Dead will Bring out the worst in you. "},{"Title":"An intense masterwork from one of Film's greatest auteurs.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is Martin Scorcese at his best-- dizzying, intense, real.  Much has been written here about the storyline, such as it is, but the story is secondary to the real purpose of the movie an exploration of a human being's inner demons.  The ambulance driver as grief mop, as the saver of souls, as the attendant at the gateway of departure from this life, is powerful enough.  Then Scorcese uses all the tools of his decades as a filmmaker to explore and probe the nightmarish existence of a man with one foot over the line.  Sound familiar?  It is, but this film combines previous characters, situations and viewpoints, and breaks new ground.  Scorcese himself as one of the dispatchers is a nice touch, and there is plenty of black humor here.  If you are looking for light entertainment, or any kind of clearly defined plot line, this is not the film for you.  If you love Film as an art form, and appreciate a director who paints on the flickering canvas with all the tools at his command and whose works are uniquely his, rent or buy this film for your collection.  "},{"Title":"A very under-rated film","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  People who see shit are always crazy -from BOTDI love movies about crazy people.  Movies like Apacolypse Now, O Brother Where Art Thou, among others all feature truly insane people.  Bringing out the Dead is filled with completely crazy people, and I love every minute of it.This is one of the best written movies of 1999, maybe of the decade.  The speech and dialog is beautiful in a poetic way, but it also works to develope insane characters.  After all, you have to be crazy to be a paramedic in New York City.Nicolas Cage pulls off a great performance.  I'm not a huge fan off his work, but I do like his style and take on acting.  His character is a very tired man on the brink of loosing it.  Ving Raymes pulls off one of the most memorible perfomances I have ever seen.  John Goodman, Patricia Arkette, and Tom Sizemore are all great actors who all play insane characters.  Tom Sizemore's is probably the craziest character in the movie, especially when we see him beating the ever-living-crap out of his own ambulance.Every paramedic in the movie is waiting to be fired.  Why?  Because the job is absolute hell.  The movie can get a little dark, and I know that most people like cheery movies.  Well, this is not a cheery movie.  It's not a depressing movie, but it ain't cheerful.  This is a dark comedy in many ways, so it can be funny.  Very, very funny.The other technical aspects of the film are perfect.  The cinematography is perfect and helps create the dark world of the New York City underworld. The soundtrack, like all Scorsese pictures, is a great collection of Rock and roll music which really adds to the insanity.I love this movie.  I think it is very unappreciated film.  Scorsese is a genius, and he shows it here.  Someday, I believe the unappreciated movies of the 90's will come back and make more of an impact on the same movie critics and other general people who hated them.  Critics originally hated The Godfather, The Usual Suspects, and even The Wizard of Oz (now all considered the best of the best).  I believe that Bringing Out the Dead will make its way into this pile, and it deserves to be (along with Fight Club, Three Kings, and Gattaca).  But hey, that's just my opinion.8/10 "},{"Title":"I still can't believe it....","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How can such an acclaimed director as the great, fabulous, fantastic, outstanding! Mr. Martin Scorsese direct such talented people as Patricia Arquette and Nicolas Cage in such a lifeless, cardboard cut-out?I never could get interested in, nor care about what happened to any of the characters in it. Being a huge fan of the woman I consider the most talented screen actress since the great Janet Gaynor, I actually felt deep sympathy for the wonderful Patricia Arquette and the shoddy manner in which she was treated. John Goodman, as is his custom, was a true DISASTER!! Dear Ms. Arquette, I have viewed, and greatly enjoyed eleven of your wonderful pieces of work. PLEASE! Don't allow ANYONE ever do this to you again.   "},{"Title":"Mesmerising and touching.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing Out the Dead is the first film directed by Martin Scorsese that I've seen in it's entire length and not in bits and pieces.The film was based on the novel by Joe Connelly, who used to be a paramedic working in the Big Apple. Also, the movie isn't only told by the main character - Frank Pierce, Connelly is telling the story as well.Nicholas Cage is great as Frank, the paramedic who tries to survive the horrors of working the night shift. Cage doesn't try to get cute with his role, he's solemn and there are a few scenes where he feels the opposite.This movie also reminded me of Scorsese's earlier films - Taxi Driver and its main character - Travis Bickle, a film that I haven't seen yet. Like this film and Taxi Driver, Scorsese has the same writer writing the story - Paul Schrader. Like Scorsese is a master at directing, Schrader is a master in writing.Also, like any Scorsese film, there's a great supporting cast and it shows here. John Goodman, Ving Rhames, and Tom Sizemore are the other paramedics that Cage has to work with on the shift. Sizemore is delightful as Walls, the paramedic who is wild as Bickle and has a variety of strange habits from beating up on patients like harmless Noel (Marc Anthony) to using a baseball bat to beat on an ambulance in the parking lot. Rhames is solid as Marcus, a paramedic who is very religious and faithful.Patricia Arquette and Cliff Curtis round out the cast and play key roles in making Frank's life somewhat better. Curtis is good as Cy Coates, a friendly drug dealer and Arquette is great as Mary, the daughter of a heart attack victim that Frank tried to save. Mary and Frank don't fall in love, but they become close friends, which is touching.Bringing Out the Dead is one of Scorsese's best films update and hopefully, he's still on a roll. "}{"Title":"Surely, the worst ever Scorsese film","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this film out the other day. How could it be bad? Martin Scorsese, Nick Cage, good supporting cast. The film was so bad, I turned it off about 20 minutes before the end!  It was the first time that I had ever rented a video and failed to watch it all the way through! Scorsese seems to have tried to create a stylish, trippy, visually stunning movie, but, alas, all he has created is a shambolic mess!  I'm sorry, but it just doesn't work. The film has no real plot, and is just plain confusing and uninteresting. I've got nothing against films that are fairly hard to follow, but quite frankly, this film does not have enough going for it to make you want to keep track of what's going on. Very disappointing. Can it really be true that this film was made by the same talented director that gave us such classics as Goodfellas and Casino?  You wouldn't have guessed it to watch it! "},{"Title":"Martin Scorsese knows how to get the BEST performance from method actors...","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gene Hoke wrote an extremely eloquent review on BOTD. read it. watch the flick. read it again after the flick and just see if you don't agree. kudos...i love with the way Martin Scorsese can pull the best performances from method actors. he just seems to know where to put the camera when the proverbial sh*t hits the fan. the combination never fails. from robert de niro in about a half dozen of Scorsese's films to willem defoe in the last temptation of christ,from wynona ryder in the age of innocence to ellen burstyn in alice doesn't live here anymore. bringing out the dead is no exception.it's a fast-paced, heart thumpin' film that makes you think.....jeez! how long did nicolas cage go without sleep BEFORE they started filming to prepare? i mean he looks exhausted. he IS exhausted. YOU get exhausted just watching him. that's how far into the character's psyche the film brings you . welcome to Frank Pierce's nightmare...  "},{"Title":"A marvellously different movie shows cinema at it's best.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Before I wrote this comment I read the one here at IMDB by Gene Hoke. I have to say I think he hit the nail on the head with much of what he said. This is a cinematic tour-de-force by Scorsese, Cage, all the other players, and particularly New York City itself, which broods, boils and seeps through every frame to become a major character in it's own right. This is one thing Scorsese is great at - giving the flavour of a city, showing how it influences the protagonists.The editing, soundtrack, and cinematography all combine perfectly to make you feel uncomfortable, whether you're sat in a scummy multiplex watching this movie, or at home in your comfy lounge supping a cold beer. Cage provides one of his most powerful performances, right up there with Leaving Las Vegas or Snake Eyes (where he held together a weak plot).Kudos to Tom Sizemore too, who shows where Cage's character could end up if he doesn't find some redemption. Medics are NEVER shown having a violent streak (witness the beating of Noel), but I expect that like any other profession the whole spectrum of humanity can be found there. Scorsese and Schrader showed courage in exposing us to this side of the EMS, which I'm sure won them no friends in the medical profession.When Cy was lying impaled on the 14th floor balcony, Scorsese refrained from gratuitous gore, instead choosing to counterbalance Cy's pain and suffering with a glorious firework display set against New York's skyline. This was one of the most beautiful scenes I have ever witnessed, and was the most memorable image I took away from this movie.Scorsese, Schrader and Cage should team up again. "},{"Title":" a scared straight movie for the medical profession!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I guess it proves that Scorsese can make a lemon of a movie. What was the point of it all? Maybe the mission was to frighten someone from entering the medical profession. Maybe it was to appall someone of the big city. I know I would not want to check into any of those hospitals. I guess the guy with the wrought iron fence protruding from his large intestines did not require immediate medical attention. What did the other guy look like?  After watching this movie one may have to ask himself, are all  paramedics psychos? I like Nicholas Cage movies, but I hate it when he acts his ` woe is me, life sucks, I need another drink' mode.  Watching this movie made me want a drink or a shot of Valium so I could mask the suffering.Many stories wilted soon after being planted in this dark movie. The film never took any of the possibilities and built upon them. We were left to wallow in the muck.  What was the point of focusing on the' Red Death ` drug? What was the point of the Jesus preaching ambulance driver? What was the message of the other driver, who was an old street war buddy that beats his ambulance for a hobby? What was the point of all the cardiac arrests? Why did we see so much of the drug addict Noel and his kidney condition? Did the virgin birth of the twins have an impact to the story line? Many of these things could have been nurtured into a nice or interesting story, but nope! Just wallow in the Scorsese muck. There was no shock to defib this movie back to life.  It was one of those popular movies that makes you think, or should make you think, that society sucks and its getting worse. Not my idea of entertainment.This movie scores a solid 5. The only reason it scored that high was the acting and character of Ving Rhames. Now he was good. Should have had a story about him or least more of him in this one. Watching this movie I felt like a test pilot. The freshly engineered hunk of aluminum is crashing and I will not eject. I have hope that I can save it and pull it out of its perilous nose dive. I kept waiting for this goose to pull out of it. The controls would not respond!  It shook and shimmied all the way to the ground.  May we all rest in peace. Please don't bring this one out from the dead.  "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought it was supposed to be a drama/comedy. Thought that there could have been more realism practised by the medics. Not familiar with EMS in New York, but there were many things that they did that were either un-ethical and/or illegal. Hope nobody gets the impression that this is a representation of EMS.  "},{"Title":"Sorry,could'nt sit through this","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsMartin Scorsese has'nt made a thudding comeback with Bringing Out The Dead.Similar in a lot of ways to Taxi Driver in it's focus on one man who grows tired of the world around him,Taxi Driver focused on a taxi driver.This focuses on an ambulance driver,which somehow dos'nt provide the same sort of satisfaction.The film is just too sketchily made to hold your attention.It's alright for everyone to seemingly rate every single one of Martin Scorsese's films,but I have the courage to stand up and say this one was'nt very good.Nicholas Cage still has'nt really nurtured from an action man to an actor,and this single tone film dos'nt really provide an accurate source for him to expand at all.The film is kind of too long as well,and there ar'nt enough gripping twists and turns in the plot to keep you hooked,as there was in Taxi Driver.I can't imagine this one will be much of a favourite with anyone.** "},{"Title":"Gritty, Unforgiving, and Unforgettable","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorcese's Bringing Out the Dead is a dark, somber, and often brilliant film that chronicles the life of Frank Pierce, a paramedic at the verge of a breakdown due to the fact that on most of his calls, he keeps losing his patients.  Though the film follows no conventional plot, it immerses the viewer in its gritty, sometimes hellish atmosphere.  The story is driven on by Cage's character, as we see him struggling to continue working, though losing hope every time he is called to a scene where maintaining the patient alive will be almost useless.The cinematography is also striking, with scenes often darkly lit and sometimes colorless the only hues scarcely visible being the red screaming from the ambulance sirens or the angelic white that eminates from Nicholas Cage's shirt.  That small effect speaks volumes for his character he is an angel, but will he finally get to be an angel of life instead of an angel of death?  Other scenes are also beautiful in their own right, including a scene where snow falls up and also a grotesque incident that is juxtaposed against a magnifcent view of New York.Nicholas Cage here is in top-form and turns in a masterful, heartbreaking protrayal as Pierce.  There are some scenes where his eyes, haunting and enormously vulnerable, are filled with emotion that lines could not describe, nor could ever be as effective at conveying his torture.  The supporting cast also turns in fantastic performances.  Ving Rhames and John Goodman are equally funny as Cage's fellow paramedics and Tom Sizemore's maniacal performance also works well.While some have panned Bringing out the Dead for its lack of plot, its power comes from its strong narrative pull, it's mostly bleak, sporadically dazzling cinematography, and the vulnerable, strongly believable character, again, masterfully created by Nicholas Cage.  If you're not screaming and hoping inside that Cage will finally save someone from death's doorstep near the end, maybe you're the one they should be Bringing Out.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Unique","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I remember seeing the preview for this movie when it came out last year. I wanted to see it but I never got around to it and it kinda faded out of existense. But than it came out on video and I definatly had to see it. I figured the movie had Nicolas Cage in it, so it had to be pretty good. The story seemed really good and it even compelled me to read the book.Bringing Out The Dead tells a story of a burnt out paramedic who works in Hell's Kitchen. It's tells 48 hours of Frank Pierce's (Cage) life. It goes from drug use, ghosts, cardiac arrests, and men being impaled with metal rods. The movie sticks pretty close to the book which is very unusual. The only thing that the movie left out (which fed a lot of Frank's suffering) was the history of him and his wife. Well I guess you will just have to see the movie and read the book.Rated R for some language, violence, and a scene of drug use. "},{"Title":"A strong, stylish and evocative film","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched `Bringing Out the Dead' a couple of times in its DVD edition. It's certainly a beautiful-looking film, which is something I always appreciate.  To me it is only reminiscent of `Taxi Driver' in that it has the same sort of `film-noir' quality.  Whereas the film noir pieces of the &#145;40s and &#145;50s depicted cities dominated by criminals in double-breasted suits and fedoras, Scorsese's nocturnal New York City seems to consist primarily of pimps, hookers, gangstas, transients, junkies, and the chronically insane.  These are people Scorsese claims to have grown up around, much like the `Mary' character in this film.  Whether he still understands them is one question, but he certainly depicts them hauntingly. To me his vision of the city at night is a decidedly spooky one, even if ghosts are not depicted in the most obvious and predictable way.  To me, that's a plus.  I've seen the remake of `The Haunting,' alas.I wouldn't let comments that this film is highly stylized, arty, inaccessible, or has no story, deter you from seeing it.  I think it can be appreciated as a coherent story.  It is certainly episodic, and this may well be the nature of the source material, a novel by former paramedic Joe Connelly which I haven't read.  True, it doesn't have a big slam-bang finale with an explosion and a villain getting his head ripped off.  The story simply ends quietly, on a note of relief (well, exhaustion perhaps).  I can think of some great films from America, Europe, and elsewhere that don't resolve all conflicts and wrap it up in a nice neat bow for you at the end. A couple that come to mind immediately are `Forbidden Games' and `The Pawnbroker.'  This is not a technical fault or an insult to the moviegoing public, just a choice that filmmakers make, and I'd trust Scorsese's judgment over a good may others'.  There are films that are so obvious, and so damned dumb, they make me sick (`Independence Day'), and there are films that are so cryptic, stylistically severe, and uncompromisingly unentertaining that I can't sit through a screening of them (`Institute Benjamenta').  `Bringing Out the Dead' lies comfortably in between such extremes, and I don't think any adult of normal intelligence should have trouble following it.  It's just not the most obvious and dumb movie around.The cast of characters and actors is a colorful and diverse one.  John Goodman's seems the most straightforward character, a hard-working schmoe who hopes to get ahead in life.  The rest of the characters seem afflicted with varying degrees of eccentricity and/or dementia, including our hero Frank, played by Nicolas Cage.  From my perspective of not having seen any previous `burned-out guy' roles of his, and thus not appreciating anything derivative or repetitious, I can say that I found his portrayal convincing and sympathetic.  `Mary' is a sad and pathetic character, and I'm not sure that any movie star flash or multileveled interpretive insight is necessary for the role.  I thought Patricia Arquette's performance was very good and made me feel compassion for this person.  Mary and her family never migrated to the &#145;burbs, in the Great White American tradition.  As a result, she feels consumed by the city, and while she has no real love for it, clings to it as the only way of life she knows.  As a lifelong urban dweller, I can appreciate this love/hate relationship with a city.  Scorsese fled this environment a long time ago, but does not seem to have forgotten it in all this time.  Maybe he does really understand these people, and though his vision of this weird nocturnal world may be exaggerated to some degree, for me it has the quality of great storytelling to transport you somewhere else and transform you to someone else.  When I was a kid, and saw James Bond films for the first time, I WAS an international spy for weeks afterwards, and when I saw Sergio Leone westerns, I WAS the Man With No Name.  Watching a film like this makes me feel like I walked those mean streets -- at least for a couple of hours, and in relative safety -- and I appreciate the experience.  To me, it's at least worth the price of a movie ticket or a video.  "},{"Title":"This was simply amazing.","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a physician who has worked the ER more times than I can count, I was impressed by the accuracy of the action at Perpetual Mercy.  The film captured the TRUE essence of emergency medicine (boredom, futility, and often misanthropy) on a scale so far removed from that horrendous television show, E.R., that one wonders why the producer of that show isn't forced to sit down with the Bringing Out the Dead DVD for a couple of dozen screenings and take notes. The film itself is dazzling.  So complete in its development of the REAL motivation for saving lives, that I wonder who the physician was that helped Joe Connelly write the original novel. The performances are tight, the writing concise, the music an asset (for a change), and Martin Scorsese once again demonstrate why he is the greatest living filmmaker. The lay public will probably see the film as somewhat of a caricature.  The truly amazing thing (and certainly the most unnerving) is how dead-on it is.  "}{"Title":"admirable but rambling film","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The filmmakers responsible for 1976's classic film `Taxi Driver' &#150; writer Paul Schrader and director Martin Scorsese - return to their roots, in both milieu and style, in `Bringing Out the Dead,' a film that, unfortunately, fails to replicate the quality of the earlier work. In this new film, instead of the taxi cab driver, Travis Bickle (Robert De Niro), serving as our escort through the dank city streets of Manhattan's seedy underbelly, we have ambulance driver, Frank Pierce, pretty much fulfilling the same purpose.  Burnt out and emotionally on the edge, Pierce, much like Bickle, becomes a study of a tightly wound coil waiting to be sprung.  However, `Taxi Driver' was a highly structured narrative, filled with dramatic contrasts, which explored the progression of a man's mind into madness as a response to the inexplicable yet overwhelming brutality and ugliness of the world around him.  `Bringing Out the Dead' pretty much wants to achieve the same goal, yet it dilutes its effectiveness by settling for a pseudo-documentary style that ultimately weakens the overall thrust of the film.  The dramatic monotony sets in early on as the film becomes basically a sequence of rambling, loosely related crises and hallucinogenic visions, barely held together by Pierce's portentous and often pretentious voice-over observations. The core of the film is a sound one.   Scorcese forces us to stare unblinking at a world in which woefully understaffed emergency rooms and overworked EMT teams must contend with a literal war zone of wounded and broken bodies, often a result of self-destructive behaviors the roots of which are lodged far deeper in the psyche than even the physical manifestations would indicate.  It is, indeed, a horrifying vision that is put before us and the filmmakers capture it with an undeniable immediacy and realism.  Yet, the flatness of the film's dramatic structure creates a backlash in the audience; after two solid hours of staring into the face of all this physical and emotional agony, we would like to feel somehow illuminated as to the why and wherefore of it all.  We know that we are supposed to see Pierce as a lost soul, a man driven by the intense stress of his job to question the value of life and the effect he can really have on all these suffering, tortured individuals, yet, somehow, he never fully engages us in the way that Travis Bickle does.  Perhaps, Nicolas Cage's single expression of hangdog misery prevents us from seeing the complexity behind the facade.  Unlike with Bickle, who seemed stuck in his own private hell, we wonder, perhaps irreverently, why Pierce doesn't just quit and find another line of work if he is so unhappy.  In addition, the film portrays the protagonist's troubled conscience in the most stereotypical of ways &#150; in the form of visions Pierce periodically has of the face of a young woman who died while under his care.  The echoes of  `Taxi Driver' become almost crushing in their effect.  In addition to the endless shots of the filthy city streets glimpsed through the windows of a moving vehicle, the main character even shares Travis' obsession with enacting a heroic rescue for an urban damsel in distress.  He also achieves emotional catharsis by stepping in to perform the God-like act of deliberately taking a life &#150; albeit in a much less violent fashion here.Patricia Arquette brings a quiet dignity to her role as the one source of light and happiness in Pierce's bleak world.  Their scene together in the hospital waiting room, as they gently bare their wounded souls to each other, is the most effective and engaging in the movie.  Thus, for all its admirable attempts at documentary realism, the film turns out to be at its most compelling when it follows the tried-and-true path of basic character-driven drama. `Bringing Out the Dead,' despite the best of intentions, ranks as one of the lesser works in the Scorsese canon. "},{"Title":"Much much better & more dangerous than reviewers know...","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like a version of Hieronymus Bosch, visions of hell.  But with so many involuntary laughs in the midst of the chaos and horror.  By the time this film got over to Europe, it was clear the Americans don't know what to do with or think of their top director's latest.  But that's what make's Martin S. the top -- he's moving faster than the mass can follow. "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece, but still great","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing Out The Dead is the first Scorsese's film I've seen. No, I''m not an alien! In fact, I've been watching good movies for just two years (I'm 15). Unfortunately here in Brazil they didn't keep the intriguing original title, changing for Vivendo no Limite (Living on the Limit). I must confess that one of the main reasons that made me want to watch that movie was the title. And, of course, the director and the plot.While you're watching it you can see that it's made by a director of renown it tries to be different, has one story that doesn't have clichés or any formula (good screenplay), has amazing camera moves, memorable scenes and it's not make exclusively to get money, it's original.The film is the story of one paramedic, Frank Pierce, performed by Nicolas Cage. After failing in the rescue of one young girl, he enters in a deep crisis, starts to fail in all the future rescues and is haunted by the girl's spectrum. The movie begins in the rescue of one old man, the father of Mary Burke (Patricia Arquette), and after it we join Frank for 3 days and we'll see if he is or not going to save himself.I still don't understand why Scorsese gave so much importance for Patricia's character, just a daughter of one of the hundreds patients. Maybe, as Frank was seeing her every night on the hospital, as he was the doctor that she was more related to, maybe her simplicity, her sweet voice, etc, helped him but I still think she was very strange. And sometimes the movie remimd the show ER! Well, in fact that's not a problem as ER isn't a bad show.Nicolas, with his stressed-face was great in the role. And the small scenes in the ambulance with Janie Jones, by The Clash playing in the background are just amazing! Pay attention at the the whole soundtrack, at the beautiful cinematography and at some fun jokes in the dialogues (in general, said by the other paramedics). In fact, if I could, I would rate it 8.5/10. Most of the people in this situation would decide to give 8, as it's Scorsese's and should be a remarkable masterpiece. I'm the opposite. I'm giving it a 9 because it's Scorsese's. Bringing Out The Dead is not a masterpiece, but it's still a great movie by a great director. "},{"Title":"Uncompromising, spiritual, and electrifying.","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Capping off his most eclectic decade of filmmaking, Martin Scorsese has made a film that is a stunning and original film both in tone and style. It's been compared to his earlier film Taxi Driver, but it should be seen as a variation on a theme and not a ripoff. Nicolas Cage stars as NYC paramedic Frank Pierce, who is quickly coming apart at the seams after being unable to save anyone's life in months. And Cage is the perfect actor to embody such a role - his pale face, sunken eyes, and inimitable way with humor couldn't have been topped by anyone. The supporting cast is terrific as well - Tom Sizemore, John Goodman, and especially Ving Rhames are tremendous as Cage's shotgun partners, Marc Anthony is astonishing as a half-crazed homeless man, and Cliff Curtis beautifully portrays a drug dealer, somehow avoiding all cliches with his performance. Patricia Arquette is good as Cage's love interest as well, and her zoned-out performance fits in well with the character, a recovering drug addict. Paul Schrader's script is beautifully subtle and tight, Robert Richardson's cinematography is the best of the year, and Martin Scorsese's direction is as always energetic and imaginative. My favorite film of 1999. "},{"Title":"A Christological Tale","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen the film a second time last night and it struck me even more forcefully that this is a deeply spiritual and profoundly hopeful film. People flounder and die in the chaotic, red-death-scarred Hell Kitchen night, but hell is not terminal if burnt-out medics can drag themselves out just one more night and rescue its dwellers by taking them to Mercy hospital. The hospital, which is Heaven to Bellevue's Hell (as Tom Sizemore's terrific character tells us), is the pulsing centre of the story. It is populated by a plentiful of characters taken right out of Catholic mythology and re-embodied in late twentieth-century New York.Christ figures abound Frank Pierce, who begs for the cup to be taken away from him but then is out again in his night of the spirit, to put souls to rest and bear witness to human freedom, fall, and redemption; Noel, who asks, like Christ on the cross, for a cup of water and, like Christ, is denied; security guard Griss, whose name is pronounced as if it were Grace; the drug pimp, pierced by a fence post in the same way as Christ was pierced by a sward; etc.And then of course we have Mary Burke, who can be the Virgin Mary or Mary Magdalen or both, but who, in either case, symbolizes forgiveness (of her father) and acceptance (of tired Frank, who can sleep peacefully only at her place, possibly enfolded in her arms like in a present-day Pieta'). Even though Frank doesn't see it and screams his Why Have You Forsaken Me? over and over (not with anger, mind you, only infinite pain), he DOES save people and they know it they turn to him for salvation because they know that's where they can get it. Finally, in the ICU with Mr. Burke, Frank consummates his destiny and symbolically dies. His death releases Burke from the constraints of earthly life and sets him free for eternal peace.Tremendous performance by Nicolas Cage, who focuses the film with his forced bursts of hilarity and his mesmerized looks out of the ambulance windows, and Patricia Arquette, who portrays beautifully her character's sadness, weakness and profound innocence.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie in all respects","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Every few years, a movie comes along that really emotes and reflect the feelings of both the characters and the audience. This is one such film. Scorsese has always had the ability to make film an artform without becoming too pretentious. It felt at moments that if it hadn't been Scorsese behind the camera everything would have wound up cheasy and weak, but he just made it work. Nicholas Cage presents another powerful performance, as only Cage can. If this role wasn't written for him, I couldn't tell. I think the real winner among all of this was the script. Very few times have I ever seen a movie that included comedy, drama, and thriller aspects, and still wound up being as powerful as Bringing out the Dead. My vote for best film of the year. "},{"Title":"Change of Heart","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Aside from Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, and Mean Streets, which were all made between 1973 and 1980, I either don't know of any Scorsese movies that were that good or I just didn't like them all that much (Good Fellas for example.  This was a good movie, but I somehow always got lost somewhere in the middle of the movie).I can honestly say (after some consideration and after reading reviews which helped explain the point of the movie,) that it was a fine movie.  There was no question in my mind when I saw it that it is an incredibly well made movie.  I read a few other reviews on this site a few minutes ago and after reading about what people disliked about this movie, I know now that there wasn't a flaw in this movie.  (Well, except for the fact that the Natalie Merchant song didn't seem to fit in.)Yes, I thought the movie was only mildly entertaining while watching it.  I can't say, however, that I was ever bored.   I think that this will definitely be a movie that I'll have to see again to develop a good appreciation for it. ( I wasn't too nuts about Hitchcock's Vertigo the first time that I saw that and I've got that at #2 on my all time list.)  I usually don't watch movies more than once, maybe... just maybe twice, if I wasn't absolutely in love with the story.  but there is something interesting about a Scorsese joint.  And this movie was all Scorsese!!  with a fine acting performance by an actor who I don't really like -- Nicholas Cage.  While Taxi Driver didn't find it's way into my top 10 favorites of all time, it certainly was as entertaining the second time that I saw it.  I watched it for the second time probably not more than 6 months after I saw it for the first time.  (not typical for me)So, in conclusion...  Bringing Out the Dead was every bit a good movie as his masterpieces in the 70's.  I won't put it in my top 30 list right now, but after I see it again, I think that it may find it's way somewhere between 25 and 30.  I think that the only initial problem that I had with the movie was that I just wasn't ready for a Scorsese classic in the 90's.Bringing Out the Dead  * * * *  (9 out of 10) Definitely worth a DVD purchase "},{"Title":"Probably my favorite film of the year","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I Just saw Bringing Out the Dead, a film I was not too interested in beforehand.  I like Martin Scorsese's movies.  I love Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, Mean Streets, and King Of Comedy(the most underrated of his films, in my opinion.)  Frankly, I'm sick of Goodfellas and Casino and have never seen Kundun or New York, New York.  After watching this film, all I can say is WOW!  What a movie.  There is so much to absorb in this film.All is not well with this movie, however.  The pacing is too slow for the average citizen.  Also, the plot doesn't have the convenient present the good guy, throw him into some conflict, save the day, get the girl, chuckle chuckle.   What you get instead is a remarkably inventive film.  The acting is first rate.  I forgot that Nic Cage was an actor fifteen minutes into the film.  The supporting cast was brilliant.  Ving Rhames is probably a favorite here, but I loved John Goodman's relatively subtle performance as well as Tom Sizemore's hauntingly violent character. The visuals are second to none.  All the driving shots were great.  The blood and water scene was perfect.  Unlike countless lesser films, the far-out visuals actually add to the story.  I didn't feel like I was watching filmmaker w****** with this, rather a perfect statement by a visionary director.  Marty, don't let the box office results fool you. This film is special.  "},{"Title":"Watch this film and you will be bored with the show ER.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you visit New York city on vacation, you may notice a few things that disturb you. If you live there, you will notice more disturbing things. Nicholas Cage plays a paramedic, Frank Pierce, driving an ambulence at night, seeing the worst of the worst of New York.My mother was disturbed seeing people covered in blood. This is not an easy film to watch. But it does not use graphic scenes to shock you, instead, to help you see the realistic Hell that would make you want to quit right away. Every day being a struggle. How much money would you be willing to be paid to work in Frank's place?Working a stressful job, one would at least hope that the stress pays off in doing a good job. He has not saved anyone in months. Blaming himself for their deaths.To understand the purpose of this film, imagine the hardships that you have to deal with in your job. Sometime during your job, you will feel that you accomplished something. Everyone needs to have the feeling of making a difference, in or outside of work. This film is about finding a way to live with yourself and your environment in the worst of situations. "},{"Title":"a total thrill...a 120 minute rush of adrenaline, surely one of the year's best","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is outstanding.  it blows you away with it's originality and excitement.  surprisingly though, this film is more of a comedy than anything else.  yes, it's a very very dark comedy, but you often find yourself laughing at things you wouldn't normally laugh at, much like this year's unexpected satire riot Fight Club.  i cut studying for a spanish test and ending up getting a 76% on it just so i could go see this movie.  and you know what?  it was worth it.  rush and see Bringing Out The Dead...let it surprise you as well. "}{"Title":"Mind Blowing","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can see how some out there may dislike this film, many people at the theatre I saw it at wanted their money back. Not me, I'm going to see this film again.I've read many complaints that there is little to no plot to this movie. And I agree, but I think that is a very wise move. If there was some sort of plot to this movie it would be something like you'd watch on TV. There is no method to the madness of being a paramedic. There is no reason for the events that occur on their shifts. They do what they're told to the best of their ability. This film illustrates that beautifully.I think that Martin Scorsese is the greatest director ever. I love all his films and this is one of his best. Nic Cage gives another brilliant performance and Ving Rhames is hilarious.  People have asked me why I liked this film so much, Is it good?, they ask. I say to them, Yes. Yes it is. But I couldn't begin to describe it to you. These reviews must be less than 1,000 words and I would need 3 times that to tell you why this film is so brilliant. "},{"Title":"Scorsese is the master","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing Out the Dead is a much more conventional movie than I expected. That is not to say it is a bad film.  In fact, in a year full of excellent movies, it still stands out as one of the best of 1999.Scorsese is the best director working, bar none.  Here, he injects his visual style into a story of a paramedic haunted by the people he has tried to help.  Grim and gritty as it gets, this is an uplifting story that stays with you for some time.I didn't expect the film to be as funny as it is.  Dark humor abounds, and the musical soundtrack perfectly matches the mood and action on screen (another Scorsese trademark).  The actors all do a fine job, with Nicolas Cage giving one of his best performances.Bringing Out the Dead may not be one of Scorsese's best movies, but it is still better than 98% of the rest of the movies out there. "},{"Title":"","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best thing Cage has done since leaving Las Vagas.  He plays this role in a softer way, yet he draws the viewer into a man who feels pain and violence every day that he is at his job which is every minute of this film.The danger of medicine is to feel the pain of living and dieing.  He feels all and wants to save and yet has the courage most in medicine would like-to take life of those who want release from it.  It won't be liked by those who follow the no brainers out there.  They will not understand. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed  some of the scenes (in the club and on the roof), and Ving Rames was hilarious, but I never really got the sense of any storyline...it seemed empty.   (And Nicholas Cage's  voice  gives  me the creeps).Oh well, can't win 'em all. "},{"Title":"Unique New Vision From Cinematic Master","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorsese's Bringing Out the Dead can best be described as an acid-cool mix of Taxi Driver and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. It is a hallucinagenic fright trip that takes place in a couple days--tracking what transpires to EMS workers in NYC.Frank Pierce (Nick Nolte) has been at this for a while. In monologues reminiscent of those uttered by De Niro in Taxi Driver, Frank tells us that his job has really gotten to him. Most of the people that he and his partner reach are already dead. He has lost hope in his job because he doesn't see himself as a saver of lives, but as a mediator between life and death. He feels that his only purpose is to be present during people's demise--a witness, so to speak.The movie can be divided into three sections--based on the three different partners he works with. The first is John Goodman, a man who is still rather detached to his experience--not yet having suffered the full ramifications that a job like his can inflict on a person.The second one is Ving Rhames. He can be viewed as the one who realizes the torture behind the job, but tries to add a reason to it. They go to a goth club at one point in the film where they try to bring a kid back from his heroine overdose. While Frank administers the drugs, Marcus conducts a administers his version of drugs--religion. He is obviously a religious man, but that sounds a little simple. Although not explored much more beyond that--Scorsese seems to be saying that Marcus is one who will place God in the ultimate position of authority in these situations. Thusly, he is able to smartly escape any of the hardship that befalls Frank.The third is Tom (Tom Sizemore). This is the man who Frank will become. His job is nothing more than a game to him. He has been driven mad by the lunacy of saving the lives of the freaks within the city that he comes across as an angel of darkness--almost expediating their deaths.Mary is played Patricia Arquette, the daughter of a man who has just had a heart attack. Frank, like a man who has become very attuned to the inklings of dead souls, asks her to play some Frank Sinatra for the dead man and he suddenly awakens. From then on, the body of the man code blues throughout the entire movie. Every time it does, it comes back to life.The way the man to vehemently clings to life creeps under Frank's skin. It gets to the point where the man even speaks to him. It gets to the point where the corpse asks him to kill him.Franks relationship with Mary is similar to that of Robert De Niro's and Cybil Shepard's in Taxi Driver in that it is very atypical. There doesn't seem to be much of a sexual vibe going on between the two. Here it seems that Frank has connected to the woman merely because he is her father's savior.Minor characters are interspersed throughout the film. Marc Antony, in a bravura performance, plays a Noel--a lunatic street ruffian who enters Frank's life at every turn, and is the target of a disturbing attack at the hands of Tom.Scorsese brings beautiful complexity to many sequences--like the Oasis scene that takes place on the 16th floor of a project. Take my pulse says the black girlfriend of the man who owns the apartment. Two beats per minute; perfect, says Frank.The film is full of this kind of absurdist humor, and then is complimented with a beautiful introspective moment--like a man, contemplating his fall from a building, observing the fireworks over the Empire State Building.Scorsese, yet again, amazes one with the complete and utter dexterity he has with his camera. Shot compositions are unconventional and the fast motion shots brilliantly capture the energy of the big city in which the film takes place. What else do you expect from Ralph Richardson?Cage is stunning and makes you wonder why he doesn't stick to this kind of quality work. He's wonderful to watch as he goes from regular EMS worker, to lunatic--needing the very medicine and oxygen masks he dispenses on his patients for himself.Admittedly, the film is all over the place--similar to Summer of Sam in that respect. But at it's center, unlike the admirable but heavily flawed Fear and Loathing is a film that beautifully captures the torments of one man's life as he is slowly being driven over the edge by the very people he is trying to save.  "},{"Title":"arguably Scorsese's most underrated film","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After a decade of misdirection ('The Age of Innocence', 'Casino', 'Kundun') Martin Scorsese is back where he belongs, beating a welcome retreat to the mean streets of Manhattan for what many aficionados might consider to be an unofficial sequel (although it's more like a matching bookend) to his nightmare 1976 classic 'Taxi Driver'.Such will likely be the prevailing opinion, at any rate. It's hard enough these days for a halfway challenging movie to win an audience on its own merits, without adding the extra burden of unrealistic expectations. But because of its credentials Bringing Out the Dead will have to withstand a lot of inevitable (and unfair) comparisons to the earlier film, with which it shares the same grim setting and similar themes of alienation and redemption.Hardly surprising, since both were written by Paul Schrader, who knows every contour of this ambiguous moral territory like the back of his own hand. Only the presence of Robert DeNiro (or at least Harvey Keitel) would have made the reunion complete, but Scorsese wisely agreed to the casting of Nicholas Cage in the lead role, as a burned-out paramedic working the graveyard shift in that mid-town neighborhood west of Times Square known (for good reason) as Hell's Kitchen.Cage is in a slump he's working too much, sleeping too little, and hasn't saved a life in months, not a healthy situation for someone who lives and (mostly) dies vicariously through his rescue efforts. Too many unresolved medical emergencies in the lunatic underbelly of Manhattan have brought him to a point where the only hold on his sanity is the paramedic's creed, usually applied to his patients keep the body going until the brain and heart recover.It's the pivotal message of the movie (and easy to spot because it's repeated twice), giving Cage's efforts to preserve his own battered psyche an irresistible, sometimes reckless momentum. The episodic storyline, adapted from the debut novel by Joe Connelly (an erstwhile paramedic himself) may not appeal to the average multiplex audience, conditioned to expect a more conventional, plot-driven narrative. But viewers who don't subscribe to the sales pitch ethos at large in modern Hollywood will find much to admire in Cage's not entirely successful struggle over a long, chaotic weekend of full moons to navigate the grief and accumulated guilt of too many flatliners.Not an easy task, as it turns out, especially in such a merciless environment. This city will kill you if you're not strong enough, he's reminded at one point by Patricia Arquette, playing the long-suffering daughter of a brain-dead heart attack victim, and representing a token ray of slightly tarnished sunlight in an otherwise gloomy all-male scenario. It's the second key line of dialogue in the movie a Nietzschean paraphrase no doubt endorsed by Scorsese himself, who (not for the first time) paints an all too vivid portrait of New York City not likely to be applauded by the local chamber of commerce.An introductory title places the action in the specific time frame of the early 1990s, before the PR mouseketeers of the Walt Disney Company ('Team Rodent', in Carl Hiaasen's memorable words) began their crusade to make the city safe for family tourism. This is the Big Apple before its corporate facelift a loser's paradise of low-rent sleaze emporiums and wasted lives. Every other scene leaves an indelible (if not entirely accurate) impression of being set at the top of another inner-city tenement building, surrounded by a (mostly) nocturnal landscape littered with human flotsam junkies, whores, hustlers, alcoholics, homeless bums and other assorted crazies, not least among them the paramedic crews themselves.Over the course of his dreamlike but sleepless 48-hour flight from reality Cage will find himself paired with a series of increasingly eccentric partners, from a jovial John Goodman to Ving Rhames to a truly psychotic Tom Sizemore. You'll find a measure of more or less traditional buddy-film banter while each team is on the streets, but don't expect too many comfortable chuckles. Scorsese has a gift for raising uneasy laughter from even the darkest scenario, and like all his best films the humor in Bringing Out the Dead is colored in shades of midnight gray, suitably morbid but still amusing if approached in the proper twisted spirit.Sharing equal screen time with a trio of certifies scene-stealers must have posed a particular challenge for Cage, normally an unrestrained actor of no small notoriety. He has been known to run amok over weaker material like a narcoleptic bull in a cheap china shop (quoting an acerbic review of his jaw-dropping hambone turn in the 1989 film 'Vampire's Kiss'), but it's a credit to Scorsese's skill that he manages to coax his star into a performance of laudable restraint and understatement. There's more than a little evidence of method acting residue at work it looks as if Cage prepared for his insomniac role by depriving himself of sleep for several weeks, giving his complexion a totally convincing night owl pallor, strikingly highlighted by Robert Richardson's luminous cinematography.In the spirit of the times the film outstays its welcome by a good twenty minutes, a familiar complaint in these days of slack-fingered editing and narrative hypertrophy. But after its headlong rush into the urban maelstrom of inner Manhattan the story manages to resolve itself on a note of unexpected grace. If the aim was simply to recapture the flavor of Taxi Driver, it might have ended in a cathartic bloodbath worthy of Travis Bickle, instead of with the quieter (but no less powerful) epiphany shown here.So maybe it's true, at least for the maverick directors of the 1970s you can't go home again. And on the evidence presented here, that's something to be thankful for. "},{"Title":"one of Scorcese's hidden gems","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Between the critically and commercially successful Casino and Gangs Of New York, Martin Scorsese directed a still relatively unknown film called Bringing Out The Dead. There are two reasons this movie started and continues in this way. Firstly, it released in the year 1999. This end of a decade was quite the year for movies, with such highly popular or critically acclaimed as American Beauty, The Blair Witch Project, American Pie, Fight Club, The Green Mile, The Mummy, Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me, and The Sixth Sense, not to mention the international blockbusters The Matrix and Star Wars Episode I - The Phantom Menace.The second reason is that Bringing Out The Dead is one of those rare films that causes viewers to be unsure of how they're supposed to feel about it. It is a difficult film to appreciate. With a title inspired by a skit from Monty Python And The Holy Grail and a number of scenes joining desperation and death with humor and an easygoing nature - a scene involving a suicidal man with a broken battle played to a popular radio tune from R.E.M. comes to mind - the film often seems to want us to see the hope in hardship, and sometimes vice versa.The story revolves around Nicolas Cage's character, a paramedic, serving calls of distress and medical attention across New York City. There is no real sense of a story, but instead a progression of Cage's mental condition as he strides and shambles through his life. The chief accomplishment and enjoyability of Bringing Out The Dead is in it's characters and their dialogue. Aside from Cage, who arguably gives the best performance of his career, every actor gives their best. The only performance that seems off is that of Patricia Arquette's as Cage's 'romantic' interest. In turn, however, this could be argued as purposeful, since the entire relationship between the two may have been meant to be slightly 'off'.one of the film's strongest points is its thematic elements. Humanity, being the most central theme, is given a unique perspective. while there is a strong emphasis on pain and regret, much of the time the film keeps a balance with less heart-wrenching scenes. Often, the role of the supporting cast leaves opportunity for laughter (or at least a smile) when the dramatic moments aren't taking place, effectively helping to create a film of close opposites. The other point of strength is its visual power. much of the film creates an atmosphere of gradual depression mixed with slight insanity. For example, in a fantastic segment played in pseudo-reverse, Cage's character is seen pulling seemingly dead people out of the ground.Despite some minor suggestions to the incredulity of New York's residents, the film never truly goes over the top, or bottom out. Easily one of the best films Scorsese or Cage has ever done. "},{"Title":"True Conflict of Life and Death","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing Out The Dead takes us through the darkness that we dare not see, for in the late hours of the night do the lost souls walk these streets. And paramedics race to save lives and to deny Death its bounty, but how far will their sanity be tested before layers of foundation begin to crack? And for all the lives that cannot be saved, will their souls be at rest, or will the men that could not save them remain haunted every time they close their eyes or look upon another face? Nicolas Cage delivers a powerful performance as Frank Pierce, whose life envelopes us in his struggle to escape the madness settling in, and through a brilliantly delivered story are we captivated with a tale that touches on the depth of life and the touch of death.But what makes this movie a true cinematic masterpiece is not only the heart and soul that made it what it was, but it was also the illustration that brought our eye to life and death. In darkness, life wavering over the edge and ready to fall, sparks drift out into the night. Flashing lights cover the city, and white light surrounds one struggling to be lost no longer. And horror stories of the ER meet our gaze, and we can't break away. Instead, we are entranced by the beauty and conflict of life and death. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and Bold","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Okay, so maybe this isn't Star Wars, Casablanca, or the Lord of the Rings, but this is a definitive film in Cage's career. I can't and won't say THE definitive film, but A definitive film. It is fearless in nits attempt to document the downward spiral of a man with a heart in a heartless world. His realization that he is about the only person left with a heart, was enough to invoke his humanity in the attempt to humanize both himself, and the world around him.This is mildly about redemption, but more about the way one perceives the world and those around them. Cage's character cares, and in his caring finds himself in a position to have to perform one feat after the other in order to avoid an exotic collision within himself between his conscience and his consciousness. This is possibly one of Cage's better performances due to the range and depth of the character's dysfunction.All in all, NOT a Friday/Saturday night movie. This is NOT fun, it is deep, dark, and heavy...but entertainingly so if you can prevent yourself being dragged down with the character.It rates an easy 8.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Perfect!","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's a very different and amazing movie. Very intense, because it shows all difficulties some professionals - in this case, they are paramedics - have to deal with and all the things they have to go through to help strangers, people they've never seen before, people they can't help at all, people they end up involved with, people who die in their bear hands. Not a kind of job anyone could have, but NICK CAGE can make it happen, as if it was really himself there, really, living all those stressful situations, the REAL LIFE as it is. But there is also the funny part, that makes us remember we all fail too, and that sometimes the best thing to do is to sit down and have really good laughs, because we are far from being perfect. That is the most important thing in this movie to me, shows reality but in a charming way of dealing with it! Not only Nick, but Ving Rhames and Queen Latifah... They all rock. Thanks, Mr. Martin Scorcese for one more masterpiece!!! "}{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A dreary and depressing look at unhappy New York, not unlike 'Taxi Driver', and it even has the same writer and director. It is hard to blame Scorsese for wanting to make another 'Taxi Driver', as it is perhaps his best film, but I really feel that Scorsese and Schrader fail to do anything new with the material here. It is rather drone despite all of the bright colours and inappropriately happy music (another link to 'Taxi Driver'), but one can argue that Scorsese still handles the film well at times, and there are some notable performances. But the overall film is simply nothing anyone would want to watch. And I have seen it twice. "},{"Title":"A narrative in search of a moral?","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One could put Nicolas Cage in a commercial for fertiliser made from dog droppings, and he will deliver a memorable performance. While Bringing Out The Dead isn't so vapid one could compare it to a fertiliser commercial, it does seem to struggle for a good half hour to find a point. Had it been carried by a lesser actor, Bringing Out The Dead would have been a colossal failure. Thankfully, Cage's performance adds life to what could have been quite the uninteresting character.At its heart, Bringing Out The Dead is the story of a few days in the life of a paramedic who is starting to feel the strain of his occupation. At the start of the film, we are given no reason why Frank is drinking constantly and unable to get through an evening's work. As he goes through partners almost as quickly as he goes through patients, we are slowly filled in on what is eating the man up.In the meantime, we follow Frank around as he deals with the family of a heart attack victim and the victims of a new designer drug. The latter subplot could have used some development, but the former is the cornerstone of what this film eventually becomes - a tale of redemption in a world that seems to have precious little of it. The dialogue makes one reference to a doctor who keeps mumbling and poking himself in the eye whenever he talks to a patient's daughter. If you haven't lived in one of the largest cities your country has to offer, even the city in question is one as relatively tiny as Sydney, you'd have a hard time believing it.As a piece of entertainment, Bringing Out The Dead is only recommended to masochists or people who enjoy the misfortune of others. Some aspects of the film, such as the Sister Fetus character, are not only plain unnecessary, they are just plain cruel. The religious invocations are often insulting. I half wanted to grab Marcus by the neck, throw him in front of one of the many speeding cars, and ask him where his imaginary friend is now. There are far better ways to deliver a story point.In all, I gave Bringing Out The Dead an eight out of ten. It is very much an acquired taste, but it works as a solid, life-affirming piece of entertainment. Give it a couple of viewings before you make up your mind. You'll be glad you did.  "},{"Title":"Go forth and watch!","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand all the negative comments about this movie, sure it's an acquired  taste and not everyone likes good old Nick Cage but I thought this was one of the better  films to come out of Hollywood that year. If you like your films dark as opposed to with  cream and sugar watch it, don't listen to the doom mongers this is a quality film that  you should watch. You do have to be in the right mood for it, just don't watch it on the  happiest day of your life. "},{"Title":"Grabs you by the throat and never lets go.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far one of the best films that I have ever seen. I love the early '90s New York City setting and the character relationships. Everyone is well-developed and each character deals with the streets in different ways.The film follows a three day period of time in the life of a New York City paramedic as he tries to deal with the haunting images of patients he could not save. Nicolas Cage is Frank Pierce, an ambulance driver on the brink of madness. One night he meets Mary Burke (Patricia Arquette) the daughter of a man Frank tried to save. His partners for all three nights are never the same. Larry (John Goodman) has his own dreams about getting out, Marcus (Ving Rhames) who has a overly-done love for Jesus and the radio dispatcher, and Tom (Tom Sizemore) who loves to torture his patients and laughs at the sight of blood.If you do not love this movie, there is seriously something wrong with you, because buying this film was one of the smartest purchases I ever made. Congratulations Martin Scorsese. BRINGING OUT THE DEAD gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"have you all seen a different movie?","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  wait.. this movie is NOT dark.. it DIDN'T make me feel sick.. paramedics are NOT portrayed in a bad way.. it wasn't even hard to watch.. not at all! disturbing, unfulfilling? no! it is indeed DIFFERENT.. but in a very positive way.. you won't want to be a paramedic ever again? not true for me so far.. it rather caused the opposite! seems like some of you didn't really get the point.. it's a HOPEFUL movie.. didn't you watch the WHOLE movie? have you seen the last scenes? of course the main character is burnt out and he's having a very very hard time.. but listen to what he's telling us in the first few minutes! for example the part about feeling like god when saving somebodys life.. it feels like falling in love, like flying.. didn't you ever feel that way? it touched me immediately and i knew right away what he was talking about.. throughout the whole movie he is trying to save a life again, trying to get back this great old feeling.. of course there's misery wherever he goes.. cause that's part of his job.. have you really understand what the main character is going through? how can anyone say there is no plot??? it's just NOT TRUE! try to watch this movie again after you haven't slept for 24 hours.. perhaps it'll change your point of view..by the way the cinematography is terrific! the acting is superb.. the choice of music is fantastic.. if you listen to the soundtrack before watching the movie you won't believe these songs fit in so perfectly!i felt really well at the end of this movie!9.5/10  "},{"Title":"Will leave its mark in your mind and in your heart...","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Any firefighter will tell you that they have strong feelings for Ron Howard's 1991 hit, Backdraft.  Well, what Backdraft is to firefighters, Bringing Out the Dead is to EMS personnel.  Watching this Scorcese masterpiece is almost a prerequisite for anyone in or hoping to enter the 'live on the edge, life in the fast lane' world of the Emergency Medical Service.Bringing Out the Dead is an honest, and sometimes emotionally horrifying look at three consecutive shifts of Paramedic Frank Pierce (Cage), working out of Our Lady of Perpetual Mercy hospital in New York City during the early 1990s.The film is set almost completely at night, adding an almost haunting quality to the city.  As the ambulance cruises through the mostly abandoned city streets, Pierce catches glimpses of junkies shooting up in alleys, hookers on street corners, and even a savage brawl between two men with a girlfriend cheering them on.Pierce is a man on the brink of insanity, burned out from being on the streets and haunted by patients he failed to save.  Unable to cope with the grief of knowing that he cannot save everyone, he tries time and again to get fired from his job, but to no avail.Cage was a perfect cast for Pierce.  His solemn expressions and hollow stares make the audience believe that he is actually a chronically depressed alcoholic.  His monotone voice as he delivers his lines, compliments his expressions, or lack thereof, perfectly.However, the main thing that kept the film flowing were the three partners Frank worked with throughout his shifts, each having their own unique coping mechanism.John Goodman plays Larry, Pierce's first partner of the film.  He is very believable as the emotionally detached medic. He treats EMS as any other job, looking forward to his dinner break and possible upcoming promotions.Ving Rhames does a fantastic job of playing Pierce's second partner, Marcus. Marcus was easily the most likable character of the film, between his one-liners, and incessant flirting with the dispatcher, Love (the voice of Queen Latiphah).  The viewer gets the impression that he genuinely loves his work.  However, he spends as much time quoting scripture as treating patients (and sometimes he does both at the same time).Another excellent performance was by Tom Seizmore.  He plays Tom Walls, Pierce's third partner.  Walls appears extremely over-eager and hyperactive, as well as mildly insane.  He is sure to bring on a couple laughs, but they will mostly be at him and not with him.Arthur Nascarella plays Captain Barney.  While he has a rather small part, he and Cage click well in both of their scenes.Through the alcoholic haze in which Pierce lives his life, there is but one ray of sunshine. Patricia Arquette plays Mary, the daughter of one of Frank's recent patients. He begins chatting with her about her father's condition.  This evolves into friendship of a sort.  He attempts to help her through her various problems, taking on almost a guardian angel capacity. In turn she helps him to make sense out of life and tame his demons that have harassed him throughout the film.Bringing Out the Dead will not soon be forgotten by viewers.  It will leave its mark in your mind and in your heart.  "},{"Title":"Not Scorcese's best, but close....","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like TAXI DRIVER, Martin Scorcese's BRINGING OUT THE DEAD, takes us on one man's journey into insanity.Frank Pierce (Nicholas Cage) is a burnt out New York City paramedic who works the graveyard shift. He's had too much alcohol, he's seen too many people die and is on the verge of a breakdown. He is constantly haunted by the ghost of Rose, a young homeless girl who he tried, but failed to save.The film takes place over 72 hours, starting on Thursday night where Frank rides with Larry (John Goodman), who is more concerned when he is going to get his next meal than his work. On Friday, Frank goes with Marcus (Ving Rhames), who is a bible thumper that tells Frank after they crash their ambulance that the ghosts are not going to go away. Finally on Saturday, Frank rides with his old partner, Tom Wells (Tom Siezmore.) That Tom Wells is a crazy mother f*!cker, claims Larry. Tom is a hothead who likes to use violence to solve his problems.Intertwined in all three nights is Mary (Patricia Arquette), who is the daughter of a heart attack victim from Frank's first night out. Her father is in intensive care, fighting for his life. In one of the opening scenes, we see Frank and Larry trying to recussitate him to no avail. The hospital pronunces him dead, his family puts on a Sinatra record and he miracoulsy comes back.Two of the most intriguing sequences of the film are set to music. In the first segment, R.E.M.'s What's The Frequency Kenneth is the background music to a homeless man's (singer Marc Anthony) suicide attempt; in the third segment, UB40's Red Red Wine is playing as the police and paramedics make their way to a high rise housing project complex to find a gruesome murder.This is not Scorcese's greatest work, but it ranks right up there with GOODFELLAS and CASINO. A great performance by Nicholas Cage, as well as great supporting roles by John Goodman, Ving Rhames and Tom Siezmore. Nicholas Cage has the role of crazy man down pat. (Also see FACE/OFF and LEAVING LAS VEGAS.)  "},{"Title":"What movie are you watching?","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand why so many people are down on Marty about this film. The relationship Scorsese has with the camera is incredible and I'm more and more blown away by each of his films. The use of Richardson as DOP is perfect. The fast swish pans and rock and roll music show us again that Scorsese is truly the man who keeps cinema alive. Without his influence where would film be today? When watching this film I never get the feeling that the director is 50 yrs plus. He seems to mature but never age. His films are vibrantly fresh and continue to challenge traditional film making the way no one else seems able. He is the last true survivor of the golden days of film, he has never sold himself out and has never sold us short. And to those people who are confused about the rock and roll music (read other users comments) have you ever seen Mean Streets? Goodfellas? Casino? Any of Scorsese's other films? The man is a legend and has more style then any Fincher or Ritchie on a bad day.  "},{"Title":"An excellent movie, sadly underrated","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I actually have seen this movie two times, as though one was not enough. Indeed it was, but felt like I got to see it again, and the second time I dug it more than the first. Realistic and well made movies are rare to find these days, and you grow tired of much expendable material. Bringing Out The Dead is a damn good movie, with some true characters like Frank (The near-to-lose-it paramedic played by Nicolas Cage) and Mary (Played by Patricia Arquette). I have not seen many films starring either of them, but here their job is pretty good. I love how real is the story, breaking away from hollow characters, unfortunately too frequent in most movies. The direction is by the great Martin Scorsese, who has made several other good films like Good Fellas and Taxi Driver. There is no chance to rest while seeing Bringing Out The Dead - the tension never stops and certainly makes you feel concerned about Frank's desperate situation. I was expecting that something freaky could happen any moment.All the scenes are realistic, especially those in the hospital.When speaking to people of this movie some have dismissed it by saying they'd probably freak out if they saw it, probably because they are not used to movies that deal with the frantic pulse of day-to-day life (Well, in this case a paramedic's night shift) in a big city.Just a great and believable movie, mostly underrated as it happens with most masterpieces. Pick this one if you feel like seeing something which actually could happen to you if you had a similar job. Ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"IS a masterpiece (SPOILERS)","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorsese is arguably the best living American filmmaker, and perhaps the best living filmmaker period (who is still making films, i.e., not counting Ingmar Bergman). He has made three bona fide masterpieces, Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, and Goodfellas. Mean Streets is also often included in this list. Let's just say that if you were to argue against any of those films, you'd better have a brilliant argument prepared. Has he ever made a film that was universally regarded as bad? Possibly. Boxcar Bertha, which is not even available on video (although it has been), is usually considered to lack in quality. Scorsese himself called it his exploitation flick. Often The Color of Money is given low status, but not always.The rest of his films are hotly debated, usually. Bringing Out the Dead is one of these films. A majority may like it, but, among those who like it, not many of them like it a lot.Well, I would like to stand up as one of the very few who think that this film is one of Scorsese's masterpieces. In fact, I've always been flabberghasted that so many people find it so average or, even worse, bad. In my opinion, it is his 4th best film, after the three bona fide masterpieces listed above. I could never figure out what people are missing (or what extra material I am seeing). Perhaps it is this the other three bona fide masterpieces together with all of his films basically remain within the confines of the classical style of filmmaking. That is, the plots, editing, cinematography and other technical aspects of his other films do not stray far from the techniques established by D.W. Griffith. That is not to say that Scorsese doesn't stray. He goes against the rules more than most American filmmakers. But in this country, we just don't allow for much experimentation.Bringing Out the Dead does experiment quite a bit more than Scorsese's other films. Its editing and cinematography seem crazy to many viewers. To tell the truth, this style of wacky cutting and odd angles is not too uncommon in American film. Most people are familiar with it from MTV. What does strike American viewers as odd is the plot. WHAT PLOT? some people will gasp. A lot of critics claimed that Bringing Out the Dead was a plotless mess. This upsets me, since professional critics should know this basic rule the plot of a film is not a very important element.The plot is somewhat simplified here a paramedic is going through a difficult slump in his work. Parallel to this is the man who has had a heart attack while his family sits and waits. These two stories intertwine. The film's structure is actually brilliant the man who had a heart attack is forced to cling to life for three days while his savior is plummeting into depression and existential angst. This angst can only end when the man, whose condition is incredibly unstable, dies. The logic is metaphysical, which is something Americans tend not to understand. This film is not about realism. Everything is exaggerated. It is really a sensory overload for some.And then we get to the characters. NOT WELL DEVELOPED! people will yell. It's absolutely not true. What may be said is that there really are only two characters, played by Nick Cage and Patricia Arquette. There are other interesting, but somewhat less developed, characters, such as Noel and the three co-paramedics. The main focus is Cage and Arquette, though. They are marvellously written. I think that the mistake is often made that Cage's character is one dimensional. This is because Cage is so wrapped up in his job, really he and the job become a single entity. This happens to anyone who has a job. It only happens that Cage's work is much more demanding, and it is thus taking over his soul. Arquette receives more background information. She comes off as a very human protagonist. None of the events in her life are so much different from any normal person's life. These two characters connect through their own desperations.All in all, the film is tremendously effective. Maybe Roger Ebert was right about this film's reception it failed because people are far too cynical in this day and age, where Scorsese is more of an idealist. "}{"Title":"This is vintage Martin Scorsese in the tradition of the great Taxi Driver. Not easy to swallow, but sure to be loved by film fans.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nicholas Cage plays an ambulance medic who develops a wide variety of personal problems as a result of a feeling of incompetence at his job, which is, of course, to save peoples' lives. He begins to feel a personal connection to the people that die on him, whether or not it is a fault of his. This happens especially with murders, suicides, overdoses, etc., whom he believes become spirits who are `half-born,' because life was taken so fast that they did not have time to develop fully. There are so many things about Bringing Out The Dead that all come together to make it such a huge accomplishment that it would be difficult to mention them all at once. This film is literally packed with messages about religion, about hope, about personal desperation and about lust and love. Not only are these things skillfully presented, but they are also weighed against each other, so that the course of the film takes us through a journey that is very subtle and thought provoking. Nicholas Cage stars as the burned-out and alcoholic ambulance driver, and he is amazingly made up to play the part, with the ghostly pale skin, the dark eyes, the constantly messy and greasy hair, and always seeming to be slightly out of breath and perspiring. Despite this sickly look that he had throughout the film, he still maintained his tradition sarcastic humor that he has come to be known and loved for (`Tom, where are the band-aids? This is an AMBULANCE, isn't it?!' `This is the worst suicide attempt I've ever seen. Feel that pulse? THAT'S where you cut!)'. His interactions with his various (and excellently acted) partners in the ambulance show his view of the world from different angles as numerous points of views are presented. Ving Rhames presents the religious perspective, John Goodman presents the career-ladder climber, and Tom Sizemore is as effective as ever as the hyperactive guy who doesn't really care, he just wants to see some blood (`Someone's gonna kill themselves, I don't want to miss it!'). Some of the scenes may have been a little overdone, for example, I think there was probably an excess of blood in the ambulance after Noel, one of the many regulars at the hospital, had a run-in with Tom Walls (Sizemore) after having `attempted' suicide. However, think of what Scorsese was trying to portray in this film. As in Taxi Driver, Bringing Out The Dead presents a darkly disturbing and dangerous underbelly of the big city (and not just New York, where the film took place). Nicholas Cage's Frank Pierce had numerous similarities with Robert DeNiro's Travis Bickle (from Taxi Driver), but there were many more differences, which are important for this movie to avoid being branded as a &#145;re-make' of sorts. For just one of many examples, Bickle was angry at the world, couldn't sleep, and wanted to drive that taxi as much as his boss would let him. On the other hand, Frank is personally troubled by the goings on at his job, has developed an alcohol (as well as numerous other drugs available to him from his own ambulance) problem as well as a seemingly unhealthy interest in the daughter of one of his barely alive patients, and he desperately wants out of the job.Frank Pierce is searching for redemption. He once lost a girl named Rose, because he was unable to revive her, and he sees her face virtually everywhere he looks. It seems that he subconsciously feels that if he can help Mary (Patricia Arquette) get through the loss of her father, then it will be like he was able to go back and help Rose. This is exactly what Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis) was trying to do with Cole in The Sixth Sense. He wanted to help Cole so that it would be like he helped Vincent Grey, a previous patient that he was unable to help and that he ultimately lost.Bringing Out The Dead is an absolutely brilliant film, but it is definitely not for all tastes. Anyone who does not have at least a basic understanding of Martin Scorsese's work will not understand it at all and will therefore not like it. But if you understand what Scorsese tries to do in his films and if you understand the media of film itself, then this is definitely a must-see. There are anomalies that really make you think (like that white horse that was casually strolling through the streets of a terrible neighborhood while Frank and Tom were on a suicide call), there are fascinating uses of the color red (playing Red Red Wine while Frank walks through an apartment on a call in which everything is red &#150; the curtains, the walls, the Christmas lights, the blood), and the way the story is presented is very unique and perfectly chosen for the kind of film that this is. Also listen for Martin Scorsese himself as the male ambulance dispatcher. Excellent and skillful direction, great acting from everyone involved, and the virtual perfection of nearly every technical aspect of the film (the photography, make-up, lighting, high-speed camera-work, music, dialogue, everything) all work together beautifully to make up a disturbing but thought provoking and generally great film to add to Scorsese's growing list of contemporary classics.   "},{"Title":"The weakest Scorcese film ever","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Warning may be some spoilers.Martin Scorsese is obsessed with sin and all that contributes to it.  That works well in most of his films like Raging Bull, Taxi Driver, Goodfellas and Cape Fear to name a few.  But Bringing Out The Dead is so slow, all over the map, pointless and boring that I thought I was going to fall asleep.  This is a film that is ridiculously self important yet it really goes nowhere.  I wasn't interested in Cage's character nor did I ever really buy into the fact that Cage was haunted by ghosts of the people that he apparently couldn't save before.  I get tired of film makers that take the same issues over and over again and use them in movies that have different themes at the surface but beneath them are the same messages over and over again.  Scorsese preaches about God and sin and guilt and bitterness and darkness and ya da ya da ya da.  New York is a great back drop for a film but we have seen this done to death.  There really wasn't a plot in this film either, it just moves along and shows that Cage is a disturbed man haunted by ghosts of the Christmas past.But to be fair and honest, what really bothers me about Bringing Out the Dead is that it is so unbelievably boring.  I mean, I could watch a history lesson about painting Italian frescos while sitting through a Russian opera that would probably hold my attention better than this.  A science lesson on spores would move quicker than this film does.  Sometimes I think the big critics like Roger Ebert ( whom I admire very much... usually ) and Peter Travers ( I don't admire him all that much ) have to tell you how great movies by guys like Scorsese and Lee and Forman and Eisenstein and such are because if they don't then perhaps some of their cronies are going to come along and tell them that it was and they may feel incompetent.  Just because a film is done by a guy that has a track record of brilliant films, does not mean that every film has to fall into that brilliance.  I saw Three To Tango this weekend and as simple and silly as it was, at least it was entertaining.  Entertainment was not what was on the minds of Scorsese and Schraeder and Cage when they made this film.  And if anyone says that Cage is a front runner for best actor should seriously reconsider what they call a brilliant performance.  Spacey is going to win best actor this year and that is all I got to say about that.I was disappointed in this film and I pity anyone that sits through it.  I would pity myself but films are an addiction to me.  Some people are addicted to drugs others to nicotine others to alcohol, me, it's just the cinema, so I have to see whatever comes out.  And then I can bitch about it when I don't like what I see.  Thank goodness for the IMDB! "},{"Title":"* * for Bringing Out the Dead","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  From the opening images, we are reminded of Taxi Driver.  The swirl of New York City colors, the eyes of a man driving through these mean streets.  Then the voice over kicks in, and we are reminded of Light Sleeper, Affliction, and countless other inflictions Paul Schrader has made upon screenwriting, and we hear the ponderous, tired voice of the Schrader hero who has seen it all, feels his life is about to change, and that he's so tired...if he could only get to sleep.It almost plays like a parody of their previous work, which sort of fits since the film is a comedy, more or less.  Nicolas Cage rides around in the ambulance during Act One, Act Two and Act Three, each time saddled with a new paramedic buddy.  These sections of the movie actually work quite well, not unlike the mania of Scorsese's bizarre masterpiece, After Hours. While it's always worth catching a Scorsese film on the big screen (even when he's slumming, he's a visual maestro and a strong storyteller), he seems to be coasting on his greatest hits rather than pushing new ground (the experimental Kundun seemed to spark a new direction).  "},{"Title":"Not the best Scorcese","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The latest from director Martin Scorcese is certainly not his best, but it is a fine film. It is a very interesting premise but it just doesn't seem to go anywhere at times. Nicolas Cage is excellent in the lead role and has a presence that is so engaging we get into it. However Patricia Arquette is just so poorly written and poorly acted that she seems to just drag on. The whole atmosphere is dark and gritty but the light music that plays constantly in the flashy ambulance driving sequences makes it very rich in atmosphere. Perhaps the best part of the film is Ving Rhames, who is so hilarious in terms of dark humor he practically makes the film. Reminds me a little of Taxi Driver, but it's still great Scorcese. 7/10 "},{"Title":"An excellent, misunderstood film by Martin Scorsese","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the opening sequence of Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver (1976) we see the watery eyes of Robert De Niro, examining his surroundings, breathing in the atmosphere visually. His deadly stare sends a shiver down our spines, giving us the impression of a man haunted by unseen demons. In Bringing Out the Dead the watery pair of eyes belong to Nicolas Cage, who has always given the appearance of an unhealthy, perhaps diseased human being, not so much harmed by natural causes as much as by his environment.Bringing Out the Dead is a movie that takes place primarily during the night, where the seedy low-lifes come out to play. Hookers, pimps, junkies, gangs - they're everywhere that Frank (Cage) looks. He can't escape them. But when we look closer, we realize he is not haunted by the people themselves as much as the faces he is seeing - the face of an 18-year-old girl that he was unable to save months earlier.Frank is a paramedic in New York City. He rides around at night with his partner (John Goodman) whose confusingly pessimistic optimism could be compared to that of Wizard in Taxi Driver, although like many fans of the film, I do not think that comparing the two movies too often is such a good idea. They are two separate pieces of work, both with different points. Because the film was directed by Scorsese, and written by Paul Schrader (Taxi Driver), comparisons are almost inevitable. But are they just? In short, no, they are not.Scorsese's similarities to Taxi Driver are sometimes deliberate, such as his decision to use quick cuts of the ambulance tail lights and sirens, and of course the examining eyes of Cage. Both of these shots were used in Taxi Driver, only the ambulance was of course a taxi. Both films take place in New York City, primarily at night, where a beaten-down, depressed, shy, socially-awkward man stares out of the window of his vehicle, trying to make sense of the madness on the streets.One night, Frank saves a man from a heart attack. He is put in the custody of a nearby hospital, and the man's worried daughter (Patricia Arquette) consoles in Frank. Why? My mother always told me I had the face of a priest, he explains, in an effort to justify her own ramblings.In that sort of way, Frank is very similar to Travis Bickle. But those who say that Bringing Out the Dead is merely a remake of Taxi Driver are short-sighted, narrow-minded individuals. It is a movie with very deep themes, and a poignant message. It makes you think, versus most summer blockbusters. It was advertised on the trailers as a ghost movie in the vein of The Sixth Sense. It isn't. Instead, it's a truly touching character piece that is always on the verge of becoming a modern-day masterpiece. (And incidentally, in case the critics who hated Bringing Out the Dead have forgotten, Taxi Driver was originally considered to be a boring, pointless movie, with an unlikable leading man and disgusting morals. Sometimes the years can help a movie become far more appreciated, and I feel fairly confident that this will be the case with Dead.)Some critics were unimpressed with the film's wandering, but that is the entire point. To the paramedics portrayed in Bringing Out the Dead, night and day intertwine; days fly by with no real purpose; there is no apparent point to their lives, other than to save people. And for Frank, the ghosts come back to haunt him, which is something he probably never expected after initially deciding to become a paramedic. "},{"Title":"Something Missing","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to believe this is a Scorsese picture; there's something missing here. Virtually nothing in it rings true. All the yelling, banging and hysterics come across as empty theatrics. It's the movie equivalent of a bum scrounging through garbage cans looking for something interesting, finding about what you'd expect to find in garbage cans but getting mad about it anyway. It's a messy, looseleaf experience, like pages of an old newspaper flitting along a deserted street after dark.Nicolas Cage's conflicts; his insomnia, the memories of the homeless girl he couldn't save, his eagerness to be fired, his infatuation with Patricia Arquette; feel phony, stitched on. Cage gives another in a long line of over-ripe, half-digested, unfocused performances, although he isn't quite as outrageously amateurish as he was in Snake Eyes. Can this be the same guy who showed so much genius in Raising Arizona or Red Rock West? He's completely lost his compass as an actor and he knows it. He's become a brand name; instead of Coke try Cage.For me the movie became little more than a hard fought competition to see who could give the most irritating performance. (My vote goes to Cage's oily supervisor, the one who keeps promising to fire him; though Scorsese's self-serving voice-only cameo as a fast-talking Dispatcher comes in a close second.) Strangely, none of Cage's sidekicks - John Goodman, Ving Rhames, Tom Sizemore (generally excellent actors) leave much of an impression. Their extremes in behavior don't feel authentic, just hastily and superficially conceived. Could this really have been a Scorsese film? I kept asking myself that question. What was with all those inappropriate pop songs (which stuck out like a sore thumb and added nothing) on the soundtrack? Where was the mesmerizing, magnetic pull of a GoodFellas or Cape Fear? Of course there were a lot of remarkably talented people who worked on this project but, reputations aside folks, they've come up way short in this instance. Forget camera tricks and editing gimmicks for a moment and remember it all comes back to story-telling. B.O.T.D fails to tell a good story. It never figures out what it's trying to say.   "},{"Title":"Long and boring","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie had something interesting to say, but it only went around in circles.There were some really good scenes in the middle of the movie, involving Ving Rhames.  Ving adds another good performance to his career, too bad the rest of the movie was not worth finishing.Definitely not Scorsese's best by a long shot. "},{"Title":"A roller coaster ride that goes nowhere.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bring out the dead is what I would describe the mood of people leaving the theater. Was there a point to this movie. Ask someone dealing with production I guess. It was good at times and it was bad at times. Supporting actors were not enough to keep the movie going and there were times that I was checking my watch to see how much more of this movie I had to endure. For entertainment value, it was okay, but don't expect this movie to go down as Martin Scorsese's or Nicolas Cage's best work. "},{"Title":"A waste of two hours","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let me start by saying I a fan of everyone involved in this movie Nicolas Cage, Patricia Arquette, Ving Rhames, and Martin Scorsese. I can't say I've every seen a movie that was just a total waste of my time and a waste of the tape it was recorded on. It wasn't a bad movie, it wasn't even a movie it was just some rambling caught on tape. I don't know why any of the parties involved in this movie took they roles. My recommendation don't waste your money or your time with this one!  "},{"Title":"Interesting Insanity","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Overall opinionThis movie gives you the chance to see how awful a man's job in the big city can really be. I was both amazed by the films acting involvement by everyone and how deep the plot could really go before something totally insane happened suddenly. Seeing Nicolas Cage in such a zombied manner like this really is quite disturbing but I did somewhat enjoy this movie.Plus and minus Material (What I liked, what I didn't)+Great acting by Nicolas Cage-Certain events and scenes seemed out of place and not important-It probably will make you feel pretty sick +This is the first Scorsese film I've seen and I'm very pleased with his interesting and somewhat different style of directing!Probably the second most darkest movie I've ever seen  "}{"Title":"don't let the title fool you","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Contrary to what the name suggests, Bringing Out the Dead is not really about dead people. It tells the story of New York paramedic Frank Pierce (Nicolas Cage), who is feeling haunted by the ghosts of the people whom he failed to save. Some reviewers compared this movie to Taxi Driver. That's partly true, but the true similarity is in its gritty portrayal of New York. From Frank's point of view, we definitely see New York as an eerie, almost dreamlike, place, whereas we always saw the real (albeit disturbed) world through Travis Bickle's eyes.As for what I thought of the movie, it wasn't a masterpiece by any stretch, but we can all safely say that Martin Scorsese has never made a bad movie, per se. Cage's icy performance adds to the strangeness of everything. "},{"Title":"Good once it finds its rhythm","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After reading the novel by Joe Connelly this movie is based on(by the way, the title is a reference to MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL), it seemed a perfect fit for director Martin Scorsese, writer Paul Schraeder, and star Nicolas Cage.  After all, this is the mean streets of New York, this is about trying to find salvation and redemption in the pits of despair, and it features a character on the edge.  But when things start out, I was disappointed.  It seems like all three of them, Scorsese, Schraeder, and Cage, were straining to get the effect of the novel, and it felt disjointed.  The narration by Cage seems to be covering up for what's not being shown, which always means trouble.In lesser hands, this might have been a problem.  However, Scorsese has the craft to match his passion, and he soon finds the rhythm.  The narration is used less and less as the movie goes on, and Cage is gradually able to show his grief, rather than just talk about it.  We still don't feel the impact of the story as much as we do in the novel, but we do feel something, thanks to Cage and Patricia Arquette(as the daughter of a patient he saves).  Once it gets going, the black humor, courtesy of Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore as fellow paramedics and Scorsese and Queen Latifah as dispatchers, helps fuel the picture as well.  This isn't quite as good as Scorsese's other New York stories, but it is a worthy addition to his canon. "},{"Title":"When Lives Hang In The Balance","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing Out The Dead is almost a flawless film. The film takes place in New York City in the early 90's; and follows the life of Paramedic Frank Pierce( Nicholas Cage). He is frustrated, and burnt out due to the stress of his job. He hasn't saved any patients lately, and it's taken a toll. One of his partners Larry( John Goodman), is an enthusiastic paramedic who loves his job. The others are Marcus( Ving Rhames) and Tom Wolls( Tom Sizemore). Marcus is the smooth one who is always trying to woo dispatcher Love( Queen Latifah). Tom Wolls is the psycho nobody wants to work with. All Tom wants is to scare the patients; and get back at Noel( Marc Anthony). This film spans several days in Franks life as a 3RD shift paramedic in Hell's Kitchen. The story begins when Frank and Larry respond to a cardiac. There he meets Mary Burke( Patricia Arquette), the daughter of the victim. They work on him finally reviving him; and transport him to the craziest hospital. Our Lady of Mercy, is a overrun hospital with a doctor that is stressed and somewhat crazy Dr. Hazmat( Nestor Serrano). Once there a friendship begins to form with Mary Burke, an ex-junkie who opens up to Frank. Ignoring the advice from Marcus not to get involved with patients or their relatives. While waiting word about her father Mary opens up Frank. She tells him her past, the relationship with her father; and her frustrations. As the friendship grows he becomes more like a brother than anything. He always looks out for her, especially when she arrives at Cy's( Cliff Curtis) place. A crash pad for those who are overworked/ stressed out. Cy is the kind of guy who is a charmer, and a small time drug dealer.While his relationship grows with Mary. Frank is still haunted by his past. He still sees the ghosts of those he failed to save. He struggles to keep his composure, and with a new street drug out he finds it hard to keep it together. All Frank wants is to make amends with those he tried to save, look out for Mary; and return to being a top paramedic. This is one great movie with a top cast, with voice cameos by Queen Latifah and Martian Scorsese.I am glad a movie about paramedics came out; yes some of the scenes were exaggerated. The Noel and Tom scene was a WTF moment; but hey Frank saves the day. As a former Fire Explorer; and one who wanted to be an E.M.T..; being a paramedic is great when things go right. When you get overworked or things go wrong it is very stressful. I couldn't imagine having the job in a big city, especially New York. The stress level has to be ten times as bad. If anyone tells you that a career in Law Enforcement, Fire or Rescue isn't stressful they are full of S**T. I can only think of one job that can top the stress level, that of an Air Traffic Controller. In conclusion, this movie is another great Scorsese Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Bringing Out the Best of Scorsese.","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing Out the Dead (1999) Dir Martin Scorsese / Cast Nicolas Cage, Patricia Arquette, Ving Rhames, Tom Sizemore, John Goodman About the weariness of a soul that needs rest. Nicolas Cage plays a paramedic haunted by the images of a young woman he failed to save. He sees all sorts of people arrive through the medical room doors, many who deliberately cause their own pain. He feels trapped and needs a moment of refuge. An emergency call results in the image of a family that watch in horror as their father lay unconscious. Insightful film about our decaying society. Another New York based masterpiece by Martin Scorsese whose street sense films include Taxi Driver and After Hours. Wonderful performance by Cage with Patricia Arquette as the daughter of a victim whom he connects with through her need of rest from drugs and relationships. Hilarious performances by John Goodman, Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore as three paramedic that accompany Cage through three long nights of turmoil. Goodman is totally about where to eat, while Cage attempts to drown it out with sleep. Rhames bursts with religious enthusiasm in hopes of making his mark on one's soul. Sizemore tends to be abusive particularly with those whom he sees as lost causes. Then there is Arquette, which is where Cage finds refuge. Theme regards exhaustion of life itself and our desire for peace and rest. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"A definite classic, darkly hilarious. Made back when Cage still cared","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Remember back when you used to see Nicholas Cage's name attached to a movie and it meant that it would be worth watching. You know, before he started pumping them out just for the paycheck, well this is one of those movies.Pretty brilliant movie actually, that I had forgotten all about until I caught it on TV the other night. Directed by Martin Scorsese this is a definite classic, following Frank a burned out Manhattan paramedic haunted by the ones he didn't save. He is surrounded by the sick and dying in a (1990's) New York that has yet to go through its transformation, so its dark, violent and turbulent.Frank works the graveyard shift with several other barely sane individuals and most nights chaos ensues. Recently he has started seeing ghosts and an ex junkie (Patricia Arquette). This follows him over a 3 night period, each shift with a different partner (John Goodman, Tom Sizemore, Ving Rhames) Some of the scenes are iconic now and I laughed out loud a couple times but this is definitely a dark comedy. 05.13 "},{"Title":"Mesmerising movie","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a film based off atmosphere. You legitimately feel Frank's stress and how tiring being a NY medic can be. The film slowly tires you in a way not different from having the job. The comedy from the film comes from the other medics played by John Goodman, Ving Rhames, and Tom Sizemore and their interactions with Cage. A few other comedic scenes include I.B. Banging, worst suicide attempt ever, and Hold this or I won't kill you!. It really feels more like a David Fincher film than Martin Scorsese. Perhaps it's just the look, but I am serious. Some scenes do well portray the hardship of death to a medic. There is some supernatural element which is strangely enticing. Check it out. "},{"Title":"My least favorite Scorsese film","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Saving someone's life is like falling in love. The best drug in the world. God has passed through you. Why deny it, that for a moment there, God was you?Bringing Out the Dead presents a dark and bleak view of New York City as we get to experience it through the main character's depressive perception. Working as an ambulance paramedic, Frank Pierce has always found purpose in his life in saving others, but after not being able to save a young girl and feeling haunted by her ghost he has lost his passion and begins to question his existence. The torment he is experiencing leads him to an identity crisis that impacts the way he (and therefore we the audience) sees the city. Martin Scorsese gets all the technical aspects of the film right, teaming up with his usual collaborators the cinematography done by Robert Richardson and the editing by Thelma Schoonmaker, but somehow the story doesn't work as well. I understand what he was trying to do, but I just couldn't care for the characters in this film and it all felt a little too surreal for my taste. This is the first film from Scorsese that I've seen that hasn't worked for me, but I do have to give him credit for delivering on the technical aspects. There are also some great moments and some supporting performances that worked really well for me, but it only made me wish the film focused on those characters instead of on Frank. The unique way in which the city was portrayed through Frank's eyes as he's dealing with his personal demons and nightmares really never engaged me because I didn't care for his character. His partners on the other hand were much more engaging and I wish we could've seen it through their eyes instead. The screenplay was adapted by Paul Schrader from Joe Connelly's novel of the same name. This was Schrader and Scorsese's fourth and final collaboration together after having worked in Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, and The Last Temptation of Christ. Bringing Out the Dead is perhaps most similar to Taxi Driver in tone, but it is a departure from most of his work considering its surreal and nightmarish tone. The film follows Frank Pierce (Nicolas Cage) as he drives across New York City in his ambulance during the night shifts. It's a two man ambulance team although his partners switch every night. Frank is completely burned out considering he hasn't been able to save anyone over the past few weeks and is eagerly awaiting to be fired. His partners don't seem to be experiencing the same problem as they all seem to deal with their demons in different ways. There's Larry (John Goodman) who is constantly thinking about food, Marcus (Ving Rhames) who is a religiously devoted man, and Tom (Tom Sizemore) who borderlines on psychotic behavior. They work for Mercy Hospital, which is always full of wacky characters and very crowded. Frank begins to fraternize with the daughter of one of the patients he brings in, her name is Mary (Patricia Arquette), and she seems to be the only good thing about his job now. Tormented by the ghosts of those he couldn't save, he searches for his salvation through trying to help Mary and saving both of them in the process. Despite not enjoying this film as much as I have other Scorsese movies, I have to admit that there were some incredibly entertaining scenes. Ving Rhames has an amazing scene along Nicolas Cage and one of the patients they are trying to save. It was hilarious. He was by far my favorite character in the film. Patricia Arquette was also pretty interesting, and Cliff Curtis also had a couple of great scenes as Cy. Those were the highlights for me in an exhilarating and fast paced film that failed to engage me with the main character played by Cage. Scorsese does manage to capture the chaos and darkness of the city in a very unique way and the technical brilliance of this film stand out above the story. It's a demented film, but it just wasn't my type of movie because the story was emotionally uninvolving. I will give it credit for the hilarious scenes, but I was let down by the lack of an engaging story. "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece from Scorsese","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The best way to describe this film is the bleak tone of the general story. The whole atmosphere is rather depressing, but its necessary for this genre. Starring a cast which includes Nicolas Cage, Patricia Arquette, John Goodman, ,Ving Rhames, Tom Sizemore, and Marc Anthony, one can only help but be in awe at the hauntibg message in this work of art. Some people may feel the film drags on, and yes some parts are rather unnecessary, though this does help us understand the characters clearly. Next to his Oscar Winning in Leaving La, this is Cage's finest work. It is also one of the more underrated films from the long list of pictures directed by Martin Scorsese. This film definitely has strong parallels to the 1976 classic Taxi Driver, though this has a larger psychological focus. Filled with great performances and sharp dialogue this is a must see, especially for Cage/Scorsese fans. "},{"Title":"Bring me the horizon","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well, I tend to admire everything that Martin Scorsese does, mostly after the controversial 1991's Cape Fear. However, for my taste, Bringing Out the Dead isn't one of his best works. You know, it's not that his direction is poor or anything, but the story just doesn't deliver. Nicolas Cage plays a paramedic that supposedly goes into major problems after facing with death for so many times. However, the movie doesn't make it feel like his character was going crazy or anything. Also, it doesn't have a big moment in which the spectator could be waiting for, turning it into a vague story with a good directing, that sadly couldn't save the whole thing. Some scenes are entertaining and occasionally moving, but that's the minority of them. I'm giving it six stars considering it has an original plot and a professional directing, otherwise I would give it a much lower rating. Passable. "},{"Title":"haunted Nicolas Cage","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Frank Pierce (Nicolas Cage) is a NY paramedic haunted by the people he can't save. It's a grimy downtrodden portrayal of the underbelly of an ignored society. It's the early 90s from director Martin Scorsese but it is reminiscent of the 70s of Scorsese's past.Nicolas Cage puts up an impressive performance as the haunted man. The series of co-stars does divide the mood of the movie. I rather let him have just one partner. The changes cause disruptions in the flow of the movie.Disruptions may be what Scorsese is looking for. The bluesy meandering feel of the movie is highlighted by the Nicolas Cage narration. We're looking at a maestro conductor in Scorsese. The movie has the feel of a composition. "}{"Title":"A dark and intense Scorsese film.","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" For a Scorsese film Bringing Out the Dead seemed to get a bit of a lukewarm reception, but I really liked it and think it is one of his best films. It may not be the caliber of Goodfellas and Raging Bull but it is still a powerful and moving film. In the movie we follow paramedic Frank (Nicolas Cage) over three nights as he begins to unravel from stress and starts seeing ghosts and visions of people he has not been able to save. The film is a dark and intense character study with Cage turning in one of his best performances. Scorsese continues to show why he is one of the greatest directors by establishing an evocative tone and creating unforgettable scenes. This may not be a frenetic as some of his other films, but it is still a visual treat in every way. This is not a happy film but, thanks to a brilliant screenplay by Paul Schrader, it is a profound and moving meditation on death and how it affects us. Bringing Out the Dead is a truly great film full of sorrow, morbid humor, and intensity and deserves to be considered among Scorsese's best. "},{"Title":"It was the neighborhood I grew up in, and where I'd worked the most as a paramedic.  And it held more ghosts per square foot than any other.","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can't even begin to imagine the stress and burden paramedics must go through, having to jump on every life or death emergency, having to contend with crazy people getting themselves hurt all the time, and ultimately having to determine who lives and who dies. Bringing Out the Dead pretty much emphasizes all these aspects, underscoring the manic stress and haunting guilt the main character experiences in his efforts to save lives.There are a few caveats, because it will come off as something messy and disappointing to certain viewers. With the premise of a medic contending with ghosts, I initially thought this was a supernatural thriller along similar lines to The Sixth Sense. It totally isn't; it's actually more comparable to Taxi Driver, in the sense that Bringing Out the Dead focuses on one alienated character becoming disillusioned in a scuzzy city setting. In spite of that, it also lacks a straightforward narrative. It's one of those movies where the plot goes all over the place and never really settles on one specific conflict or aspect, and this can be quite off-putting for viewers who are used to seeing one complete storytelling experience (and I usually fall into this crowd; it took me at least two viewings to realize the value of this film).This film is laid out as a series of episodic encounters, following the main character across a few days on the job. He responds to several emergency calls, often times with lives at stake, but always overshadowed by the malice and cruelty of the city. Drug dealers, junkies, prostitutes, the homeless, the desperate, the insane, the sick, all fall under the medics' late night watches. The film carries a dark and brooding tone that always underscores the misery of people in pain.At the same time, however, the film can become manic and crazy. Some of the film's most entertaining moments show the characters high-strung and wired, racing around in the ambulance (and later, they cause some damage). At times, the film gets pretty funny, thanks partly to the main character's sardonic remarks (one of my favorites being where are the band-aids? This IS an ambulance, isn't it?!). There's a couple of scenes where the main character challenges his boss to fire him, but the boss just replies I'll fire you tomorrow, I promise. There's the gruff cop in the hospital who sternly warns people don't make me take off my sunglasses! I think one of my favorite scenes involves the medics going to a goth club, where they revive an unconscious dude literally named I.B. Bangin. Even though the film's drama becomes quite dark and serious, it's moments like these that made it even more interesting to me; it makes the film a fuller, more even experience, and it helped keep my interest more.As mentioned already, the film doesn't really have a straightforward story to tell. It's pretty mixed up, as the medics race around and meet the same characters over and over again. Through everything the protagonist goes through, however, the film does develop a decent story arc regarding the guilt he feels, always haunted by the lives he could not save, and the film overall becomes a personal journey for absolution. Whether or not he finds it hinges on his continuous interactions with a certain patient he helped bring in. In the end, it's a strong character study, reinforced with decent narration and strong thematic undertones.The film looks quite drab, but with remarkable effect. Many shots appear very stylish, with lots of interesting camera angles (including some that go sideways or upside-down), and some remarkably surreal imagery at key spots. Acting is great Nicholas Cage can get crazy with his role at times, but he also shows remarkable nuance and emotion as the main character, and this might be one of his best performances of his career. Patricia Arquette has interesting nuances of her own, while John Goodman, Tom Sizemore, and Ving Rhames add some much-needed variety and color to the mix. Writing is good. This production uses some good, real-looking sets, props, and costumes. What few special effects there are look effective. Music is used very liberally there are lots of blues and rock playing in most scenes, and it helps.This is a film that seems to get better the more I see it. It's actually a bit of a shame that I never see it mentioned anywhere, never see it played on TV, never see people talking about it; it's clearly a forgotten and under-appreciated piece of work, and I think it's worth a look.4/5 (Entertainment Pretty Good | Story Very Good | Film Very Good) "},{"Title":"No Real Plot...But There Is A Story.","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What this film lacks in plot, it makes up for in everything else. It stars Nic Cage as a paramedic who requests the night shifts. He ends up having three different partners throughout the nights, they include Tom Sizemore, Ving Rhames, and John Goodman.Now, this film isn't regarded as something to look out for and it kind of got a bad wrap. Why? Because it was directed by Martin Scorsese. This film is a perfect example of people expecting it to be something great just because of the director. When it turns out to be something different, they just disregard it. It's unfair and this film is underrated.Cage gives an interesting performance as a depressed lonely character who asks to be fired from his job as an Ambulance Driver. I really dug his performance and it worked well with the rest of the film. The film is gritty and cold. It does not hold back with what it wants to say. This is New York at night.This is, surprisingly, one of my favourite Scorsese films. When he has his masterpiece and high-profile films, this one sneaks under the radar and does not disappoint. I must stress though, it's not for everyone. It's depressing and dark, which is why I liked it so much. The stressful life of these characters who do this everyday and the toll it takes on them. Each supporting character (Sizemore, Rhames and Goodman) all have their own unique vision of the world. "},{"Title":"Understandably underrated Scorsese film","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is not for everyone. Shot mainly at night, revolving around characters at low points in their life's, in an unsavoury neighbourhood; a recipe for a depressing film.But if one can get passed that, you'll find a VERY well directed film, with an excellent soundtrack (Van Morrison &#150; T.B. Sheets, The Clash &#150; Janie Jones), fascinating characters acted incredibly well, and very decent editing.A lot of people will argue there is no plot, that the film leads no where or has no conclusion. But I think they're missing the point. The film is just about a slice of time in the life of a burnt-out paramedic. That's how it should be taken. "},{"Title":"you would regret buying this, but ..","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" this is a movie with some fantastic cinematography, editing, and soundtracking. as far as performances go -- they're terrible. i never knew how annoying patricia arquette could really be .. and how ridiculously lame nicolas cage could allow himself to be -- in a movie being directed by the man himself! -- scorcese .. it's depressing, and it never ends.this movie is about a sleepless ems who falls into mild schizophrenia after over-obsessing about one of his lost victims, an asthmatic little girl named rose. i found myself cursing at the screen halfway through seeing this idiot constantly gawking at her hallucinated visage in the faces of homeless people, prostitutes, whoever .. maybe it was just her face -- they couldn't have chosen a prettier asthmatic little girl ..? i don't know .. it's just so overdone .. the schizo tired of his profession sleepless due to regret, self-hatred, whatever .. constantly obsessing, and never trying anything new except for negative solutions ... what an awful main character .. the ending was terrible, and the only really worthwhile things in this movie would be ving rhames, much thinner than usual, and the security guard always threatening 'don't make me take off my sunglasses!' .. not to mention seeing marc anthony play a psychotic bug-eyed crackhead .. despite all of this, the cinematography really is awesome .. the only thing that might make this worth buying is how inventively shot the whole thing is, and how effectively each shot is cut together .. for most, i imagine that simply won't matter due to the awful performances of the main characters ....like the movie say .. something like .. 'you didn't have to suffer .. that was your idea' .......... pretty much. "},{"Title":"very real movie","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" saw this movie after spending 2 years as 1st aid responder and did one year on call. very real to the point of being scary. I've met burned out attendants like this. spent some time at the hospital meeting the frequent fliers, and finding homeless people beaten in the alleys. Very rarely do you actually make a difference. Most of the time, you're basically cleaning up, calling one hospital to the next to see who has room, dreading the next call, 'cause you know they're gonna be full, and so onI found this sadly real. Of course you can't pull off those kind of stunts when you're really working in this field, but I've met several that wanted to. Wanting to get drunk, to smash the crap out of something - or worse someone. Was en-route to a call (snowstorm with just under a foot of snow on the ground, at 6 am) with my partner driving. Coming down a city Main vein, with the lights red behind us. 4 lanes each way. Come over a small hill there was two drunks - one was in a wheelchair, and the other was pushing him - right in the middle of the two middle lanes. There's a wall of traffic behind us, but the lights are still red. My partner Jason, tries to stop and almost hits both of them.He starts screaming at them to get out of the road, and they ask him for a smoke. Jason is now really mad. He gets out, hits the one pushing the WC, and then shoves the WC (with occupant) towards the edge of the road. as he's getting in, he says to the one he hit, If you get in my way again, I'll run you the f**k over.He didn't say much the rest of the day. I decided I didn't want to do it anymore and I got out of that career. "},{"Title":"Spend the money to rent this movie","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Thumbs up to Bringing Out The Dead, one of the most underrated films I have seen in quite awhile. The first time I saw it, I had to say it was awful. When I saw it for the second time, I found myself understanding what Scorsese was trying to create and enjoy the way in which he was telling the story.Nicolas Cage, John Goodman, Patricia Arquette, Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore come together to make Bringing Out The Dead a very successful film.Cage is one phenomenal actor who brings a lot to this film including character depth. Goodman adds presence to the film with each scene he is in. Arquette is an actress that can be counted upon to deliver a moving performance with every role she takes. Rhames and Sizemore are perfect as the supporting cast for this film.Bringing Out The Dead is not for the light at heart. It is also one of the underrated films released in 1999. "},{"Title":"Another masterpiece made by Scorsese","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Martin Scorsese has a career which is a bit irregular.He made masterpieces(like Taxi driver,Raging bull and Goodfellas),but also boring movies(like New York,New York,Kundun and The age of innocence).Bringing out the dead is one of the masterpieces made by this director.Bringing out the dead is a great movie and all the time I could fell the experiencies from the main character.Nicolas Cage has an excellent performance on this movie.After this great movie,Scorsese made the overrated film Gangs of New York and The aviator,a very competent one.Bringing out the dead is a masterpiece that deserves to be seen.Great movie,indeed.Rating10 "},{"Title":"Scorsese's's first film in far too long","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Beautiful!!! i am so glad to see Scorsese come out after so long and do something as poignant as this... Do not underestimate this movie because it's not flashy or high speed...Nick Cage holds his own in a way i'm not always fond of... Patricia Arquette is stunning--it's nice to see her act instead of being cute (Stigmata aside, of course..) Ving Rhames (with Queen Latifah, i might add) is a fabulous addition--the wreck scene is one of my favorites...John Goodman is, as always, stellar. Tom Sizemore--what the hell?! is he really insane or just a good actor? But, the key to the film is the visuals...Martin has outdone himself--those beautiful long streetscape shots floor me. If ever downtown Brooklyn looked more stunning, i haven't seen it... "},{"Title":"Amazing! Scorecese's best of past three","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Out of Scorcese's last three movies Aviator, Gangs of New York, and this one I would rate this the highest and I really like both of those other two. That is why I had to comment on this. On this site it is rated the lowest of the three and is even rated the near the bottom of all of Scorcese's work. That's a shame because not only is it Scorcese's best since the early 90's, it is also quite possibly Nicholas Cage's best movie. Well it's at least better than Con Air. I highly recommend it to anyone who likes Scorcese. I especially like all the very strange characters in it. Like the drug addict played by Mark Anthony or the two other paramedics Cage's character works with played by John Goodman and the always awesome Ving Rhames. But my favorite character is the hospital security guard who just stands there and...well I don't want to ruin some of the weird things he says. There hilarious. Also good in this is the bluesy soundtrack that plays while Cage patrols the streets much like Scorcese's other very famous character Travis Bickel of Taxi Driver. The soundtrack almost reminds me of The Rolling Stones 72 album Exhile on Main Street. It's just a great movie all in all. Go rent it now and you don't have to thank me. "}{"Title":"This is not the Best Scorsese film but a flawed Scorsese, it's still worth watching.","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Frank Pierce (Oscar-WinnerNicolas Cage), a paramedic on the brink of madness from too many years of saving and losing lives. One night as ever other night for Frank, he meets Mary Burke (Cage's ex-wifePatricia Arquette), the daughter of a man that Frank tried to save. Franks has to confront the ghosts of the past and discover that redemption can be found among the living with the help of his new found friend-Mary.Directed by Martin Scorsese (Casino, Goodfellas, Kundun) made an strong drama with an dark sense of humor. The film has a few flawed moments, Scorsese goes over the top with his choice of music. Which it's too bad at times. Cage is excellent in the film. Arquette is also good in the film. The movie has an strong supporting cast like John Goodman, Ving Rhames, Tom Sizemore, Marc Anthony & Cliff Curtis. Scorsese made a surreal, episodic film. This film is Based on a Novel by former EMS driver Joe Connelly. His novel to film is told in a harrowing and visually arresting fashion. This has excellent cinematography work by Robert Richardson (Kill Bil Vol.1 & Vol.2, JFK, Natural Born Killers). Screenplay by Paul Schrader (Auto Focus, Exorcist-Dominion, Taxi Driver). Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Bleak and at times harrowing film. ***1/2 out of 5","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a great drama featuring the talented Nicholas Cage in one of the best roles he's ever played. It's a nitty gritty kind of film that takes place almost only at night time in Manhattan. Martin Scorsese directs like the master he is and truly knows how to unnerve the audience. Also the great Elmer Bernstein composes a terrific score as well. As dramatic and dark as the film is, it isn't without a sense of humor. There are actually scenes that made me laugh out loud, but it's all done in a way that doesn't feel out of place. Just don't make him take his sunglasses off (you'll have to see the film).Great stuff. Check it out. "},{"Title":"well-made surprise hit","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Thumbs up to Bringing Out The Dead, one of the most underrated films I have seen in quite awhile. The first time I saw it, I had to say it was awful. When I saw it the second time, I found it to be much better because it; however, I'm glad I saw it a second time because I was able to appreciate the movie much more. For example, it really showed the life of a paramedic at its worst. I enjoyed how Martin Scorsese told the story of what paramedics go through on a daily basis. Nicolas Cage, John Goodman, Patricia Arquette, Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore come together to make Bringing Out The Dead a successful film with heart.Cage is one phenomenal actor who brings a lot to this film including character depth. With every scene he is in, Goodman is adds presence to the film; you just know he is there. Arquette is an actress that can be counted upon to deliver a moving performance with every role she takes. Rhames and Sizemore are perfect as the supporting cast for this film.Bringing Out The Dead is not for the light at heart. It is also one of the underrated films of 1999.  "},{"Title":"Dark, Gritty & Wonderful","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `Saving someone's life is like falling in love. The best drug in the world. For days, sometimes weeks afterwards, you walk the streets, making infinite whatever you see...'Bringing Out The Dead is not your normal film. It tells the story of a paramedic Frank Pierce (Nicholas Cage) who is losing faith in his career choice. He hasn't saved anyone's life for some time, and everyone he seems to help, dies. He works the summer `graveyard shift' in New York with a variety of paramedic partners (John Goodman, Ving Rhames & Tom Sizemore) becoming more and more depressed each night he works &#150; haunted by the memories of the people he has been unable to save. He meets Mary Burke (Patricia Arquette) &#150; a psychologically abused ex-junkie - when her father suffers a heart attack and Frank is called to assist. They form a bond from their constant meeting at the hospital as she waits around for news of her father.This film portrays a New York night as a seedy underworld, filled with drugs and alcohol and overflowing hospital emergency rooms. It portrays paramedics as people on the edge &#150; traumatised by the many things they have seen; lives that no one would want to live.Martin Scorsese's direction is good &#150; the actors' successful portrayal of their characters really makes you feel like you are there. The cinematography is very different to the majority of other films &#150; images sped up, strange camera cuts during dialogue scenes; it reminded me a lot of the mish-mashed collage-style images seen in Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers. So I was not overly surprised when I researched the cinematographer (Robert Richardson) of this film and found that he was also the cinematographer on Natural Born Killers.Nicholas Cage's performance is very much Nicholas Cage from a variety of other films &#150; his portrayal of a depressed paramedic would no doubt have come easy for him as his character Frank is a lot like many other of Cage's previous roles.This film has a very strong black comedy feel to it. It is rated R for it's adult themes rather than gross-out factor, to which there is very little. It is a very intense film and you certainly don't go away feeling in high spirits &#150; but you don't seem to go away feeling sombre either. You see a glimpse of hope for the characters and think that maybe, just maybe &#150; everything will be alright.  "},{"Title":"Taxi driver again? NO WAY","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is both insightful and very well directed.  It is one of Scorsese's most overlooked films as its content appears to gruesome for most of the mainstream public...the reality that is brought to this picture is much different than the reality given viewers in Taxi Driver...this is a MODERN picture of a MODERN problem, violence, for example, is not the bottom line of this movie, it is the way in which guilt has been suppressed that is being pointed towards by Scorsese, Cage is a fountain of misplaced guilt and disgust...in this microscopic way one could say that Taxi Driver is similar, but Taxi Driver ultimately deals with the urban and how individuals become more alienated in places where quite the opposite could be expected (a reflection of the world really)..whereas Taxi Driver dealt with a timeless problem from its time period's jilted and twisted perspective...worth seeing...and worth thinking about..one of his best modern flicks...a bit of the old ultra violence..and besides, with all the useless druck thats been coming out, a little brutal truth is the least we, as moviegoers, should expect... "},{"Title":"an underrated surprise","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Thumbs up to Bringing Out The Dead, one of the most underrated films I have seen in quite awhile. The first time I saw it, I had to say it was awful,When I saw it the second time, I found it to be much better because it; however, I'm glad I saw it a second time because I was able to appreciate the movie much more. For example, it really showed the life of a paramedic at its worst. I enjoyed how Martin Scorsese told the story of what paramedics go through on a daily basis. Nicolas Cage, John Goodman, Patricia Arquette, Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore come together to make Bringing Out The Dead a successful film with heart.Cage is one phenomenal actor who brings a lot to this film including character depth. With every scene he is in, Goodman is adds presence to the film; you just know he is there. Arquette is an actress that can be counted upon to deliver a moving performance with every role she takes. Rhames and Sizemore are perfect as the supporting cast for this film.Bringing Out The Dead is not for the light at heart. It is also one of the underrated films of 1999. "},{"Title":"brilliant...","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We live in a strange world when a film as utterly dreadful as Gangs of New York can garner 13 Oscar nominations and yet a film as dark and funny - visually compelling and emotionally wrenching as this goes unnoticed. Oh the shame...9/10 "},{"Title":"The True Story of the PARAMEDIC in New York City!","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"                    This film is very down to earth and very realistic concerning the world of Paramedic's in all the worst locations in New York City, namely Hell's Kitchen on the East Side.  Nicolas Cage(Frank Pierce),Sonny,'02 gave an outstanding portrayal of a Burned Out Medic and the crazy way he was able to deal with his situation and at the same time try to SAVE LIVES!  Frank Pierce tried to get fired but was not successful and had to deal with prostitutes, junkies and just plain NUTS!  Patricia Arquette(Mary Burke),Human Nature,'01 gave Frank a spark in his life and some so called Romance!   John Goodman(Larry Verber),Dirty Deeds,'02 was a great supporting actor who wanted to retire and start his own Paramedic's Unit.   If you like Nicolas Cage and want to really see him act for his salary, don't miss this picture! "},{"Title":"Don't be put off, watch this!","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yesterday I saw this movie on a non-commercial TV station (so without commercial breaks) and I'm very glad I did. When I saw it listed in the TV guide I wasn't sure whether to watch it or not, because I seemed to remember lots of bad reviews. OK, the film might have been a little too much at certain points, but I definitely liked it.Cage is very convincing as a paramedic who's losing it. He's experiencing a string of cases going bad. People die on him all the time, no matter how hard he tries to save their lives. The ghosts of these dead people start haunting him. Literally he starts seeing their faces in the streets and they all seem to blame him for not saving them.His breakdown is beautifully timed and matches the breakdown of the female lead, Mary (Patricia Arquette), who's father is being kept alive in the hospital after Frank (Cage) brought him in with a heart attack. Mary has to let go of her father, who's definitely not going to make it without all the tubes and up to 15 shocks a day. And Frank has to let go of the people he couldn't save.Scorcese shows the insanity of Frank's last night on the ambulance in a beautiful way. One big bad nightmarish trip. The ending is maybe a bit too melodramatic, but in a way it suits the movie. All nightmares should end like that. "},{"Title":"An excellent, underappriciated film","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was an amazing movie.  I usually really like Martin Scorsese films, and so does everyone else, but this one was exceptional.  Nicolas Cage is terrific as a paramedic who is haunted by spirits of the people he failed to save, and now he is determined to save someones life.  Scorsese pumps so much more life into a film with his direction style, the cinamatography was great as well.  Its amazing that more people havent seen this film, its certainly one of the best movies of the 90's.  ***1/2 out of ****. "}{"Title":"Unique","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There's something so unique about this film that I find it difficult to describe exactly what it is, but it really has an element of beauty to it. Nicolas Cage gives an outstanding performance. I cannot imagine another actor cast in this role. He is the film. The other actors give decent performances too.This film is greatly underrated and deserves more recognition as near enough a piece of art.Its not the series of events that take place that get to you, its the feelings. You can feel this film. You experience real pathos, but its very unusual. It is so strange that you can relate to Cage's character without having experienced what he has.A remarkable experience to watch. "},{"Title":"Strange but intriguing","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first caught a glimpse of Bringing out the dead, I didn't know what to make of it, at first, I thought it was going to be a boring film, but I found myself becoming more en-grossed  with the movie the more I watcthed it.  It did remind me alot of Taxi Driver but this time around the main character was a paramedic, not a Taxi Driver, and the strange visions that Cage has in the film are really quite disturbing and haunting throughout the movie. It does not really have any plot or meaning to it, but I still found it a great film, not because of the fact, that it was weird, but because of the way it was filmed.  I find Martin Scorsese film's hard to watch at times and I really have no reason why, maybe because they contain disturbing images or whether It's because the film's he makes give you a depressing feeling.   But still this was a movie that made me think after watching it and when I think about it to this day, i still think about what this film really has to say to us.  But if i was to think of a plot for this film, then it would be to see if Cage can stay alive. "},{"Title":"masterpiece of Martin Scorcese on drugs.","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why anyone would ever watch this movie. It has no genre. It has insane plot twists.  thought it was genius. This feat of the mind should be seen atleast once a week. It generates a sense of pure normal. I mean could Nicholas Cage's character be more normal, other than the fact that he halucinates.   "},{"Title":"Under Rated Scorsese Masterpiece","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A lowly 6.8 score for this film? How could you? Of all the great films (and a few not so great) that Martin Scorsese has made, this is right up there with Goodfellas, Mean Streets, Taxi Driver etc. AND it has the only decent performance from Nicholas Cage since he won his Academy Award. (Has that man been coasting, or what?)The Scorsese-Schrader-Cage combination is a winner. ALL the performances are great, and the film itself is a great meditation on life, death, and the whole damn thing. An example of great artists at the top of their art.(Apologies for the overuse of the word great.) "},{"Title":"Powerful and Intelligent","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What is it about this film that makes it so compelling? Is it the amazing cinematography? The brutal and raw story of a NY paramedic about to go over the edge? Is it Scorsese's flawless direction? Is it the fact that Tom Sizemore steals the show with his convincingly brutal performance? Is it the very believable performances from Ving Rhames and Patricia Arquette? Or is it Cages insightful narration from the beginning to the end? If you ask me, it's all of those things. From the opening scene, to the fast motion Ambulance scenes, to the very last frame this film is just brilliant. But, it does of course have its flaws one of them being that for the first half of the film Cage was playing Cage, he didn't become believable until late into the film. Not a big flaw, but still big enough to knock my grade down one notch. This isn't exactly as good as say Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, or GoodFellas, but it comes close.Final Grade **** (out of 5) "},{"Title":"POWERFUL","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A strange and powerful movie, told in three acts. Hard to watch at times. Almost a horror movie, akin to JACOB'S LADDER. Cage is as always superb. Not your typical Scorsese film. Not something to watch a second time, however. Too disturbing and unnerving, and in the end, unfulfilling. Like real life. Sometimes. "},{"Title":"Very powerful piece of modern art","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie.  I consider this as one of my favorite movies in my collection.  I don't watch it too often, however, I need to be in the mood. This movie brings out the atmosphere and closeness of a crowded and dark city that you get caught up into.  There is not much of a plot to the movie, but there does not need to be one.  The movie itself, the way I see it, is more like getting into a piece of artwork rather than watching a movie. Much like people enjoy looking at a good painting, I enjoy the sounds, movements, and decaying sanity that this movie depicts.  Goes well with a dark room and cigaretts! "},{"Title":"Always a good film to watch","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This may not be Martin Scorsese's  best film, it certainly fits his body of  work (with the exception of Kundun).  Nicholas Cage was excellent in this  role, one of the last times he actually  tried to fit into a character as opposed  to turning the character into a caricature  of himself. The supporting cast was  also excellent, adding depth to a film  which was in need of some due to the  limited storyline. While some may say  it too closely resembles Taxi Driver, I  look at this film as more of an homage to the everyday working stiff. What I  especially liked was the differentiation  of personalities within the ambulance  drivers, especially between Ving Rhames  and Cage. This is one of Scorsese's  more contemporary films, which just  demonstrates his ability to adjust to the  state of current cinema. "},{"Title":"Possibly Scorsese's most underrated film.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing out the Dead is a brilliant piece of work, even for Scorsese.  He obviously one of the best directors of all time, with such films to his credit as Raging Bull, Taxi Driver, Casino, Mean Streets, and his absolute best, GoodFellas.  However, this is one of Scorsese's most frequently overlooked works.  Bringing out the Dead is truly a modern masterpiece, one of my favorite films of the 1990s.  It is much too underappreciated for what it is.  Not only Scorsese's superb (as always) directing, but the performance by Nicholas Cage is one of his very best as well, even better than Raising Arizona, maybe better than Red Rock West, almost to the level of Leaving Las Vegas.10/10.  I strongly recommend this film, especially to Scorsese fans. "},{"Title":"spot-on","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've worked as a paramedic off and on for over a decade. I felt the movie was a spot-on depiction of Connelly's writing. Some of the nuances didn't hit me until long after I'd seen the film. I highly recommend this film, but it's rather unpleasant to watch at times. "}{"Title":"dark. too dark, in fact","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't too crazy about this movie. I just thought it was too dark. Nicolas Cage, John Goodman, and Ving Rhames all give decent performances, but it will remind you of Leaving Las Vegas, only way darker. Cage is an ambulance paramedic at the end of his rope, and the story follows his descent.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Different....","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is listed as very, different, in my book. It's not very pleasant. No. You will not want to become a medical technician after watching this film. BUT, it has a very important message to deliver, and, despite its gruesomess, I was unable to turn it off.It's important for people to see this movie, just so they can get a grip on what's out there in society. "},{"Title":"A great film that was overlooked.......AGAIN!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great. It's in my top ten. The gritty, realistic violence is not for the faint of heart, but if you can handle it, then it is well worth the rent.Another classic, overlooked. Some say it is a little to much like Taxi Driver. I disagree. The differences are immense. You see, Travis Bickle, was obsessed with cleaning the streets of all that befoul it, while Nicolas Cage is determined to save people in there moment of need, weather giving them CPR, or being in their friend in a difficult situation.I loved this movie because of the complex characters, and how each paramedic dealt with their stress, alienation, and insanity. I think that Tom Sizemores' character was the most insane and angry, but I won't spoil anything for those of you who haven't seen it yet. 10/10 "},{"Title":"You'll have to be a BIG Nicolas Cage fan.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is apparent that even Martin Scorcese can't ride a winner every time. This film presents one of the strangest premises I have seen in recent times. We have an ambulance driver who hates everything and everybody. We are shown the behind the scenes realism of what their lives are like. I thought that with Cage and John Goodman and Tom Sizemore, I could find something to like, but even if I did find a snippet here and there, along comes Patricia Arquette to screw things up. I have often wondered how she gets so many plum roles, and the only thing I can assume here is that her ex, ( former real life husband,Cage), got her the part. She is absolutely terrible in this role, and the only asset she ever had in other films,namely her breasts, was totally ignored by Mr.Scorcese. He even had Ving Rhames involved, who almost saved the film by himself,but that was too much to ask for. Bottom line?  Just trust me. I am close to being a professional movie critic after all these years, and unless you are a stone Nick Cage fan, save the two hours this will take to prove me right. "},{"Title":"amazing stuff","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like all of Scorsese's films, Bringing out the Dead has a fierce intensity. It is in my opinion up there with his other films like Taxi Driver or Goodfellas and I find it odd that most people dont seem to think so. The film has no real plot, but I think that is one of its strengths. Nicholas Cages character drives in his ambulance from place to place with his various partners, seeing horrible things that most people don't usually see. At the same time, he is haunted by the ghost of Rose, a young girl who died in front of him, and strikes up a friendship with a girl named Mary; Frank is slowly losing his mind, he needs Mary. This movie is filled with memorable sequences, great dialogue, a terrific soundtrack, and Nicholas Cages best performance in ages, (plus the other actors are great too, John Goodman, Ving Rhames, Tom Sizemore, and MARC ANTHONY! who wouldve thought he could act?)  "},{"Title":"One of the few films where the book is done justice.","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Amazing. I never got chance to see it at the cinema so while waiting for the film to be out for rental I got the book. I'm not going use the old cliche un-putdownable because I could put it down but when I was reading it I was enjoying every moment of it. It isn't a very long book but there is so much going on in it and with it being written by a paramedic some of the harsh situations make you really think, how no matter how hard your job is, you should always be thankful that you aren't a paramedic. Any how, enough about the book the film is spectacular. The fast-paced, adrenaline fueled ambulance-acrobatics could make you think that you are watching some pre-fifth element Bruce Willis film, if they weren't as imaginatively shot as they are. Then there are the flashback/ hallucination sequences. I love to see a talented director use their imagination and put together what they think a drug influenced episode could be like, the challenge is to be as surreal as possible without stepping over the Eraserhead line, don't worry, Marty stays well clear of that, but the fish swimming backwards did mess up my head. I love this film. Two thumbs up "},{"Title":"Argh!! Too artsy.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you're a fan of disjointed weirdness then this is an excellent movie for you. I'm a die hard Cage fan, so I did watch it all  the way through but wasn't really impressed with the whole movie. It did have some good, almost calm bits but for the most part I found it too erratic and didn't really see the point to the movie or a plot for that matter. "},{"Title":"Dark but brilliant","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing out the dead has a superb combination that makes a great film,Superb acting , a brilliant director and a mesmerising soundtrack. Nicolas Cage, Jon Goodman and the Brilliant  Ving Rhames contribute to a dark but wonderfully entertaining movie.  Martin Scorsese directs Cage who plays an ambulance driver who is on the verge of insanity . He sees the ghosts of the patients he has lost during his work ( and this seems to be most of them) he is also paired with the craziest of partners. This film is dark and if i have to complain about anything it is that it is that Scorsese does let this film go a little sureal at times which does spoil it , in my opinion. The music is fantastic,Van morrison and UB40 to name but a few add to this atmospheric movie. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Doesn't measure up to the talent behind it","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's impossible not to draw some comparison to Taxi Driver... same director, same screenwriter, the story of a loner on the edge driving around NYC at night... and it's not a very pretty comparison. The dialogue rolls out a bit like Yakuza, an earlier work by Schrader... it's got flashes of brilliance which are never quite sustained. And whereas Taxi Driver was compelling, with brilliant characterizations, 'Dead' suffers from its inability to make you care about the main character or most of the supporting cast. Having said all that, it's still a Scorsese / Schrader collaboration and thus could hardly be labelled a 'bad' movie. But fans of either or both will probably be disappointed. Getting sick of seeing a suicidal Nicholas Cage too. Yawn.                     "},{"Title":"no popcorn feast","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i love this movie(seen it more than a dozen times on video) and it's true that it's not for everyone. it's a great examination of one's journey to redemption, spiritual or whatever it may be. plus, it's great to see cage doing what he's seems so keen and good at and the supporting cast of goodman, rhames and sizemore is a revelation. the cinematography is achingly true to the mood it wishes to display.read the book by joe connelly(an ex-medic) if you're itching for more background on the characters, storyline etc.oh yeah, watch it at night. "}{"Title":"A shambles","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a mess. I know there are some of you who will find the lack of plot stimulating and the visual imagery dazzling. With so many quality people involved, Patricia Arquette excepted, it is hard to see why this should have flopped so badly. I enjoyed the relentlessness of the paramedic shifts, the occasional insights into the dodgier parts of NYC and of course, Nicolas Cage is always watchable but.... .. it was way over the top. Relied heavily on musical interludes and flashy cinematography. I felt uninvolved with all of the characters, they seemed very one dimensional. There was no depth to any of it.In short an attempt to make a fantastical documentary. Not very interesting.This is a Taxi Driver for the 90's. To misquote Lloyd Bentsen Son, I knew Taxi Driver, You are no Taxi Driver  "},{"Title":"A New Good Movie by a great director...","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorsese likes Robert de Niro, but here the hero is Nicolas Cage, another great actor. The movie is a little bit violent and finny in the same time, but do not forget, it is a drama, with great actors, smart script, perfect director who know what he does. GREAT MOVIE ! "},{"Title":"This is NOT GoodFellas","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  BOTD is one of the most creative and spellbinding movies I've seen in a long time. The pacing was perfect, not too fast and not too slow &#150; which with a film like this is not easy to attain. The casting was excellent &#150; Rhames, Cage, Sizemore, Goodman, Mary Beth Hurt, and a big surprise of an appearance by Marc Anthony. Anthony, by the way, was very impressive.I love it when movies take you through recurring situations and characters. But, be assured,  you do not see the same thing every time. You got to know Frank's coworkers like he knows them, like we know our own. The people you work with every day, exchange short jokes and stories but never really know them much deeper, as everyone goes about doing their jobs. I could not take my eyes away from this snippet of an ambulance driver's life.Personally, I liked the soundtrack and thought the right music was played at the right time. It added to the irony and the humor of the film.My complaints are the casting of Patricia Arquette, who brought nothing to the table where all the other characters and actors (however small their part) delivered, and the Red Death that kept popping up. Mystery was created from the beginning about this drug and nothing was ever revealed about it. Otherwise, I thought Bringing was a feast for the eyes, and indeed brilliant.  "},{"Title":"unless you like Martin Scorcese movies, don't rent this!","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Man, this was rough...sure, like most movies there are some funny scenes..(ving rhames and nic cage riding together) but man..this movie went all over the place.  the plot was uh, and when the climax of the movie hit, it was like oh, ok, here it is.  Again, unless you are a fan of martin Scorcese or really love Nic cage and have to see every movie that he does....stay away from this one "},{"Title":"Quite brilliant","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised after I had seen this film. Well, I don't know if pleasant should be mentioned together with Bringing Out the Dead. What Scorsese presents is, according to me, the big city portrayed as hell.The film is a roller coaster ride. Very stylish great editing, great cinematography, and brilliantly odd angles, great use of light and colours as well. Nicolas Cage is fantastic as the main character, and Patricia Arquette is pretty good as well. One of the best Scorsese-films I have ever seen; much better than Casino not quite as good as the masterpiece GoodFellas. Highly recommended. (8/10) "},{"Title":"?","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think Mr. Scorsese seemed to have missed one of the main elements to a movie a plot. It was like going down to the local hospital to watch the ambulance guys at work. Big woop. The idea of Frank seeing ghosts was cool, if only it went somewhere.I also found the pop songs out of place. Every 15 minutes or so some corny pop song would come in. Totally out of sync with the movie. I was waiting to hear Shiny Happy People. I also didn't like the oddball camera angles or the speed up. I didn't understand it. But I didn't totally hate this movie. The dream sequence in the middle was very cool. "},{"Title":"A serious situation depicted with doubt and mass confusion.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorsese weaves a dark, moody, seedy, bare bones and gut wrenching tale of a paramedic nearing the end of his fuse. Nicolas Cage plays an EMT that is close to occupational burn out and turns to substance abuse to ease his painful memories of the people he could not save.John Goodman, Ving Rhames and Tom Sizemore play paramedics that Cage is partnered with and each has his own escape and shield from reality.Sometimes kind of hard to watch. And this doesn't really show paramedics in a real positive manner, but you don't lose the deserved respect for this life saving profession.My favorite scene takes place in the night club with the character I.B. Bangin. Rhames is masterful and funny. Patricia Arquette plays a diversion for Cage. Cynthia Roman plays Rose, the haunting memory devouring Cage.This is one hell of an ambulance ride. "},{"Title":"Close...but not there","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the acting by all the paramedics(Cage, Goodman, Sizemore, Rhames)was great,  especially Cage. I also liked the directing of Scorsese and the camera shots of New York city were awesome, but I thought the story was fairly dull and found myself bored at times. Most of all, I disliked the music, awful, I would have used more dark songs. I loved Taxi Driver and this movie has the same feel, but just doesn't quite make it. I did, however, enjoy the movie overall, it just wasn't the masterpiece I was hoping for, but they cannot all be. 2 1/2 out of 4.  "},{"Title":"Ultimately just a so-so film.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film starts out really strong, incredibly strong as a matter of fact. It provides a wonderful look at the urban decay which is infesting our cities more and more like a cancer. However, it falls about towards the end. The main reason for this, I feel, is that the film keeps trying to decide what it wants to be, and what it wants to do with itself. It feels like it can't make up its mind on whether or not it wants to be a social commentary, a love story, a story of the super natural, or a story about redemption, and keeps flipping back and forth between these elements, like  an indecisive person with a tv remote. Many movies do blend a wide variety of elements, however I did not feel such was the case with this one. As stated, this film kept trying to decide which element it wanted to go with. That's my main criticism of this film.On the positive side... The visuals of this film are wonderful, and this film has a nice wonderful visual feel to it. And it has some extremely top notch performances (probably the best aspect of the film). Nicolas Cage is brilliant and wonderful. He plays a burn out, and this quality basically oozes out of every single one of his pores, he manages to capture EVERY single dimension of that emotional state. Though as awesome as Cage is, I do feel his is topped (not by much though) by two of the supporting actors. Ving Rhames is wonderfully hilarious as a bible thumping EMT. While Tom Sizemore plays an EMT on the verge of psychosis frightenly well, very frightenly well.So, if you like the director, or any of the actors I mentioned, or any of the elements I mentioned, then see this movie. Just don't set your hopes too high.  "},{"Title":"Bringing Out the Nuts","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nearly every character in this movie should be committed.  They are all nuts!  If there are any paramedics out there who actually think or behave like the ones in this film, God help us all.  Forget 911, call a taxi!This flick is not anywhere near brilliant.  The plot is contrived and the characters are unidimensional.   "}{"Title":"One plot too many","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At last, a movie which shows that Nicolas Cage does have a facial expression besides a half-asleep stare! He does a very good job portraying Frank Pierce's slide into near-madness. His fellow paramedics (John Goodman, Ving Rhames, Tom Sizemore) are excellently cast. Sizemore, in particular, does an excellent job playing his old standby role of the gleeful sociopath.Sadly, the thought-provoking dynamics between the paramedics are not explored as thoroughly as they could have been, owing to an annoying, pointless, and tacked-on subplot involving Mary Burke (Patricia Arquette). You see, her father has suffered a near-fatal heart attack, and of course Frankie is suddenly touched by her innocence and warmth. Spare me!Every time the interactions between Pierce and his coworkers are becoming interesting, we'd be whisked away to yet another intolerable, formulaic scene with Cage and Arquette. It was distracting and aggravating, and though this is no fault of Arquette's, I would recommend that you fast-forward through all of her scenes if you rent this movie.  "},{"Title":"Underrated Scorcese","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  48 hours in the life of a burned out NYC paramedic (Nicolas Cage) haunted by the patients he failed to save. Very similar in a lot of ways to Taxi Driver (also directed by Martin Scorcese).   Terrific supporting performances by Ving Rhames, Aida Turturro (The Sopranos), but Patricia Arquette is hit and miss. "},{"Title":"Scorsese influenced by Repo, Pulp, Leaving L.V & himself","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this looked good in the trailers. I like Gage and am always interested in Scorsese. A paramedic who cannot sleep, haunted by the ghosts of those he could not save. It's a great concept. However, the movie did not live up to my anticipation. It appears that while absorbing the influences of Pulp Fiction and Repo Man, Scorsese failed to put his own magic into the work. From the rapping with Gage to the banter with the female dispatcher, the Ving Rhames character is straight from Sy Richardson's Lite from Repo Man. I think the movie tries too hard to have an independent feel. Gage just seems to be  rehashing the burned out Leaving Las Vegas character, and Scorsese plants his token, obligatory Catholic references here and there. The brutality of the Tom Sizemore character does not ring true. Rescue work in N.Y. may well be that brutal, but it is not convincingly played in this film. Finally, all the things I like about Patricia Arquette are not present. Her voice is a constant annoyance. Martin Scorsese already did this movie in his masterpiece Taxi Driver. Bringing out the Dead is not bad by any means, but it is not up to the high standards expected of Scorsese.  "},{"Title":"A Great Movie, Scorsese's Best Since GoodFellas","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great movie, a facinating, hypnotic film directed by the legendary Martin Scorsese. Nicolas Cage turns in his best performances since Leaving Las Vegas as a burnt out paramedic who is haunted by the people he cannot save. The rest of a first rate cast does superb work as well including Tom Sizemore, Ving Rhames, John Goodman as well as Cage's wife Patricia Arquette. This is a great movie, don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen most of Scorcese's movies, and, unlike other reviewers, I consider Bringing Out the Dead to be one of his best -- a masterpiece, in fact.  Nicolas Cage gives the performance he was born for, and the rest of the cast are superb.  If the movie was difficult to watch, it's because I had tears in my eyes through much of it, the dialog, performances, and directing were that powerful.  That, or I was laughing out loud at the clowning that the characters (esp. Ving Rhames) needed to do to get through their horrible job.  In other words, this film had me by the throat from beginning to end.Anyone associated with this tour-de-force deserves an Oscar.  Probably the most underrated film of 1999. "},{"Title":"Taxi Driver Part 2","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An outstanding film, it kind of had the same feel as Taxi Driver, but yet less drawn out and more energetic.  Nicholas Cage puts on another morbid yet wonderful performance.  I think him and Marty should definitely get together more often. "},{"Title":"Magic tragic that warms","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film wasn´t at all that grey that I thought it would be. OK, the scenery isn´t exactly uplifting but the characters are so twisted that you´re drawn into it. Scorseses experiments with speed and light is effective and really brings forth the feeling of the ambulance rushing through the streets.Cage is perfect as a drunk which he has already proven in Leaving Las Vegas. I recommend this movie, it´s full of intelligent sequences. You will laugh. (8 of 10)  "},{"Title":"Taxi Driver II","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While there are some interesting moments in this film, I can't help but feel that it is just about another Travis Bickel. The protagonist is a lonely, depressed alcaholic who does not care about himself enough to care for others, as was Travis. Nothing new here, except Travis drives an ambulence.I'm also really tired of New York. It's a hell hole, and the rest of the world knows it. Enough already. "},{"Title":"MOTHER, JUGS & SPEED meets TAXI DRIVER","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorcese really scores with this surreal tale of a burnt out paramedic working New York's Hell's Kitchen neighborhood.  Nicholas Cage is in top form as Frank Pierce, the burnt out ambulance driver who spends three nights of hell riding the streets of New York and haunting hospitals.  His partners each have their own method of dealing with the insanity that is their lives, while Frank is just along for the ride as he contends with his own emotional issues.The movie shows the Big Apple as a nihilistic nightmare, to say the least.  It seems like it is inhabited by a supernatural presence that can't be held or contained.  Pierce himself is haunted by the ghost of a young victim he was unable to save, and seeks redemption any way he can.  He desperately needs to save a life before he goes insane.I enjoyed this film a lot.  It's one of Scorcese's best directing jobs in a decade, and it shows.  Realistic and surrealistic moments collide with one another in a fascinating look at an underappreciated career.Eight stars, mostly for the mind trip atmosphere of the movie, but also for the scene where Ving Rhames causes a wicked ambulance wipeout.  The shot was caught so well on screen that I had to watch it over a few times! "},{"Title":"Scorsese still great, just a little older","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorsese returned to the mean streets of New York that he paced with such flair in the Seventies with this film, an adaptation (by long-time collaborator Paul Schrader) of a semi-autobiographical novel by Joe Connolly. Nicolas Cage plays Frank Pierce, an ambulance driver in Hell's Kitchen (this is the early &#145;90s), close to nervous breakdown and haunted by the ghosts of dead patients.Bringing Out the Dead charts 56 hours in Frank's life as he speeds through the darkened streets of America's greatest metropolis. We see his increasing desperation at not being able to save people's lives and not being able to block it all out any more. As always, Scorsese emphasises this morass of emotion with massive visual flair &#150; New York is speeded up, blurred and skewed &#150; but this is not the same city as in 'Taxi Driver' and the director knows it. All his love for the city and his anger at what it did to the young contrasted so violently in that film that it brought forth real genius in Scorsese's direction. The genius is still there, but after over two decades the city is not any better, and so the love and anger have both subsided and enmeshed, creating an all-enveloping sadness embodied in the darkness draped over the run-down buildings. Frank, assisted by John Goodman's slowly ambitious optimism, Ving Rhames's faith in God and women and Tom Sizemore's sheer lunacy, slowly begins to come out of his depression. His boss refuses to fire him and he strikes up a friendship with a lonely woman (Patricia Arquette, Cage's real-life wife when this was filmed) whose father is in a coma. Yet he cannot shake the ghost of a homeless girl who died in his arms and desperately searches for release from her. Cage perfectly captures Frank's desperation and terrified wonder at his hallucinations. Giving the sort of performance that won him an Oscar in 'Leaving Las Vegas', he eschews his usual histrionics without losing any intensity. Arquette, too, is subtle but effective, while the rest of the cast have a field day &#150; Rhames, in particular, is superb.While this may not be Scorsese at the top of his form, this is a fine, intelligent film, at once a eulogy for the lost innocence of New York and a prayer of hope for its salvation. I can only wish all films were this enthralling.   "}{"Title":"Bringing out obsession","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Scorsesse has proved to be comfortable dealing with subjects many people feel uncomfortable dealing with. He did that in The Last Temptation and he has done it again with this one. I think most of Scorsesse's films are about obsession.Travis is obsessed with cleaning the filthy streets of New York,mobsters are obsessed with money and power, and so on but in this film he goes far beyond because Pierce is obsessed with dead and that is a big issue in human life, probably the biggest. So he portrays a life saver, and he makes it clear when Pierce explains in his off-voice how good it is when one of his patients lives,how everything floats and how the only way to take it when someone dies is to put the blame on something else, and finally he gives shape to Pierce's obsession in the person of the girl he could not save and which face haunts him all the time. I understand the movie is built pretty much according to the book so Scorsesse must have been very enthusiastic about making this film. There is really no plot in this film, conventionally speaking, because the real plot is in Pierce's mind. It could be shocking for some people to see how the only way to rest for Pierce is to do the opposite of what he is so hard trying to do all the time, it really is out of morals and ethics patterns, but in the end what he is doing is to let things happen and by acknowledging that he is allowed to recover his peace.Nick Cage did a good job but it kind of reminded me too much his characters in Leaving Las Vegas and the US version of Wings of Desire, I see that as a concession to the audience and I don't like it but I understand audience is an important part of the business. Anyway I would have liked to see somebody else in that role. Patricia Arquette was really good too, she was really outstanding in her portrayal of the beaten up by life woman.If you like Scorsesse go and see it, you will not be disappointed, after all he does not make bad films. If you don't like him definitely don't see this one. "},{"Title":"A forceful and disquieting film","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a disturbing and realistic character study of Frank Pierce (Nicholas Cage) a burned out paramedic, who is slowly succumbing to the depressing reality of his job and the city he lives in.  He is tortured by the futility of his efforts and haunted by self blame about a young woman named Rose whose life he was unable to save.  We witness about a week of his life, mostly at work handling medical emergencies.  There really isn't much of a plot here.  It is mostly a succession of events in the life of an EMT and a psychological study of a man losing his grip under the crushing stress of his vain attempts at saving the dregs of humanity.Martin Scorsese brings his trademark stark realism to the film, with authentic images of the sleazy underbelly of New York City.  As always, his camerawork, lighting, sets and locations were delivered with raw power and great dramatic impact.  Having grown up in NYC, I was amazed at his ability to capture so perfectly the essence of the city's street life.Unfortunately, the story diverged too often into the bizarre antics of some of the surrounding characters like Noel (Marc Anthony),  and fellow paramedics like Larry (John Goodman) and Marcus (Ving Rhames).  In heavy handed stories like this one, it is often necessary to have some comic relief, but Scorsese takes this concept around the bend far too often.Nicholas Cage was superb as the self doubting paramedic at the end of his rope.  His sense of torment and bipolar mood swings were compelling and potent.  Patricia Arquette played a pathetic young woman, the daughter of one of Frank's rescue victims to whom he takes a shine.  Makeup did a great job of making her look unbelievably plain and mousy and her portrayal was extremely effective, playing the part with a good deal of angst and despondency.I rated this film a 7/10.  It is a disquieting film that is manic depressive in its presentation and very downbeat and pessimistic in its general tone.  Its greatest assets are Cage's performance, and its realistic presentation of raw emotion and the feel of the New York streets.  Its flaw is its meandering flow and its excessive and often bizarre digression from the central character study.  If you can appreciate a very dark and gloomy film with forceful and poignant portrayals, it's definitely worth a look.     "},{"Title":"BORED... TO DEATH","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Most of the reviews I read loved this movie! However, I did not!Too long. Boring. Wild plot line spinning in all directions. No direction in where it was going. Utterly depressing. And the ending was... uh... was there an ending???City shown as a dirty, horrible, sleazy hole. Makes you wish you lived in a little, picturesque, country town. During the day the city looked worse, even more dirty, horrible and sleazy. Overworked, underpaid E.R. department filled with urban crime victims, junkies and drunks covered in gore. Ambulance officers driving around town not wanting to do 'jobs', or going ballistic on various patients for unbelievable reasons. Hey, would an ambulance officer get away with bashing a patient virtually to death (with a baseball bat) just because he was breaking car windows?CONCLUSION Boy, am I glad I'm not a Med for an urban public  facility. "},{"Title":"Very strong film. Excellent story.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First off, some comments about what this film -isn't-... 1. Not a date film. 2. Not a comedic romp.That said, I was very impressed. Scorsese interposes hard imagery and rough cut scenes with moments of angelic grace. Nicolas Cage is very comfortable and effective in the role of someone at the end of his sanity.Definitely worth the rental bucks. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In bringing out the dead, we follow Frank Peirce (Cage), a paramedic on the brink of madness, over 3 nights on the graveyard shift in New York. As he bounces from partner to partner (Goodman, Rhames, Sizemore) he slowly declines into his own personal hell. He is haunted by ghosts of former nights, with a nagging belief that they all watch him when they die in his care. He is particularly troubled by a young homeless girl named Rose, who he now sees everywhere.  In a subconsious act of redemption, he latches onto a dying old man and his drug-addeled daughter (Arquette).  Cage is amazingly convincing as Peirce, as is everyone here in their roles. The camera plays against the soundtrack perfectly, as happy songs play during happy moments (and vice versa) as it should be. Scorsese ventures into new territory, but carries the best of his past with him. Go see this, espesscialy if your in a bad mood. "},{"Title":"A visually spectacular film which showcases Scorsese's talent as one of the best directors of our time.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing Out the Dead is one of the best films I have seen this year. Everything about this movie is good; the cinematography, the acting, the script, the soundtrack, everything.  I won't go into detail about the plot or surprises because I do not want to ruin the movie.  GO OUT AND SEE IT!!! You will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Definately one of 1999's best!","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great. Nicolas Cage is back in top formation and so is Tom Sizemore and Ving Rhames. The direction is great and so is the storytelling. This is probably next to Casino, one of my favorite movies of Scorsese. One of 1999's best and worth every cent of admission. "},{"Title":"A great experience","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having been there, done that, in Vietnam.I can relate to this movie extremely well.It portrays the mental stress and irony of the job.The GOD syndrome is felt by most in that business and the movie expresses it well.Not for everyone, but a great trip for those who understand this type of work.  "},{"Title":"There's plenty I could say about this film...","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  but most of it would be censored out.  I can't believe the same man who gave us Taxi Driver and Goodfellas directed this hopeless waste of film.  This film is going nowhere and taking a long time to get there.For the third time this year we have a movie with a central character that can see dead people.  That idea is getting old fast.  Nicholas Cage is Frank Pierce, a paramedic who is troubled by the patients he's lost, specifically a young girl named Rose.  He sees her constantly and seems to be heading towards some serious depression type issues.  Ok, so you have a character with a conflict, everything you need to develop a storyline.  Is that ever done?  NO!!!! All you'll get is three nights out in the ambulance with Frank to see a world of homeless people, prostitutes, alcoholics, drug addicts, and schizophrenics.It is set in ratty neighborhoods and the hospital that they most commonly cart their patients to is a zoo.  The people depicted are real, but there's so much of them heaped on you as the viewer that you don't sympathize with any of them at all.  You just get sick of them.The story is soooooo slow and all you really see is Frank getting more edgy with each call for an ambulance.  He latches on to a girl named Mary (Patricia Arquette) who's father has had a heart attack and is in the hospital on life support.  The man repeatedly almost dies, but is revived in dramatic ER fashion.  As this goes on, Frank stands by watching the man's eyes looking at him and hears the man's voice asking him to stop them from saving him.  The man has a breathing tube in his mouth and is not able to speak in any way, but Frank is hearing his voice.  In actuality, this idea becomes the focal point of the movie, along with his recurring sightings of the dead girl Rose, who he believes he's killed.These things actually have some interesting possibilities, but there's hardly no time spent on them at all.  Most of the time you're seeing Cage cruising in the ambulance being edgy and drinking.  The role played by Ving Rhames was pretty entertaining, but there was only about 15 total minutes of screen time and it certainly wasn't enough to save this film.The only other thing that was good was when Frank goes out in the ambulance with Tom Sizemore.  Frank gets a little hyper and when he's driving, there's some very interesting shots of Sizemore in the passenger seat looking sometimes amused, sometimes scared, sometimes irritated.  Other than that, skip it.D- "},{"Title":"You don't have to die to be dead inside","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nicolas Cage always plays tortured characters very convincingly. Though the movie has its flaws its not with Cage's performance. Its a gritty reality based movie that not everyone can stomach.The visuals are fast paced. I think this realisticly portrays the chaotic life of a paramedic.   "}{"Title":"A good movie, but not Scorsese's best.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really thought the movie was well done.  The camera work was phenomenal, the direction was excellent, but the screenplay needs some work.  Nicolas Cage's performance was excellent as was Patricia Arquette's.  The screenplay seemed to be the biggest weakness. "},{"Title":"See it!","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great. Great work for Martin Scorsese. I disagree with the opinion of the guy ahead of me. This movie is not suppose to have a plot. It is a story of how Frank's job plays with him. How he interacts with his feelings of the consequences of the job.  Great movie, must see it twice. "},{"Title":"A truly magnificant piece of work from Scorsese and Cage.","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see the movie with an objectional frame of mind. All I had heard of it were bad reviews. I must say I once again disagree with the critics. I was laughing my a** off through the whole film. Nic Cage was sensational. I found his string of partners (John Goodman, Ving Rhames, and Tom Sizemore) hilarious. Marc Anthony did a fantastic job as well. Patricia Arquette was the only character I wasn't too fond of. Don't get me wrong, she was great in the film, but it would have been just as great without her, no offense whatsoever. The music throughout it is cool. I found myself singing along many times. I advise everyone to go a catch this movie at the theaters. It's a real good ride. "},{"Title":"Another Masterpiece by Scorsese! Nic Cage Roars!","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cinema GOD Martin Scorsese delivers Another Masterpiece in 'Bringing Out the Dead'. A Haunting, Depressing & Stunning Motion-Picture, that can even be described as a Triumph. And Nic Cage Roars in the lead role! An Excellent Performance! 'Bringing Out the Dead' Synopsis A Manhattan ambulance paramedic, overworked and haunted by visions of his failures, fights to keep a tenuous grip on his clarity.'Bringing Out the Dead' is about Angels & Demons. Its about the Good & the Devil. Scorsese's Flawless Story-Telling along-with a Stunning & Haunting Screenplay Written by Paul Schrader, make this highly under-rated film simply unforgettable. Cinematography is fantastic. Editing is just perfect.Performance-Wise Nic Cage delivers one of his greatest performances in here. He plays the mentally & psychically troubled protagonist with rare patience & devastation. An Excellent Performance! John Goodman is ever-terrific. Patricia Arquette is good, while Ving Rhames, Tom Sizemore & Marc Anthony are believable. On the whole, 'Bringing Out the Dead' is a Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Two steps forward, one step back","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" That's the problem with the amateurs - the histrionics. No sense of grace at all. - Lady ShivaMartin Scorsese directed Kundun in 1997, one of his best films. When it bombed at the box office, Scorsese quickly jumped back to familiar territory. The result was Bringing Out the Dead, a loose rehash of Taxi Driver.Dead isn't a bad film, of course, it's just strangely routine. With its obvious rock sound track, MTV editing, schizophrenia action, reheated themes of Catholic redemption and Mel Gibson styled self flagellation, it suffers tremendously when stacked up against Kundun's aural and visual splendours.Not only does Dead suffer when compared to Scorsese's previous film, it also looks tame compared to its older brother Taxi Driver, both films about guys navigating hell on wheels, one wanting to rid the world of the filth and the scum (Travis Bickle), the other (Frank &#x96; played by Nick Cage) guilty over his inability to help, heal or save the tortured souls around him.The problem is, even if one is receptive to Scorsese's usual Catholic guilt trips, it's impossible to believe in the crisis Scorsese shows Frank undergoing. We get no sense of the daily routines of ambulance-men and consequently no sense of who Frank is, what he has to deal with or where his crisis stems from. Like Jake LaMotta, he simply comes across as a moping dweeb, a cartoon Catholic punching bag, rather than a man who's genuinely in a burn-out. What's more, the energetic, MTV style of the film completely clashes with Frank's psychology. It's an odd juxtaposition, which makes Frank seem schizophrenic or mentally ill, rather than lost in depression.Incidentally, after the film's release, Scorsese would admit that he'd never have used the frenetic style employed in Dead had he been aware of the ER TV-series, a series which routinely trades in the same urban, hospital room chaos.7/10 - There are 2 powerful sequences here, but the rest of the film merely finds Scorsese flailing desperately for our attention, repeatedly hitting us over the head with nervous tics and flashy effects. His subsequent films would become even more bombastic. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Scorsese's Most Underrated film","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ... And the way Gangs Of New York is treated that's saying something. There may be some flaws with Cage's performance or The strange Euthinesia subplot but the movie really isn't about that. More then any other Scorsese movie this one is all about style over substance, and sometimes that's OK. The movie is just so damned good looking. The lenghty drugged out Dream Sequence with Cage pulling the people out of the pavement, The death of the homeless girl with the snow flying up into the sky, so many images that just stick with you for weeks after seeing the film.Plus the soundtrack is one of the best I own.Now say it with me Rise Up I B Banging!!! "},{"Title":"A feel rough movie","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nicolas Cage plays a medic who tours, in his ambulance, the same mean streets that Robert De Niro did in his cab in Taxi Driver. The landscape is similarly peopled with whores, pimps, drug pushers and down and outs.The feel of the film is similar too bleak, bleak, BLEAK I TELL YOU! With Nicolas Cage in the lead role I was expecting a lot more light relief to be coming my way, but no - it really is a dark and doomy piece of work. It is hard to know what to latch onto about it to give you a reason to watch. I can only really recommend this to someone who is the opposite of depressed (ie, uncontrollably ecstatic) and needs something to give them a bit of a day trip to a different reality. If you need a holiday from your relentless happiness than you should definitely consider renting this.But as you see, I'm not giving it a low star count. That's because I was at no stage tempted to turn the film off. Cage keeps your interest as a battered and increasingly desperate man, the plot is episodic rather than rounded but the incidents are compelling and brutally grim, they keep you watching.So no fun, but a watchable portrait nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Does great imagery make a great movie?","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie sets out to put you into the world mindset of the main character, Frank Pierce, the ambulence driver who hasn't saved a life in too long and is all but completely unglued. It does this really, really well.The supporting characters are almost as crazy as Frank, showing you that the life of a paramedic is one of the raw edges of life. You can stay on it, but it's going to change.The imagery in this movie is just fantastic. It does exactly what it seems to set out to do.The story is exceedingly simple. I won't recap it here, although I probably could give you a point-by-point summary of the entire story and you'd still be unprepared for the movie. It's not about the story, it's about Frank and his world.Of special note This movie has one of the most eclectic soundtracks of any movie I've seen lately, yet it's completely appropriate.Anyway, highly recommended if you can immerse yourself in a movie for effect. If you really need a strong plot, pass on it. "},{"Title":"I am in the minority on this...","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  but this just may be Scorsese's best film. It is certainly the most effective love story he ever wrote. (Or should I say the most effective love story between a man and women?)The trick is recognizing that it's a love story in the first place. Cage, who squandered his acting chops after Leaving Las Vegas, is brilliant here. He plays a paramedic who has been beaten down by the nightly horrors he sees into a walking dead man. Yet, terrifyingly for him, a spiritual essence still sparks within him. Too bad it is far easier to be dead in the world he inhabits. As a walking dead man, he would feel no pain, but he is haunted by the memory of people he couldn't help and desperate to reach out and connect with someone, to find peace within himself. Despite the parade of horrors, this is Scorsese's most affirming, spiritual film, and the last shot is his most beautiful.  "},{"Title":"Good but somehow lacking","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very good movie, as are all of Scorcece's, but it does have it's low points, perhaps more so than any other movie he has directed.  I was living in Seoul, Korea when this film came out in 1999, and I went to see it in a downtown cinema.  The theatre was packed; full house. However, about 30 minutes into the movie, the patrons began their mass exodus.  One by one, two by two, and so on, sevaral people were getting up and leaving. My Korean girlfriend said she overheard one one person say This is the worst movie, I've ever seen in my life. By the end credits, there was maybe a 1/4 of the original packed house remaining.  I had never seen anything like that happen before in Seoul, a huge movie-going, American-film loving city.  It was quite weird to say the least, especially since my 3 expatriot friends and I thought it was a very good flick. It is a uniquely powerful film in spots and extremely well edited and visually mesmerizing.  Nevertheless, the theme is EXTREMELY dark and disturbing, perhaps to much so for the young Korean crowd that really don't see anything so degenerate and depraved as the wrong side of New York City. Seoul doesn't suffer from the rampant drug and AIDS problems and the overall degradation that is depicted through Scorcece's eyes.  This is not to say that Seoul and other major cities in Korea don't have their fair share of social ills; they are problems of a different sort however and demand a discussion elsewhere. Overall, the movie is sound and has a great look and feel to it, but it does get bogged down in it's own mire on occasion and tends to move along so slowly at parts, that it is very hard to pull itself back up and out of that same aforementioned place.  But then again ( and here comes that all too hackneyed wrap up), perhaps that is the point.  "}{"Title":"Moody and atmospheric","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Scorseses view of the hellish streets of New York is brilliant in Bringing out the Dead. With a familiar outline to Taxi Driver, it's about a paramedic's near descent into insanity over three nights. It's always gripping without being disturbing. Gritty but not gruesome and has an excellent cast which works well together. The somewhat sedated daytime scenes don't contain the power of the dream- night-like night scenes but are still very interesting. Overall, this film is impeccably directed, superiorly acted and satisfactorily concluded. 7.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Another Scorsese Masterpiece","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is Scorsese and Schrader's fourth collaboration (Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, The Last Temptation of Christ).  Bringing out the Dead is an awesome movie going experience. Scorsese's vision of New York City is just so haunting and fits perfectly with the film.  Nicolas Cage plays Frank Pierce, a Paramedic on the brink of insanity.  He starts to see spirits of the people he could not save.  He rides around with different partners on the stretch of three nights.  Each one of them deal with their jobs in different ways.  John Goodman focus on food, Ving Rhames looks at is as a chance to display God's power, and finally Tom Sizemore just takes the pleasure of mayhem to other patients.  The Cinematographer Robert Richardson creates this hell hole vision of New York City, just like Michael Chapman did with Taxi Driver.  Scorsese uses a lot of religious imagery, and also this film contains some of the most awesome sequences I have ever seen especially Cage's last visit to the Oasis.  This is Another Scorsese Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Beautiful CINEMATOGRAPHY!!!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think that Scorsese is one of the greatest director in the world just like Eldar Rayzanov in russian cinematography. He is a big philosopher and a very talented person. With time he became a bigger director. Now why i like this movie, 1st because Scorsese always show us the reality!! The world where we live, we live in the world of evil and violence. He show us the streets of New york.Bien sur not everybody understands his movies but only peaple who like books, history like (the Rothshilds brothers)and i'm sure that his next movie is going to be a masterpece..i give this movie 8/10 "},{"Title":"An underrated film!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My rating for Bringing Out the Dead is a 10 out of 10. To me, it ranks right up with Scorsese's Taxi Driver, which is his greatest film of all. Cage was never better than he is right here. I believe Cage is at his best when he is in really gritty, powerful films like this one and 8mm. "},{"Title":"scorsese at his best","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Profound, original , very intelligent movie. In spite of my devotion towards every Scorsese's movie, I have to admit that this is a very high point Scorsese had not reached by years. Here, Marty has recovered the HUMANITY he has known to express so well in films like Taxi Driver or The last temptation of Christ, and that is generally lacking in his gangster flicks.About the acting, there is not one bad performance in this movie. Arquette, Marc Anthony, Sizemore, Goodman, Curtis, Cage and everyone else are acting like never before. About the script and the cinematography, you have to see them for believe how good they are. About the story and the general feeling... well, this is probably one of the most moving films ever made. You can touch and smell the poverty, the sadness, the guilt, the hopes of every of these unforgettable characters.It redefines what a drama is.  "},{"Title":"Scorsese's best since Goodfellas","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing out the Dead was by far one of the most underrated movies of 1999.  A dark, miserable, convincing portrait of a paramedic (Nicholas Cage) loosing his mind.  The film is worth watching for the stunning cinematography alone and features stellar performances from Cage, Ving Rhames, Patricca Arquette and ,surprisingly, Marc Antony.  This film is final proof that Scorsese is the best director alive today.  Easily the greatest film of 1999. "},{"Title":"Truly remarkable film. Amazed it got made let alone released","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is uncanny in how it conveys the intensity of experience.  I suspect folks don't like it much because they don't want to empathize or even be aware of the levels of devastation human beings endure. On a reality basis I would assume that working EMT in NYC is a fast track to dehumanization.The particular beauty of this film is its elucidation of ways the people within the drama(s) do or don't deal with being dehumanized.I own a copy and have watched it many, many times and it still amazes me.To put this very simply its one of the best films I have ever seen. Since it operates at such a high level of psychological/emotional compression I'm amazed it got made let alone released. "},{"Title":"All and all wonderful film but not the new Taxi driver","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This fabulous little movie is a perfect example of how masterful and talented director Martin Scorsese really is. Bringing out the dead doesn't have much of a plot but with great actors he can still make it work like a stylish dream. Script is basically ok but Mr. Scorsese gives it the extra-power it obviously needs. It simply couldn't get any better from here.Nicolas Cage is a perfect choice for the leading role because I guess we could say this is some kind of a re-make of Taxi driver and although he has had his ups and downs, he is -in my opinion - Robert De Niro of this generation. Still, don't expect too much. Bringing out the dead is millions of light years away from Taxi driver but it was made in the '70s and this one in 1999. The world isn't the same anymore. I had to think for a while but like it or not, I voted 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good material wasted (4/10)","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gads what a disappointment! I usually love dark movies and I recently had a loved one taken by EMS, but this movie flopped. Few movies have been made about emergency medical services which should be a genre full of dramatic potential, especially in the raunchy parts of NYC. But Cage and Arquette were each boring, the dialogue was usually cliched, the repeated superimposition of Rose's face on every bum on the street made me want to get out my target pistol, the Nole character was just irritating, and the entire plot and the ending were pointless. What were we to take from this film? That being an EMS guy was stressful job or what? The best scenes involved the good drug-pusher. This a good example of a movie that was quite realistic (except for the ghosts) but not entertaining. "},{"Title":"Very hard to watch","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At first glance,  I thought this movie was terrible.  But after a little more thought, it really wasn't that bad (but not that good either).It has it's moments.  Including a heroin overdose in a club,  and Marc Anthony's suprisingly good performance.  But it is hard to watch, slightly confusing and has no plot.  For the average movie-goer I say see something else.  But for a true lover of film,  go ahead and rent it.  But be warned that it is very depressing! "}{"Title":"Disturbing, unsatisfying, unfinished.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am a great admirer of both Scorcese and Cage but this movie does not enhance their reputations. At times, it felt highly contrived - the born again character flirting with the female dispatcher, the awful impaling of the drug dealer, the umpteenth superimposition of Rose on Mary's face, the grim, haunted, unsmiling, purple face on old Nicolas. I would have liked if he had a fuller life, sibs, apartment, friends, parents, a hobby. In other words, a showcase to make his desperation and depression more believable.  I was oddly unmoved by it all....and bewildered by this as it was a movie desperately seeking to be profound and important.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the top five best movies of 1999","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"       Frank Pierce is a paramedic with a problem.  He's divorced, he's an alcoholic, he's depressed, but that's not it yet.  He's haunted by a life he never got to save, and ever since then, his patients have been dying on him.  He cruises the filthy streets of Hell's Kitchen searching for a soul he can possibly give life to, and end his streak of dying souls.  But everyone he handles dies, and he sees the face of the girl he couldn't save.      Frank rides the ambulance with three other paramedics.  There is Larry (John Goodman) who takes his job as a paramedic seriously, and uses it to be food on the table.  There's Marcus (Ving Rhames) who looks at his job as a way to show people the meaning of Jesus Christ, and takes every life he saves from the clutches of Death as a miracle to show to unrighteous witnesses.  And there's Tom Walls (superbly played by Tom Sizemore) who is a crazy sadist and loves to watch these NYC victims squirm in pain.            Scorcese outdoes himself again in one of his best movies to date.  With sidewinding camera angles, outstanding performances (Nicolas Cage), and a stupendous story to boot.  The colors, and art direction is awesome too.  I'd like to know one thing, where the hell was the Academy Awards for this? "},{"Title":"Beautiful madness by the king. Hail to the king, baby.","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorsese is the master, so all you youngsters kneel down and pay homage to a living legend. Martin keeps showing them how it's done in Bringing Out the Dead, a perfect example of the master at work. I've heard the guy lives, breaths, sleeps and eats film, and it shows. This movie is a masterpiece, a great film in a year full of great films. He and frequent collaborator Paul Schrader get together and make some noise in a story that takes place in New York in the early &#145;90s. They have to say it's the early &#145;90s at the beginning because Mayor Guilliani has cleaned the city up a lot at this point. Way to go Rudy! One could say Schrader and Scorsese is one of the most successful collaborations of all time, throw Robert De Niro into the mix and this movie would have been a Scorsese/Schrader/De Niro fans wet dream. But with Nick Cage in the lead you still can't go wrong.Let's talk about the cast for a sec. Cage is incredible as a burnt out paramedic. Sizemore steals every scene he's in, he is such a riot as the psychotic veteran. I always like John Goodman, and Arquette doesn't irritate me as much as usual, so I guess I can't complain there. Ving Rhames, in my humble opinion, gives his best performance since Pulp Fiction. I really like Ving, he just needs the right roles to show of his acting chops. The movie was the type that sort of grabbed me when I saw it in the theatre. It was a movie experience, the kind that you and the whole audience are enjoying, laughing at all the right parts, silence at all the key dramatic moments (except for that guy with the damn cell phone. Those people ought to be dragged out into the street and shot. Who's with me?). All this and a kick-ass soundtrack add up to an excellent movie-going experience. Kudos to Scorsese and the gang. This one was funny, powerful, and altogether entertaining. Love this movie. 10/10 stars, baby! G'night!  "},{"Title":"A meandering bore of a movie","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know what to say about Bringing Out the Dead except that  the only reason that I watched from start to finish was to find out how it ended.  The movie had a strange 1970s or 1980s look that made me think that EVERYONE in the movie was dead and this was some type of dead netherworld where people go about their business as though they are still alive.  Great cast wasted in a plodding, boring, disconnected movie.  With all the superlative reviews that have been given here at imdb, I am wondering what version of this bore did I watch.  3/10 stars and that's probably three too many.  "},{"Title":"Forgetaboutit !!!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let the Dead Bury the Dead on this one.  Martin S's attempt to portray paramedics as Angels of Mercy / Angels of Death came across as lackluster at best (auras around the New York City Paramedic patches and the glowing light emitting from Nicolas Cage).  By the slow demise of Cage's performance, one would think the Angel of Death had visited his portion of the script on more than one occasion.  Cage displayed more emotion and personality in City of Angels playing - you guessed it - a deadpan angel. As for Marty S, he should stick to his old tried-and-true standby, gangster flicks, and let those with a sense of the morbid and gothic undertake such projects.       "},{"Title":"Forget it","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I try to see every Scorsese film, but somehow missed this one when I was out of the country, so I saw it on DVD. I thought it was completely overwrought, and Schoonmaker did not do a good job. It was long enough, filled with too many traumas, and I don't need to see someone walking down the street and up the stairs, and knocking on a door before they have a meaningful conversation. Arquette and Rhames shone. Scorsese and Schoonmaker fell down on this one. What a pity. He deserved the Oscar many times, and I'm told that his latest is not his best, but it was about time he got a couple. I can't wait for the one on Theodore Roosevelt. I still consider The Last Waltz one of my favorite movies, and I was a film critic. I've loved many of their other movies, but this was too over the top. Someone described it as black humor but there wasn't enough to save it, except when Rhames was in a scene. "},{"Title":"City of the verge of a nervous breakdown","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The combination of director Martin Scorcese, writer Paul Schrader and the mean streets of New York City has been successful before, so it may seem strange that 'Bringing Out the Dead' did not attract more attention on release.  Unfortunately, the film has limitations which definitely mean that it's not a classic.  The role of a burnt out ambulance driver might have challenged most actors but for Mr. Burnt-Out Nic Cage, it's a performance by numbers; while the soundtrack consists of a random collection of popular music thrown together for no apparent reason.  More seriously, the film resorts to portentious voice-overs, and the literal representation of hallucinations and dreams on screen, as if it desperately needs to tell you how significant what is happening is. New York at night is beautifully shot but the absence of politics is also a weakness this is Cage's private hell, apparently of no consequence except to Cage himself.  Finally, as with Scorcese's earlier (and more distinctive) film 'Taxi Driver', we see a portrayal of a man already on the edge at the start of the film; what might be more interesting is seeing how most people who do this kind of job somehow manage to hold things together in their private lives.  The New York we see here is totally unliveable; how people do live is surely more interesting than one man who's lost it.This does not mean that Scorcese is capable of making a truly bad film; and 'Bringing Out the Dead' is far from rubbish, in particular there's a stand-out scene filmed on a balcony.  But overall, Cage's character is too skeletal to carry a film that never seems truly interested in anything else.  Disappointing.   "},{"Title":"Lots of symbolism, but no plot.","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was very disappointed in this movie. Nicolas Cage's acting was superb, as were several other's. But there was no story to this movie; it was just a 'day in the life' sort of thing, and way too artsy for my taste. Call me old-fashioned, but I like a movie to have a plot.  "},{"Title":"The only reason to see this movie is to see Ving Rhames","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `Bringing Out the Dead'  * ½.  It's boring, pointless, and dumb.  Nicolas Cage does a really, really bad job of acting in the lead role.  (Nicolas scores a double bogie for 1999; `8mm' and `BOTD' are 2 of the worst movies of the year.)  The only reason to see this movie is to see Ving Rhames as the Bible preaching EMT whose real interest in life is scoring with the dispatcher.  Skip this one. "},{"Title":"A God awful film - has to be Scorcese's worst","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If it was not his worst movie, it is scary to contemplate something worse.I simply could not have given this anything but a 1. Negative scores were not available. If they had, I'd have given it a negative 5 or 6.From the opening moments, the over-theatricalization of this film was cartoonish. Every scene in the ER was packed with concentrated on-camera ridiculousness. Every over-loaded cliché about how hard life is in the Big City was compressed into the waiting room - people yelling at anyone and everyone, blood all over the place, rudeness piled upon rudeness, and everyone a Puerto-Rican, a black or a loser/street person/alcoholic/druggie/psycho - or some combination of the above.The makeup was unbelievably bad.The dialog was written by whom? My god, the worst, most over-the-top in any movie in recent memory. The actors must have asked for bonus pay, just to be required to utter such stupidity.The driving scenes may have been the worst of all. Cage went several seconds on several occasions without even looking at where the vehicle was going. All this while his driving had the steering wheel movements enough to have crashed into cars on both sides of the street. And the psychotic, sociopathic qualities of the characters.The actors must have been originally glad to be cast in a Scorcese film, but with this movie they must all cringe when they see themselves in it.This movie's overall quality is something below Attack of the Killer Tomatoes. While some readers may take that as a compliment, I assure you I meant it as a scurrilous comment.To paraphrase the line from Billy Madison, everyone here is dumber for having watched this; I award it no points, and may God have mercy on Scorcese's soul.Were I able to give this a minus score, I would have.An utter waste of time. I only watched it through to the end because a friend's film discussion group was going to discuss it and invited me, so I felt obligated to watch it all. The comments by others were quite decent, so since I was new to the group, I just shut my mouth so as not to seem like an a**hole. It was, Oh, Scorcese! this and Oh, Scorcese! that. I wanted to puke.This movie is just BAD. Had it been a Weird Al Yankovic movie I could see the silly characterizations. I expected WAAAAY more out of Martin Scorcese. "}{"Title":"A good effort, but TAXI DRIVER is still superior.","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The life of delusional New York paramedic Frank Pierce is portrayed over the span of three nights, all of which are haunted by people he failed to save in the past.  The acting, editing, and cinematography in this film are all spectacular, and the lack of a conventional plot really helps to deliver the film's themes.  However, Scorsese's trademark slow pacing and overly drawn-out scenes make this otherwise great movie seem, at times, dull and boring. "},{"Title":"Nicholas Cage good","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is Nicholas Cage all the time - I don't think he misses a single scene and every scene is worth it.  I have not been a big fan of Cage, but this movie is good for him.The whole gritty NYC underbelly life in this film is depressing and wholly realistic, I think.  But, the film just does not connect and I really did not care for the characters or the story line.  Again, this is a showcase for Cage and Cage only and he is good.  3/10 because of Cage's acting, otherwise it is a waste of good time. "},{"Title":"Highly...disappointing","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  From Scorsese, I was hoping a great movie like Taxi Driver, or even better (but it would be difficult to do), but Bringing Out the Dead is just awful!! Absolutely pitiful performance from Nicolas Cage who is totally expressionless in this movie. The dialogs are pathetic, and in fact only the great camera works could have saved this miserable movie. But it didn't.Deserve 1/10 "},{"Title":"What the hell went wrong with this one??","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Look, you can't find a bigger admirer of the previous Scorsese/Schrader collaborations than me, but I was profoundly disappointed when I first saw this movie on its initial release, and re-watching it now, I dislike it even more. It's hard to believe that Paul Schrader actually wrote this script and not some post-MTV hack trying to pastiche the great man. It covers familiar Schrader territory - 'Taxi Driver', 'Light Sleeper' - but does so with no real insight, originality or depth. The bottom line is that Nicholas Cage's character is simply NOT believable. It's a phony, mannered performance of a man on the edge that fails to convince or generate any kind of sympathy or empathy. Contrast Cage here with De Niro as Travis Bickle, and what more need to be said? Add to that the countless scenes with (then) wife Patricia Arquette that are totally devoid of any kind of chemistry (!), throw in three cliched sidekicks (the funny fat guy, the funny religious black guy, the scary and funny psycho guy , I mean, please!), and give the whole mess a pointless, often inappropriate soundtrack (Van followed by The Clash followed by Johnny Thunders followed by R.E.M. followed by Motown, on and on, like someone drunkenly playing their record collection at random), and what have you got? An awful movie that says nothing and says it badly. This is no 'Taxi Driver'! And if you think it is unfair to compare this movie with 'Taxi Driver', one of the greatest of modern movies in my opinion, why is that? Is it too much to expect creative artists like Scorsese and Schrader to IMPROVE with age? Because to me, when someone has shown themselves capable of work as great as 'Taxi Driver' or 'Raging Bull' in the past, I expect MORE of them that some Hollywood hack, I expect GREATNESS. Anything less just isn't good enough. And 'Bringing Out The Dead' isn't even a GOOD movie, it is so poor that if it was made by an unknown first time director and writer we wouldn't even think about it for more than a day after viewing it. Possibly the most disappointing movie of the last ten years. "},{"Title":"Into the electric night..","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This could have been something special, one of the great metaphors in cinema. A vehicle for us to hurl through the night of suffering, where life is transient and we learn to let go of our clinging.The movie is halfway this anyway. We ride the ambulance through the electric night of New York, ferrying back and forth from the outskirts of life broken humans who plead to us with their miseries. There are some inspired visions of this itinerant life, of the homeless sleeping where they may and haggard-looking individuals walking the pavements automaton-like, but they are too glossy for me to really register. Mere studio recreations that fail to give the impression of a life caught unawares.It's a great touch that the depressed paramedic who is our guide through this must learn to be detached from the suffering he remedies, ready to offer his helping hand but not be dismayed when that hand is refused by death. How instead of jumping in the quicksand of suffering to save others, we must learn to draw them to our safe ground.But the film is unawares of what transpires in it, and halfway through becomes a deranged comedy, played to the pounding grooves of Motown. Having missed the opportunity to create a spiritual work that matters, after this initial disappointment, it's to the movie's credit then that it does not become a mere banal lesson in humanity. As our protagonist loses it, the movie revels in the opportunity for insanity.That we get all this by the hand of Scorsese, a filmmaker with a vested interest in cinematography, only makes me think of how this could be done better, longer and more cinematic. For ostensibly bleak material, this is strangely watchable however. "},{"Title":"Mr Patman-(Crossover- (1980)  was better.","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Last night I had seen Mr Patman-(Crossover-1980)-with James Coburn.That film had lot of twists,not like this film.OK the story is not accurately the same,but I found lots of similarities,and I had to feel like that films screenplay was THE original,but in this film Nicolas Cage shines again ,and Martin found the right faces to roles and directed them well.But the film is very powerless,and boring,the message is not too original.This film has not that unforgettable sentences like usually Martins-films had,but maybe it was direct,for specially another style,but finally laves you in a feel it was not Martins best film,just lame decent drama. "},{"Title":"Boring, watch Taxi Driver instead!","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing Out the Dead had great potential. A great cast with Nicolas Cage, Patricia Arquette, Tom Sizemore and John Goodman and it had Martin Scorsese at the helm. What could go wrong? Quite a lot actually! Bringing Out the Dead is boring from start to finish and even though Sizemore and Goodman are both fun to watch in their segments, they can not overcome the sense of boredom this film gives you. I have no problem with slow paced films, if there is a certain amount of intelligence involved or if suspense is being built but this film can not boast either of these. With the plot surrounding a paramedic, there could have been more adrenaline rushes to give a greater sense of urgency, thus, allowing us to understand the stresses of the job more. Instead, the film gets tangled up in the main character's past and with his ambivalence towards his profession and in the end, the audience cares little for the outcome of the film.At fault in all of this is Scorsese, a rarity indeed. This is a tarnish on his near perfect career but he only has himself to blame. He knows how to grip an audience and how to construct a good film but he fails miserably on both counts. It is visible at some points that Scorsese had a message but it never got conveyed within the plot. The fact that the screenplay was by frequent Scorsese collaborator, Paul Schrader makes it even more shocking how poor the film is. The best bits of the film probably are down to Cage and Arquette's (their characters!) relationship as it is very interesting and not the average Hollywood romance.The actors in this didn't really put a foot wrong. All the characters are very unique, with Tom Sizemore doing his typecast psychotic role very well and with Ving Rhames playing a devoted Christian, being the pick of the supporting cast. Nicolas Cage gives one of his best performances, he is very understated in this and plays his character with great subtlety. Arquette, as always, is great but is very different to how she normally approaches her characters. The fun, bouncy Patricia is gone and we're given a much more shy and restrained character. She is very good and it could well have been this film that lead to her successful television role in Medium. If acting could save a film, Bringing Out the Dead would be superb but instead, I feel sorry for the actors wasting their talents.This should have been a great film, but it failed miserably on most counts. Whilst not making any effort to entertain, there is also no effort to break new grounds. If you want to see a great Scorsese film that is a relatively slow, character driven piece, watch Taxi Driver. The attempt at dark comedy falls short and the plot does not possess the power to carry the film for two hours. "},{"Title":"Quite psycho...","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Someone told me When you have seen Bringing Out the Deadyou won't want to be an ambulance-driver nor a paramedic everagain. And guess what I can't figure out why? Of course it is a rough profession. But people are getting burnt outin all professions. No, just another psycho Scorsese-film, if you ask me. "},{"Title":"Great Treatment for Insomnia","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately, I can't say many positive things about this movie.  Overall, I thought it was extremely boring.  This is in all honesty the first movie I ever walked out on when seeing it at the movie theater.One of Patricia Arquette's worst roles!  Very wooden and unfeeling throughout the film (nervous acting with hubby maybe???).I give it a 3/10 "},{"Title":"A well incredibly depressing movie","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is like all Martin's movies that ive seen, very well made. Unfortunately, this also means it is very good at conveying its main theme, which seems to be the utter desperation and insanity of this troubled paramedic. This isnt an entertaining or enjoyable movie, it is atmospheric and well implemented. 6/10  ( I would like to give it more, but I ended up regretting seeing this movie) "}{"Title":"Don't watch it at night time!!","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great, but hard to watch it all at once. It took me two days to watch them all. When I rent that movie at night time and I passed out at the middle of the movie. Next morning, finally have a chance to watch it all. It's great and unique. I like unique movies, but not this kind of unique it's more likely weird and simple movie. I think this movie is 4 out of 10, because it's not my type and I cannot talk about this movie to my friends because they might pass out too.Matt Pho Dans "},{"Title":"Get a life.","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can see what Scorsese was getting at. Nicholace Cage is an emergency medical technician who drives around New York with a partner, waiting for calls from the dispatcher at Our Lady of Perpetual Mercy. It's a tough, stressful job. They bring in this one older guy, for instance, who is in many respects dead, but the hospital staff keep his body alive. They're continually defibrillating him and electrolyzing him and pumping him full of nepenthe because on those occasions when he can move, he tears off all this apparatus that's smothering him. The guy wants to get on with it and DIE -- and they won't let him. (In real life, they would.) The streets are full of monsters, bleeding and effusing all over the place, some of them comic. And it's all driving Nicholas Cage nuts.Cage gets to know the junkie daughter of The Dying Man and they get along rather well. She and her father haven't spoken in years and she's more or less at peace with the prospect of his death. In the end, Cage takes an active part in the guy's demise. Nature ends up taking its course, as it WILL do with all of us.That's about it. The story raises a lot of interesting questions about the tentacular city, about life and death, about free will. And Scorsese approaches it as if it's all one climax after another. There's hardly any time for normal conversation. One of his partners, Ving Rhymes, is a Jesus freak with an erection. His other partner is a maniac who loves blood. And the images are filled with fireworks. He hallucinates his patients, especially the ones he's failed. The film at times leaps into warp speed. The ambulance rolls over after a collision. Cage takes dope and drinks on the job and screams at the top of his lungs. It's exhausting. It's like watching an Oliver Stone movie.It's a miscalculation on the director's part, in my expert opinion. We're left hunched over and panting for breath. Yet it's Scorsese's film okay. You couldn't mistake it for anybody else's. Put Travis Bickle behind the wheel of an emergency medical vehicle and have him drive around town running into the scum of the earth. That's the general idea.It's well worth watching -- an original piece. But take a Xanax before you turn it on. "},{"Title":"As If Scorcese Did an Episode of E.R.'s Late Shift","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bringing Out the Dead reminded me more of After Hours than Taxi Driver for its threatening view of NYC populated by darkness and crazies, which it tried to specify as being in the past, in the early '90's rather than in Disney/Giuliani City of today.It's a picaresque tour of just the Hell's Kitchen section of NYC that keeps boomeranging back to the same hospital rather than wandering either aimlessly or to a destination like The Warriors does.It's visually and aurally a kick (kudos to editor Thelma), with a rockin' soundtrack (not particularly adventurous choices, gee how many NYC and road movies feature Nowhere to Run?) but it's just a crazy 8 pattern and doesn't go anywhere.My mind wandered quite a bit in the middle, so I may have missed something critical. It's really Marty does E.R./Third Watch much like Tarantino did an episode.The co-stars are wonderful, like Ving Rhames getting to play quite a different juicy character then he usually does. The casting director should get an award for the minor characters though I'm always sympathetic when so many black and Latino actors have to play low lifes.I picked up right away that Scorcese was the ambulance dispatcher, with all kinds of director/auteur symbolism, but his whining NYC accent was perfect pitch for the role. ILM did the special effects quite nicely--they are the second best part of the movie. Scorcese literally got seduced by the dark side here the night, that's all it's about.(originally written 11/7/1999) "},{"Title":"directionless","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I should have known better than expect more from a movie by Scorsese andCage, who I normally can't stand.  Cage just sucks any available energy off the  screen.  Maybe it's just me, but any Scorsese movie I've seen lacks any sense of  pacing.  This movie had at least three endings, a real pet peeve of mine.However, if you want to see some great performance by John Goodman, VingRhames, and Tom Sizemore, then you should check this out.  Otherwise,decidedly mediocre. "},{"Title":"Bore!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a terrible bore. The script was bad. Am I expected to believe that an ambulance man would drive a patient's relative home? Hey if that did happen I am going to complain that it is the wrong use of resources. An ambulance is not a taxi. It is used to save lives, not to pick up the girl you like.What is even worse is that, I had to endure two hours of Cage's expressionless face. That was torture. Avoid this film! "},{"Title":"Gripping, but fatally flawed fantasy","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I hope I'm right in my summary.  Scorsese portrays a New York that I never want to see.  It's a post-apocalyptic setting--but portrayed as current New York--that we've seen in so many scifi flicks, where the city seems completely crazed and demented.  Fantasy we hope, but clearly fatally flawed  in this movie's New York city, paramedic rescue teams are portrayed in unforgivable ways.One can allow the writers and director some license, and believe that Cage's problems as a stressed out, overworked paramedic are not so far from what might occur today.  Cage does a good job with his I'm going crazy persona.  Patricia Arquette's problems are well within the believable, and are gripping.  So is the movie a somewhat gripping fantasy?  Is it worth watching?  Not for me  I could forgive the portrayal of Cage's character, but not those of the other paramedics he works with.  "},{"Title":"The cinematography is worth it.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For a rather slow moving and useless movie, there are times it is incredible.  The absolute beauty of the cinematography, and occasional fast paced bursts, are worth the viewing of one of Scorcese's lesser masterpieces. Plus Scorcese's constant droning over the radio can get pretty annoying. "},{"Title":"I love Scorcese, but this....","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie to be extremely tedious. Nicholas Cage driving around, acting like Nick Cage, driving around, stopping for something, driving around, more Cage, driving around, I didn't kill you Rose, driving around, driving around, driving around; now repeat. All of this with a cd player on shuffle serving as the soundtrack.This is a movie I've always wanted to see again, to see if my opinion will change. When I saw it in the theatre, I was almost refusing to believe that I was watching a bad Martin Scorcese movie. I guess I still am denying it. There's one thing I love about the movie, and it's the cinematography. That was amazing. Everything else...ehhh..  "},{"Title":"Want to waste about 2 hours or your life?","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a horrible movie. What was he thinking when he made this movie. It left me with a headache. The only reason i gave it a 2 is becuse his other movies are good. Th only thing that kept me in the theater was the thought of somthing entertaining happening. Yeah, a thought was all it ended up to be. "},{"Title":"really, really awful","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to believe this mess came from the maker of Raging Bull. There is no story here, just a series of stuck-together vignettes from a couple of days in the life of a burned-out EMT. We never learn very much about this fellow, aside from the fact that he is haunted by the vision of a girl he failed to save in the past (the 47th time we see her ghostly face superimposed on some living character we get the point already), and that he is burned-out. This is not enough to sustain a story line or plot, neither of which is present in any substantial form. The film is populated by a horde of misfits, ne'er-do-wells, psychotics, drug addicts, hookers, street thugs, and assorted nutcakes. Cage's character, although supposedly on the verge of madness, is actually the sanest one in the lot; Cage never really convinces us he is about to go over the edge. The movie's attempt to portray a nightime world of unrelieved horror is too often jarringly broken by the many interjections of black humor. The story lurches from one episode to another with no sustaining line, and, finally, does not really conclude but just stops without making any coherent moral, ethical, or philosophical point, other than EMT's are underpaid and definitely need more vacation time. Save your money. "}{"Title":"I didn't like this movie","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While I can appreciate the artistic motives for this movie, I must say that while I was watching the previews before Blair Witch Project in the theaters, I was intrigued.   They made it seem really neat, like I was gonna get to see ghosts and such.  However, this was nothing like this movie truly was.  In fact, it really didn't go anywhere, and that's OK, but the marketing eluded me, and that made the whole thing an ordeal.  I didn't finish it, and thank God I rented it instead of wasting my money on this film.  Don't rent it if you are expecting something with real meaning.  If voyeuristic films that portray real life titillate you, then rent it.  2. "},{"Title":"A long boring ride to nowhere","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I tried to get interested in this movie. I tried and tried and tried, but I just could not get interested.  This movie just went on and on and on with no light at the end of the tunnel.  The characters did not manage to get my interest and the storyline got nowhere.This is the only movie where I left the theater before it was over.The only redeeming thing in the movie is Ving Rhames' performance.  "},{"Title":"DO YOU WANT TO F*** ME? EVERYONE ELSE DOES, said 'The Girl' tenderly.","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  MILD SPOILER MAYBE   It's not hard to understand how a director of Martin Scorsese's ability could make a film like BRINGING OUT THE DEAD.  It is hard to understand why.  It's hard to understand why anyone would make such a film  Our heroanti is a burnt out, possible psychotic, E M T ambulance driver in the wildest parts of New York City.  We are treated to a tour de force of drugs, drug dealers, prostitutes, gangs, street people, crime, criminals, ER Doctors and Nurses that don't really care, and a pathetic herky jerky love story between our heroanti and 'The Girl'.  'The Girl' is a dimwitted ex/current/recovering/never again/where's my stash drugie that everybody else wants to f***.  I'm taking her word on that point. Heroanti shows his love for 'The Girl', and compassion in general, by killing her father.  A very complicated double reverse, everybody go longbit of morality understood only by the enlightened ones.  Oh, come on.now.don't be shy.you know who you are.  No doubt everything portrayed in this depressing film can be found in real life all to frequently.  If that is the point of dragging us through the sewer for two hours then I have one question.  Who is responsible for this mess?  Who has been driving our culture for the past 35 yrs?  What direction have they been taking us? What is their ultimate destination?  Why would they do such a thing?  Sorry, that was five questions, but all good ones.  Perhaps Mr. Scorsese could address some of those questions in his next project.  If you find entertainment and/or meaning in garbage cans dive in.  Better, I think, to just take it out. "},{"Title":"Avoid this movie","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not even worth a rental. I guess Paul Schrader had only one good movie in him. As for Scorsese--I'm so disappointed in you!!8MM was actually a better Cage movie than this (and that wasn't so great itself.)I guess Cage saw Scorsese & Schrader were involved and figured How can it miss? It missed. MTV/music video like production by 2 old guys who should have realized they can't connect with gen-xers. They shouldn't have  tried.  "},{"Title":"Martin Scorcese and Nic Cage need 911 for thier careers!","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I only rented this movie because I am a fan of Scorceses earlier films.  I don't really find Nic Cage to be a good actor, but he is passable in action fare such as Face Off and The Rock.  This movie is a weak attempt to try to bring back the atmosphere and story of Travis Bickle.  Unfortunately the movie is a long bore, with no story or backstory.  Cage is depressed because he cant save anyone. Ok, so quit.  Why won't his boss let him quit, he's killing everyone he responds to.  This film was pathetic.  Along with Gangs of New York, you can tell Martin Scorcese has a new penchant for box office bombs. Another great auteur has fallen from grace.Don't waste 2 hours with this flick. Rent Goodfellas instead! "},{"Title":"This movie is recomended to people who want to waste 2 hours of their lives.","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is possibly Scorsese's biggest embarassment.  It went no where in the box office, and for good reason.  No word other than BORING can be summed up to describe this movie.This is a perfect example of style over substance.  The film struggles desperately to give the audience a sense of enlightenment, however, you instead feel contempt for this contrived time-waster.Nicholas Cage is a brilliant actor, thankfully he didn't collapse having to carry this cross.This dvd should come packaged with a time machine, as the only use I can make for it would be to impress the primitive minded with it's uncanny stylishness.  "},{"Title":"Piece of Garbage","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have just witnessed this movie at a special screening and must state for the record that Mr. Scorcese, who is one of my favorite all time director's, should be ashamed of himself.This film has absolutely no script, no story, no acting and no style.  It is one of the most boring things that I have seen this year.  And, it should be considered that this is one of the worst years for movies in the last ten.I can not believe that the man who gave us Mean Streets, Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, and Good Fellows, wasted his time on this.  Especially when he has Dino, in the works and Dino, does not get made.At the end of the day, after almost two hours of nonsense, we are asked to believe that these two loser characters end up together.  At the screening I was out, a member of the audience said, And they lived happily ever after.  At this point, the audience laughed hysterically.The only thing redeeming about this movie was the performance of Ving Rhames who again came through in the clutch.  Unfortunately, he could not save it. "},{"Title":"Worse than the Thin Red Line","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is a school of thought amongst the fawning film media that this is a great film.  Why?  Because it is directed by Scorsese - a fine director in his own right - and stars the talented Nicolas Cage.Actually, this is a thoroughly unwatchable pile of rubbish.  Some films meander - Leaving Las Vegas comes to mind - but are yet well done and viewable.  Others - like this one - make you check your watch every two minutes to work out how long to go until the scheduled end.It's like The Thin Red Line.  Multiplied by Ten.Patricia Arquette is, I suppose, passable as the compulsory love interest, and Cage seems to deliver his lines adequately in what is a stereotypical role for him; but this really is one to avoid altogether - despite what sycophantic journalists might tell you. "},{"Title":"brutal power","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film throws you around the room.  It moves effortlessly between various tones and moods, and delivers real emotional shocks regularly.  I've seen dark films, I've seen comedies, and I've seen dark comedies, but this is something really remarkable.  It's not a dark comedy.  It's dark, and it's funny.  But the darkness isn't a part of the humor.  The humor is a mechanism used by the characters to deal with the darkness and desperation of their situation.  This is my favorite kind of humor; humor that comes from within the characters.  No one here is trying to be funny.  No one is going for a laugh.  They're just living, dealing with the world, each other, everything.  It's so human, so natural.But I didn't come here to talk about comedy.  This film has so much to say, and I want to touch on some of it.  Predictably, a lot of it is about death. It isn't, though, about dying.  It's about surviving the deaths of others. It's about how death impacts the survivors.  The entire film touches on this theme.  An EMT on a cold streak is a perfect vehicle for exploring this issue.So that's the plot.  Not much, is it?  Deal with it.Frank Pierce is a man whose mental health is hanging by a string.  He is aware of this (in the narration, he comments on it), but not fully.  For much of the film, he is totally out of control.  Much of his behavior is motiveless (insofar as any human behavior can be).  He is not consciously aware of any real goals.  He's just running.  He doesn't even understand why.  A character like this represents a tremendous challenge to writer and to the actor.  Paul Schraeder handles it magnificently, Nicolas Cage handles it just about as well as can be expected (Nicolas Cage, for the record, is a really bad actor).Mary is also motiveless.  She wants her father to live, obviously.  But does she?  She seems almost ambivalent about it throughout much of the film. She's more concerned about his pain and suffering, and I suspect (as I believe the audience is meant to) that she would approve of Frank's decision to end her father's agony.  But she's torn.  She's not clear in her own mind what she wants, so, she turns to drugs as an escape.  Such a cliche concept, right?  Well, yes, I suppose so.  But look at her reaction.  She admits being weak and foolish, and she seems ashamed.  Not the sort of shame you get when your mommy catches you with the cookie jar, but the shame you feel when you've let yourself down.  It's an attitude we don't see often in films, especially with respect to drugs.  Nice touch.Another interesting angle is that the characters who do seem to have a sense of purpose in their lives seem either ignorant or warped.  The warped category includes Frank's three partners, and Cy.  The ignorant category includes the doctors and nurses, who deal with the same tragic circumstances Frank deals with, but from the safety of a totally artificial environment. They have an eerie, almost evil detachment from the suffering they see.That's what makes this film so dark.  We are shown Frank's life (his inner life) and given a keen awareness of his desperation, yet he seems altogether more sane then practically every other character in this film.The usual Scorsese strengths are here magnificent images, stunning cinematography (I've never seen anything that looks remotely like this film), and a terrific soundtrack, expertly utilized (the wailing harmonica as ambulance siren in the opening shot is a particularly effective detail). The script is a triumph.  The supporting cast is perfect.  Every last one of them is perfect.  If only Nic Cage weren't so.... bad. "},{"Title":"Corrupted view of paramedics","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I personally feel it should be a crime to portray paramedics as drunk abusive murdering fools.Spoilers??This is gonna be a rather short comment.  I'll never watch this movie again.  It does seem to have a pulse.  Like this.  It gets bad it gets better it gets worse it gets better it gets  Scream It gets better it gets Puke and dies a slow death.Now E.R. is about the Emergency Room.  But this movie is about paramedics. These guys see alot of bad things.  But I really disapprove of how they are portrayed in this movie.  End of Line......3/10Quality 7/10   (great camera work) Entertainment -9/10 Replayable 0/10 "}{"Title":"What's Going On???","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I rented this movie, I thought Great! Nicholas Cage. How bad can it be?. It was bad, really bad. I loved Con Air and several of his other movies, but this one sucked. There were so many sub-plots, it was hard to keep up with.  It was possibly the longest, most confusing 2.5 hours of my life!  This movie really doesn't fit into a specific genre. It's definitely not a comedy, there's not enough mushy stuff to consider it a drama. There's no suspense/action. I'm not sure what it was, other than a waste of $3.00.  Please take my word for this!! Don't waste your money. "},{"Title":"Classic Scorsese","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Martin Scorsese's Bringing Out the Dead is a show of what Scorsese can still do (and has done).  Here, he once again teams up with his editor (Thelma Schoonmaker), his producer (Barbara DeFina), his writer (the great Paul Schrader) and Nicolas Cage (who acts in this film, but I'm not sure if this is his first time in a Marty film).  Story tells Cage as a paramedic who is starting to fail in his work, until he starts to get a inspiration (Patricia Arquette) and starts to literally bring out the dead.  Great story, good acting, and Scorsese's direction bring wonders to Joe Connelly's novel (Connelly was once a paramedic as well) as Mart brings another winner to his prized collection.  One of the better films (top 25) of 1999.  A+ "},{"Title":"Pretty Damned Bad","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those films where I actually wished I was watching paint dry rather than watching it. Boring is an understatement. I really don't know who Scorsese thinks he is, but a blaring, intrusive music soundtrack every 3 or so minutes  interspersed with incredibly insipid dialog will not help his career. Cage was actually pretty good, but everything else about this film was horribly wrong. I did not want to see that dead girl throughout the movie, and the more I saw her the less I cared for her plight. I was beginning to think Scorsese was losing it, now I'm certain. He should just go away now. "},{"Title":"Bringing Out Boredom!","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Please! Please! Help! Help! Call an ambulance! Hurry! Because I am in a state of disarray! I have just seen one of the worst film of 1999- Bringing Out The Dead. Also, my heart is in a state of shock because I can't believe such a great director like Martin Scorcese would make such a pitiful film. By the way, the movie is about a New York paramedic and his downward spiral to nervous breakdown hell. Nicolas Cage, who lately has been bringing out the deadest of characters to his films, plays the neurotic paramedic. What the paramedic characters in the film should be really doing is going to every movie theater and bringing out the bored to death viewers who chose to watch this stinker.  ** Needs Improvement  "},{"Title":"Biggest load of cack I have ever seen.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be the worst film I have ever seen. I knew nothing about the film before going to watch it. I didn't know who was in it or who directed it or what the film was about. I went in with a completly open mind and I'm warning you. Find out about the film before going to watch it. If its not your type of thing (i.e. You like something more interesting than watching the grass grow) then you will most probably hate this film. I used to like John Goodman and Nicholas Cage but this film really does put you off them both. I went to see this film with a friend and both of us could not belive the absolute cack we were watching. There were about 15 people in the cinema to watch it and at least 90% of them sighed a thank god at the end of the film. "},{"Title":"Waste of time!","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've ever seen. Portrays paramedics as wasted, burnt-out people who refuse to answer when the dispatcher calls and drink on the job. Outside of this negative portrayal the movie is just as listless and dull as the character Nicolas Cage plays. Don't go see it. Don't pay for it when it comes on pay-per-view. Don't even rent it when it comes out on video.  "},{"Title":"I watched for 45 minutes and there was no plot","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can't remember how long this movie was, but I watched it for 45 minutes before I finally turned it off, and this is extremely rare for me to do this to a movie.Cage plays a really depressed person, and the movie droned on about this with no real plot other than the depression. Most movies reveal some sort of hook or clue as to where its story will be going, but this one didn't.Now, at 46 minutes, the clue may have been revealed, but I had grown bored with watching to find out. I do not know what the ending is and I do not really care. "},{"Title":"one of the worst films I've ever seen","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Okay, that may be too harsh, as I've seen a lot of truly terrible films at film festivals, but this has spoiled me on Scorcese -- making me wonder if he's actually got talent, or just makes films with violence and top-notch crew and scripts, so that it comes together. Is he just a guy who made two films that established him as a visionary in people's minds, so that he gets tons of top talent joining with him, the best scripts, etc. This film made this questions come to the forefront, because this seems truly to be his vision also -- and it's not a good picture. Shots are not artistic; editing is clunky; direction of actors is clumsy; story has no direction or emotional investment. I really don't think this is worth the couple hours out of your life. "},{"Title":"Nothing that interests me","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is nothing special I can say about this movie exept that it wasn´t good enough to keep me awake. Scorcese really disappointed me there. This movie is nothing of what I expected and I couldn´t even finish watching it. "},{"Title":"Not Impressed","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie put me to sleep. I can't even remember the plot other than Nick Cage driving around in an ambulance. I was expecting a much better movie considering Cage is one of my favourite actors. This movie was a disappointment in my eyes, but as they say, to each his (or her) own. "}{"Title":"AWFUL","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A very bad movie. Throughout the whole thing i wondered what exactly the plot and point to this movie was. After finishing it I still don't know. The movie was too long, boring, and depressing. There is no way I would be able to sit through it again. "},{"Title":"A little Less Conversation A Little More Action Please","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Has anyone noticed the main fault of Martin Scorsese ? It`s this  Every now and again Scorsese does a very obvious reworking of a previous film . CASINO for example is a reworking of GOODFELLOWS while THE KING OF COMEDY is a reworking of TAXI DRIVER . BRINGING OUT THE DEAD  is another obvious - And another inferior - reworking of TAXI DRIVER , it has the same screenwriter , the same night time locations and the same type of narration , it even has the same central plot of the anti hero trying to rescue a young woman from a life of vice . But TAXI DRIVER is the superior film simply because it`s original . It`s impossible to watch BRINGING OUT THE DEAD without comparing it with its predecessor . Maybe it would have worked better with Robert De Niro Harvey Keitel and Jodie Foster and had a higher body count .  That`s the problem with this film , there`s not enough scum getting blown away. Oh and has anyone noticed that Nicholas Cage sounds more and more like Elvis the older he gets ?  "}]