[{"Title":"Like fine wine, time is of the essence","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"35 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Until Runaway Bride came on the scene, I didn't realize how dated Pretty Woman had become!  Fans of Pretty Woman will delight in the thinly veiled references and homages that Runaway Bride serves up.  This is a fun film, very tongue in cheek in it's delivery.  The first viewing of the film may seem a little flat, but after watching it subsequent times, you get a definite feel for the dance that is perfected here.  That is what I look for in a movie; can I watch it over and over and still delight in it? I took absolute delight in the setting of this film more so than anything.  The movie refers to the town as Hale, Maryland.  The actual town is Berlin, Maryland, absolutely gorgeous and located more to the Northeastern part of the state.  Setting is everything here because you focus more on the characters and the small town atmosphere than the glitz and glitter of a major city.  The character Maggie Carpenter is not unlike women of her generation--perhaps we tend to marry later in life now more than ever because we don't want to make that mistake that ends in divorce.  Maggie doesn't know what she wants out of life, but she has enough sense to get down to the minute and realize a mistake.  Her timing is rough, but it manages to avoid divorce lawyer, right?Drink in the backdrop of the movie, and enjoy the main characters and the strong ensemble cast in this enticingly amusing tale of love and romance redefined. "},{"Title":"You know what? Don't tell me anything about Pretty Woman, because I don't even want to hear it.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"31 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride is just a good romantic comedy. Yes, the director and the two big name stars are the same as the film's 1990 counterpart, but even though the two films have striking and almost offensive similarities, Runaway Bride has a good enough story that I refuse to believe that it relied on the success of its predecessor. Julia Roberts is Maggie Carpenter, a hardware store owner (a laughable profession surpassed only by Denise Richards as a nuclear weapons specialist in The World Is Not Enough. Yeah RIGHT!), and Richard Gere is a newspaper columnist (Ike Graham) who has been fired for printing a supposedly false column about a woman who consistently runs out on her marriages. When he travels to the tiny town where she lives to learn more about her life and possibly get his job back, he finds that there is more to her than just a newspaper column. By the end of the film, there is such a huge media hype about Maggie's wedding that it's a wonder that Ike wasn't honored for his 'false' column about her. Joan Cusack has never looked and acted better than she did in this movie, delivering a wonderful nasally performance that was strangely heartwarming. Runaway Bride had all kinds of wonderful scenes. I particularly liked the wedding rehearsal scene. The look on Christopher Meloni's face was priceless! There were so many good things about this film that I am able to overlook the superficial look of unoriginality. If you just look past the director and the two big names, the story itself is not at all like any other film. There will, of course, be the inevitable cynical comparisons to Pretty Woman, and these complaints are understandable, but people who condemn Runaway Bride as a rip-off of Pretty Woman or some sort of re-make are simply not looking at the film, but only at the names on the bill. This is a very good romantic comedy, and it should not be missed simply because of a superficial comparison to Pretty Woman. "},{"Title":"Despite a charming cast, the film suffers from a host of unlikable characters and a silly storyline","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Julia Roberts seems to be one of the most hated celebrities on this website. I can't really understand why. I find her to be talented and charming as well as engaging and usually likable, until I saw Runaway Bride. I thought I was going to like this one but it offered some of the most unlikable characters I have ever seen in a romantic comedy. Generally, the audience should want to cheer for the two people to get together but I couldn't care less. I don't think Maggie Carpenter (Julia Roberts) actually deserved to be in a marriage because she was selfish, immature and seemed incapable of love. I just couldn't fathom why anyone would actually be attracted to her. She has weddings like there no big deal and she probably wasted a lot of money between the four failed ones she had. She has her fiancé invest all of his time into the relationship, trying to show her that he does indeed love her only to be left at the altar. I guess the situation was supposed to be humorous and I shouldn't have taken it so seriously but it was tough to overlook all of the garbage the film was trying sell to me.Acting wise the film was decent, which did save it a little. Julia Roberts gives an okay performance, although it's one of her worst. However, she is working with rather weak material and she's portraying a woman that is just so hard to like. Richard Gere was also decent although nothing special. The chemistry between these two was basically non-existent which made their relationship seem completely fake and unrealistic. It was hard to buy that a cynical man would fall for a woman that has no problem trampling all over a man's heart. They did have a few funny scenes together though which made the film more enjoyable. Unfortunately, the film runs for an inexplicable 116 minutes so there are a lot of dead spots.Romantic comedies shouldn't really be loathsome movies. The characters should be likable and engaging so it's easy to get behind them and the story shouldn't be too far-fetched. Unfortunately, Runaway Bride commits the worst sin for a romantic comedy by offering unlikable characters, making it basically impossible to really get into the movie despite how talented the cast may be. "},{"Title":"Let it grow on you.....","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, following the wonderful Notting Hill, I was less than thrilled.  However, I have watched and watched and watched Runaway Bride and it really is a witty romance.  What is particularly poignant about the film is the chemistry between Gere and Roberts.  Though it seems very fast, it is completely natural for fans of Pretty Woman, who saw these two fall in love a decade earlier.Roberts is wonderful in this movie.  She is completely comfortable, natural, and highly believable as the spunky Maggie Carpenter.  Gere is cocky, weathered, and attractive as the misguided Ike Graham.  The plot is predictable, but the first act is snappy and the climax is well-done. It may not please most people on the first run, but rent it again and you'll begin to see the subtleties that make it great. "},{"Title":"Catch her if you can!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Committing to a relationship means getting married, but if you are not up to being committed than it can mean you have &#145;cold feet'. Well in this movie the bride to be has anything, but cold feet. She might as well be wearing running shoes down the alter, as that is what we get to see, not once but many times, and it is a funny thing to watch as well. Ike Graham is a big-city newspaper journalist who causes an uproar with an unflattering and wildly erroneous story about Maggie Carpenter, a small-town woman whose reputation for leaving men stranded at the alter has made her a local legend! But while Ike plans to prove he was right about Maggie all along&#133; and Maggie plans to even the score with Ike.. neither expect the sparks that fly when they finally meet! Now considering that Pretty Woman was one of Hollywood's biggest films of the eighties, and with good reason, it was always going to be difficult to cash in on its success for a second time. I believe that &#145;Runaway Bride' was trying to do such a thing. Although I personally enjoyed this film, I can see why some people might not have. It did not have the same appeal that audiences everywhere had for Pretty Woman. Perhaps the cast was in some way responsible for the movie being a popular choice for movie-goers to want to see. Undoubtedly, the onscreen presents of both Julia Roberts and Richard Gere is a big deal for movie fans. I can see why, this film for me backs up that relationship. Roberts is a star in her own right, who deserves all the accolades that come her way. You can not help but like her and that great smile. Gere has had a very good career also. With movies that include The Jackal, alongside Superstar Bruce Willis, Final Analysis and Primal Fear.I enjoyed the story that was presented to audiences in this film. Having a girl that continually runs out on her husband to be is an interesting concept, which was well adapted to the bigscreen.  Though I would hope in real life that a girl as gorgeous as Maggie Carpenter is, would not bolt for the church door when you are about to commit to her for your whole life. The story for this movie was written by two people, Josann Mcgibbon and Sara Parriott. I feel they both Director Garry Marshal also deserves a mention. You could feel (well I did at least) some part of Pretty Woman coming through in this film, and this undoubtedly was because of Garry. He has done some incredible work which include movies such as  The other sister, Beaches and TV shows the caliber of Mork and Mindy, Happy Days and Laverne and Shirley.This movie also had some good lines when it came to the issues of love, relationships and how men and women interact with each other. The one line that stands out the most would have to be when Maggie asks of Ike &#150;`Is there one &#145;right' person for everyone?'I love his response -`No, but I think attraction is mistaken for rightness.'I totally agree, because I think people can make so many mistakes when it comes to looking for that right person. That is the reason, I believe, for the high separation/divorce rate. You need to be able to act like you always do around someone, in order to be able to say they are in someway &#145;right' for you, because if you cant then there is no point even trying to make a go with them.The music of &#145;Runaway Bride' was of significance to me, so much so that I did not realise how good that it was the first time. Martina McBride's tune of `I love you' was an obvious favourite from the film, with other artist including Coco- Lee, the Dixie Chicks, with a great rendition of the classic hit `You can't hurry love' , and U2. This is one soundtrack I definitely want to add to my collection.So the lesson this movie gives to its audience is that marriage might not be for every person. However, it also show that you can overcome your difficulties in taking the next step in your relationship, if that is what has to be or wants to be done, by open and honest with your partner. Warning For anyone who is about to get married or starting married life this might not be your film, then again it might just be too. If you like a laugh then you should say &#145;I do' to what I think is a delightfully engaging romantic comedy!Rating 8/10 or 4 Stars  "},{"Title":"Runaway and Never Come Back","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a fan of Pretty Woman and so I was anticipating the release of this film, expecting to find it just as enjoyable.  Boy was I wrong!  I wanted to leave the theater halfway through the movie, but chose to sit it out, purely on hope that it would improve.  It didn't.I actually think the plot had potential but the script was terrible, and the characters were all so one-dimensional.  I felt like this talented cast struggled from beginning to end.  I like Richard Gere but he was so stale in this film!  Roberts was her usual cutesy-pie self.  I just don't understand why someone with her potential talent wastes her time on some of these C- (if not lower) movies.  Does she read the scripts??My main problem with this film is the cheesy, cornball dialogue.  Give me a break!!  As if all the bad one-liners and jokes aren't enough, we're forced to sit through silly, random scenes like Maggie swinging the church bell;  the whole scene where the girls dye Ike's hair; the duck-billed platypus imitation; I could go on and on!My advice to you is not to pay money to see this movie.  Only watch it if it comes on TV and you have a couple hours of your life you'd like to throw away. "},{"Title":"c-a-b-d","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"21 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found Pretty Woman charming, and I suppose I still do, but in one respect its storyline is contrived.  (In ONE respect? I hear you ask.  Well, maybe more than one, but only one that worries me.)  This much of the standard formula a light love story MUST follow (a) boy falls in love with girl, (b) girl falls in love with boy, (c) obstacle, (d) union.  Timing is surprisingly unimportant.  It doesn't matter when (c) is established - it can be before the curtain rises, or half an hour before it falls - nor does it matter if (a) and (b) are simultaneous, or over an hour apart.  (And obviously it doesn't matter which one comes first.  Even the order c-b-d-a is acceptable.)  The trouble with Pretty Woman is (c).  So she's a prostitute.  So what?  It's a pity that twentieth-century writers have somehow acquired the idea that external obstacles are less interesting than internal ones it isn't true, and in any event, internal obstacles are harder to draw convincingly.Which is why (FINALLY, I get to the point) Runaway Bride is a more pleasant confection than Pretty Woman.  Believe me, you don't know how surprised I am to find myself writing this.  Before I saw the movie I was all but certain it would be deathly stale.  The premise - love blossoms between an insulting newspaper columnist and a serial jilter he writes about - screamed, This will spend two hours going nowhere at me ... and the curious thing is, now that I've seen the film, I can't even remember why I found the idea so unpromising.  Maybe I was unduly swayed by the last Julia Roberts romantic comedy I saw, I Love Trouble, which was at once thin, bloated, and flat.Runaway Bride is none of these things.  It's over two hours, but none of this is bloat it takes its time because it NEEDS this time, given obstacle (c), to convincingly establish (a) and (b).  The film doesn't waste our time any more than it wastes our own.  I was never bored; very often I was even basking in the glow.  Tastes in romantic comedy are hard to justify or defend, so I'll leave it at that. "},{"Title":"Completely Contrived but a pleasant watch","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a thoroughly contrived film, but a pleasant watch nonetheless. Julia Roberts and Richard Gere still exhibit an easy going chemistry after their blockbuster 'Pretty Woman'. This film though isn't as good. The characters are superficial, and the story unbelievable. However, a lovely romantic sound-track and some soothing romantic moments between the two likable stars carry the film. The humor is mild but generally works. The supporting cast including Hector Elizondo and Joan Cusack work hard to elevate mediocre material using effective comic timing. A pleasant watch at home.Overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"Cute and mildly entertaining romantic comedy","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm normally a huge Julia Roberts fan and while I found this romantic comedy entertaining enough, it cannot compare with her fabulous earlier movie, Pretty Woman, also starring Richard Gere. Nor did I care for it as much as her other comedy romances (most notably Notting Hill) or most of the Meg Ryan ones, especially Sleepless in Seattle.The story revolves around a lovely young woman, Maggie Carpenter, who has left a series of three would be grooms partway through their wedding ceremony. A reporter named Ike Graham gets fired after writing an exaggerated article of half truths on her story, so to salvage his career, he travels to her small hometown, where he attempts to ferret out her true tale and get the scoop on her upcoming fourth nuptials. Needless to say, Ike does not prove very popular with his journalistic subject, Maggie, as he harasses her family & friends for info. However, he begins to feel protective of her when townsfolk mock her track record of jilting her fiancé at the altar.Julia Roberts is invariably appealing & sympathetic in her roles, and typically this proves true in her portrayal here of Maggie. Richard Gere is competent as the journalistic vulture, Ike. I don't fault the lack of chemistry as much as the story, which simply isn't as good as Pretty Woman.Of course romantic comedies are never exactly bastions of realism, but this tale where such a young woman has already run away from three weddings and is now embarking upon number four, really seems too far fetched even for this genre. One would suspect that any prospective groom would be quite leery by now, and why does Maggie keep planning these gala ceremonies if she suspects she might ultimately get cold feet? All in all, it's a cute, light hearted, & entertaining movie with some good scenes, but definitely not the best of its genre. For sure, it lacks the magic of Pretty Woman but judge this one on its own merits. "},{"Title":"Good, but no cigar","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a light hearted comedy as expected. I could not help comparing it to Pretty Woman, and it fell short. I wanted to love this movie as much as I did Pretty Woman, but Garry Marshall dropped the ball.It was so obvious to me what was missing from the formula.It had a weak musical background sound track when it should have had a score that would carry your emotions to a climax. Pretty Woman used the love duet from La Traviata. The second thing it was missing was some better defined sub characters. The actors were wooden, and it was harmful. Remember the elevator boy in Pretty Woman? Remember the miserable sales lady in the dress shop? They were great characters. ...and of course, the theme song Prett Woman. This was a good movie, but Garry dropped the ball. He had a built in audience ready to embrace Runaway Bride, and just couldn't. Fred Auerbach "}{"Title":"the most awful film ever?","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was probably one of the most god awful movies I've seen a long time. It amazes me how the director, Garry Marshall, can find work after putting this piece of garbage out. This movie is even worse than an earlier debacle of his Dear God starring Greg Kinear. The plot is stupid and makes no sense and the chemistry between Julia Roberts and Richard Gere is non-existent. I think I'd rather watch paint dry than to watch this film again. It ranks up there with Freddy Got Fingered, Gigli and the Adventures of Joe Dirt as far as bad movies go. This will be the last Garry Marshall film that I will ever see. What happened to the director who filmed Frankie and Johnny and The Flamingo Kid? There's nothing worse than wasted talent. "},{"Title":"Runnaway from this Movie fast!","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you have seen the Simpsons Episode mocking it, you know why this is the worst movie ever. You know the rich snob will lose, and Gere and Roberts will get together. This is a tired story, with no suprises. Julia and Gere have done better together, apart and in their sleeps. Avoid this movie at all costs, runaway from all showings of this movie or suffer the pain of a horrible movie! "},{"Title":"total and absolute c**p","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i didn't remember how awful pretty women was until it was on tv the other day and i watched it.  well part of it.  i couldn't stomach it.  which is funny because when it came out i thought it was amusing.why they decided to try another version of it i will never know.  runaway bride is awful.  one of the worst films i saw all year.  i am so sick of the portrayal of women in film.  is someone ever going to make a film where they don't look like fancy fluffy morons?  what is up with that.this film sucks.  only watch it if you want to see what NOT to do. "},{"Title":"It made good actors look bad.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am not going to compare Runaway Bride to Pretty Woman because, quite frankly, I don't care too much for that movie either. I do, however, enjoy both Richard Gere and Julia Roberts as actors. This movie left them both cold. Neither character was well-rounded and the one dimension of them is quickly felt at the start of the movie. The dialogue left me distant; I felt nothing for either character and was only thinking about how I was going to get through the next hour and thirty minutes. Each scene contained lame punchlines that left almost the entire audience silent. The entire story annoyed me. If I had to watch her run from her vows one more time I was going to barf. The movie was hopeless from the first draft of the script. "},{"Title":"Big budget=big failure=big garbage","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am really becoming tired of coming across some 'generic' users' comments about movies such as 'With a bigger budget, this film would certainly have been better'Runaway Bride, in my opinion, perfectly belies this too many heard statement I wonder how many millions of dollars have been USELESSLY WASTED to make this stupid, boring and absolutely not funny movie it is overwhelmed by clichés and extremely stupid dialogs with a thousand times overused storyline. Moreover, I also wonder how many millions Richard Gere and Julia Roberts 'earned' for their BAD ACTING. But, of course, many people will unfortunately still give some credit to this piece of garbage, for the only reason that the director Gary Marshall had directed 'Pretty Woman' nine years before and that he cast Richard Gere and Julia Roberts. However, here I say STOP! What is more important than money and will always be in order to make a good movie is THE BRAIN and I fear that this time Mr Marshall lost his. I also sympathize with probable thousands of hundreds of people who walked out of the theaters feeling robbed of their money and with others who will buy the DVD (Moreover, with this awful NTSC standard) Fortunately, I am extremely glad I didn't have to pay a single cent for it, because I saw it on TV. but I still feel that they STOLE TWO HOURS OF MY LIFE, which is infuriating me enough. So I sharply encourage people who think like me to give a 1 to this so-called movie to send it to where, despite its big budget and misbegotten pretension, it belongs THIS IS A PERFECT CANDIDATE FOR THE IMDb BOTTOM 100!!! "},{"Title":"Whoa! Did they just steal my money, or what?","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Are they kidding? This film actually made more money at the US box office than Notting Hill did. That kind of tells you something about american women....It's the worst piece of crap I've seen in ages. Relying solely on Julias somewhat charming smile. Gere is sleepwalking through this whole movie (his life?). Joan Cusack is phoning it in. And the story! Don't get me started on the story, folks. The lamest excuse to ever reteam these two people is hereby in the can.No, if you must see a Julia Roberts film, tune in Notting Hill instead. It will actually be remembered in the future. "},{"Title":"I want my two hours and all those IQ points back! (Spoilers)","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must be immune to sorcery, because I seem to be one of the few Americans who are not spellbound by Julia Roberts and Richard Gere.  I will spend the rest of my life perplexed as to what is so *great* about these two!  Yes, they were charming together in Pretty Woman.  There, the chemistry, storyline, and script all just seemed to come together for them.  But they have yet to impress me in anything previous or since!  They are one-note actors who appear to keep playing the same characters with different names.  Richard Gere seems to have trouble changing the expression on his face, and Julia Roberts, well, she giggles and smiles a lot.  Wow. This movie was just another cutesy chick flick staring America's favorite pair with a plot so predictable I was bored to tears ten minutes in.  Let's see...two high profile actors start out a movie hating each other...gee...do you think maybe they'll fall in love...? Hmmm...I'll admit, many of my favorite romance comedies do boarder on the predictable, and many do start off with the soon-to-be couple in conflict with each other.  But at least the scenes illustrating the hate-to-love progression in those films are interesting, touching, and believable.  Nothing in Runaway Bride convinced me that Gere and Roberts should be together, or would last forever as a couple.  So, what was the point?I couldn't believe what good reviews this movie received from credible, professional critics! The lowest moment of the film ever was when the man Julia Roberts dumps to hook up with Richard Gere shows up at their wedding and gives Gere the eye-contact sign.  Sure, recently jilted men always show up to help out at their ex-fiancees' weddings.  At this point, I closed my eyes and tried in vain to get in a power nap during the remainder of the movie.  My rating rock bottom.  1/10.  "},{"Title":"Neither funny nor romantic enough","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is a perfect example of why good romantic comedies are hard to find. Many of them turn out too much like this, not enough laughs or romance and too entirely predictable. Runaway Bride is not horrible and does manage to provide a few laughs here and there. However, as far as good romantic comedies go, this one did not satisfy me. For one thing, I found the plot too unbelievable and unrealistic. Though we usually don't expect romantic comedy to be entirely realistic, we want to see good reason for the two main characters to fall in love. I found the romance between Richard Gere and Julia Roberts to be too suddenly and awkward. No reason is really given in the film for why Roberts should start falling in love with a man who starts going around spying on her. I found Gere's performance just not realistic enough to enjoy. He does not play a very likable character, which gives me no reason to want the main characters to fall in love. The supporting cast is really the only reason I got any laughs out of this film at all. For example, Joan Cusack plays a funny, entertaining character, as usual, which brings a little enjoyment to the film. Nevertheless, it just did not work very well for me. Not a terrible movie, but not really worth your time either.**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"so bad, it comes off more like a fantasy than a comedy or romance","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you really want to suspend your belief, see this movie. This is a movie about a woman who leaves a guy at the altar. One would think that she'd be more careful in her next relationship, but instead she leaves another guy at the altar. And if you're thinking that both the woman AND her potential suitors have learned their lessons by now, another guy proposes to her and ANOTHER guy is left at the altar.What a charming woman, huh? Jeez, no wonder Richard Gere fell in love with this horrible, stupid woman who has decided last-minute to dump THREE guys! Why do the two of them fall in love? More importantly, are we even supposed to take Julia Roberts's side? Let's look at what she didAfter Gere wrote a TRUE article about her, she complained to the newspaper and got him fired. Then when he shows up in her hometown, she dyes his hair ridiculous colors. Then in order to investigate his article more fully, Gere is forced to pay her a LOT of money. And after they fall in love, it only gets worse from there.SPOILERSThen, after Roberts has supposedly found her one true love, this horrible woman has the gall to run away from her FOURTH marriage, with a guy she LOVES! And why? The reason given is that he doesn't make eye contact with her! But after that, she goes BACK and marries him! What kind of horrible, insane woman is this?END OF SPOILERSThis is one of the worst, most ridiculously written movies I have ever seen. The acting is nothing to be desired either, as some other commenters noticed. It tried to be Pretty Woman, but it fell flat on its face. The eggs thing was some of the stupidest writing ever (if you really want to know how Julia likes her eggs watch the scene in America's Sweethearts where she goes on an eating binge). However, if you're the kind of person who can ignore the writing and the acting just because you feel good when Roberts and Gere kiss, this is a movie for you. But if this is true, I hope I never meet you. "},{"Title":"Two words - completely misguided","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"26 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride is one of those films that probably looked good on paper - bankable stars like Julia Roberts and Richard Gere trying to rework their Pretty Woman magic in a similar plot - but is so horribly mishandled it became painful to watch.I rented it because my wife wanted to see it, and besides it was only an extra $1.00 with another 5-day rental at the local video store. How bad could it be for a dollar?Let's put it this way - paying $1.00 to see this film was a rip-off. I shut off the movie after 30 minutes. My wife, who likes romantic comedies, stopped watching after an hour. The only reason I think she lasted that long was she was on allergy medication and lacked the strength to push the Stop button. The last movie I can recall her refusing to finish was 10 Violent Women (we were in B-Movie/MST3K mode when we rented that one). As you have already determined, lumping 10 Violent Women and Runaway Bride together is a huge red flag for the discriminating moviegoer.First of all, Richard Gere's character is at best confused, but he is also conniving and mean. He's piggish yet suave - a great combination for a modern romance, I guess. He writes for USA Today, but is surprised when he's fired for not checking the 'facts' of his story. He tries to vindicate himself by getting the real story on Julia Robert's character, but he annoyingly turns up everywhere prying into every last detail of her life - and even though he just skewered her in a nationwide newspaper, everyone including Julia's fiance accepts and loves him. He's not a journalist - he's a stalker.Julia Roberts is her usual cutesy self. At best, she gets by on charm, and if that's all you require I guess you'll like this film.Most scenes are predictable and/or require the use of Roger Ebert's infamous idiot plot. For example - in the first scene in the beauty shop, where I shut off the videotape. I won't give it away for those who want to see this film, but just watch and think about it for one second - would a big-city reporter fall for the towel gag? Why on earth would we buy this as a plot twist?I found it impossible to identify with or care about any of the characters. Since both main characters and the plot are thin and uninteresting, the smaller aspects of the film might as well be problematic too. Some scenes and dialog, especially those of the minor characters like Julia's family and the ladies at the salon, would be better left on the cutting room floor. Most of the actors either seem uneasy with their dialog or are sleepwalking through stereotypical roles. The first 30 minutes seemed like a continuous product placement ad for USA Today and Z28's. The soundtrack songs are unimaginative - Maneater for crying out loud? I felt like I was watching a UPN sitcom instead of a movie.I wish I could find something positive about this film, but it is only a transparent attempt to sequel Pretty Woman and make a bundle. My advice is short don't see this film. Save yourself the time and money, even if it's only a dollar.My Rating 1 out of a possible 10 "}{"Title":"You can't go wrong with this movie","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This reunion of Julia Roberts and Richard Gere is even better than Pretty Woman®. It succeeds as a romantic comedy on both counts. Perhaps because the people seem very real and human, the story is compelling and engaging throughout. Terrific supporting roles are delivered by Joan Cusack, Hector Elizondo, and Rita Wilson. Standard comic gags such as having an old lady (Julia's grandmother) talk dirty actually work here. Yet the many comic moments do not deter from the romantic subplot. Even the eventual wedding scene, a serene private outdoor ceremony, is interlaced with comic detours. The footage of Roberts and Gere riding horseback in western Maryland following the ceremony is breathtakingly beautiful. You can't go wrong with this movie thumbs up! "},{"Title":"This sequel is better than the first...","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, so Runaway Bride is no direct sequel to Pretty Woman, but still it's the same team that brought us the latter. And, let's just say that the saying 'never change a winning team' fits the bill for what this movie's concerned. I thought it was very good. Very good indeed. I liked Pretty Woman, but Runaway Bride is actually better. Cause as the romantic part of the story has been kept intact, the comedy part is funnier than Pretty Woman.  The only objection I have, is the the very last part of the movie. From the scene in the church when Roberts and Gere is getting married, and Robert's character for the fourth time runs away, the story seem a little too constructed and prolonged. They could have ended it at the church after my opinion. But that is just a minor problem, and I won't let it change my opinion about Runaway Bride being an absolutely good movie!  And I can't think of any actors that has that special chemistry which Roberts and Gere in fact has. Not even Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan can match it... "},{"Title":"A movie that will capture your heart while stealing your sandshoes","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"      Runaway Bride, starring Julia Roberts and Richard Gere is a movie set in a typical country town with its farms, chapel and small shopping center. Roberts lives in this town but just can't seem to hitch onto the right guy. She just runs away from them right there at the altar.    Gere plays a writer for a column in a magazine situated in New York. He finds out about this so called 'Runaway Bride' and writes an over-exaggerated article about her. Roberts reads it and plans to sue Gere.     Naturally Gere gets fired and finds he has a lot of free time on his hands. So he goes in search for 'The Runaway Bride'. And from there on it's a barrel of laughs.     Great acting and a magnificent plot help to give this one the thumbs up.   "},{"Title":"Better then Pretty Woman","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was better then Pretty Woman. I liked Pretty Woman a lot but I just thought this was better. The storyline seemed funnier and just great to watch. Roberts and Gere are really good together. Good performances by all in this. "},{"Title":"Funny and romantic","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have no objections to what I have to say about this film. Terrific, funny, lovable and great are the main words in which I describe Runaway Bride. A romantic comedy with Julia Roberts and Richard Gere showing their incredible acting talents. Strongly recommended for the fans of either one of these actors. "},{"Title":"Happily, not Pretty Woman","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Before I begin, I think the reason certain people have been disappointed with this film is that they LOVED Pretty Woman.  I didn't.  I did, however, really enjoy Runaway Bride.  If you are going to see a reunion of Edward and Vivian, you will be disappointed.  They don't show up.Come to see Maggie and Ike and you'll enjoy yourself.  True the film is fairly predictable, with the audience guessing at the feelings of the characters before the characters realize them, but isn't that why we see romantic comedies?Interestingly, this film is far more realistic than many people realize. Unfortunately the men and women who - like Maggie - find themselves walking up an aisle, facing someone they don't know end up NOT running away.  A lot of young women can learn about relationship strengths and weaknesses by truly comparing themselves to Maggie, and asking their boyfriends how do I like my eggs?.See this film, but first put Pretty Woman out of your mind.  Socially and technically this one wins hands down in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining 'Bride' is funny from start to finish","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The stars (Julia Roberts and Richard Gere) and director of Pretty Woman team up again for another fun romantic comedy.  Roberts is the bride who is afraid of commitment that she literally runs out on her three grooms.  Gere is the reporter who writes an article on the bride that it angers her and gets him fired.  Afterwards, he persues her for a personal interview and falls in love with her in the process.  Hector Elizondo (also of Pretty Woman) co-stars.  The chemistry between the two leads still remain strong and the PG-rated movie is about as funny as Pretty Woman and family-safe.  My evaluation *** out of ****.   "},{"Title":"A funny romantic comedy","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride, starring Julia Roberts and Richard Gere in their first reunion since Pretty Woman, was a funny and romantic comedy that I liked a lot. The only reason why I didn't give this a nine out of 10 is because towards the end I just wanted to see them get together already. She shouldn't have even left him the first time! I felt like the only reason that they did that was to make the movie run a little longer.But other than that one plot point, I liked everything; Julia Roberts and Richard Gere and Joan Cusack (especially) were great, and perfect for their roles. Check out this movie, if not on the big screen, on video.My rating 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"YAY!","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was ecstatic, looking forward to seeing this film, and I was ecstatic after it.  The best part is that they pulled off the love story without sex, unlike (to quote David Letterman) the cute little movie about the hooker. So, it was predictable.  I thought it was very funny, wonderfully romantic and the best movie that I have seen this summer.  Go see it.  It's worth it. "},{"Title":"Julia and Richard combine great chemistry and good acting.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, this is a chick-flick, but there is also a sense of balance in the eternal battle of the sexes. Julia Roberts and Richard Gere have incredible chemistry, bringing back the great interaction that made Pretty Woman a believable story. You end liking both Maggie and Ike and rooting for a happy ending. Credible supporting performances by Joan Cusack, Hector Elizondo, and Rita Wilson keeps the story moving along and adds depth in the character development of Maggie and Ike. In the end, I came out of this film feeling optimistic about my OWN chances for finding my Miss Right. "}{"Title":"It was a great movie. I enjoyed it a lot!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was really great. It was funny and romantic. Richard Gere and Julia Roberts gave good performences and they have a good chemistry together. I recommend this movie to people of all ages. It's a blast and you'll really enjoy it! "},{"Title":"LOVED it!","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While I never cared for Pretty Woman, I always thought Richard Gere and Julia Roberts worked very well together. Runaway Bride was great...no sex, not much swearing but a few suggestive jokes (everyone in my theater HOWLED at the grandmother's comments) and great characters. Maggie tried to be tough as she defended herself...but you could see how hurt and fed up she was at being the fastest joke in town. This was a very good movie, well-cast (whoever cast Joan Cusack as Peggy deserves a medal!) and very often funny. Don't miss this movie! "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs Up !","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sequel? What sequel? Ah yes, with the same main actors and actresses...not forgetting the clips in the movies that reminds you of PRETTY WOMAN. For example the balcony scene, and the bargaining of money to be paid..gosh it almost felt like it was the SAME movie I was watching rather then the sequel to it...None-the-less, this is better in terms of the many good punch line given to Richard Gere in this movie. I believe he develops his part better compared to the stiff person he played in Pretty Woman. As for Julia Roberts, hey, what can be said..she is the natural thing..I believe she plays the part so well..But have you all notice something? She has been the one asking the man for their hands in marriage in like three movies..namely MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING, NOTTING HILL and last but not least RUNAWAY BRIDE.. When does she intend to give up doing this? mmm...I wonder..Oh well, I still think at the end this is a great show and I have watched it like four times already. So I guess it is worth watching..I give it 9 out of 10. Fantastic job all of you. Last but not least, if there is going to be another sequel, please give Hector Elizondo more lines...he seems to be there but not there...if you get what I mean..Thanks.  "},{"Title":"Predictable in terms of plot, but very well played","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Runaway Bride is an enjoyable romantic comedy. Yes, it isn't perfect, the story is very predictable and repetitive, the direction is perhaps a little too leisurely in some parts and there are parts when very little happens. But it is a very well played romantic comedy at that. The script is full of very funny one-liners and quotes. Whilst I had a few problems with the story, the script was fine. Julia Roberts makes the most of her role as the title character, and Richard Gere, her co-star in Pretty Woman, is his usual charming self as the somewhat over familiar love interest, and Joan Cusack is enjoyable as Roberts's friend who gives her the odd piece of advice throughout the film.All in all, not too bad. It is predictable, like I have said too many times already, but it is well played and well scripted, so not so bad to pass the time. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Do not runaway from the chance to see this darling and touching romcom","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ike (Richard Gere) writes a column for a major New York City newspaper. But, he's a last-minute man, that is, he works better under pressure to complete each piece, barely making the paper's deadlines. One day, the inspiration pipeline is running dry and he grabs at a last minute tip to conjure up a column about a very cold-footed bride, Maggie (Julia Roberts) who has run away from the altar three times. Getting the facts seriously wrong means bye-bye Ike, as his boss and ex-wife (Rita Wilson) lets him go to avoid a lawsuit. Naturally, Ike is dismayed but, then, he is courted by another paper to do an in-depth study of Maggie, for she is about to walk down the aisle again in a matter of days. Traveling to the small city of Hale, Maryland, Ike sets up residence in the town's lovely inn and starts snooping. However, very shortly, the whole village, including Maggie, knows he's there and friends and neighbors try mightily to impede his investigation. They do this because they all have hope that Maggie's fourth nuptials will result in a marriage to the town's high school football coach, Bob (Chistopher Meloni). But, even with best friend Peggy (Joan Cusack) hovering around Maggie, could our Mags somehow be attracted to the handsome Ike, even when he's out to expose her foibles? This is a warm, funny, and touching romcom about the uncertainties in attraction, love, and marriage. How does one know for sure that their beloved is THE one? The answer here is that one must first know oneself well. The cast is a delight, with Roberts and Gere shining brightly in roles that are not necessarily predictable. The supporting troupe is also wonderful, as Cusack, Meloni, Wilson, Hector Elizondo, and others are as entertaining as they come. As for the setting, the lovely little Maryland town in the film is most beautiful and the costumes, photography, script and direction are all worthy, too. So, do not runaway from the chance to see this darling little romcom. It has some very fine lessons, love, and laughter to offer audiences of any age. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Awesome movie! A very funny romantic comedy, with a good resolution. Roberts and Gere have great chemistry and should have an award for it. Never a boring part, always action! Must see for romantic comedies! A few suggestions not appropriate for children, but over all it was pretty clean. Joan Cusac did an excellent job as well, playing Robert's best friend. Very real and believable movie, with plenty of good morals. Overall it is a hilarious movie that keeps you laughing and has you repeating lines constantly until you laugh even more. It is older, so there are a few dated things, but it isn't that bad. Once again, hilarious. Good family things too. This rates up there with You've Got Mail and While You Were Sleeping. A must see for all! "},{"Title":"A charming film","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Following up on the huge romantic hit Pretty Woman, Richard Gere, Julia Roberts and Hector Elizondo reteam to produce yet another romantic comedy called Runaway Bride.Nobody lost a step or missed a beat as Gere, Roberts and Elizondo teamed up with newcomers Joan Cusack and Rita Wilson. The cast performed with such perfection it seemed like they were performing as it happened for the first time. I commend the casting director and the producer for putting together an excellent cast that really gelled and had chemistry that was like magic.I must say that Runaway Bride was much more charming than Pretty Woman. I still enjoyed Pretty Woman but the updated version had a certain charm and a twist that was lacking in the first film.I can't say what the twist is without giving away too much, you'll just have to see it to find out.This was a cute film with a unique way of telling a plot that seems to have been done before on the silver screen. "},{"Title":"Did they need the cash so badly?","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You can get past the absurd premise, the two-dimensional minor characters, the clunky script and the plot incongruities. What you cannot get over is the biggest failure in this film - trying to make Richard Gere funny. He isn't funny. Pretty Woman works because he is the straight-man who melts and opens up because of the hooker-with-a-heart-of-gold. Here, he is supposed to deliver ironic asides and sarcastic put-downs, and it just does not come off. It is unfathomable why these actors showed up for this. In every interview I have ever seen with a successful actor, they always say their reason for choosing a film is the script. If the story is fresh, challenging and engaging then nothing else matters. What made Gere and Roberts think this would add a new dimension to their CVs? You can only imagine they saw an easy way to cash in on the PW thing, and went for it. A real, real shame. "},{"Title":"The stars coast through on their built-in good will...","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Anybody could have written this movie (or, rather, concocted this movie, as the script itself is just a doodle). It creaks along like an antiquated piece of romantic machinery. Julia Roberts and Richard Gere coast through on the good will they've built up in other movies (like, say, Pretty Woman). She's an alter-shy would-be bride whose actions have intrigued a newspaper man; when he goes to meet her, naturally he's smitten by her nearly-hidden vulnerability and begins to feel something for her charms (she rebels at her own feelings, telling him, You wouldn't know love if it bit you in the arm-pit--easily the single worst line in the picture). The music used is heavy-handed, from the U2 song which opens the movie to Miles Davis' It Never Entered My Mind, which underscores a romantic moment but is actually more appropriate for a suicide scene. The stars do have great chemistry together, the supporting cast is wonderfully colorful and not overly-eccentric, and it's a fine bauble for anyone in the mood for a generic romantic comedy (and, true, it's probably better than Pretty Woman, which I didn't particularly like); but from a filmmaker's standpoint, Bride seems to have been made by-the-numbers. They didn't make this movie to stand the test of time; it's disposable. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"funniest movie we've seen in a long time!","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The audience was laughing so hard, at times we couldn't hear the next line! Thoroughly enjoyed the chemistry between all the characters!  Enjoyed it even more than Pretty Women. . . no real comparison!! Great date movie! "}{"Title":"Mildly enjoyable","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As others have stated, this is not a great movie.  There isn't symbolism and depth and great lessons about life.  It is just the kind of light, amusing movie that doesn't strain your brain.  Julia Roberts' star continues to shine.  I personally think she is a very good actress.  She makes it seem so effortless that the pendulum almost swings to the other side and makes it seem like she isn't acting at all, which lends itself to criticism.  And for those who mentioned PRETTY WOMAN in their reviews, here is a newsflash--this isn't PRETTY WOMAN.  Same stars, different movie--repeat that 5 times to yourself.  Whatever your opinion, let RUNAWAY BRIDE stand on its own.  It isn't as predictable as it seems it might be.  For me, 7.5 stars out of 10.   "},{"Title":"This is a funny, funny movie.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As much I have to admit I enjoyed the gross-out humor of AUSTIN POWERS and THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, its nice to see a movie that manages to be funny without resorting to non-stop vulgarity.  There's a lot of really good material in this one.  As far the story goes, its pretty obvious to anyone with anyone with half a brain (spoiler warning) the two lead will get together in the end.  Besides that, the story isn't too predictable, and the cast is outstanding.  The whole Gere/Roberts chemistry is there, and the rest of the cast gets their good lines in too. This isn't your average chick flick, this is funny stuff.  And its good clean fun.   "},{"Title":"Don't Runaway From This One...","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is supposed to be hilarious. It's not.  It is a cute ROMANTIC-comedy.  Anyone who knows anything about this genre realizes and understands this does not indicate some psycho babbling funny, teenage, chick flick.  It is actually both romantic and entertaining.  I enjoyed it greatly.  The unfortunate problem with reuniting great actors in a movie after already having a success is that everyone expects some great magic and to relive that same thing.  However, each movie must be taken on it's on frames so there...Anyway, most will recall the team up of Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks in two similiar yet completely different films known as Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail.  I like both of these films for thier own independence not relying on the previous to get them through the next.  Now, with that said, Runaway Bride is good movie.  It's not great, but it is a good movie.  And it touches many subjects that are life relevant.  Sure it exaggerates it and makes it glamorous but all movies do and it's necessary to make it believable.  Kind of ironic, ain't it?  Anyway, go rent this one or buy it or whatever and then you'll know what I'm talking about. "},{"Title":"Best movie I've seen this Summer!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie!  I would consider this a true romantic comedy.  There were wonderful, well written characters and laughs all the way through.  It was quite a treat to see Richard Gere play such a comedic role and do so well at it.  I found this movie a joy to watch, not just because of Julia Roberts and Richard Gere, but the fantastic supporting cast and the picturesque town in which the movie takes place.  It was altogether a wonderful experience.  I can't express how refreshing it is to see a movie with no sex, no nudity, and no cursing.  Hats off to Gary Marshall for putting a movie out there that's just good, clean fun!   "},{"Title":"a GOOD movie","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"20 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Call me old-fashioned, but I was glad to finally see an adult movie that didn't have any swearing (except for once when Gere hit the bathroom door), sex, or violence.  It made me think of the old movies where the hero and heroine fall in love and at the end get married (and if they had sex, it was insinuated without showing anything).  Yeah, that's unrealistic in these days of open speech and everything else, but it was refreshing.  And it proved my point that a good movie could be made and still be rated PG. (And that Julia Roberts could still make a movie these days without the F-word!)And even though I don't think Joan Cusack is the best actress in the world, she always makes me laugh in whatever movie she's in! "},{"Title":"Somewhat works","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Runaway bride, which is the second romantic comedy starring Gere and Roberts, somewhat works in its own way. I mean the script is a little weaker than I would have liked, it doesn't suck, but it had the necessary potential to be more than it turned out to be. Joan cusack was likable as ever playing the best friend role, as she usually does, but that's OK, because she really suits that type of movie character. Also, the chemistry between the leads isn't as obvious here as it was in pretty woman, I just didn't feel it as much in runaway bride. That is one of its biggest issues, not enough on screen romantic chemistry between Gere and Roberts. Some of the movie is kinda funny and amusing, but other scenes are kinda tedious. Also I did enjoy Christopher Meloni, so I'll give him a good shoutout, he was funny, rugidly attractive, kinda dopey at times, and macho, he fits his character pretty well. 6/10 for runaway bride. "},{"Title":"Stay Away from this Bride","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Runaway Bride is a boring and very poorly written movie. The Julie Roberts character is not likable and this begs the question why so many men have apparently fallen for her charms. Unlike in Pretty Woman, there is virtually zero chemistry between the two leads. The small-town setting was quite nice, but so many things were so unrealistic and didn't make sense the Fed Ex truck just HAPPENED to be standing by, she gets through the Sunday school kids in a flash but he can't...Julie Roberts seems to have no charm and Richard Gere is straining through it all to be sympathetic. The only cure for this movie would have been to increase the screen time of Hector Elizondo. "},{"Title":"When Pets Kill (and skip the last 15 minutes)","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Based on the notion better late than never this is a late review.Notes For Posterity * what were they thinking? Marshall usually knows better but Hollywood, the land of high concept, often falls for its own nonsense * you would have to be from another planet not to know that the original pairing in PRETTY WOMAN was one of the most successful films of all time. I think even now it is mandatory for young girls to see the film before they reach their teens. (Hey, don't smirk, if they can force you to take vaccinations, they can force you to watch a film) * even the best Hollywood Power Agent can't fight Father Time. Gere was 50 when this was filmed, Roberts some 20 years younger. Trivia question for readers of the future was he playing YOUNGER or was she playing OLDER? Actually -- surprise! -- not a bad movie if you get it is about the stars working with outrageous material and yet somehow pulling it off -- sorta -- by sheer force of will. Plus, I am a big fan of Joan (Are you breaking up with me?) Cusack. SKIP THE LAST 15 MINUTES. SERIOUSLY. HAVE I EVER LED YOU ASTRAY?Back in Hollywood's glory days they used to test the ending with a live audience before release. Had Marshall done this -- instead of spending all his time looking in the mirror and telling himself how clever he was -- he would have noticed the movie had a really solid ending about 15 minutes before the ending he used. The actual ending is horribly annoying. "},{"Title":"Runaway From This Film.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Runaway Bride (1999) Dir Garry Marshall / Cast Richard Gere, Julia Roberts, Joan Cusack, Hector Elizondo, Rita Wilson Second feature for Richard Gere and Julia Roberts with none of the charm of Pretty Woman. It regards both fear and tease in that these males cannot catch her but it reeks in stupidity. Plot regards a bride who flees weddings three times at the expense of bewildered grooms. Gere plays a journalist with a bad reputation that has him constantly assaulted with newspapers. He is out to do a story on Roberts who is engaged yet again. Interesting concept becomes pure formula with predictable developments directed by Garry Marshall who substitutes the charm of Pretty Woman for a performance by Roberts that is less than sympathetic. It is insulting because these grooms are valuable people too yet viewers are expected to pity this alter fleeing bimbo and laugh at the dumbfounded grooms. It comes off as sexist since if the roles were reversed, viewers may think differently. Gere is given little to work with and seems only there to uphold the second half that was famous for their earlier and better collaboration. Supporting work by Joan Cusack and Hector Elizondo is less than desirable due to that terrible cardboard writing. The film exists for its re-teaming of its stars whose earlier film is much better but personally the further you run away from this film the better. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Pales in comparison","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ike Graham (Richard Gere) is a famous NY newspaper columnist. He meets a stranger George Swilling (Reg Rogers) in a bar who tells him about a small town girl Maggie Carpenter (Julia Roberts) who ran out on him. Ike writes about the Runaway Bride in his column. Maggie gets angry and writes a letter with 15 factual errors. He gets fired by his ex-wife Ellie (Rita Wilson) for the actionable mistakes that could get the paper sued. He goes to do some research on Maggie. If she runs away again, then he would have a front page story. This time Maggie is engaged for the fourth time, this time to high school football coach Bob Kelly (Christopher Meloni). He comes to town and stirs up a whole lot of trouble.Director Garry Marshall has the ability to get great actors. He reunites the 'Pretty Woman' team along with a lot of good comedic talents. The problem is that this movie pales in comparison. Julia Roberts still has that winning smile. There is a lot more salt in Richard Gere's hair. The romance isn't quite there this time. Their characters don't like each other and the inevitable unimaginative turn feels forced. It would make more sense if the turn didn't happen. If Marshall wants to make a rom-com out of this, Ike Graham should be Cupid rather than Prince Charming. It would be a more compelling poetic turn if a long time townie friend actually knows how she likes her eggs. Everything after the turn in Ike and Maggie is a waste of time. "}{"Title":"Gere And Roberts Falters In The Runaway Bride","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Runaway Bride is a romantic comedy film the reunites the stars of Pretty Woman,Julia Roberts and Richard Gere.Included in the cast is Joan Cusack,Hector Elizondo,Christopher Meloni,Paul Dooley and Rita Wilson. The screenplay was written by Josann McGibbon, Audrey Wells and Sara Parriott.It was directed by Garry Marshall,the same director of Pretty Woman.Maggie has left so many prospective husbands at the altar that she has gained notoriety as the Runaway Bride.A reporter,Ike Graham is assigned to write a story about her. He tracks her down to a small town in Maryland where she's spending time with her family and preparing to give marriage another try. However, the more time she spends with the persistent reporter, the more second thoughts she has about her fiancé.Love develops between Ike and Maggie.This romantic comedy is clichéd,formulaic and predictable from beginning to end.Also,the plot isn't original and has been done in so many movies for so many years.There also was an evident lack of chemistry between Gere and Roberts unlike in Pretty Woman.And most of all,it is shamelessly manipulative and contrived with an old-fashioned love story that is definitely star-driven since it most capitalizes on the presence of the two stars and nothing more. The only thing good about this movie is that it is charming,appealing and it imparts a good message that we can't open our hearts to love until we stop cheating on our true selves. "},{"Title":"Sweet Comedy","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Anybody who doesn't like the director Gary Marshall's Runaway Bride must be a curmudgeon. This harmless but hilarious romantic comedy about a bride with a chronic case of cold feet who abandons her men at the altar before van vow I Do reunites Pretty Woman co-stars Julia Roberts and Richard Gere after a nine year hiatus. While the big city Pretty Woman tied the romantic knot between a lonely investment banker and a hot, awesome street walker of a babe, Runaway Bride retreats deep into the country to bring a gray-haired, chauvinistic USA Today columnist eyeball-to-eyeball with a flirtatious but fickle-minded maiden who owns a local hardware store. Aside from a couple of bittersweet moments, Runaway Bride emerges as luminous and lighthearted as Julia's radiant smile.Although most of the comedy in Bride occurs in the small town of Hale, Maryland, this entertaining battle of the sexes opens in a cozy, New York City neighborhood bar where fast-talking cynic Ike Graham (Richard Gere of Red Corner) is searching desperately for either something or somebody to skewer in his daily column. Ike loves to infuriate woman, and many of them take a whack at him on the street with his own newspaper as if he were a mangy mutt. After director Garry Marshall and co-scenarists Josann McGibbon and Sara Parriott, who together wrote Worth Winning and The Favor, establish that he is a last-minute journalist, Ike hears a story that he embellishes with his sarcastic wit. A jilted groom tells Kike about a hysterical dame in Maryland who accepts marriage proposals but skips out on the way to the altar at the last minute, catching a ride on truck or horse if either is available to make good her getaway.Unfortunately, Maggie Carpenter (Julia Roberts of Ocean's Twelve) compiles a laundry list of Ike's inaccuracies. This prompts Ike's ex-wife turned editor, Ellie (Rita Wilson of The Story of Us), to fire him. No sooner has poor Ike gotten sacked than Fisher (Hector Elizondo of Valdez Is Coming), Ike's good friend and a photographer that free-lances for GQ magazine, concocts revenge for our hero. If Ike can catch Maggie in flight from her next wedding, GQ will publish his story and Ike's reputation will be restored.When Ike arrives in Hale, Maryland, a community so harmonious that the town's barbershop quartet performs regularly in public, Maggie is working on fiancé number four, Bob (Christopher Meloni of Twelve Monkeys), a high school football coach. Of course, Maggie wants nothing to do with Ike, but Ike isn't easily shunned. Initially, as a joke during his first interview with her, Maggie and her hairdresser friends dupe Ike and dye his mane the colors of the rainbow. Later, Ike cozies up with Maggie's family. Before long, he has the entire town eating out of his hand as he learns more about Maggie's dysfunctional lifestyle. Eventually, instead of hating one another, Ike and Maggie become attracted to each other, much to Bob's chagrin.Hopelessly predictable as it is, Runaway Bride qualifies nevertheless as a lot of fun, especially if you're looking for a bright, infectiously funny comedy to lighten your mood. "},{"Title":"Good, but...","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie better than most romantic comedies. The plot is somewhat predictable,but at least it isn't filled with holes. I found most of the characters to be likable, with one big exception...Maggie. When I first saw the movie, I didn't realize what a horrible person she was. I guess I wasn't paying attention. She breaks hearts, wastes money, and endangers Ike's career, all while claiming to have the moral high ground. Worse, the film is on her side.By the time the film is through, she has left four men at the altar. That is four traumatized men, four big expensive weddings, four sets of hideous bridesmaid's dresses, four big stupid things everyone has to make a big deal out of because everything is about Maggie. Then, when Ike writes a somewhat inaccurate column about her, one that is still true in spirit, she gets him fired. All the while, she claims to be better than Ike, apparently because he writes bitter, nasty columns, none of which seem that bad. Of course, I watched the TV version.Apparently, there is a reason for Maggie's moral vacuity. We never get to the heart of it, though. It's either because her mother died WHEN SHE WAS IN COLLEGE or because she's really attractive. Personally, I think she has a personality disorder. She seeks attention constantly and thinks only of herself. I hate this fictional character. I am always sorry to see Ike get sucked into her moral vacuum like a dust mite. That said, this movie is entertaining and sweet. Also, I don't blame Julia Roberts. "},{"Title":"Runaway Bride","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For a sentimental comedy, and a reuniting of two stars together (from Pretty Woman), this is a good film. Basically Ike Graham (Richard Gere) is having bother finding a new newspaper article to write, as a journalist. But then he writes about something he heard about, the Runaway Bride, and he makes the story sound like she means to leave four marriages at the altar. But the woman herself, Maggie Carpenter (Julia Roberts) is going to prove him wrong of doing it on purpose, and plans wedding number 5. As Ike gets to know Maggie though, they become even more close until eventually it seems like Maggie has finally found a true love. I don't want to give away the ending, but I will say that when they decide to commit, she does do it again, and you find out why she did the previous ones as well. Also starring School of Rock's Joan Cusack as Peggy Flemming, Hector Elizondo as Fisher, Rita Wilson as Ellie Graham, Paul Dooley as Walter Carpenter, Jean Schertler as Grandma, Scream 2's Laurie Metcalf as Betty Trout and The Nutty Professor's Larry Miller as Kevin, NYC bartender. Richard Gere was number 76, and Julia Roberts number 29 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and Gere was number 43 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols. Good! "},{"Title":"Excellent romantic comedy with star-studded performances from Julia Roberts & Richard Gere!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" First of all, I thought that RUNAWAY BRIDE was an excellent romantic comedy with star-studded performances from Julia Roberts and Richard Gere! I must say that Julia (Roberts) and Richard (Gere) gave dazzling performances as a commitment-shy woman and a cynical newspaper reporter. In my opinion, they way that Ike (Richard Gere) and Maggie (Julia Roberts) met was absolutely magical. This film was also really magical in my opinion. I thought that Maggie (Julia Roberts) did indeed look like a pretty woman in the wedding dress she wore at the final wedding and that Ike looked good in the suit he wore. Also, I thought that the engagement ring that Brian (Donal Logue) gave Maggie was very beautiful. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that Richard Gere and Julia Roberts have scored again! Now, in conclusion, if you liked PRETTY WOMAN, see RUNAWAY BRIDE. You're in for a real treat if you haven't seen it, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"A Must see","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Following their huge romantic hit Pretty Woman, Richard Gere, Julia Roberts, Hector Elizondo and director Garry Marshall reteam to make yet another romantic comedy called Runaway Bride.Neither the director nor the original actors have lost a step since Pretty Woman. Gere, Roberts and Elizondo teamed up with newcomers Joan Cusack and Rita Wilson as they never skipped a beat in their performances. The cast performed with such perfection it seemed like they were performing as it happened for the first time. I commend the casting director and producer for putting together an excellent cast that really gelled and had chemistry that was like magic.I must say that Runaway Bride was much more charming than Pretty Woman. I still enjoyed Pretty Woman but the updated version had a certain charm and a twist that was lacking in the first film.I can't say what the twist is without giving away too much, you'll just have to see it to find out.This was a cute film with a unique way of telling a plot that seems to have been done before on the silver screen.  "},{"Title":"Not As Good As Pretty Woman, But.....","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Maggie Carpenter is a woman who can't seem to get married. Whenever she gets to her wedding, she runs off. When reporter Ike Graham hears about Maggie the 'Runaway Bride,' he decides to write about her in a newspaper column, which of course offends Maggie. Ike then gets fired from his job and the only the way he can get it back is if he writes the real truth about Maggie Carpenter, so he goes along to meet Maggie and to see if her fourth attempt at marriage will really go ahead.  Well, the two leads Julia Roberts and Richard Gere and great director Garry Marshall are all reunited here after the first movie they made together, the good movie Pretty Woman and they do a pretty good job here too.Runaway Bride is not as good as Pretty Woman though, but it's okay. This is of course not a sequel, and in it's own right it features a completely different story to Pretty Woman, but unfortunately it doesn't have the same 'magic' as Pretty Woman did. Still, even though this is very predictable stuff, it's all quite good.  "},{"Title":"Excellent romantic comedy with star-studded performances from Julia Roberts & Richard Gere!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I thought that RUNAWAY BRIDE was an excellent romantic comedy with star-studded performances from Julia Roberts and Richard Gere! I must say that Julia (Roberts) and Richard (Gere) gave dazzling performances as a commitment-shy woman and a cynical newspaper reporter. In my opinion, they way that Ike (Richard Gere) and Maggie (Julia Roberts) met was absolutely magical. This film, to me, was absolutely breathtaking. I thought that Maggie did, indeed, look like a pretty woman in the wedding dress she wore at the final wedding and that Ike looked good in the suit he wore. Also, I thought that the engagement ring that Brian (Donal Logue) gave Maggie was VERY beautiful. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that Richard Gere and Julia Roberts have scored again! Now, in conclusion, if you liked PRETTY WOMAN, see RUNAWAY BRIDE. You're in for a real treat if you haven't seen it, so, go out to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it.  "},{"Title":"Excellent romantic comedy with star-studded performances from Julia Roberts & Richard Gere!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I thought that RUNAWAY BRIDE was an excellent romantic comedy with star-studded performances from Julia Roberts and Richard Gere! I must say that Julia (Roberts) and Richard (Gere) gave dazzling performances as a commitment-shy woman and a cynical newspaper reporter. In my opinion, they way that Ike (Richard Gere) and Maggie (Julia Roberts) met was absolutely magical. This film, to me, was REALLY breathtaking. I thought that Maggie (Julia Roberts) did, indeed, look like a pretty woman in the wedding dress she wore at the final wedding and that Ike looked good in the suit he wore. Also, I thought that the engagement ring that Brian (Donal Logue) gave Maggie was VERY beautiful. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that Richard Gere and Julia Roberts have scored again! Now, in conclusion, if you liked PRETTY WOMAN, see RUNAWAY BRIDE. You're in for a real treat if you haven't seen it, so, go out to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it.   "},{"Title":"my opinion about this movie","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved the movie a lot. I'm not going to tell you that the movie is a good piece of work, because it probably isn't. But for me, just a girl who loves romantic comedy movies, it's a nice movie. I really enjoyed watching it. I am a big fan of Richard Gere, and after watching this movie, I still am.  "}{"Title":"Runaway ad for USA Today","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Did anyone else notice the blatant attempt to plug USA Today in every other scene?   Did the writers of this movie really expect us to believe that people of  Small-town, USA read/subscribe to USA Today?  The only people who read that newspaper are travelers.  I have yet to see a USA Today outside an airport or hotel and yet every coffee shop and store in this quaint little town was reading Richard Gere's column.  Go figure. "},{"Title":"Lightning Doesn't Strike Twice","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was probably inevitable that someone would want to reteam director Garry Marshall and stars Richard Gere and Julia Roberts after their smash 1990 hit, Pretty Woman.  And it's easy to see why the three would be attracted to the Runaway Bride story of a woman who keeps leaving men at the altar.  Unfortunately, there's no gold this time.Runaway Bride doesn't know what kind of film it wants to be.  If it were a straight comedy, it might work--but probably only if it starred Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert and were directed by Frank Capra.  The film puts the Roberts character in the position of having to continue to live in the same small town with two of the men she has jilted, and that  doesn't work. But the movie also tries to be poignant, showing how Roberts' flirtations affect her best friend (played by Joan Cusack), and trying to explain her character's reason for bolting.  The film can't have it both ways.Perhaps the worse problem is that Gere is no comedian, and there is zero chemistry between him and Roberts.  The film's saving grace is Cusack.  The scene in which she reveals the depth of her hurt to best friend Roberts is the best in the film.   "},{"Title":"Same Old Magic Makes For The Same Old Reaction.","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went into this film knowing it would be much like the first Gere/Roberts film Pretty Woman, and unfortunately it was. The first time around, Marshall had struck gold with the Gere/Roberts combination, but now it's just old stuff. Their chemistry was weak and if not for their supporting cast, this movie would not fly. Joan Cusack is delightful but hidden by Roberts over shadowing portrayal of Maggie. I think Cusack should have been featured more through out the film. Hector Elizondo and Rita Wilson are terrific as usual but Roberts seemed uninterested in this film. I have never been a true fan of Roberts and I was dismayed to remember why, she never changes. She's always the same character, the sexy but emotionally troubled young girl who Just wants to be loved. It's getting a little tiresome. Julia was terribly miss cast as Maggie. Perhaps Sandra Bullock, Jenna Elfman or even (I know it's a long shot) Gwyneth Paltrow would have been a better choice for the role. All in all, I think this movie was sweet, but lacking.I give this movie ** (for supporting cast) "},{"Title":"A long wait...until now.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Richard Gere and Julia Roberts all over again. For almost ten years we were waitting, but the pretty woman and the american gigolo are back. Julia is one of the most beautiful woman in planet, and Gere, well Gere is the most sexy man alive. A pretty good movie, with all you looking in a romance. Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"i liked this film","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  but while i like it, i'm wondering why none of the goofs people have noticed the position of the lei on Ike's neck during the luau scene when he's yelling with Maggie...sketch ~~`~~`~~`<& "},{"Title":"A little trifle.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The story was so obvious, one could guess the ending, nearly at the beginning of the movie. There were a few amusing moments but it was the same joke right through the movie.  Roberts and Gere were good, but the material was poor.  It truly was disappointing.  "},{"Title":"Truly truly awful mess","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh dear! What a disaster! Are these big Hollywood bosses so dense that they think a film will merit on the reunion of former co-stars and director? Or are we, the cinema-going public so unbelieveably shallow that we happily part with hard-earned cash to see this abomination?Sadly, after a quick look at the film's success, it is the latter. That leaves me with another question - are these Hollywood chiefs now lolling back on their chairs, rubbing their hands with glee as the bucks roll in from yet another thoughtless sham of a movie? Or are they actually naive enough to think they have released some quality? I hope it's the latter again - although neither scenario looks good for the film industry.As you may have gathered, I didn't really take to this film very much! Not being a massive fan of PRETTY WOMAN, it was only when my girlfriend required her monthly weepie that I submitted. Not expecting much, I at least thought it would be mildly entertaining. However, we both spent the whole movie aghast at how bad it actually is. It's at least half an hour to long, with whole scenes that do absolutely nothing for the movie. Roberts and Gere yawn their way through the shaky plot, enfusing less chemistry than a sterilised test-tube. I mean, we watched these two characters unfurl in front of us, and by the end we just couldn't care less what happened to them. Hopefully their honeymoon (no that's not a spoiler - unless you are really stupid!) might carry on the tradition and involve a runaway mine-train or something similar!I could go on for hours slamming this piece of cinematic excrement, but I fear I may be putting more thought into this review than was originally put into the film.Please - don't watch this anymore - these people have to learn... "},{"Title":"** stars Could have been better","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride has great actors, lovable characters and a charming story but the movie left you wishing for a different story overall. It seemed with this movie, it was an excuse for getting Julia Roberts and Richard Gere back together. The concept is interesting but the way the movie goes about getting these two together is not worth it. I would just watch Pretty Woman again rather then see this one again.PLOT A newspaper writer does a story about a woman, known as the runaway bride who leaves all her grooms at the altar. He goes to write another story to see if she will leave her next one the same way she has done the last three.VIEWS Julia Roberts and Richard Gere are always great together, very cute but this movie was not for them. They needed a better story and script. Maybe they should have done a sequel to Pretty Woman. It would be interesting to see them in love and married then seeing them become in love with each other all over again. That concept is getting old.SCENES TO WATCH FOR The video tapes of Julia's other wedddings, the rehersal party.  "},{"Title":"It is one of the sweetest movie I've ever seen!","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride...what a movie!! When I first saw it at the cinema, I thought that Pretty Woman was a lot better. But I rent it since that time, and I'M IN LOVE with that movie! It is so sweet, you move in a universe of attraction and desire. It shows a great face of life, and Julia Roberts and Richard Gere are the most beautiful couple of Hollywood! You got to see this movie, you won't regret it!!!! Julia Roberts is so beautiful and Richard Gere so handsome...EXTRAORDINARY!!!!! What a romance!!!!! "},{"Title":"Have a second look","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Seize the opportunity to have a second or better third look.Try  to forget about Pretty Women.Focus on Joan Cusak appearing as  Mag`s friend Peggy Flemming.Oh no, she`s not one of these unattainable goddesses,just a women you met around the corner in  your bakery and we are stupid enough to have no second look.But  what an actress!Become aware of her,acting this little scene in  the baseball stadium,how she establish this mood-swings only with her expressive face,or how she`s using her hands during the dialog in the hairdresser`s shop with Mag (flirting with every man......),and so on and so on...... .She`s wonderful and one of the reasons this movie is worth "}{"Title":"The Best Movie!","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought that RunAway Bride was the best movie yet with Julia Roberts. I thought that she played her character great and that she was just awsome! I think that Richard Gere was great too! I think they should perform another movie together with Gary Marshall directing it because his movie's like Pretty Woman and such were just fantastic! "},{"Title":"Romantic comedies ought to be trite and predictable. Therein lies their charm.","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a pretty solid rental with enough smart dialogue and cute schtick to hold it together. It lacked the rags-to-riches story line and social commentary of Pretty Woman, but most everything else remained intact. (The clothier is now a bartender, but that's a minor change.) As a former newspaper reporter, I would have to say that Richard Gere borrowed his fancy NYC apartment from his former character. As always, Julia Roberts is funny and likeable and Gere is a tolerable, mild-mannered leading man. Of course, you know what is going to happen every step of the way, but it's still nice to watch it all unfold.  "},{"Title":"Funny, interesting, and and thankfully without sex.","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not the best picture in the world, but certainly better than most. The characters were drawn well. With only one blatant sex comment in the film, this wins votes for me. It's an old fashioned romantic comedy with quirky characters to boot. Not the most informative review I know, but hard to do without spoiling the film. Just put it this way, I've seen better, but it's relatively safe for families which is a plus for me. More movies should be this way. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Pretty Woman","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The film starts very well and has good momentum for about 30 - 40 minutes, then it slows and the humour is gone.  It manages to pick up the pace towards the end, but the feeling left at the conclusion of the film is that it was too long.  Solid performance from the lead actors indicate that the mid-point doldrums was the fault of the scriptwriters.  Too bad. "},{"Title":" weak lifeless romance","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Those hoping for a reigniting of that Pretty Woman magic will be greatly disappointed by Runaway Bride, a film that reunites the team of Julia Roberts, Richard Gere and producer/director Garry Marshall from the earlier film.  Alas, this time around, they have concocted a straight assembly line product that offers precious little in the way of humor, credibility or charm.The screenplay reeks of utter contrivance as its core.  Roberts portrays Maggie Carpenter, a beautiful smalltown girl who has developed this strange and soon-to-be-renowned habit of developing a major case of cold feet at the midpoint of her wedding ceremonies, leaving her fiances stranded at the altar.  As she prepares to make her fourth trip down the aisle, Ike Graham (Gere), a reporter for USA Today whose sources of inspiration for the column he writes seem suddenly to have evaporated, gets wind of the tale and publishes it as a feature article in his paper.  When he is fired (rightfully) for filling his article with glaring half truths and inaccuracies, he heads to Carpenter's small town to redeem himself in the eyes of his publisher and reading public.  This, of course, leads to the typical mating ritual between two initial antagonists who, of course, (and I am sure I am giving nothing away here) discover they are simply made for each other.  Oh, how many movie fiances have had to be sacrificed on the altar so that their devoted one could find that one true love!  (Paul Dooley gets to do the dubious honors in this one).Unfortunately for Runaway Bride, its jaded audience was not born yesterday and one grows instantly restless as the movie travels that utterly predictable arc that seems so hard for romantic films to avoid.  Yet, even within the confines of the formula, a movie can achieve some level of depth. Four Weddings and a Funeral, for instance, managed that feat beautifully, thanks to the Hugh Grant character who really seemed to be struggling with his inability to commit to a serious relationship in a way that struck universal chords in many in the audience.  Maggie's actions, on the other hand, never seem credibly motivated.  But, then again, Weddings did not rely on cheap gimmickry as Runaway Bride does.  Furthermore, the characters in this film, both lead and secondary, emerge as amazingly shallow and vacuous and act, for the most part, like immature spoiled children.  When the film feels it needs to add a little depth to the characters, it tiresomely sends them to photogenic locales to do a great deal of soulful strolling while undistinguished pop tunes play relentlessly on the soundtrack.Runaway Bride never recovers from the obvious strain of its highly incredible premise.  Then again, what can one expect from a movie that takes place in a world where cruelly jilted fiances do somersaults of forgiveness (and, of course, find instant partner replacements) and, even more unbelievably, where USA Today provides home delivery service! "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You know, I have to give Julia Roberts a lot of credit.  In the past few years she has done four films that in the previews seemed like your typical romantic comedy or drama.  However, when you see the films, there is something unique about each one that sets it apart from the rest of the genre.  In Notting Hill, there was great depth to her character and how empty and isolating fame can be for a person.  Stepmom, although a flawed film, showed the true frustration and awkward dynamics of many families these days.  Finally, My Best Friend's Wedding was the best because her character, the lead character, was really a self-centered wench trying to ruin her friends life to make her's better.  These are all unique and different takes on the often stale romantic comedy genre.Now, Runaway Bride falls into the same category.  Although not a fantastic film, I really appreciated the depth to her character in terms of her relationship to her father and how she never had a chance to figure out who she was, but always tried to find it other men like she must have as a child.  Very interesting, although maybe too much analysis for this movie.The film itself was okay, but the romance between Roberts and Gere was not really believable.  However, I give mad props to the girl proposing to the guy.  I don't believe I have ever seen that in a film before. "},{"Title":"A feel good movie!","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  No one should go into this movie looking for a deep, serious production. The title and trailer should alert everyone that this is a romantic fantasy. Although I felt it dragged a little in spots, it was entertaining and well worth the while of anyone who has not grown too cynical nor critical to enjoy a light, romantic comedy.  What I appreciated very much in this movie was the lack of vulgarisms  and immoral sexual references. There are no Darwinian atavistic animal sexual behavior scenes where the principals begin tearing one another's clothing off as soon as their lips touch for the first time.  It is a movie I can recommend without qualms or qualifications and that is rare in this era, but I believe I would have liked it even more with a different pair of principals so that it would not be interminably compared to Pretty Woman.  The plot of Pretty Woman was certainly no more plausible than Runaway Bride. "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts is the personal surprise for me","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow, Doris Day and Rock Hudson are back! But now, the struggle of gender is not just a comedy plot, but a play of male and female wishes and pretensions to life and love. I know, that nobody liked this film who has seen Pretty Woman, but I don't carry that burden, and so I really enjoyed the ninety minutes. The surprise of last year, and Julia Roberts is the personal surprise for me. Sometimes exaggerating, she is nevertheless a great comic talent. Especially I've been enchanted by the many playful and self-ironic moments in her acting. Richard Gere is not that good, but he is more than the hat and coat stand some critics want to made out of him... "},{"Title":"Beautifully shot","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When you are married in real life you learn to make compromises.  This includes your wifes selections at the video store.  This movie was above the par and it stands on its own.  Every scene has an element of beauty and character.  I actually was able to watch and enjoy instead of lapsing into a deep coma.    "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I know, I know, it's NOT a sequel to Pretty Woman, but it uses the chemistry  between Richard Gere and Julia Roberts in it.  It was VERY disappointing.  Not what I wanted to see, and I am sure a lot of people will agree with me.  The comedy was lighthearted, but too frivolous at times, and the ending was not as good as I wanted it to be.  Heck, I could have directed it better!  NO offense to Garry Marshall, but I believe you blooped on this movie.  ARGH!  Please make another movie with Richard and Julia, and do it RIGHT like Pretty Woman!  At least watch this movie once, so you get an idea of why it is so disappointing.  "}{"Title":"I wish I had my running shoes on...","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...but staying home with a bad cold can do unspeakable things to a person's cinematic tastes.Well, what can one say about this contrived piece of fluff?  The unlikely-named Homer Eisenhower lives in the unbelievably cute, friendly, neighborhoody city of New York. And quirky Maggie Carpenter (get it, CARPENTER? She works in a hardware store! Why not Maggie Allenwrench?) lives in the unbelievably cute, friendly, neighborhoody burg of Hale, VA. Gosh, do you think these two gorgeous animals will get together or what?Joan Cusack is the main reason to watch this movie. Yes, she doesn't have much to do, but once you've tired of the lovely Julia's enormous smile and the dashing Richard's silver hair, Joan is always her charming self.However, I got just what I deserved, as did anyone who intentionally sat down to watch this star vehicle.PS How many people actually read USA Today? Other than in airport hotels while on business trips?? I mean, the NY Times is surely available in Virginia. Couldn't Ike have written for a real newspaper? "},{"Title":"A black widow spider draws them into her web, devours them and enjoys it","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  These are the exact comments to describe Julia Roberts' character in this movie. Although it is highly enjoyable, and I am enjoying Richard Gere more these days (love that smile!) Julia is the most selfish character! A woman who could do these things is beyond me. Maybe I am an old fashioned 21-year old girl, but you don't treat people like that. She gets some moment of truths in the movie (she feels bad), but she does have supportive friends and family. Enjoyable if you are a fan of light comedy.  "},{"Title":"the fear of marriage","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts shows how the fear to marry affects people. It can happen.Richard Gere portraits the cool reporter that will expose the Julia's passion for running away from weddings. He will be hit by old women for assaulting the female population.Easy comedy with good plot,good mosaic on human relations,exciting music of the recent years,including the 'maneater' hit. "},{"Title":"Above average romatic comedy","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well I must say this movie surprised me. I can be a bit of a cynic, so I was dragged by friends to see this film, expecting it to be the usual dross but i came out smiling and feeling good. Frankly, this film will make you smile.The interaction between Gere and Roberts is good, and the dialouge is very snappy, it is funny and deals with an interesting subject, the fact that Roberts enjoys flirting and attention but finds it hard to commit to anyway. There are funny parts as well and I definately recommend this movie if you're feeling low, or for a date it is excellent. It isn't a film which will change your life, you probably won't put it in your fave movie list but it is definately a cool movie. And I may be in the minority but I thought it was better than Pretty Woman.  "},{"Title":"Hasn't anyone noticed that this is a remake of It Happened One Night?","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is an uncredited remake of It Happened One Night, except that the female lead is running away from her suitors instead of her father, but is trailed by a seasoned reporter who falls in love with her.  I'm surprised that this concept film that was 10 years in the make-up is just a pallid imitation of an old theme.  Let's face it, Richard Gere is no Clark Gable, and Julia Roberts does not have Claudette Colbert's sophistication or comic timing.  Today's fluff does not measure up to the crisp dialogue and pacing of the earlier feature.  I know that there are only so many variations on the boy meets girl story, but to release this as if it's something fresh and new is an insult to my intelligence. "},{"Title":"everything we expected","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nobody going to see Runaway Bride could be surprised at what they saw. It really was Pretty Woman again; not in the sense that the story was the same but that it was a romantic fairy tale. I've read the previous comments and they are nearly all correct (whether you like the film or not).No it certainly lacked some of the freshness and sparkle of P.W. but P.W. was just soooo good. You certainly can't help but love the chemistry between Julia Roberts and Richard Gere, echoes of Hepburn/Tracey. The film is full of cliches , not just the dialogue but the sets, the characters , the music but isn't that what good comedy is? You know what's coming and you laugh even before the punch line! My wife and I are both romantics so we are predisposed to like this kind of movie and like it we did ,a lot.Its not the greatest movie ever made but then not many movies are, in that context but well worth seeing. (if you are too macho to enjoy it just think of the brownie points you will earn by taking your wife/girlfriend to see it. It's well worth seeing her enjoyment.   7/10  "},{"Title":"Runaway Bride ran away with me","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just got back from seeing this movie for the second time and I'd go for a third.  Roberts and Gere play well together, they sparkle and steam all at the same time.  It's not Pretty Woman, but I didn't expect it to be.  Runaway Bride was romantic without being sappy and funny without being crude.  Joan Cusask was her usual quirky self and a pleasure to watch.  Hector Elizondo is as charming as ever.  Seeing Sela Ward, however briefly, is always a treat. "},{"Title":"Great romantic film!!! says teen","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I give this movie two thumbs up. It gives the perfect mixture of romance and comedy with out getting too mushy.Richard Gere and Julia Roberts were amazing. This movie was one of the best romantic comedies I have seen since Pretty Woman.Richard and Julia make the perfect couple for this movie.Richard plays a news paper columnist from the city,while Julia plays ahandy manfrom the country who often leaves her fiances at the alter.They finally meet when Richard finds out about Julia from a  friend and decides to write a column.	This movie was full of surprises. One minute they hate each other then next they are in love. One minute they are getting married then next she is on a FED EX truck.	The runaway bride is a fun experience that will keep your interest. This movie has a very simple plot with plenty of entertainment. Richard Gere and Julia Roberts will keep you laughing with there witty remarks. 					 					By Lauren "},{"Title":"Kristian San Ramon Valley High School Student","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  	In the movie Runaway Bride I found it to be well acted of course by Julia Roberts and Richard Geere.  I also found Runaway Bride had a funny, charming kind of dialuge.  Runaway Bride was well performed and charming yet at the same time funny.	Julia Roberts and Richard Geere I think held up to Preety Women.  They are a great team and I'd like to see them in more movies together.  When I say that Julia Roberts and Richard Geere held up to Preety Women I mean that movie was just as good or better.  I also think the charcters they played were meant to be performed by them.	Runaway Bride was charming yet funny..  For instance after Julia and Richard kiss in the chapel and her fiancee breaks up with her I found it charming yet funny when after all that Richard is like Well, you got the chapel and the dress well why don't you and I you know. and Julia Roberts is like yeah I could go for that! I found it charming yet funny because of the way they said it and the expressions they were making.	For my conclusion I would have to say I think this movie was meant for Julia Roberts and Richard Geere.  If you haven't seen it, you have to go see it as soon as possible. "},{"Title":"A runaway good time","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride may have been the second most anticipated movie this summer.  Reuniting Richard Gere and Julia Roberts, the team that made Pretty Woman such a hit, was the dream of probably every producer in Hollywood.  Gary Marshall got them together, and the results are magical. The plot concerns a writer for USA Today, and his story about a woman in a small town in CT.  The woman has a history of leaving grooms at the altar.Richard Gere plays the role of Ike Graham with the similar style he played his Pretty Woman character (there is a scene in a dress shop that is almost a rewrite of the shopping scene in Woman).  Julia Roberts has found her talent, and has been on an acting tear as of late.  Her rendition of Maggie is completely believeable, and seems to flow almost naturally.The supporting cast is strong, led by Joan Cusack as Maggie's best friend.  She steals most of the scenes she is in, even when Gere and Roberts are at their most charming.This movie is clearly the date movie of this summer, it's quite funny and very charming.  A good time can be had by all in this one.4 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Stacy says that Runaway Bride is a must see.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"      I believe that Runaway Bride would have to be one of the most romantic comedys put out this summer. Julia Roberts and  Richard gear did a fabulous job. They have always worked well together.      I think that Runaway Bride was a very romantic movie. I believe this for many different reasons. One for example would have to be the scene when Magie and Ike are playing cards together. Then you see Magie jumping up and down laughing, because she finally won. I think this was a romantic scene because you could tell by the way they act towards each other that they really like each other. Another romantic scene would hav to be when their dancing on the balcony. I think that's a romantic scene because their dancing, and I think it's very romantic. I think if anyone likes a romantic movie this is definitely one you wont to see.     I also feel that this movie is a comedy. One scene would have to be when Magie and Ike first meet. Magie and her friend said they would was his hair for him, but inside die it all different colors. I thought that was funny because his hair went from dark and gray to rainbow colors. Another funny scene would have to be when Magi runs in the house with the newspaper and her soon to husband places a very heavy backpack on her back, then she falls over. That was funny just because it was. If you like a little bit of comedy this movie is also good for you.     So as you could possible see by now, i think this was a very romantic and funny movie. You have to go out and see it for yourself. "},{"Title":"I, too, wanted to runaway","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Predictable date movie with few twists to differentiate it from many other cutesy love stories. The movie even had the latest stereotype; the randy senior citizen. Not the worst I've ever seen, but I doubt if -- after finishing this review -- I will have cause to think about a certain scene or memorable line from this romantic comedy. Thankfully, my lovely date for the show didn't runaway after seeing this schmaltz. "},{"Title":"In 2nd half, avoids becoming a one-joke movie","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  (Attn Mild spoilers ahead)The first half of Runaway Bride drags down the rating for me.  It seemed a bit uneven.  My initial impression of the first 15 minutes was that it was too rushed, like they wanted to get Richard Gere's character, Ike, out of New York before the audience has time to blink.  After thinking about that more, though, it's not so bad.  It's the rest of the first hour that particularly bugs me...once in Hale, we get so many episodes of Ike following Mags (Julia Roberts' character) around and interviewing her friends that RB threatens to become a one-joke movie.  It just drags on the pace of the film.  (I did like the priest's request to Mags that if she became Catholic, to confess to a different priest.  ) )Fortunately, once Mags strikes an interview deal with Ike, the film improves.  The second half of Runaway Bride is funnier, and has a few good poignant/romantic moments as well. It's in their one-on-one scenes that Gere and Roberts are at their best in this film, and they show that they still work well together.The romance element between Ike and Mags takes a while to really surface, and the last 20 minutes are rather predictable, but these are both forgivable because they are, in my view, necessary to do justice to the premise of the film. "},{"Title":"Best movie I've taken my wife to in years.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride addresses many couple & family themes in a funny, poignant way that was a joy to watch. Unlike Pretty Woman, which glorified prostitution, or Titanic, in which the male pseudo-hero took advantage of of a distraught, suicidal teenage girl, Runaway Bride lets the viewer enjoy the angst and maturing processes of several adults who are surrounded by realistic friends and family that feel like people one would really like to get to know. The language was decent throughout the movie and I can highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A Comedy for the '90s","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This comedy should be well appreciated by those familiar with '90spopular culture.  The film did not exactly appeal to my sensibilities, but it will be understood by many who are living the frenetic lifestyle typical of the current decade.I refer to the lifestyle of forming lots of shallow or superficial relationships for poorly understood reasons.  Maggie Carpenter is a woman who is completely clueless about her intentions.  She has no idea of the direction in which she wants her life to go.  Like a scared animal, Maggie lets fear alone guide her every time she approaches the altar.  One wonders if this fight-or-flight response generalizes, for her, to every significant life decision.  I suspect it does.  One could characterize her thinking process as one of forming deep relationships for frivolous or ridiculous motives.  Maggie's notoriety as a bridegroom ditcher has become the subject of every rude joke in her hometown, an indication that her kind of acting out has spread through the town.  This trend toward treating the serious decisions of life as though they were a rude joke is symptomatic of an essential mindset of the 1990s, in my opinion. Be that as it may, it is clear that Richard Gere and Julia Roberts act well together.  Gere's character's assertive approach is the perfect foil and challenge to Roberts' character's flighty disposition.  Gere and Roberts have true chemistry together.  The acting of the one complements the acting of the other.  Runaway Bride is as good a Gere-Roberts vehicle as Pretty Woman was.  This movie will probably not be recommended by a priestly vocations director or someone seeking the wisdom and self-knowledge to make an intelligent life's commitment.  But Runaway Bride will resonate with the vast majority of theatregoers who relate to the relativistic climate of the 1990s and the nobility of living without a goal; even if that style of  life seems too directionless to be satisfying to the rest of us.  I give the film two and a half stars.    "},{"Title":"Unbelievablely stupid, it was the patron who bolted","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  That somebody would write an article in the USA Today from such an irresponsible source puts journalism in a worse light than justified.  The movie was boring--see Julie laugh--see Gere scowl--an embarrassment for those in the movie, an insult to those watching. "},{"Title":"Finishing a thought....","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow!  An hour and a half of pure romantic comedy bliss.  Wait, the movie is almost 2 hours long, what about the last 15-30 minutes?  Someone already mentioned that the movie should have ended at the Fed Ex truck scene, but wasn't their something left to see?  I think the writers here just couldn't figure out fit her 'self discovery' into the plot.  She had to figure out who she was, or the point of the whole movie would go right out the window. Don't get me wrong, the movie was excellent.  That's two in a row for Julez (Notting Hill).  But it the writers just seemed to stumble a little bit at the end, dropping the movie from a glorious 9 to a 7 maybe 8. In all fairness, the romantics are going to like the movie, they will be entertained, but if you are not hopeless, helpless, or hopefull you will probably wish the movie was cut short at 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"Rental","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's cute from time to time.  It is a tribute to Robert's and Gere's acting skills that I did not think of Pretty Woman once while in the theater.  On the other hand, it could be attributable to the writing.  This romantic comedy did not do a good job of selling the romance.Julia Roberts was good as usual, but it a rental.  I only give it a seven because it is better than a lot of other movies that I have ssen this year.  That's a reflection on the movie industry not on the quality of this movie.7/10 "},{"Title":"A really bad movie...cool lamps though","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really can't say that I'd recommend this movie. When lamps steal the scene from the actors you know something is horribly wrong. Bad script, bad acting, really interesting lamps.1 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"It's a 'chickflick'","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts plays in yet another romantic comedy movie, this one relying on the story of a down home type girl with a knack for leaving her own weddings. However predictable the plot gets, most women in the audience will find themselves starry eyed at the seemingly perfect ending. But what can I say? Julia Roberts has perfected the genre and she shines through out the film. Take your mother or grandmother to see it, she'll appreciate it. "}{"Title":"A touching, romantic, comedy for everyone","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts is always great, so is Richard Grere. You don't need special effects, blood and guts, to make great movies. Garry Marshall knows this..same with Penney Marshall. Only one question, how does Julia Roberts stay so thin and beautiful, year after year? "},{"Title":"...refreshing film...","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  runaway bride is an excellent movie! it was refreshing to see PG rated movie with two of the biggest stars in film. i would recommend the movie to anyone, its a family friendly movie and proves that a movie does not need the all to common sex,violence and language to be enjoyable or a big hit. often movies that are void of the objectionable content mentioned above are b-movies that are weak in plot or other areas, but runaway bride is a strong movie...all around great movie !!! "},{"Title":"Cute.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you like Pretty Woman as much as I do, this movie can do no wrong. If you're looking for a cute romantic comedy that isn't intellectually stimulating, but will make you smile and say Aw, this is it. However, if you are looking for something with witty, smart jokes and depth, this isn't it. Roberts & Gere are wonderful, though their chemistry has decreased over the years. A cute movie worth watching, but definitely could be one you can wait for it to be on video. "},{"Title":"A nice movie with a couple of SURPRISE CAMEOS","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a light, soft, maybe even fluffy little movie.  Julia Roberts is forcing me to become a fan.  She seemed such a two-bit actress, but she keeps giving these wonderfully strong performances, and for a variety of different directors.CAMEOS  Look for Johnny Unitas sitting on the bench outside the bakery about 25 minutes into the picture.  He's to the left of the doorway, wearing the local high school's letter jacket, blue with a white H.  It's only a two second shot, with Richard Gere walking towards the bakery door from the right.  So look sharp and let the IMDb know if you see him.Garry Marshall is the first baseman on the softball team.  He's easy to spot.  The great Johnny U. of the Baltimore Colts (the town of Hale, Maryland is set outside of Baltimore) takes some effort to catch.Runaway Bride is a nice movie, fun for young and old, and easily earns a good recommendation. "},{"Title":"Recycling isn't always good","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are many many similarities to Pretty Woman SPOILER for instance when they are negotiating the amount of money to pay, and do the usual bantering of numbers back and forth, Gere ends with his Done!... All in all the movie was ok, I came there to be entertained and I was, so I can't really complain too much.  If you don't mind fluffy movies, such as romantic comedies are, then go see it. "},{"Title":"Predictable but fun","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, you know how this is going to end before it even begins (but don't worry, I won't give it away), but after a sssllllooooowwww start, the movie picks up speed and gets better and better as it goes along.  The picture is totally devoid of reality (the town Roberts lives in does NOT exist in real life), and every character is cute and lovable.  Somehow, though, I didn't care.  WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD!!!! The writing was on target, the acting was perfect and when Roberts and Gere first kiss, the audience burst out applauding.  You really get caught up in the characters and situations.  It wasn't till after the movie was over, that I realized a major plot point (why Roberts keeps running out on weddings) was never explained.  Still, it didn't matter.  It was an entertaining fun two hours.  What more can you ask from a movie? "},{"Title":"So light it almost floats away.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride - **1/2Faced with a looming deadline, USA Today columnist Ike Graham (Richard Gere) writes a story about the Runaway Bride of Hale, Maryland.  Maggie Carpenter (Julia Roberts) is called the runaway bride because she has developed a nasty habit of leaving grooms at the altar (literally.)  Upon reading the damaging article, which portrays her as a heartless man-eater, Maggie complains to the newspaper, which promptly fires Ike because of 15 inaccuracies in the column.  Determined to prove that he is right about Maggie (and score a feature article in GQ,) Ike trots off to the tiny hamlet of Hale to get the real scoop on Ms. Carpenter.  Once there, he meets Maggie's father Walter (Paul Dooley,) her zany friend Peggy (Joan Cusack,) and her current fiancée Bob (Christopher Meloni.)  Will Ike and Maggie fall in love?  Will the story end happily?  Will I quit asking stupid questions?As everyone on this planet knows, Runaway Bride marks the on-screen reunion of Richard Gere and Julia Roberts, who last shook the worldwide box office with the monster smash Pretty Woman.  In fact, Runaway Bride reassembles much of the talent behind that earlier success, including director Garry Marshall and costar Hector Elizondo, among others.  It is a talented cast and crew.  Roberts is charming, as always.  Here she proves, once and for all, that she could charm the pants off of an audience just by reading the phone listings.  Marshall's direction is appropriately unobtrusive. Stylistically, he wisely chose to get out of the way and allow his stars to radiate across the movie screen.  The real standout, though is Richard Gere. Normally a serious and aloof screen presence, Gere manages to be completely relaxed, almost zany at times.  This is exemplified by the scene in which he runs through a field, afraid of being attacked by snakes.  I found his easygoing performance to be the most enjoyable part of the film. Apparently when Gere is not obsessing over the fate of Tibet, he can be a really fun guy.I will not waste your time with an actual review of this film.  If you want to see the picture, you will see the picture - regardless of what I say. And those of you who do not want to see it (like that guy I ran into in line at the theater who was dragged there by his wife) would not be swayed, no matter how glowing my comments.  Let me say simply that the story is as predictable as an episode of TVs Matlock, but less complicated.  The plot is so light, so airy and insubstantial that it almost floats away.  Yet I enjoyed the movie anyway, if only for the chemistry generated by the two charming leads.  Runaway Bride, an otherwise middling comedy, receives **1/2 simply because of their amazing screen presence.  Imagine what they could do with a quality script!  "},{"Title":"BRIDE doesn't deserve a GROOM!","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  RUNAWAY BRIDE, a sappy, sappy, lame, generic, sappy film, reunites the threesome who brought this country the whore you couldn't resist, Pretty Woman. This time out, the sappy (I think you get the point so I'll stop using SAPPY!) BRIDE tries to make lightning strike twice. Instead of striking where it should, this breezy fluff strikes hard onto your head. It strikes hard by pelting you with meaningless and out-of-the-blue shots of babies, cats, and cute THINGS for no particular reason! This small town that Robert's character, playing another whore, is in, randomly displays twins and triplets so often you wonder if you're watching CHILDREN OF THE PRETTY CORN. I could not wait for this film to end. It was boring and the two leads were on auto-pilot the entire time. BRIDE gets a D-. "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts is what this movie is all about.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Before I saw this movie I heard a lot of talk about the chemistry between Julia Roberts and Richard Gere...  I didn't see it.  I saw Julia Roberts giving an awesome performance that even made me, a jaded man, feel for her.  Richard Gere's character must have watched the same movie and fell in love with her.In general the movie was extremely watchable.  Not an all time classic, but still quite good.  Some of the events feel a little staged, and cliched, but that is forgiveable (except the grandmother who talks about sex).  The humor throughout the movie is refreshing and enjoyable.Guys, if you have to be dragged to a movie by your girlfriend, this would make a great choice. "},{"Title":"Emphasis in all the wrong places.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Do we really care about Richard Gere wandering around town for an hour's worth of the movie, talking to people about Julia Roberts' character?  How bout all the lame attempts at humor that are recycled versions of stuff we've seen before?  And the unrealistic behavior of the characters - gag me. This movie was very disappointing, though I shouldn't have expected anything more than obnoxious fluff, romantic comedies being what they are these days.  They spent about ten minutes explaining why Maggie (Julia Roberts' character that the movie is based around) behaves the way she does, and the rest of the movie was was I should have expected - fluff.  It could have been done a lot better, but if you're not cynical and if you find silly gestures and dumb comments wildly amusing, you might like this movie. "}{"Title":"Refreshingly good !","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was not really jumping into my car when I saw this movie released, in fact I was'nt even going to see it... but I'm very glad I did. I thught it was going to be a pseudo Pretty Woman, but it was anything but that. This film was fresh, funny and thoroughly enjoyable. I thought Joan Cusack played a wonderful part in a supporting role. And I must give a big thumbs up to both Julia Roberts and Richard Gere for splendid performances. Overall this movie is a keeper, worth seeing more than once for sure. I know I will be adding to my DVD collection in the future. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the previews","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although the film seems like it will be another PRETTY WOMAN, this picture really holds it's own.  Watching the previews for the movie made it seem sappy and uninteresting, but it was warm and heartfelt.  The ending can be predicted, but getting there is what makes it fun. "},{"Title":"A Feel Good Time","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Gere and Roberts will be the Tracy and Hepburn of the future.  Great chemistry, a palatable story, and 9 bucks well spent.  Not quite Notting Hill, definitely not Pretty Woman, but a better than average escape. "},{"Title":"It's deeper than you think . . .","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is actually deeper than you think.  I didn't expect much when I went to see this.  In fact, I expected the worst.  Women don't usually run away from getting married, it's the men.  So I assumed this was going to be a really bad joke with some pleasant looking actors.  Well, I was wrong.  This movie isn't really about a woman running away from commitment.  It's about what many women experience as they lose themselves when they get married.Let me just back up a little . . . Once the 60's hit women began to demand more from their romantic relationships.  Divorce went up, supposedly because of the pill and those damned feminists.  A common theme came out of that Women were not getting enough from their partners.  (Hell, they're still not.)  Anyway, lots of men, even today, gripe about how more women ask for divorce than men.This movie is the answer to those concerns!  No one wants to watch a movie about a woman who is married for 20 years and then decides she's not happy because she lost herself to the man.  It wouldn't even be a comedy.  What the makers of this film did was back up and expose the woman being forced to change BEFORE she got married.  It's the setup that allows this to be a feel good comedy instead of a dreary drama about divorce.Some people have said that this movie should have ended before the Fed Ex truck scene.  Such an argument completely ignores the meaning of this film.  Julia Robert's character hadn't grown.  She needed to find out why she kept running away from relationships.  Come to think of it, it's REALLY annoying to think that anyone believes the movie should have ended sooner.  This movie is not about finding your prince and living happily ever after.  It's about finding oneself first and then committing to the right person.  There's a big difference.What I first thought was going to be an misogynistic joke actually turned out to be a critique of the entire western concept of marriage - that a woman has to lose her identity to get married.  As a result, it subtlety gives men the message to wise up.  I loved this film!  (And by the way, I'm a guy.)  I think every heterosexual woman should drag their boyfriend or spouse to this.  They might learn something about themselves and teach the person their with a little something as well. "},{"Title":"Are You Kidding Me?","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I see between 50 & 75 movies a year (including rentals).  I have never come so close to walking out on a movie as I did during this amateurish, embarrassing excuse for entertainment.  I didn't walk out, because my friend suggested that perhaps it may get better...Unfortunately, it only became more and more difficult to stomach.  How can we not be insulted by this Junior High School production?  And what happened to Julia Roberts and Richard Gere?  What's with this horribly forced over-acting?  Maybe they were trying to make up for the bad script.  I was actually nervous watching them deliver these lines - Lines that I could hear coming from a mile away.  It's not that I expected a lot out of this mainstream lite comedy, mind you, but an occasional laugh would have at least been something.  Maybe I'm just getting too cynical, though, because all indications were that the rest of the audience loved it...gag.  I give up. "},{"Title":"Stands Just Fine On Its Own","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Last night I had a dream...it was a dream of a summer with not one, but two romantic comedies starring Julia Roberts.  I haven't been impressed by much in the theatres lately, and I'll admit, this wasn't the greatest movie ever. But, let's face it, Julia Roberts' indescribably bubbliness and charm lights up a screen and makes you happy to be paying that 7.50.Don't compare Runaway Bride to Pretty Woman.  It's like comparing a fine wine to Welch's -- Come on, they've both got grape juice in them!  But, they're not the same thing.  Runaway Bride is a sweet, feel good, romantic comedy.  It does it's job, and it does it well.  Julia shines, Richard charms and Joan.... haven't figured out what she does, but it sure is funny. And Gary Marshall sets up some pretty amusing jokes.So, don't expect Pretty Woman II. You won't be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"Julia Carries a Very Thin Movie","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love to see that smile. That smile was about all there was to this movie. It could have been one of those old 1 hour movies, instead Garry Marshall padded out the last 30 minutes or so with an absolutely needless ending. I really wonder how something this thin gets made, does Garry Marshall say to Julia Roberts and Richard Gere - Look, we've got this great title, the script sucks but we've got this little town, we'll just you know, Julia you'll smile that smile and we'll make it work. Julia made it work, she carries this thing and earns the 17 million. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun!! Made me smile!!","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching Runaway Bride because I think it was really funny and it had a good lesson. The message of the movie is to make sure that you know yourself before you get married. The trick to being happy in a relationship is to maintain your own individuality. If you don't, you are going to start resenting things later in life. Runaway Bride hit the nail on the head about relationships and Julia Roberts and Richard Gere are awesome together. Joan Cusack was great too! This is her best movie since Addam's Family Values.  "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!!!","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride was a funny, sweet, and totally romantic movie. I fell in love with Julia Roberts and Richard Gere all over again. It makes people realize that there's more to love (and life) than what other people want you to be. Always be yourself! The movie is awesome to tell people that. I would see this movie again! "},{"Title":"Pain in the gut with laughter, and hopelessly romantic!!!","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Anyone who walked into the theatre thinking it was a Pretty Woman 2 didn't belong there in the first place! I've heard a lot of bad things about this movie, and almost did not see it due to the bad responses. The movie was a wonderful, enjoyable, piece of artwork. Yes, you know basically what's going to happen, but the twist is when, where, and how? Roberts is a beautiful woman who has the talent to pull off just about anything, then to add to the power this movie held Gere walked in with a twisted charm that you can't help but to love. Along with Roberts, there was the talented Joan Cusack as her best friend to give the laughter just the magic touch. Though I have to say that Roberts and Gere took this movie away themselves, Garry Marshall made sure those who held up the scenes -Hector Elizondo, Rita Wilson, Laurie Metcalf...etc.- had their share of the spot light. Garry put together another grand cast of characters, as he did with Roberts and Gere in Pretty Woman. Just remember this is far from the long-awaited sequel to Pretty Woman and I think it's fair to say that will just never happen. Marshall gave us probably something better, another romantic/comedy with a cast that could bring the house down.  Don't believe everything you read, or hear, if you want to see this movie GO! If not then stay in... Either way, I had doubts, but I went and ended up enjoying every minute of the film. Hint Stay for the credits to fully complete. Have a great time at the movies, and I hope you like this movie too. "}{"Title":"A funny & romantic story","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For those of you hoping to see a story the caliber of Pretty Woman, you will be disappointed.  However, if you go in to see the Runaway Bride expecting to see the magical chemistry between Roberts & Gere, you will be delighted.  A better team up of actors hasn't been made in recent past.  The two actors actually seem to care for each other & it comes across on screen.  Story is humorous with romantic tendency without being over the top into mushiness.  Good movie to see on a day out with the girls.   "},{"Title":"A wonderful romantic comedy.  Quite funny.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When a film has great dialogue and the actors to add credibility to the script they are given, then I would say 8 times out of ten I will take that film over big budgeted special effects laden films that are high on the latest CGI technology and short on entertainment.  Of course some of the most entertaining films are one that can combine the two(Armageddon, Deep Impact, Star Wars, Raiders of the Lost Ark.)  But when you put a film like American Pie or this one up against films like The Haunting and Wild Wild West, I'll take American Pie and Runaway Bride any day of the week and twice on Sundays.  This is just a fun film and it is one that entertains right to the very end.This is not a retread of Pretty Woman and the two leads do not reprise their roles from the aforementioned film.  It is directed by Marshall and it has some of the same supporting cast, but that does not make it a replica.  Hector Elizondo is a wonderful actor and he adds panache to any film that he takes on.  So it is smart to use some of the same formula that made a film such a success.  Gere has done some of my favourite performances in film, some of them being Dennis Peck from Internal Affairs and also his character from Primal Fear.  You can add Ike to that resume.  Here, at first he is someone that you are not so fond of.  He seems to have slimy intentions.  As all reporters, he seems to be looking for a story and damn who he hurts in the process.  But then we get to meet him for real.  When he interacts with small town folks, he has a side to him that is humourous, warm, caring, empathetic and charming.  And in a way he is almost like Maggie.  Because at first when we meet her, there really isn't much to like about her.  She is exactly what everyone says she is.  She commits to a marriage and then at the most inopportune time, she ditches her fiancee and runs off.  That is not someone that I would choose to call a friend.  But as the film moves forward, we see some of what it is that has her hesitant about marriage and then we get to see similar traits that Ike has.  And we learn to like her.  I also liked the fact that the screen play was intelligent enough not to make us hate some of the guys that she was going to marry, especially the fourth one.  He seemed like a decent guy that was just a little too into his sports, and she wasn't.  But that is no reason to hate a guy, it just means that he isn't quite what she was looking for.  And in films, when the screenplay calls for the woman to start disliking the man, it makes the man do things that are just plain ridiculous so that we can start to hate him and the new couple can now get together with the audiences approval.  But we don't get that here.  The fourth guy never really does anything to be an ass, and he even shows support to the two would be lovers at the end.  That was refreshing.  I also wanted to mention grandma and Joan Cusack.  Grandma had many of the funny lines in the film and she was a joy to watch.  And as usual, Cusack steals every second of screen time she has with anyone.  It's not just that her part is written homourously, it's that she carries it so well.  I love watching Joan Cusack on screen and this is a perfect role for her.Garry Marshall is great for this kind of film and he doesn't miss a thing in here.  He and his wonderful cast do an excellent job of keeping us entertained and humoured for 2 hours and I am glad I saw this film.Runaway Bride is sweet, romantic and it will make you want to hug your partner after the movie.  And if you aren't dating or married, it will make you want to fall in love.  It is a great film and I highly recommend it.    "},{"Title":"Endearing and overall pretty good.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was going to be a good movie but how good was left to be judged. However 'Pretty Woman' this was not. Story is different, situation is different, character relationship is different. The only thing similar to 'Pretty Woman' is the two main actors and even then, things were different.The basic storyline develops around Julia Roberts' character that has a notorious habit of dumping grooms at the altar. She has a problem of staying long enough to say 'I do' and when wind of it reaches a 'writer's blocked' column reporter (Gere)he decides he's going to write an article on this young woman. What ensues is a column that is written from heresay and he is fired from his job for unprofessional journalism. In an attempt to save his career he decides to go to the small town that Roberts is from and do a documentary type article about Roberts' next wedding, in hopes of proving that he was right about the 'Runaway Bride'. And as you can guess (or tell from the trailers) they fall in love. There is very little that the audience doesn't know about before they see the movie, rather it's the journey that these two characters go through that the audience will enjoy.Roberts plays her usual character and plays it well. She smiles a lot, flashes her teeth and gums often and plays that giddiness to perfection. Gere steps out of his normal dashing character, although he does play that here too. In this movie he has incorporated a more comedic role to it. His character is more of a mischievous, antagonistic but dashing character. The chemistry is slightly different than in 'Pretty Woman' but it's nonetheless good. I can't pinpoint the difference in chemistry but it's there. Gere's character seems to dominate more of the scenes because of his slightly comedic approach.The one character that seems to steal scenes, is Joan Cusak's. In almost every scene that she was in she seemed to generate the most laughs and she plays her character very well. The one thing that I do have to criticize on is that some parts seem to drag a bit so this movie does feel long.Overall, this was a very charming movie with a lot of laughs. It was nice to see Gere play slightly out of his normal character types and he plays it well. It would be nice to see him play more comedic type roles. I would recommend anyone to see this movie. You will not feel like you've wasted your afternoon or evening. "},{"Title":"Runaway Bride","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Charming romantic comedy from director Marshall that once again combines the talents of Richard Gere and Julia Roberts. They soar once again on film proving once and for all, like Doris Day and Rock Hudson in the 50's and 60's, their teaming is magic for the 90's...and a pure slice of heaven.   "},{"Title":"Delightfully funny and refreshing","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Great movie without swearing, nudity or hot sex scenes.  How refreshing.  Julia Roberts was Julia (charming as usual), but Richard Gere was like someone I had never seen before.  He was soooo funny!  I would not have thought he could be so loose.  They are undoubtedly a winning pair.  The theater I was in was packed and the audience applauded at the end.  Don't see that often these days.  I will definitely see this movie again. "},{"Title":"Well done!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Different from PRETTY WOMAN, but with enough similarities to add to the fun.  Richard Gere looks better than ever - he definitely improves with age.  And Julia Roberts looks great, despite less than flattering wardrobe, hair, and make-up throughout the movie - how does she do that?!  The plot is kind of silly, but there is enough quality in the dialogue and acting that it makes for an entertaining flick.  Larry Miller and Hector Elizondo, both in PRETTY WOMAN, return for small, but choice parts.  The scene where Gere and Roberts bargain for rights to her interview is lifted directly from PRETTY WOMAN.  Guys, it may be a chick flick but its a good one for date night.  You may even enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Pure unbridled fun.","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love it when I disagree with the critics as much as I have this summer.  I have seen all the big name movies this summer and couldn't help but wonder what all the fuss was about.  Now here comes a movie that's nothing but fun. Where I live, the theater was sold out for at least three seatings.  The audience clapped at the end.  No violence, no nudity, no foul language.  Just a belly full of laughs and you get to leave not feeling dirty.  Please put this one on your list.  Don't listen to the critics.  Remember they liked Eyes Wide Shut  Runaway Bride gets the highest vote from me.  Laughter is good for the soul. "},{"Title":"Loved It!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Great movie...laughed throughout...would go see it again next weekend.  Was a big fan of Pretty Woman and enjoyed this one, too, although the music was not as good in this one (it seemed there was less music overall).  Entertaining...not to be taken too seriously (the movie or the movie stars). "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts and Richard Gere spark(le) together","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow! I had no idea that Richard Gere could be this funny! And Julia Roberts doesn't disappoint either. Both main characters are very good and funny, and the rest of the cast is equally brilliant. Especially Joan Cusack, Laurie Metcalf and Maggie's (Roberts) grandmother all stand out in the supporting cast, but overall all the characters work together really well. And the combination of Roberts/Gere just shines... I was already looking forward to this movie, and I did indeed not get disappointed. Quite on the contrary, I liked it even more than expected - I gave it 9 out of 10, since it's one of the best and funniest romantic comedies I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"My kind of movie!!","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In my local paper they always rate everything that shows at the local Art Cinema either 3 or 4 stars and they never rate a romantic comedy more that 3.  They rated Runaway Bride at 2 1/2 which for them is good.  Personally, it is rare that I rate a good romantic comedy less than four stars.  Runaway Bride meets all my criteria for four stars... Great leading actors, good supporting cast, good photography, good music, and a predictibly feel good ending. Also most important of all is that they did not give away all the great lines in all the trailers and talk shows you see in advance. I rate this better than Notting Hill partly for that reason but mostly because Hugh Grant is no Richard Gere!! If you liked Pretty Woman you will love Runaway (Pretty) Bride!!  "}{"Title":"Totally predictable....and totally fun anyway!","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  We go to romantic comedies because they are both romantic and comedies.  Runaway bride pairs some of our favorite people in a plot you can read from a block away, but Julia Roberts and Richard Gere steal your hearts anyway and you can't help but enjoy the ride.  This movie is a lot of fun and will definitely become a permanent member of our video library. "},{"Title":"Not just fluff","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While many are expecting a fluffy Pretty Woman II, Runaway Bride holds its own as a wonderful romantic comedy.  Gere's 'Ike' is not the typical Gere stoic, rigid character. Ike is a character who is able to laugh at himself and even encourages others to do the same.  Edward Lewis (from PW) he's not. Yet the chemistry, between Roberts and Gere, is much more apparent in RB than in PW.  I, and others in the theater, couldn't help laughing out loud at some of the lines and antics.  To all TRUE Pretty Woman fans, be on the lookout for several connections between the two films, including actors, scenarios and even a few lines.This is certainly an enjoyable movie that everyone should enjoy. "},{"Title":"A great romantic comedy with two very likable leads.","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride is a good movie for incurable romantics.  Julia Roberts plays a woman who has a problem getting to the altar.  Richard Gere is the columnist that writes about her and her attempts, but is a bit misled.  He then goes to her town and tries to get the full story.  They, of course, have great chemistry and make a fine date movie. Joan Cusack is terrific in this film, as always, and it is nice to see Richard Gere in a comedic role and I think he did great.  Julia Roberts glows in this film and is perfect. Even though the plot is a bit contrived at times and predictable, it's a great popcorn movie. "},{"Title":"Sweet but deficient","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Another cute movie about love.  Pretty predictable, I wanted to see more soul-searching by Maggie (Julia Roberts) about her fears and by Ike Graham (Richard Gere) about why his first marriage failed. Of course, they both have an awakening. I wanted to see a lot more deep conversation between Ike and Maggie. Some sparks fly between Maggie and Ike, and I appreciated the effort to do so without sex scenes.  A sweet film that is worth the $7.25 if you just want a relaxing evening. The Maryland scenery is beautiful. (And Richard Gere, at 50, is still hot!) "},{"Title":"feel good movie that pleases everyone...even the tough guys","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is THE summer sleeper for entertainment and a refuge from witches, sex-crazed psychologists, and the like. Though the premise is somewhat unbelieveable; the townfolk make the visit worthwhile. You may want to move there! Richard Gere plays a journalist without a clue(or a story) until he runs into a guy in a Manhattan bar with THE story a bride who repeatedly runs away at the altar! He doesn't check his sources; his editor(ex-wife Rita Wilson) fires him, and he decides to vindicate himself by visiting the Runaway Bride, her family, friends, eccentric townspeople, and of course husband-to-be #4. The end is not as predictable as you would be led to think, but the audience gets what they want nonetheless. Missing this on the big screen not a crime, but if you don't see this one, it should be a high court misdemeanor! 9 out of 10 stars. -J.D. Wallace "},{"Title":"Pretty Woman revisited is pretty bad","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just when you think it the film world is safe from a Gerry Marshall film, he strikes again.  It is usually two or three years in between his films, so when the dreadful The Other Sister came out, everything seemed safe for at least two years.  Nope, instead he sticks us with a second film in 6 months. I do not believe the film community can handle that.  His crowd pleasing comedy that is terribly unfunny would even make Tom Shadyac frown and we're stuck with a second one so soon.  The only thing I can really say is that at least Runaway Bride is better than The Other Sister.Runaway Bride is less a movie and more a formulaic publicity stunt to reunite the stars of Pretty Woman with the director.  Both actors, Gere especially, seem to be just as disturbed as I am that this is how low their careers have sunk.  It's like watching a The Patty Duke Show reunion on daytime TV and noticing just how little these actors have been able to do since.  They are listless and are not near as interesting or interested as when Pretty Woman came out.Here Roberts plays a Maggie Carpenter who has dumped men at the altar 3 times and is set for her fourth victim.  It's not that she is doing it for fun, the reputation is maddening to her. It's just that at the last moment she always sees that this could be a big mistake and runs off.  Then a USA Today writer, Ike Graham (Gere) writes a  less than enchanting  article about her in his anti-women column.  This so infuriates the rural Maggie that she sends a letter pointing out mistakes in the column (he accuses her of ending seven weddings) to the editor of USA Today causing the editor (Wilson), who also happens to be Ike's ex-wife, to fire him.  This so infuriates Ike that he makes a spec deal with the paper to get a first hand look at Maggie from her small Maryland town.  There he finds a world very different from New York (the many Andy Griffith Show jokes are very tired and boring) and meets characters that seem like a carbon copy from millions of  different romantic comedies.  As one can guess the two fall in love, which can mean only one thing  now she has to ruin another wedding.I only can remember laughing twice at this film, neither time at the grandmother (unfunny, unfunny, unfunny).  The film is boring and predictable, only letting up a couple of times in which the film seems to have an original idea.  I liked the chemistry between the stars, both working despite not really wanting to work.  Another thing I liked was Meloni as the man betrothed to Maggie, his jock was endearing and a likable performance (despite a lack of likable dialogue).  I think that the film is a poor film, without a doubt, but when you look at most of Garry Marshall's films, things do not seem quite as bad.Rating  D+/*1/2 out of 4  "},{"Title":"Julia in a romantic comedy...need I say more ?","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The eagerly anticipated re-teaming of Julia Roberts and Richard Gere with their Pretty Woman director Garry Marshall turns out just about exactly as you would expect.  Runaway Bride isn't quite Pretty Woman, but it does contain that certain something that makes it undeniably breezily cute and pleasant.The material would, essentially, never float if it were not for it's cast.  Gere is charming; and Roberts continues to light up the screen  (sunshine-y radiance such as hers almost makes this world bearable).  Joan Cusack steals scenes, as has become her trademark.  And Hector Elizondo, who was also in Pretty Woman (and every other Garry Marshall film for that matter), is that rare movie commodity  an actor whose very presence adds the element of class-- it's about time we all noticed.The characters are written with honest romantic disfunction and neurosis--altering what could have easily been another superficial Hollywood love story.  There's nothing in Runaway Bride that you haven't seen before; but romantic comedy fans (and Julia fans) won't even have to lift a finger to enjoy it. Run "},{"Title":"Delightful Romp","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spent a lighthearted just short two hours with a charming Julia and Richard. The rest of the cast was delightful, and Gary Marshall continues to entertain.  It stretched thin at times, but overall was enjoyable.  I do not think it was a good as was Pretty Woman. "},{"Title":"Cute . . .","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Tonight I went to see the Premier of Runaway Bride and thought it was cute, and a bit funny, but not GREAT!  I was really looking forward to seeing Julia Roberts and Richard Gere again together, and it's true, the chemistry between them is great, however the story line was a bit slow.  I did enjoy it though! "},{"Title":"Cute . . .","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Tonight I went to see the Premier of Runaway Bride and thought it was cute, and a bit funny, but not GREAT!  I was really looking forward to seeing Julia Roberts and Richard Gere again together, and it's true, the chemistry between them is great, however the story line was a bit slow.  I did enjoy it though! "}{"Title":"Very ordinary","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am huge fan of 'Pretty Women', so i really looked forward to this. But alas, what a dissapointment. The problem with too many 90's love stories, is the fact that when the two leads fall in love, it is so hard to believe, and your like 'NO WAY'. The big dissapointment in this film is Julia Roberts. Gere does he 'thing' again, but Roberts is now the big shot, the big Hollywood star, and it reflects in her work. With Pretty Women, she was a Prostitute with a heart; you felt sorry for her. Here basically you just hate her, and her acting is annoying.  But this film, is very cliched, seen it all before, very predictable. Average movie, which is a shame.  "},{"Title":"Very ordinary","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am huge fan of 'Pretty Women', so i really looked forward to this. But alas, what a dissapointment. The problem with too many 90's love stories, is the fact that when the two leads fall in love, it is so hard to believe, and your like 'NO WAY'. The big dissapointment in this film is Julia Roberts. Gere does he 'thing' again, but Roberts is now the big shot, the big Hollywood star, and it reflects in her work. With Pretty Women, she was a Prostitute with a heart; you felt sorry for her. Here basically you just hate her, and her acting is annoying.  But this film, is very cliched, seen it all before, very predictable. Average movie, which is a shame.  "},{"Title":"Not to be confused with Runway Bride, which I think is about airplanes that get married","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The funniest part of this movie is when I remembered that Julia Roberts and Richard Gere were also in Pretty Woman together, I had managed to forget, awesome. I am absolutely going to spoil the ending for you Julia and Richard get together in the end. Remember how at the end of Pretty Woman, Richard and Julia get together, yeah, same thing in this movie. Were you worried? Did you think that even though they are both the lead actors in a romantic comedy that they wouldn't get together? I mean the only reason this movie was made was because so many people were happy that Richard and Julia get together in Pretty Woman--seriously, did it come to you as a surprise? They also make good movie or you could watch this one. "},{"Title":"Obvious but natural","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Enjoyable romantic-comedy from the Pretty Woman that doesn't suffer too much from its obvious conclusion.Comic style in the film does swing from dry wit to slapstick and back, yet one cannot help but enjoy the natural chemistry the two leads create.Roberts is in good form, and together with Gere, they keep us well entertained. Director Garry Marshall is astute enough to let the strength (his stars) carry the show. Funny support comes from Joan Cusack and a cast including Hector Elizondo, Rita Wilson and Paul Dooley.Sunday, April 9, 2000 - Video "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and leaves you in heaven.","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well, I got the DVD of this from a friend and I started to regret watching this because I thought it would be another same old romantic chick flick, which has no meaning to it whatsoever. But, despite all that, I was amazed that I actually liked this movie! Because like I said, normally I don't like chick flicks but this movie brought the world of romance to another level, which for me, I like. The performances by the handsome Richard Gere and the beautiful Julia Roberts was surprisingly good! I mean, it just made the movie more enjoyable and compelling. So well done to them, and for the script, it was a little dodgy at the start and a little few people will not understand a single thing that is happening, but I think to make the script better, someone should be a narrator and tell the story, so people will understand it. Other than that I really enjoyed the beautiful and wonderful ending!This movie just kept me on the edge of my seat and I must say, when you watch it, you lose yourself and you feel like your in heaven. Seriously, I felt like that when I was watching it and I was really captivated by that. Furthermore, I think the cast and crew did a marvellous job creating this heartwarming romantic comedy and they should deserve a Oscar for it! So once again, well done! So if you feel like taking a break from a long exhausting day, Runaway Bride is always there to calm you down and take you away into the blue skies of heaven and above. "},{"Title":"Lightning Doesn't Quite Strike Twice","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Nine years after their smash PRETTY WOMAN, director Garry Marshall reunited his stars, Julia Roberts and Richard Gere, in RUNAWAY BRIDE, a watchable 1999 romantic comedy which is more than anything, a reunion of the PRETTY WOMAN stars (including Marshall good luck charm Hector Elizondo) in a featherweight comedy that borrows liberally from more than half a dozen superior romantic comedies that I can think of, including PRETTY WOMAN. Roberts plays Maggie, a small town free spirit who has a reputation for planning large elaborate weddings and leaving the groom at the altar at the very last second. When Masggie gets engaged for the fourth time, word of her story reaches a big city newspaper writer (Gere) who decides to come to Maggie's intimate little hamlet to cover the wedding and well, you can guess the rest. The on screen charisma between Gere and Roberts is still there, but this time they have a rather limp screenplay to work with that doesn't really play to their strengths as farceurs. In addition to Elizondo, Joan Cusack does steal every scene she is in as Maggie's best friend and there are also effective turns from Paul Dooley as Maggie's dad and Christopher Meloni as fiancée #4. It's passable comic fare, but if you're looking for another PRETTY WOMAN, you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"what happened on the flight to Hale?","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When Ike is walking the streets in the big city he comes off as brash and rude and snobby. WHAT happened on the airplane to Hale? All of a sudden Ike touches down in Hale and he's the nicest guy in town. How did that happen? For the next half of the movie I'm waiting for him to be the ass that I thought he was. It does'nt happen. He is now Mr. good guy. Julia Roberts working in a hardware store is really a stretch but it comes out later she was helping her dad so I guess I can buy it. The rest of the movie was quite fun to watch Ike and Maggie fall in love with each other. The proposal was the nicest proposal I have ever heard anywhere. This is a super good good movie. Not Oscar material, just a good light hearted love story. If you like Roberts and Gere you can't go wrong. "},{"Title":"Great Movie A+++","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Romantic comedy is largely about oppositions, and the eventual collapse of those oppositions into a happy ending. Which suggests that those oppositions weren't oppositions after all. In Gary Marhsall's Runaway Bride, Maggie (Julia Roberts) and Ike (Richard Gere), are earmarked early on for such a happy ending by how opposite they seem to be city boy and country girl; misogynist and man-eater; harried freelance journalist and sedentary 9-5 hardware store manager; etc. This is all established in about four minutes. Underneath those tags, however, are two people who are both defined by their manner when the clock's ticking down Maggie walking down the aisle and Ike with 15 minutes left to write a story. Which is how Runaway Bride opens, with Maggie running and Ike getting a second-hand version of her running and then writing it into his column. Which is the initial complication that draws them together Maggie disagrees with Ike's write-up of her vehemently enough that he's 'assigned' to cover her pending wedding. If she runs, he's vindicated; if she doesn't, he loses this country girl he's falling for. It all gets a little complicated, which is nice. What isn't so nice is that Ike's assignment feels a little contrived, a little too functional. This is a direct result of there being no sharp turning point into the country for him, but more of a gradual and inevitable curve, shaped not by dramatic events but by the necessity of reuniting Gere and Roberts on-screen for another Pretty Woman, a pressure Pretty Woman alumn Gary Marshall must have been acutely aware of. It shows. Since then and now though things have changed a bit, however. Most recently, there's been My Best Friend's Wedding and Forces of Nature, both offering non-traditional 'comedic' endings which skew our expectations a bit as concerns wedding-movies, both of them suggesting that the happiest ending isn't always the one we want to be the happy ending. Runaway Bride could have used this to its advantage, but it chooses not to. Instead it relies a bit desperately on Gere and Roberts to turn mediocre writing into magic. Granted, Joan Cusack is wonderful in her habitual sidekick role, adding humor and a little tenderness to the proceedings, but in the final analysis it's Gere and Roberts. There's simply no room for anyone else, not even Maggie's current betrothed, Coach Bob. And Coach Bob even seems aware of this in his military-athletic way, bowing gracefully out for Ike. And again, it's a little bit of a set-up, but at least this time it's supported by convention, by the need for comedic reversal Maggie, habitually running away from men she's attracted to, will instinctively cling to the one she's repulsed by. She has to. The genre demands it. Similarly, Ike has to be the groom that no other groom was for Maggie, do what none of the others did chase her, literally or figuratively. Like the boy who brought the king water in Fisher King. In Runaway Bride's favor, however, there is at least the suggestion of a larger narrative functioning, a little tension over whether Maggie will become part of Ike's story (another sacrifice to the dailies) or whether he'll become part of hers (another groom left with a lot of cake left to eat alone), which, in a Gere/Roberts movie not predicated on a Roy Orbison ditty, is finally all we have to cling to. "},{"Title":"Mildly Cute","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Runaway Bride is an attempt to re-create the electricity that pervaded Pretty Woman, Julia Roberts' break-thru hit with Richard Gere. With minor exceptions, however, this film is utterly predictable and the strenuous effort to produce comic effect is often unsuccessful. The premise of the film -- that Gere is a columnist who gets himself fired for writing a somewhat (but not wholly) inaccurate story about this small town Maryland girl with a history of starting down the aisle toward her groom and then bolting -- is improbable enough. The idea that Roberts as the libeled bride would later submit to an interview by that columnist is, of course, ridiculous. That Roberts and Gere will end up together is evident from the beginning and would still be apparent if the two stars were film nobodies. It's not difficult to name other movies in which the outcome is known from the start but there are none -- n-o-n-e -- in which the telegraphed ending is more obvious.Nevertheless, Julia Roberts still has the most incandescent smile in the business and she and Gere continue to produce sparks. Not a great movie by any means but still fun. "},{"Title":"Brilliant set-up, well done film.","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The success of this film begins where most successes start The writing. The script is tight like a steel drum, and it's tones are really lovely. The set-up, which gets the two principles in opposition to each other, is accomplished in an amazingly short amount of time. Richard Gere writes a nasty article in USA Today about Julia Roberts based entirely on heresay, and she gets him fired by threatening to sue. He goes to her hometown seeking revenge. POW! This brilliantly creates the impetus for a lot of sparring, which leads, rather convincingly, to their realization that they were made for each other. Add the false ending, and, like a Mahler symphony, it ultimately comes to a much more convincing and satisfying close than most romantic comedies which always feel too easy. The only thing I didn't like about this film was the barbershop quartet singing in the town square. I think it was supposed to signify a return to a small town ideal surrounding Julie Roberts in contrast with Richard Gere's frantic NYC pace, but it just ended up being quite lame. A little too overdone, Mr. Marshall. This is a small consideration, though, when compared to all the other things about this film that are very worth watching. In short, if you're a fan of this genre, pick it up. Even if you're not, you might be surprised. "}{"Title":"Stay and watch this film","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Following up on their huge romantic hit Pretty Woman, Richard Gere, Julia Roberts, Hector Elizondo and director Garry Marshall reteam to make yet another romantic comedy called Runaway Bride.Neither the director nor the original actors have lost a step since Pretty Woman. Gere, Roberts and Elizondo teamed up with newcomers Joan Cusack and Rita Wilson as they never skipped a beat in their performances. The cast performed with such perfection it seemed like they were performing as it happened for the first time. I commend the casting director and producer for putting together an excellent cast that really gelled and had chemistry that was like magic.I must say that Runaway Bride was much more charming than Pretty Woman. I still enjoyed Pretty Woman but the updated version had a certain charm and a twist that was lacking in the first film.I can't say what the twist is without giving away too much, you'll just have to see it to find out.This was a cute film with a unique way of telling a plot that seems to have been done before on the silver screen. "},{"Title":"A 110 minute sitcom","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A sub-par romantic (alleged) comedy with typically lukewarm, middlebrow handling by director Gary Marshall.  I simply grew weary of the whole enterprise within the first half hour and couldn't wait for it to end.  A far better choice, if you're in the mood for a pleasant Julia Roberts flick, is My Best Friends Wedding.      "},{"Title":"Runaway Bride Meets Expectations","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Granted, the much awaited reunion of Julia Roberts and Richard Gere had a lot to live up to. I am from the generation of females raised on Pretty Woman, who all secretly longed for the day when Julia and Richard would announce that they were a couple outside of the movies and that they were getting married.  Although that never happened, in 1999 we all had the opportunity to see them together again in Runaway Bride. I personally loved the movie, even though it was at times campy.The chemistry between Julia Roberts and Joan Cusack couldn't have portrayed best friends any better in addition to that of Julia and Mr. Gere(which was to be expected). The cast is a perfect blend of witty and funny characters who add such a realistic flare to the I hate you/I love you story line. Every now and then we need a lighthearted comedy to just make us smile, and Runaway Bride is just the film to do it.  "},{"Title":"Boring, boring, boring...","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It baffles me when I try to figure out why this movie was even filmed. It has been a while since I saw the movie, and frankly, I don't remember any of it. I do remember being bored out of my mind and almost falling asleep. Like many has already said, you have seen this! Every predictable minute! Also, Julia Roberts has got to be one of the most overrated actresses working today. Can you honestly tell me the difference between Julia in My Best Friend's Wedding and her in this huge waste of money? I didn't think so.I just have a few simple questions Where's the plot? Where's the chemistry between J.R and Richard Gere? Where's the comedy? And do they have to make it so damn MUSHY? Then again, was it even mushy? Cause, frankly, I can't remember.  "},{"Title":"Terrible, just terrible!","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Good romantic comedies are hard to find. Most of them follow all the predictable plot points a) boy1 meets girl b) girl already with another boy (boy2) c) Girl and Boy1 fall in love d) Something bad happens and both characters do a lot of thinking e) Girl and Boy1 end up together and everybody is happy EVEN boy2!Runaway bride is no different with the sole exception that this movie lasts just under TWO HOURS!! This is an insane amount of time for a romantic comedy. Two hours is reserved for the likes of Clockwork Orange and The Shawshank Redemption not for developing the aforementioned plot for which 90 minutes is more than enough.Julia Roberts is not that good in it, I think she ran out of facial expressions a long, long time ago. The only actors doing a decent performance here are Cusack and Meloni. Seems to me that the support actors should have had the lead in this movie. If you are in the mood for a romantic comedy rent You've Got Mail. "},{"Title":"Please don't compare!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Viewers should forget they ever saw the previous film with these actors and allow themselves to watch a thoroughly enjoyable film.  All major characters were well scripted, including those played by Hector Elizondo and Rita Wilson. "},{"Title":"The problem with this movie is???","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for the Runaway Bride I thought to myself Oh great, a Pretty Woman sequel!  It may surprise you to know that I actually enjoyed Pretty Woman.  But, as good as it was, it was over-glamorized and I'd about gotten to the point where I was ready to puke if I heard anymore praise for this movie.So, I decided I would wait and catch it on video on an evening when I didn't mind being disappointed.  I expected most would be disappointed, as the movie had all the setup needed for failure being envisioned as the sequel to Pretty Woman.  But, I expected it would still receive quite a bit of praise and I would spend another few years holding my gut each time I heard the name Runaway Bride.As the reviews came in I was quite surprised to find that so many others seemed to have rated the movie the way I envisioned I would.  So, I was quite shocked when I FINALLY got around to watching this movie and discovered that I loved it!  As far as I'm concerned it was much better than Pretty Woman.I think the Runaway Bride may have been a little too non-traditional for some to cherish.  While this seems to be a trademark of Marshall's films, I think this one definitely out did Pretty Woman in that department.  Even though Julia Roberts played a prostitute in Pretty Woman, everything else was richly traditional.  I don't believe the same can be said for Runaway Bride and this was the difference to me.I also believe there will also be those who disliked the troubles Roberts' character had in the movie.  Some will say they were unreal or just plain silly.  But, I didn't feel that way and in fact, I believe they gave the movie a sense of reality lacking in most traditional romance films.  Robert's and Gere were both marvelous and I gave this movie 9 stars. "},{"Title":"Great movie but the numerous one-liners are killers!","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie throughout.  It had its tender moments, its happy times, but mostly, its totally killer one-liners, sometimes subtle, sometimes just busting out loud clear as a bell!Of course-- the ending was mushy, and yes, I laughed and cried at the same time.  But the majority of the movie just had me waiting for the next crack-up comment!Super overall movie!btw-- as an aside-- it was filmed in Berlin, Maryland, about 10 miles west of popular party-beach-town Ocean City.  "},{"Title":"A Movie That Leaves You In Love","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went on opening night to see this movie, and I was there for the following 3 weekends because I could not get enough. An excellent plot, one not done before to my viewing, excellent cast, music and of course directing.  The movie takes you through friendship, love, confusion, self assurance, the highs and the lows....and you can't help but love every minute of it.  Or atleast I couldn't.  Date flick, chick flick, bonding flick, does not matter how you view Runaway Bride....it will capture you in the 2 hours and should definately leave a smile on your face afterwards.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic Summer Movie","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When the movie first came out, I was reluctant to see it. I mean, at the time I was 13 years old and to top it off, I'm a male. Things like this aren't supposed to appeal to me. However, when a friend and I decided to go see Blair Witch Project, we weren't allowed to buy a ticket, so instead we saw three movies that day that weren't rated R. We finished our day with this movie.I may not have looked like the most heterosexual young man, entering a movie like this with one of my friends, but by the conclusion, I didn't care. It was one of the finest movies I had seen in many months.The plot maybe simple - a woman who's scared to get married so she runs away every time she almost does - but the acting, the direction, and such is nothing short of spectacular. Julia Roberts gives such a wonderful performance that we forget she was ever a hooker with her counterpart Richard Gere, who also shines brightly.This movie probably won't win an Oscar and more than likely won't be nominated for anything, but it's one of the funnest and sweetest movies you'll ever see. Hugely recommended. "}{"Title":"Have a time to watch this movie.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Title Runaway BridePersonal Comments  Maggie Carpenter (Julia Roberts) - the Runaway Bride, who likes running  a hundred meters per second,  was fine and funny movie; likewise, I like the story it self, I like  the main actor Ike Graham.(Richard Gere) / my best actress Julia Roberts, and I like  the scenery.Watch how my Best Actress Julia Roberts runs in this movie. You might just love it. This movie will made you think that marriage is not game to play with. It is a decision to be made..Thanks to all people who made this movie. Have a time to watch this movie. - G.C.O.  "},{"Title":"Sitcom-ish, and not very good at that","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was extremely disappointing, considering the star power that was in it. I never connected to any of the characters or their problems, nor could I buy into the inevitable attraction between Julia Roberts (whom I adore) and Richard Gere, or the attractions between anyone for that matter. Usually Julia is like a best friend in any of her romantic comedies, but in Runaway Bride, neither she nor any of the other characters or situations seemed even remotely realistic or three-dimensional... By the end I wanted them all to die in a nuclear holocaust, if only to liven things up. Rent Notting Hill instead---fabulous movie. "},{"Title":"Murphy's Romance with Julia as Murphy","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As far as gentle on the mind movies go, does anyone remember Murphy's Romance with James Garner as Murphy?  Sally Field's character comes moping into town and James appears to be the toast of the town, fixing everyone's problems and finding Sally along the way.  I saw Runaway Bride's main theme not the cancellation of so many marriages but rather the universally likeability of this local gal.  Even her ex-fiances still like her, as do her close friends and the wedding arrangers.  She sort of owns the town in that way, fixing faucets, swivel chairs and such and attending ball games and appearing around town relaxed in several unglamorous getups.  Funny, I know people like this in my small town and strangely enough, they have a hard time settling down with one person.  Not that they are promiscuous, but they seem to have an imperative to be everyone's sweetheart.  So, I found Julia's character to fit right in.  I loved the rapport she had with her two best friends and the older relatives were a hoot.  This movie was upbeat and fun---and, despite what the sourpusses below write, the plot had a major surprise to me.  A formula plot would have ended about 10 minutes earlier, if you know what I mean.  I liked it for that.  However, this movie would be murder to watch without a girlfriend or wife nearby. "},{"Title":"Another Winner","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really like Julia Roberts and Richard Gere so was happy to see them make another picture together. It looked like they had fun making it. I enjoyed the movie and laughed out loud during some of the funnier parts. She had issues to deal with which made her the runaway bride so I understood the ending had to play out the way it did. I thought it much better than Notting Hill which I also enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Complete waste of time.","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the most tedious film I've seen in a long, long time. The running gags are not funny the first time, the end is very predictable, and the scenes during the end credits are just too tacky to be true. I know this sort of romantic comedy is supposed to end in a certain way. Yes, they do get each other in the end, no-one will find that surprising. But that's no excuse for making every other second of the film completely predictable as well! I've sat trough experimental Russian films with no dialogue, I've seen depressing Hungarian drama's, pretentious films that place image over story line, everything. They were tedious as well. But at least they were original. This was just a waste of time. "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really like Julia Roberts and I love romantic Comedies. I also rated Pretty Woman as a 9. Nevertheless, the best I can give this movie is a 7. In fact, if not for my biases, it would be less.It's not a bad movie, its just that I couldn't buy any part of the plot. There is so little chance that Gere's character would have behaved the way he did or that Robert's character would have behaved the way she did. In fact, most of the characters' behavior was suspect.It wasn't THAT sweet. It didn't have THAT good of an ending. The chemistry between the two wasn't THAT good. In fact, I actually think the chemistry (or lack thereof) was a negative. I also do not think Gere is a particularly good actor. Tom Hanks in this role would have been so much better. Of course, Tom Hanks in any role would be so much better.Still, it was a nice movie. I enjoyed the personalities of the other characters and the small town atmosphere was charming. Roberts is fun to watch. So, what the heck. Go rent it. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was wonderful.  I liked the beginning, middle, and end...it did not lag for me at any time.  Richard Gere and Julia Roberts have such a chemistry that it would not have mattered if they had just looked at each other the whole movie.  Trying to make a movie with so many of the same cast and still make it distinct is a challenge that Garry Marshall handled magnificently.  There are scenes, probably about 4, that connect nicely to Pretty Woman.  However, on the whole, the movie was completely different (other than the fact that it was a romantic comedy, which are always predictable).  The tone was different, in that, this was suitable for the whole family.  Garry Marshall is a wonderful director who tried to make the most of a cliche.  As for Julia Roberts and Richard Gere...they are extremely talented, as well.  If you want to see a good movie that will lift your spirits and you are not too critical...this is perfect.  "},{"Title":"Charming romantic comedy despite contrived plot","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm sure with the reunion of Director Garry Marshall, Richard Gere and Julia Roberts, everyone expected Pretty Woman II which this film most certain was not.  Both Gere and Roberts have improved as actors since PW in 1990, but the story here didn't give them much help.Ike Graham (Gere) loses his job as a columnist over an unsubstantiated story he writes about Maggie Carpenter's (Roberts) habit of leaving her prospective husbands at the alter in full flight.  He then takes a trip to her small town to see if he can get the real story and vindicate himself.  The story is ok to here, but thereafter it is contrived and implausible. The minute he arrives, everyone is just delighted to tell him Maggie's most intimate secrets.  That's just not the way small town folks act with complete strangers, especially big city reporters who just made a mockery of one of their own.  Since this universal acceptance and intimating is the key to everything that comes afterward, it makes the whole story a little far fetched.Despite this defect, the characters are well developed, and flawed though they are, they are lovable.  The age old romantic comedy angle of antagonists falling in love gets a good treatment here.  The plot really produces no major surprises after about midway through the film, but as this is a romantic comedy, everyone is rooting for it to end the way they expect anyway.As before, Gere and Roberts have great screen chemistry.  Richard Gere plays a little different character here than he is used to, less macho; more vulnerable and sensitive.  This was a much more mature performance than the cocky arrogant roles he usually takes on and I think it marks an expansion of his talent.  Julia Roberts is...well...Julia Roberts.  Somehow, the whole of her performance is always greater than the sum of the parts.  She has found a comfortable home in the romantic genre and as long as she doesn't attempt to stray too far from that domain (eg. Mary Reilly, Conspiracy Theory), she will always do well.Marshall did the best that could be done with the script he had and kept the story moving along well.  There was nothing ground breaking from a visual standpoint, but the actors were well directed and the whole cast meshed well.I rated this movie a 7.  It was kind of an improbable premise, but was an entertaining romantic comedy with plenty of laughs and schmaltz.  "},{"Title":"If you don't expect it to be Notting Hill, it is really a nice movie","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One thing I had planned from the beginning. I am not going to Runaway bride and think of Notting Hill all the time. The comparison between the two movies stops at Romantic Comedy and Julia Roberts. Notting Hill is British, a completely different set of humor. Runaway Bride is American, straightforward, predictable etc.Take all this into account and you're bound for a very nice evening of enjoyment. The plot of Runaway Bride is indeed fairly simple, but some in depth psychological research is not missed. The actors, at least the main ones Roberts and Gere are fit for each other, but I knew that since Pretty Woman.Indeed, Runaway Bride is not Notting Hill, and I am glad for it, because it would never have been half as good to me if it were a kind of Notting Hill 2, or Pretty Woman 2 indeed. An eight out of ten from me. I have enjoyed myself very much! and that is what movies is about, isn't it.Gandalf  "},{"Title":"Not even half as funny as it seems to think it is.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Relying on Julia Roberts comic talent and inexhaustible charm, director Garry Marshall teams up with the Pretty Woman leads for another romantic comedy.This time columnist Richard Gere heads for the small-town to find the woman who indirectly had him fired. She, Julia Roberts, is the Runaway Bride i.e. she repeatedly runs from the altar at the last possible moment. Intrigued, Gere wants to prove that she's only having a laugh when rejecting the future husbands.Spicing the Marnie-like story (Remember the Hitchcock classic?) with the usual small-town clichés, cheap humour and some really daft supporting characters, Garry Marshall tries to create a witty, warm look at roundabout relationships. But Runaway Bride results in an end product that's not even half as funny as it seems to think it is. Joan Cusack does her tiring In or Out character and Gere's acting extends only as far as an ability to convincingly look peering. And yes, Julia Roberts is pretty when she's chewing gum and she has a funny giggle when she falls. But why overdo it? Besides, if a woman rejected four guys in a row at the altar and was the laughing stock of the whole town, you'd tell her to leave the place and never get married. Wouldn't you?Runaway Bride was never going to escape comparisons with Notting Hill. However, while certainly as appealing, Runaway Bride is far less amusing, lacking in the edgy dialogue, interesting characters and the absorbing plot.Unlike the delightful and very funny Notting Hill, the other blockbuster romantic comedy this year Runaway Bride is instantly forgettable on every possible level. "}{"Title":"Johnny Unitas cameo","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Lend a hand to the good old IMDb, folks.  Let them know if you noticed Johnny Unitas, the great quarterback of the Baltimore Colts, in this film.About 25 minutes into the movie there's an exterior shot of the Trout Bakery.  The camera zooms slowly closer to the front of the building.  It's only a 2 or 3 second shot so look sharp.There sits a man on a sidewalk bench, to the left of the bakery entrance.  He's wearing one of the blue letter jackets with a white H from the local high school.  He's reading.  That man is Johnny U!The movie is set in Hale, Maryland which is in the countryside somewhere outside Baltimore.  It's a nice touch, to suggest that since Johnny Unitas must be living a normal life somewhere, here he is.  (If you live in the Baltimore-Washington area you can see him regularly on a local football talk show, so you'll know how he looks these days.  He's in his 60's now, but you'll recognize him.)Let's give IMDb some confirmation on this, please. "},{"Title":"Kim of San Ramon Valley High School age 14","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  	Over the summer when I saw Runaway Bride I thought the movie was very funny and had a great plot.  During the whole movie I was glued to the seat and couldn't take my eyes off the screen.  Through the movie you were either giggling or non-stop laughing except at the few serious moments.	Runaway Bride was very funny.  My favorite part was when Julia Roberts did the platypus, I found that histerical.  What I thought was funny was how she squeezed those big lips of hers together and did that funny thing with her eyes.  Another part that I found funny was when Julia Roberts dyed Richard Geeres' hair all differn't colors.  It's not everyday you see a man of his age with that kind of coloring	The writers of Runaway Bride deserve a big round of applause for the plot.  I liked how they had Richard Geere watch the 3 weddings and how each one was differn't.  Most writers would forget about the 3 men she ditched at the alter.  I also liked how they had Richard Geere meet the 3 men and what became of them.  Having richard Geere ask about the egg's was very original.	In conclusion I found the movie most stimulating.  The movie was very funny and had great writers writing the story.  I think if you haven't seen this movie you should go right now and watch it. "},{"Title":"SAVE YOUR TIME AND MONEY","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is as contrived and formulaic a piece of celluloid dropping as has been made in a while.  What is really sad is it has all of the makings of a top notch comedy.  What G. Marshall delivers is the cheapest of thin plots backed by some intensely mediocre writing.  And the acting tries to match those weaknesses.  A sad effort that only highlights what a one dimensional actor Richard Gere is.   "},{"Title":"Pretty Woman 2? (OH PLEASE.......!)","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  No matter who directs it, you never could create a 2nd Pretty Woman look a like ,Oh come on! We know how desperate people wanting to see Gere and Roberts together, but I guess they fallen to deep this time, look.....! even the casts are all the same! I rather see Nothing Hill than this........ "},{"Title":"An Impossible Task","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, Garry Marshall was able to get millions of people to believe (myself included) the fairy tale in Pretty Woman. I mean really, the magic it took to make a movie with a plot about a successful businessman falling in love with a hooker is just this side of unbelievable.So expecting the reprise (in the same sense as Fierce Creatures was to A Fish Called Wanda) to have the same emotional impact is a bit unrealistic.But I was really hoping it would.Still it was a nice movie. There were lots of inside dialog references to Pretty Woman, and having the continuity of some of the supporting actors made for a sense of visiting with old friends.This movie was released about the same time as Notting Hill. If you're looking for more of an emotional connection to an unbelievable plot, rent it instead. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Love story about commitment","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride is a movie that has never gotten the respect it rightly deserves.Its a sign of the times ( a BAD sign ) that we live in an era that sweet simple love stories can be criticized but garbage like Hannibal  and  Natural Born Killers  can be viewed as brilliant .A good love story can be looked at in three ways as far as success goes.One,is there a good story ? Yes,predictable,but touching.Second,is the chemistry between the stars believable ? Gere and Roberts....need I say more ? If you've seen Pretty Woman; guess what...the chemistry is still there.They're adorable.Three,can you relate to it ? If you've fell in love and had goose bumps,or just wished you could find that certain  someone ,then,yes.A fairy tale is not supposed to be anything than what it is; a simple,sweet tender hearted love story.Take it from a Romantic Poet,Roberts is enough to make your heart skip and Gere is believable as a typical jaded divorcee trying to justify his pessimism.Hilarious and heart warming. "},{"Title":"Awful rubbish -- bad story, selfish protagonists, and many continuity gaffes","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie trivializes the sanctity of marriage and love for another person. And is completely unrealistic.  Richard Gere and Julia Roberts can both do better than playing these two very self-centered people (although, isn't Richard Gere like that in real life?  I do not know for sure -- I don't have the facts).  And Garry Marshall seems to have used many of the plot lines and cast of Pretty Woman in this movie.  The cast members are playing almost the same type of characters, and running through the same type of plot twists.  Ridiculous.SPOILERS NEXT*********************************************How could her ex-fiances still like her?How did she fall in love with these goofy men and have such strange gaudy wedding ceremonies?How come her best friend puts up with her and eagerly participates in each ceremony?How come the character played by Christopher Meloni didn't get angry at MAGGIE at the wedding rehearsal?  And then came to her next wedding?How could Richard Gere afford that apartment and all those Armani clothes? He dresses like a model for Armani throughout the entire movie.How come Richard Gere's ex-wife (his USA TODAY editor -- how contrived) and her husband are wearing the SAME outfits at the end of the movie (the quick street scene), as they wore to Maggie's wedding in Hale, MD?And more continuity gaffes -- Richard Gere seems to be holding a piece of paper with writing on it when he goes out onto his balcony at the end of the movie.  But when he sits down on his outdoor chair, the paper seems to have mysteriously disappeared.And how did Maggie get her lamps sold SO quickly?!?  That does not happen in the real world.And notice how when Maggie comes to the big city, she has completely changed her style of dress and hair.  I thought she had found herself, but she seems to simply have re-modeled herself (again) for her new fiance.ALL in ALL I give this movie almost two thumbs down -- pretty scenery, and a couple of funny lines, but trivializes too many real life problems, with only superficial solutions for or confrontations to these problems.  YUCK. Watch Notting Hill -- lovely in comparison, even though unrealistic in its own way. "},{"Title":"We tend to forget the victims","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes people, there was three guys out there who got dumped, in the altar, made to look like idiots, by this woman who at least should have been a friend and avoided them the public humiliation.  I'm sorry just don't find it funny. And it's not because i'm a man, or I don't like romantic comedies. I just can't find a way to make it look funny.  When dealing with a romantic relantionship you should be able to show the maturity to care for the other person.To compound the problems, the acting is lame, and stereotiped. Here's another question people, if you were Ike Graham wouldn't you be a little miffed at Maggie when you met here, common she made you get fired, and then Gere act like he's her best Friend. Just simply a Bad movie D-. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Romantic Comedy","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's nice to go to a movie and relax, have a good time and watch two beautiful people on the screen. So what if I knew it was going to be a happy, sappy ending! I'm tired of paying $8.00 to be grossed out, scared out of my wits, or just plain bored. I hope Julia Roberts will continue to do romantic comedies, because they suit her well, like they did Katherine Hepburn. I like leaving a movie theater with a smile because the minute you get home and pick up a newspaper or watch CNN, the reality sets in. Thanks Gary Marshall - keep 'em coming! "},{"Title":"Average romantic-comedy for fans only","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Stuck for an idea for his USA Today column, Ike Graham picks up a tale told to him by a man in a bar about a woman who has taken several men to the alter only to do a runner at the 11th hour.  Graham publishes an incorrect version of Maggie Carpender's tale and Maggie responds to USA Today with a letter listing the inaccuracies in the piece.  Fearing a lawsuit the paper fire Ike, but Ike goes to Maggie's town for her next wedding to prove that his story was essentially true in the description of her character.It must have seemed like a great idea &#150; reunite as much of the original magic from Pretty Woman and do another one &#150; it'll be great and the girls will love it!  So that's what they did, however sometimes you can't explain why one film is so well loved &#150; it isn't always easy to recreate the magic a second time.  The plot her starts well with somewhat of a spark and energy to it but quickly falls into cliché and stereotypical rom-com stuff. When Ike travels to Maggie's town, if you can't guess the ending at this early point then you must be a 5 year old child or a hermit or something.The romance doesn't work as it all tries to happen too fast.  Maggie and Ike don't sell themselves as a couple, the montage of `romantic moments' is nice until you realise that, within the film, they all must have occurred within less than 24 hours.  The comedy lifts some of this mush but it simply isn't very funny.  It has it's odd inspired moment (Maggie dragging a child behind her as she flees a wedding is my favourite) but even in the stronger first half it isn't anything more than average.Roberts is once again a romantic clown type character and is left with little of a character to work with.  Gere is a little better and manages to do well until he gets trapped in the mire of mushy sentimentality.  Actors like Cusack, Elizondo and Wilson are all pretty much wasted and kept in the wings with nothing to do.  The funniest bit of casting for me was Christopher Meloni &#150; I know him best as Chris in HBO's Oz!  It's not a problem to have him do different stuff (in fact it's good) but his Oz character would have broken Ike's arms then raped him!Overall this shows that not all magic or appeal in a film can be created &#150; sometimes it just happens.  Here the one thing missing is spark and originality.  The romance doesn't convince, the comedy never comes to life and you're never in a moments doubt about where this film is going to end up.  Average rom-com for fans only. "}{"Title":"Lacks honesty","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Far too often scenes are written only for the benefit of the audience without considering the dignity or honesty of the characters. Runaway Bride is a good example of bad writing, poor editing, and superficial directing. This is a film about transition.  It is about two people coming to grips with their problems and discovering each other in the process.  The problem is the many smaller transitions it takes to get to the larger one.  They were simply not there.  You cannot walk a mile without taking a few steps and Runaway Bride attempts to do just that. Perhaps the moments needed to make the film organic were left on the editing room floor, or perhaps were overlooked by the actors or director.  Whatever the reason, Runaway Bride is full of two dimensional characters that seem to be playing directly to the audience instead of each other.  The integrity of the characters is questionable as well.  Roberts' character has a problem with leaving men at the altar the same way some people have a problem with drugs or alcohol. This is very disturbing because no matter how many lives she may destroy she is still written as the victim.  An ideology that could be affective were it done properly.  All secondary characters are cardboard cutouts with no real sense of feelings or emotions. There was the hint of an honest,   story buried deep beneath the rubbish, unfortunately none of the cast or crew were able to salvage it and give life to this soulless monstrosity.  Runaway Bride is a cheap attempt to yank our heart strings that completely lacks sincerity and integrity.  D+  "},{"Title":"I'm raging","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Just watched this film today on my HBO channel, and I just had to write review about it since it was driving my crazy.One of the things I truly have to complain about this is the character Maggie that Roberts play as. The movie makes it seem we have to feel /bad/ for her because she doesn't know what she wants. Wrong. To me I felt frustrated, angry, of how selfish and how dumb this woman was for leaving these poor groomsmen at the alter. Not once did I see this woman feel bad about them because the next scene we see her doing her daily thing like nothing happened. If someone doesn't know what they want, then don't. get. married. right. away. And then she gets angry if someone points it out, like the editor who wrote something true about her and she throws a grumpy fit. How mature, lady. I also don't like how her and the editor suddenly /fall in love/. It just seemed too rushed. Arggh, this movie raged me too much. I need some tea now. "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts is not a good actor","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Julia Roberts has been around for a long time. Every couple years I end up seeing one of her movies, and every single time I ask the same question - why on earth is this woman so famous? There's a couple of things about her acting I can't stand 1)Facial Expression In every movie I've watched with Julia Roberts she has the same stilted-emotionless expression on her face during the whole movie. I call it the deer-in-headlights look. She doesn't even look comfortable speaking. She looks like some child actor who is staring wide-eyed into the camera, struggling to speak her lines.2) Delivery Her delivery is equally terrible. She always speaks her lines in the same monotone-deadpan voice. It does not matter what scene she is in. She is incapable of altering the pitch or loudness of her voice. She sounds like that computer Hal from 2001 A Space Odyssey.3) A totally uninteresting actor Julia Roberts does not adapt herself to any role. She always plays herself. Many great actors do this (aka Robert De Niro, Al Pacino etc). It works for them because they are actually interesting-dynamic people and hence their characters are always interesting and dynamic. This is not the case with Julia. It doesn't matter if she's playing a queen, a mother, a prostitute or a wife. You always get the same monotone-stilted performance.She is the most overrated female actress in history. "},{"Title":"A  2 hour commercial for U.S.A. Today.(advt)....................................","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Four points for Miles Davis whose It never entered my mind decorates Runaway Bride at intervals unfortunately too far apart to keep it from sinking in its own saccharine sea. Consider this-Richard Gere is a column - writer for U.S.A.Today(advt) He is obviously an intellectual because he has floppy grey hair and rimless glasses.He hangs around other journos from U.S.A. Today(advt) and spends a lot of time in a bar near the U.S.A. Today(advt) building - I think I can see a pattern evolving here................. In this bar near the U.S.A.Today(advt) building he gets a tip about a woman in Maryland who has left her prospective grooms at the altar 7 times.I shall call it The Runaway Bride ,he says,intellectually. Neglecting to do even the most basic of research he rushes into print and after a complaint from the Runaway Bride herself he is sacked from U.S.A. Today (advt) Rather belatedly you might think,he drives out to Maryland to discover the truth for himself.In a small town that makes Bedford Falls seem like Bedford - Stuyvesant,he meets - cute with the Runaway Bride - none other than Miss Julia Roberts - and you can work out the rest for yourself,quite possibly far quicker than Mr Gere,who,for an intellectual employed by U.S.A. Today(advt),is remarkably slow - witted. With more false climaxes than Meg Ryan,The Runaway Bride peters out tamely and predictably.Apart from Mr Gere the cast spend a lot of time laughing long and loud,presumably hoping it will be catching. Unfortunately I seemed to have developed an immunity,although I suspect the sales of U.S.A.Today (advt) developed an upsurge. "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts is a miracle","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My wife saw this with some girlfriends in 1999 and I remember her talking about how good the movie was - and as a movie-goer she is not easily pleased. So i ordered the movie on Netflix a week ago - and it delivered everything one could expect from a romantic comedy, and more.Julia Roberts is a rare jewel and her charm something to behold, which is why so many people do, I suppose. Her expression of the character can be absolutely mesmerizing to watch, and her reactions to circumstances and events are deft and usually spot on. When I think she's a little off, it's almost imperceptible.I thought the script/story was quite good - beginning with a bride on horseback at a dead run, through dense woods and fall leaves - well that was inspired. The coach reminded me of about ten jockish types I've known, and was I was LOL several times with this character. On the whole, the dialog was witty.I was not a fan of Richard Gere in his younger days - maybe it was the movies he was in - but he has really grown on me. He was fantastic in Chicago - and did a great job here. He projects a warmth that rings true and to me, that is one of his greatest qualities.The movie is a great way to chill out on Saturday evening, and if you have any little girls, they will love it. The boys will be entertained too, but of course, they won't admit it. "},{"Title":"Reading is Good!","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Let's see. I am not impressed by Richard Gere's hair, acting ability, or butt. I hated Pretty Woman. Julia Roberts is a one-dimensional, hopelessly overrated horse's ass on and off the screen. Gary Marshall hasn't done anything worth mentioning since TV's The Odd Couple.And yet, this movie made a great glob of cash when it was released (and entertained my wife and daughter a few nights ago on NBC).I'm not questioning my family's taste, nor the taste of the millions of folks who saw this formulaic snot on the big screen. I'm just writing this nasty little comment to thank whatever great spirit created us for devices known as . . .books. "},{"Title":"Pretty Woman II","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I remember when this came out there was a lot of hype built up around the fact that it was a reunion for Richard Gere and Julia Roberts. Everyone was raving about how great it would be to see them on screen together again, etc. Unfortunately it took a little while for people to notice, Hey, this kinda sucks. And it does. It is a rather dull affair structured on a weak and silly plot line - a reporter (Gere) investigates a Runaway Bride who has become notorious in a small US town for leaving her numerous fiancés at the aisle on wedding day. Of course we know who she will end up with from the get-go and this results in a dry series of humorous sequences in which Roberts and Gere act feisty and exchange jabs of dialogue at each other.I have never been a fan of Roberts so it is hard for me to praise any of her performances, although I do like Gere much more (especially after seeing his performances in Primal Fear and Unfaithful over the past few years) and they are adequate together. But really all this is is another excuse to cash in on the success of Pretty Woman back in 1990 - the result was a movie that indeed made millions and millions at the box office, which means ten years from now we will probably be seeing Pretty Woman III - Runaway Teeth The Julia Roberts Story. "},{"Title":"Runs away too fast","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was about a woman named Maggie who had run away from four previous walks down the aisle. She never got married and that was what made Ike want to do a story on her. So he does a story on her, screws it up, loses his job and goes to the town that Maggie lives in. He basically annoys the crap out of Maggie until she falls in love with him.The love scenes are just good and the acting is fantastic. The problem with this movie is that the marriages happens so fast that Maggie gets scared and runs. No wonder this woman is running away, she has only known her groom(s) for a short period of time, perhaps a couple of months. Then her fifth marriage, she runs away and she has only known him for a couple of weeks.Who could blame her? The whole storyline runs away from the plot faster than Maggie ever could. The movie starts to make no sense. If you are looking for a quick love story, rent this one. If you want a love story that makes sense, runaway from this movie. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Although not as charming as Pretty Woman, Runaway Bride nonetheless entertains thanks mostly to it's two wonderful stars and their chemistry.Gere plays a reporter who learns of a woman (Roberts) who continually leaves men at the altar. He publishes a story on her which ultimately gets him fired. Bent on revenge (or more accurately; vindication) Gere goes to the small town where she lives and...well, we all know the rest.Thanks to a very spirited cast and a rather witty script the film overcomes it's countless clichés and utter predictability. Gere and Roberts are an especially appealing duo on screen and carry the film a long way. This may not be a intellectual powerhouse, but it's a nice little film that entertains those not-so demanding. "},{"Title":"average plot, decent beginning, mediocre conclusion","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I began this movie, it seemed to me like a movie with some potential, and not the typical boring story. To me, it has quite a creative beginning for a movie about a Runaway Bride. (It's probably difficult to keep interest in a simple movie about a Runaway Bride.) However, the closer you get to the end of the movie, the more and more simple and predictable the script becomes.This movie reminds me of the movie Paycheck, in that way. Why is it that so many new movies start off great yet end so badly?If you're a fan of simple, predictable romantic movies with likely borrowed lines and minimal twists, this is a movie for you.In conclusion, it's a movie with potential, but not really worth watching unless you're bored, or a major fan of one of the actor/actresses involved. "}{"Title":"Where was all that Roberts/Gere chemistry?","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" While not being anywhere near dreadful, I was a bit surprised at Runaway Bride, particularly since I had been A big fan of Pretty Woman and was a bit baffled by the lack of chemistry between Roberts and Gere in this. Not that there weren't moments of brief beauty in Runaway Bride, but I wouldn't call this a romantic comedy classic, not In the same category as Pretty Woman. The movie bored me a bit and the intense chemistry between the two stars, while there momentarily, through the movie, was nowhere near as explosive as with Pretty Woman. Perhaps, it's unfair to make comparisons, between the two, but after the main coarse that was Pretty Woman, this was more like a weak appetizer.Although, this is an OK movie to pass the time, it didn't captivate, and I was surprised at that. I also thought the whole story line was a bit convoluted, not that this is unwatchable at all, just not a classic. "},{"Title":"I can't stand this movie!","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this was the movie of the day I just had to comment on it. I hated this movie--it is clichéd, annoying, and just plain stupid!I remember seeing this in theaters when it came out and being very excited to go because I was such a fan of Pretty Woman-- I was sorely disappointed. This is the kind of movie where you're constantly rolling your eyes (it is so cheesy!)-- I haven't hated a romantic comedy so much since The Cutting Edge. I do not recommend this movie!  "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is totally OK. It's not going to bring the house down, but it's OK. Some good actors (and acting) here. Cusack is always good; Gere is too good to play a reporter; Roberts has moments that will knock you back in your seat. I don't think I realized until seeing this otherwise average movie how good she really is, how she can electrify a scene. Leave it to her to use this highly average screenplay (it took them ten years to make this? What? In ten years they didn't get a clue?) and fill in the holes, make things happen.It's OK. It's not going to bring the house down, but it's OK. It's cute. It's OK.  "},{"Title":"Predictable, formulaic romantic comedy","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ike Graham is a journalist who writes a story about a young woman named Maggie Carpenter who has jilted several fiancés at the altar. Unfortunately, there are a number of inaccuracies in Ike's story, and when Maggie complains about these he is fired by his boss (who also happens to be his ex-wife). In order to vindicate his reputation, Ike travels to the small town where Maggie lives to track her down and find out the facts.What happens next is- well, I won't write a spoiler. In fact, I don't need to write a spoiler. Anyone familiar with the conventions of romantic comedy will be able to work out what happens next. And what happens after that. And after that. After watching about the first half-hour (make that the first quarter of an hour) of this film, I was able to work out virtually the whole of the plot, including the ending. I knew how a chess grandmaster must feel when he realises that he can predict not only the next move but also the next few moves his weaker opponent will make.Predictability is not necessarily a bad thing in a romantic comedy. As another reviewer on this board has pointed out, it is a highly conventional genre and its conventions can almost be summed up by an 'a + b + c = d' mathematical formula. We know in advance that there will be a happy ending; what makes the film interesting or dull is the route that it takes to reach that ending.Unfortunately, the route taken by 'Runaway Bride' is a dull one. The main problem is the character of Maggie. To paraphrase Oscar Wilde, to jilt one potential husband at the altar may be a misfortune, to do it twice looks like carelessness and to do it three times or more suggests serious emotional problems. Now the scriptwriters are obviously well aware that emotional disturbance is not generally regarded as a suitable subject for lighthearted comedy, so no real attempt is made to explain her behaviour; it is presented as an eccentric trait of an otherwise normal and likable personality. The result was that Maggie failed to come alive, and even an actress as experienced at romantic comedy as Julia Roberts could do little with her.Richard Gere as Ike did not help matters either. He is a talented actor, but can also be a lazy one who fails to put much of himself into his characters, and Ike came across as amiable but not very interesting. The newspaper he works for, USA Today, is a real one, but I wonder how happy they were with this experiment in product placement. It cannot do much for their reputation to suggest that they would ever have employed a reporter as sloppy as Ike (or an editor as difficult to work for as the former Mrs Graham) in the first place. None of the other characters stood out either. Maggie's disappointed suitors all seemed too nice and their total lack of jealousy or resentment at her behaviour was unrealistic.Unlike some who have reviewed this film, I have nothing against either romantic comedy as such, or Julia Roberts, or even romantic comedies starring Julia Roberts. (I enjoyed 'America's Sweethearts', 'Notting Hill' and - yes!- 'Pretty Woman' much more). I did, however, have a problem with this film- the characters were unconvincing and the script was flat and lacking in wit or humour. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Amusing Film, Not The Worse I have Seen.","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most of the comments are unfair, this movie is fun but Robert's and Gere have done better. Enjoyable light Humor but a bit far fetched, as I do not believe people run away from their Weddings. Similar too Noting Hill The Star's suffer from Publicity.  I saw good quality DVD.  "},{"Title":"Below Average","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Below average Romance-Comedy that had a very predictable story and a very formula package feel to to the whole production of it. But still,Gere and Roberts are eye candy here and so big fans of this genre who also are fans of these lead actors will still fairly be entertained......... "},{"Title":"Can you say stupid?","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I praise the previous reviewer, Gunnar, and I totally agree. Julia Roberts is simply the most overrated actress in Hollywood. She's just like Kirsten Dunst- they both are stuck playing moods. You can't separate any of their characters because it's just them being the same person and having different emotions, with the same facial expressions and manner of speaking. I don't care what the hell people say about Tom Cruise but he is a wonderful actor. So is Nicole Kidman. These are adults who really know how to act that don't just read the scripts and slip into Melodrama mode. People basically like Julia Roberts because she's one of those I'm not perfect looking and I'm still rich and successful and therefore people don't hate me, actresses.Brad Pitt, for example, is obviously very much admired for his looks. But besides that, he knows how to act. Check him out in Interview with the Vampire and Seven Years in Tibet. He is a gorgeous man and is actually passionate about his job, which he doesn't suck at.But back to this movie- Richard Gere is retarded in this, which doesn't surprise me. He can act okay but for some reason chooses not to. If you want to see him in a movie that doesn't make you want to throw up, watch The Mothman Prophecies.This movie, badly, sucks. It's horrible. I hated it. Hollywood just took two big names and threw them in a movie to make a couple of billion dollars. It's never even about the acting anymore- it's just the money.Julia Roberts is not that attractive and she can't act. Nicole Kidman is gorgeous and she is one of the best actresses of the century. Watch her. And don't see some stupid movie like this again hoping to actually get some talent out of these people. If you want real acting and sex, watch Eyes Wide Shut.Damn I hate this movie.0/10. "},{"Title":"Here we go","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Really Really bad film. I went to see it with my mother while in London in late ´99 and does it suck. The plot is horrible, the acting is descent but overall the film stinks. There is nothing really special about it, the script is lousy and it supposed to be called a Romantic comedy however I cant understand why on earth they say comedy because there is absolutely nothing funny in this film. Richard Gere was descent but Julia oh yes Julia was as always terrible ( Julia Roberts is probably the most overrated actress in Hollywood. In twenty years from now on we will be thinking did this woman win an Oscar. And she´s not that pretty either). Overall a stinker that deserved to be a box-office flop. 2/10.  "},{"Title":" I know in my heart that you're the only one for me","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts is frustrating as Margaret in this unlikely romance movie. The supporting cast is unusual. The costumes are demure. One of the fair films in the genre, Runaway Bride issues seldom romances. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A waste of celluloid","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the worst film I have ever seen.Richard Gere is even more irritating than usual, with his constant confused mugging to the middle distance and Julia Roberts' desperate pout combine with this to produce the most nauseatingly bland film it should (although probably won't) be possible to produce. Combined with the painful product-placement, which produced the closest thing to a wry smile in the whole film (the Fed-Ex 'joke' that was shown in the trailers) it all adds up to a relentlessly trite and desperately, depressingly flavourless visual and audio candybox.I hope never to see anything like it again. "}{"Title":"Roberts and Gere are back and better than ever!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie, and will always laugh at the Focus, focus! Julia Roberts' role is awesome and she couldn't have played it better! The storyline is good too! Richard Gere acts like a dork in this film, but Julia Roberts makes up for it. The soundtrack is good too, with  classic songs, pop, rock, and U2!!!!! (that tells you...?) See this film "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really did like Runaway Bride.  I think too many people were expecting Pretty Woman and they just didn't get it.  If you just put Pretty Woman completely out of mind you will probably really enjoy this movie.  Runaway Bride had a good (really pretty) cast, a fairly decent plot, and a great soundtrack. I'd give this movie a 8/10 "},{"Title":"RUNAWAY BRIDE  Great Music, top-shelf cast...and that last 15-minutes","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Runaway Bride, a light and lively, squeaky-clean, romantic-comedy gets a '9'. I have to agree that the last 15-minutes are questionable, but the film is a winner.As a New York transplant, I 'bought' R.G.'s portrayal of super-stressed, sarcastic, New York reporter Ike Graham. I was not convinced that his acting, in this particular film, was responsible for that. I would be more inclined to link it to Gere's outspoken, public personality. Nevertheless, it worked. Julie was great as 'been-around country girl' Maggie Carpenter (though those of us who indeed suffer with panic/anxiety disorders might argue that their seriousness was underplayed). She obviously put a lot of work into this role, and that, too, worked. Joan's portrayal of Maggie's cousin Peggy was highly complimentary. 'Dad', 'Grammie', 'Ellie' and 'Fisher' were warm, human touches (some of us can distinguish this movie from Pretty Woman), and 'Betty Trout' added considerably to small town reality. The only character I had a problem with was 'Bob', who was simply too unrealistic. About those last 15 minutes Should editing have struck them, and allowed us all to call it a day? Not in my opinion. The last 15 minutes were vital to this film because the main characters had not changed enough. They needed to learn more about themselves, and about each other. Rent this one! You can't go wrong with a Garry Marshall. "},{"Title":"Had she been smart, she'd have kept right on running","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Pretty good little romantic comedy with good performances, locations, and a decent script. May fave is still My Best Friend's Wedding so this will just have to be an also ran. Still it was a cleverly written, nicely done picture and, hey, Julia is in it. "},{"Title":"Not a bad film","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think I had quite a high anticipation when the film was released. I won't say the film is suprisingly good, but it is quite worth watching given the cast and their acting. Julia Roberts was not truly at her best in this show. The chemistry between Julia and Richard Gere was also not quite evident in this movie. Overall, I would say this is a rather average film. "},{"Title":"Two different people,...two different lives,...one match","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Maggie Carpenter (Julia Roberts) is a country girl that has a problem with men. They purpose, she gets the gown, here comes the bride and then there goes the bride. But soon she will meet Mr. Perfect. Ike Grahm (Richard Gere) is a city guy that wants to get the true story of Miss Carpenter. But he gets a little more then that when he falls in love with her. It's now a game of catch me if you can. "},{"Title":"predictable,but pretty good.","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  it  was pretty good i thought.but near to the end predictable  as to what would happen next.but it was worth watching.it reminded me of a friend i have she has been engaged 6 times but never married yet! i guess you could also predict what would happen by the name of the movie too! "},{"Title":"2 hours of my life down the drain!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If anyone ever asks me what the worst film I have ever seen is, I have no hesitation in nominating this one. I don`t know how I got to the end, I think I was assuming that sooner or later something amusing or endearing must happen....Wrong! The only reason I gave it 2 out of 10 is to give me leeway just in case I ever see a film which is as bad....but longer! "},{"Title":"Avoid it if you can (spoiler).","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Gosh! This is one of the worst films I've ever seen!I rented this because I wanted some lighthearted fun, but I found out it's plain awful! A ridiculous plot, silly jokes, bad writing ... everything made me hate this film. Even my mum at some point said What's this??.They don't even save us the pathetic explanation of the reason why Julia runs away from her potential husbands... guess what? Because her father is an alcoholic! Please don't waste your money on this. Anyway, this is the film that decided me on never to watch another Hollywood romantic comedy for a long time to come. "},{"Title":"Touching and makes me happy","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As far as movies go, this is one of the ones that always puts me in a good mood.  Richard Gere and Julia Roberts are fabulous together, like they were in Pretty Woman.  I also loved Pretty Woman, so perhaps I'm just big into this genre. "}{"Title":"More predictable than bad popcorn","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride is a smoking gun for every critic who complains about lack of substance in big Hollywood productions.  I found the movie painful to watch because nearly every plot shift, every line, every event is predictable. It is a trite movie for people who claim to be romantics, but like their romanticism homogenized.  The most liberating aspect of the movie came when it ended.  I was, at last, empowered to declare that never again would I enter a movie theater to watch a Julia Roberts movie. "},{"Title":"Flat, boring, painful to watch","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I rented it but had to give up about half way through. Very boring, none of the characters were likeable or believable. We didn't see the end but it was pretty clear who was going to end up with whom and the problem was we didn't really care.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I guess I'm a romantic sucker, but this movie was so full of small but poignant little images that retold the whole story all by themselves.  The shot where the little girl was riding the horse past the boy on the mechanical one - HELLO- was that not genius?  Oh and to open the film up with that beautiful shot of the bride on horseback with the flowing dress in the wind through the fall colors (that so compliment the romantic-ness of the film AND Julia Roberts' skin).  And the names of the little shops in the town- Inn Hale tavern something - I forgot but it was cute, curl up and dye for the salon, that was adorable- I'm a hairdresser and I've never heard that one, that's so cute!  Oh I just loved it.  I can't wait to see what else these two writers come up with next  "},{"Title":"Syrupy nonsense","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You generally know where you are with a romantic comedy - for the most part you can make a pretty good guess what you are going to be served and can only hope that it gets served with a little panache. Runaway Bride has precious little panache - it has a few interesting ingredients - Joan Cusack rarely fails to improve a movie, Christopher Meloni turns in a convincing and amusing performance, Laurie Metcalf is entertaining for a while (and then annoying) and Julia Roberts is engaging and charming. It has a down side too - the plot is as thin as expected and stretching it to close to two hours makes it seem even thinner. Richard Gere is a dull grey and uncharming romantic lead and the poorly paced and product placed ensemble makes for a pretty run of the mill film. It passed the time. An uninteresting dish, too big and too much sugar. Four. "},{"Title":"I did not expect to like this movie...","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ... so I was not at all surprised when I didn't. Nothing justifies the making of this movie it is not romantic, it is not funny, it is not charming. The characters are not interesting, the dialogues are not interesting, the plot is not interesting, Julia Roberts is too old to keep on making characters of this kind, Richard Gere is his usual inexpressive self. Hector Elizondo is completely wasted. The scene where she is rebuffed by the saleswoman at the bridal dress store is identical to another scene in Pretty Woman.Many people have noticed how this movie is mostly a big shiny ad for USA Today (well, you have to, unless you are brain dead), but I think nobody remarked on the Fed Ex ad, when she flees the church in a truck with a big FED EX lettering and when Rita Wilson asks where is she going?, Elizondo answers, I don't know, but she'll surely be delivered by tomorrow at 1030 am. How blatant can you get, I wonder.The best thing you can say about this is that at least it is not an ode to prostitution like Pretty Woman. You know, like in spend a few years on your back and then you'll meet a millionaire who will keep you in style for the rest of your life. Whatever. "},{"Title":"Exactly What You Expect - Spoiler","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I usually don't fall asleep in movies no matter how bad, but had done so a decade ago while watching Pretty Woman.  Not a good omen when Runaway Bride has the same director, two leading actors, and essentially the same type of story. Well I didn't fall asleep this time, but considering the bludgeoning I received, one would have thought (or hoped) that I would lose consciousness. Runaway Bride is another saccharine, love story of two unlikely persons, who start out hating one another, but by the end of the movie, fall in love. Richard Gere plays a reporter who writes an article on Julia Robert's proclivity to change her mind at the alter and physically run away. She's done it three times, but he erroneously reports seven, and as a consequence, he's fired.  Learning that she's about to marry again he heads to her small-town Maryland home to report, and hopefully, regain his job. If you cannot figure out the rest...maybe you should rent the movie. If you like this sort of thing, also rent the movie, because it's right up your alley. If you don't particularly like romances&#133;..avoid this movie as it only contains syrupy mush. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw two movies that day and this was the second one...I was thinking oh well i'll go see it , it'll be ok..Boy, Was I wrong!  It was better than I thought it would be..It was hilarious..I laughed at the movie and throughly enjoyed it more...Roberts and Gere were great together..I don't remember Pretty Woman that well(I don't even remember it at all actually) but I remembered Runaway Bride after the movie was over.  This is a very good romantic comedy and its rating, PG makes it recommended for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It took me 3 different times of trying just to get through this movie. Thank goodness I never made it to the big screen to see it as it definitely wasn't even worth the rental fee, much less a full price theater. A very disappointing Julia Roberts movie. "},{"Title":"This is not Pretty woman 2 (unfortunately...)","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Richard Gere and Julia Roberts were the couple of my dreams - ten years ago in Pretty woman. It was a wonderful old-fashioned romance, a ferry tale. I expected to see something like a sequel, but I was wrong. Runaway bride is a completely different movie. Less tears, more slapstick - I suppose that´s why the whole story seemed a little unfinished to me. I had the impression, that director Garry Marshall relied to much on the attraction of his two stars. But I must say in fairness if you don´t compare  the two movies (or you´re in the minority that didn´t watch Pretty woman), it´s a nice comedy that wants to entertain you for a few minutes (otherwise you  will be disappointed). Nothing more, nothing less. But not a classic romance like Pretty woman. "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting Runaway Bride to be as good as Pretty Woman, it has an excellent cast, a good idea and a great director. However, Runaway Bride is no Pretty Woman. It is a boring, silly, annoying and pointless piece of cinema that is very hard to like. It is quite hard to pick out any good bits in this movie, and from the very start, you can tell it is going to be almost unbearable to watch. Runaway Bride is overall an unfunny, uncharming, undelightful and absolute terrible film that you shouldn't waste your time over.And hey, I can't even give it an extra point for the acting.Rating 3 "}{"Title":"Julia Good, Gere Bad (is Gere ever good ?)","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well the movie is on cable, and my butt is planted firmly on the sofa for an evening of Julia Roberts. I simply love Julia Roberts and if i sound like a gushing fan it's probably because i am. But does that mean i have to like every film she's been in ? That wouldn't make me terribly bright would it ?. Anyhow on i go  This would have been a good film in the hands of someone else than Garry Marshall and without Gere looking cocky and thoughtful his every moment on the screen. He appears to think him appearing in a film is a favor of biblical proportions but sorry Mister Gere you don't ring any bells with this avid movie goer. Please stop acting and take up golf ?. And of course, while you're out on the eighteenth hole, it wouldn't hurt to have Mister Marshall as your caddy (it'll keep him from getting behind another camera). Julia saved this film but being completely annoying and fluffy. Speaking of annoying  Does anybody else wanna slap Joan Cusack ?Arthur P. "},{"Title":"Cozy and cute comedy.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Garry Marshall's idea of comedy sometimes gets stale quick. This movie is so predictable, but cute enough to keep you watching. Richard Gere plays a newspaper reporter that smacks of being sexist. He causes problems for himself by embellishing a story about a young woman that has a string of future husbands standing alone at the altar. The bride-to-be is played by the fetching Julia Roberts. After losing his job, the reporter tries to get the other side of the Runaway Bride story. And of course, the investigation gets up close and personal.Gere and Roberts make a good team to watch, as proven with PRETTY WOMAN. The rest of the cast is enjoyable Joan Cusack, Hector Elizondo and Rita Wilson.  "},{"Title":"Gere, Roberts, Marshall...You know the drill...","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You know, I've seen this movie before...When it was called Pretty Woman. Yea, that's right, this movie is a rehashed Pretty Woman, all the way down to the scene in the wedding store when she is thinking about buying a $1000 dress and the saleswoman tells her it is very expensive and she has more less expensive dresses that would suit her better.  Come on Gary, tried to slip that one buy us huh? Overall, the movie is good, but it just couldn't stand on it's own two legs.  This movie would not have been made without the success of Pretty Woman as it's predecessor.  Richard Gere is very funny in his role as a USA Today columnist (Ike) whom has just been fired for writing a false story about a woman who sets up weddings, only to run out on the groom at the last moment; hence Runaway Bride. Julia Roberts reprises her role as the hooker from the streets...oops, wrong movie again, they're just so much alike.  Julia Roberts plays Maggie, a hardware store owner who just can't go through with the big day. This film could have been Pretty Woman quality, but director Gary Marshall (Pretty Woman) tried too much to make it like the hit blockbuster preceding it. I must say that Julia looks VERY beautiful in this movie, and I am getting quite tired of seeing that older Gere kiss her! ) My recommendation is to talk your girlfriend into renting it, and watch her live in the shoes of Julia Roberts for a couple of hours, then tell her your name is Richard Gere, and have some fun. "},{"Title":"Movies like this make me hate romantic comedy","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow...I'm still speechless at how pathetic and predictable this movie was.  And that's months later!  I recently saw Erin Brockovich, which is exactly the kind of movie Julia Roberts should working on instead of the same old hum-drum bull included in this movie.  Let's review some of the finer points which made me cringe in terror. The small-town characters - oh, they're local yokels, how cute!  Don't we love them?  GOD NO!  They're the same hicks we see in every single romantic comedy since the dawn of time!  And I saved a section for one of them -The Old Lady - aw, she's really old, so anything she says is funny, especially if it concerns SEX!  Haha, I love laughing at stereotypes.  How condescending can a movie be?  To get that mature laugh out of its intellectual audiences, we have an old lady talk about(of all things!) sex...wow, great innovation, maybe we should stick Jim Carrey in the sequel. Predictable much? - yeah, I know, they'll wind up together, but could the plot twists be anymore formulated?   Laughter? - I didn't laugh.  At all.  Maybe I'm too cynical for this world, but isn't the point of a romantic comedy to stimulate the mind and enlighten us with innovative comedy while at the same time stirring us to question relationships and life in general?  Save your money folks, go see something truly humorous, like a Woody Allen film or something.  Let us never see Pretty Woman 3. "},{"Title":"Date movie fails to connect.","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ike is a sexist journalist who recently targets the Runaway Bride, a tool girl (Roberts) who is getting married again. After getting fired, he sets out to get his job back, going after her. The movie purely targets the dating couple, as Julia treads familiar territory in yet another romantic comedy. Unlike her predecessors, this one is actually boring. It drags and drags until the actual planned wedding happens and a funny Fed-Ex joke is given. You can cuddle up on the couch with this one, but how long before you pass out? "},{"Title":"Save your money, don't see this movie.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It seems the budget for this movie was too big, and they had to build this whole 'perfect' fake town and film it. It wants to be sweet as sugar, but ends up vinegar. A very poor attempt at a romantic comedy.If you like romantic comedies there are about a thousand others that are much better than Runaway Bride. I would suggest Pretty Woman.  "},{"Title":"Movie C  DVD B","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runaway Bride	C/B				3.17.00		2.351/5.1 	First Viewing		Anamorphic WidescreenThe usual suspects are here in this pure Hollywood flick.  Gere brings himself down to the level of the actors around him instead of bring them up.  What was up with that accent?  The DVD includes director's commentary if anyone cares to listen, and a music video.  "},{"Title":"Been there, done that","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A pleasant but overlong diversion, nothing more.Julia Roberts has been in both better romantic comedies (eg My Best Friend's Wedding) and funnier ones (eg Notting Hill).<SPOILER>The romance between Roberts and Richard Gere develops reasonably naturally UNTIL she blows off (a phrase, BTW which has a totally different meaning in Australia than in the US... I'm using the US meaning in this review!) her then-current fiance and she and Gere decide - in that very scene - to get married instead. The wedding doesn't happen of course which is both silly and predictable. The reason however is the correct one, revealed the obligatory reconciliation 10 minutes later.The film descends from fluff to ludicrousness when the paparazzi covering the wedding decide to - quote - leave the poor guy alone - unquote after being left by the altar.</SPOILER> "},{"Title":"One of the years worst films!","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Watching this movie was enough to make me puke.  If you want to see a good Julia Roberts film this year watch Notting Hill.   Runaway Bride was very boring and unrealistic, for some reason people have claimed that is was full of fun, but I thought that Richard Gere and Roberts both participated in the worst films of their brilliant careers.  If you want to see Gere and Roberts tonight go watch, Sleeping with the Enemy and The Jackal "},{"Title":"Roberts' shimmering performance saves dopey story","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts can raise the quality of any movie just by walking across the screen. That ten thousand-watt smile has 'glamorous movie star' written all over it, but she still seems to carry herself as if she were an Everywoman, and that's a true mark of an actress. No mere pretty face, she!Her costar, Richard Gere, doesn't have that same quality. How many movies can you name in which Gere plays an arrogant, self-satisfied jerk? You'd spend a long time counting them all up. It's this lack of depth that prevents Runaway Bride from being as good as deserves to be.By now, you know the plot. Roberts can't commit to anyone, so she's made a practice of dumping her hubbies-to-be at the altar - hence her ungainly monicker, The Runaway Bride. Gere, a arrogant, self-satisfied reporter for USA Today, gets a wind of the tale and writes a snotty, scathing piece in his column. (How this man even GOT a column with his ethics and reportorial style is an ageless mystery!) Naturally, Roberts complains and the hotshot is summarily fired - by his ex-wife, no less. He follows up by visiting Roberts and basically harassing her and her family and friends. Somewhere in all of this we're supposed to find him a little endearing, as if he's out to prove something. Prove something? He acted like a complete and thoughtless jerk, and we're supposed to pity him? If Julia's character were really smart, she'd have gotten a restraining order against this beast. "}{"Title":"Definitely NOT up to the standard of Pretty Woman","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I suppose my thinking about this movie is not very original, but I was expecting Runaway Bride to equal or exceed Pretty Woman ---which it definitely DID NOT!!!  There wasn't any fire or zap to the performances---chemistry was zilch.  I had been dragging my feet about renting it, but was getting comments pro and con from friends and relatives; so, I jumped in. Now, I like Julia Roberts and have seen most of her movies, but after this one and Notting Hill, I would be inclined to chop a million or so off her asking price until she can produce more satisfying performances.   "},{"Title":"OK, but don't get your hopes up","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found the reunited team from Pretty Woman a decent watch, but it just wasn't everything I expected from it.  There are some touching and funny moments, but I just didn't care as much about the characters as I did in Notting Hill.There were some periods where the story lagged.  Granted it was pretty late when I watched it, but I had to back up the tape a couple of times due to nodding off.Overall, a pretty good date movie - - just don't expect Notting Hill or Pretty Woman.  Score  6 "},{"Title":"Runaway and hide from the Runaway Bride!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This combination might have worked in Pretty Woman, which I admit was a very good & well-written movie.Then along comes the same two actors in virtually the same basic story and it was a severe mistake.The biggest laugh during the whole movie when I went to see it was me yelling out Runaway and Hide from the Runaway Bride!However it was better than Election at least I stayed relatively awake through this one. "},{"Title":"Entretaining","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Entretaining is the perfect word that describes the movie. Personally, I think that after the boom of Pretty Woman (personally I haven't seen it) Julia and Richard could give something more in any movie. The idea of the movie is kind a dumb. Is most embarrassing leaving a wedding the way that Julia Roberts this this way, that the scary a wedding can be, it just doesn't make any sense in a movie like that. And who believes that somebody can do all of this four times or even more!  Besides all of that, the movie might be entretaning sometimes, and even funny. So, that is the kind a movie that you like to watch a boring afternoon, but is a waste of money to watch it in the movie theater.  "},{"Title":"A great disappointment of a movie. First Julia movie we didn't like","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After a number of weeks of disrupted plans my wife and I finally got to see Runaway Bride this evening. It gets one thumb down and one sideways. We had great anticipation beforehand and great disappointment by the end. Richard Gere was as always very pleasant to watch but we thought that Julia Roberts was not at all attractive in most of the film and an unpleasant character. There were a few good moments in the film but near enough of them. Without giving away the story, there was an anti-climax wedding and we happily thought that it was over. Guess what you had to sit through another twenty minutes of a poor flickFirst time I ever saw a bad Julia Roberts movie. "},{"Title":"Rolling out the cliches","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I knew it wasn't going to be great, all my friends told me, but I'm a sucker for romantic comedy so I went anyway.  God, it was boring!  Every old cliche rolled out for the umpteenth time -- if I see a couple stroll through a picturesque spot as one of them says, Do you believe there's just one person for everyone? one more time I'm going to scream.  And the obvious set-ups.  Gere's speech about I can promise you there will be bad times might as well have had a banner on it -- Big Speech to be Parroted Back at End of Movie. You know these actors have script approval -- what are they thinking?  Are they so aware that they could read the phone book and people would pay anyway that they don't care about the quality of the material?  As for Joan Cusack -- I know she needs to work, but she should turn down these quirky girlfriend roles on principal. A character who actually says she's quirky!  Just in case we didn't get it.  Ditto Hector Alessandro -- use a little discrimination. The dialog was inept and trite. Did I mention I didn't care for the movie? "},{"Title":"Runaway Boring","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Boy, I've just come from seeing this movie and i'm sorry to say that this is a sure bomb. The jokes aren't funny, the romance is stupid and cliched and the by the way did Julia, Joan or Richard actually read this script? This is far too long, drawn out and definitely not worth watching! "},{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I want to let everyone know that I did not choose to see this movie; in fact, I never had any desire to see this movie. Second, I have never been a fan of Julia Roberts; I find her to be a one-note actress, at best. Given that, you could say that my expectations for this movie were pretty dismal. This is the part where I'm supposed to say something like, ...but, to my surprise, I was thoroughly entertained. Well...I'm not going to say anything remotely similar to that. I hated this flimsy, fluffy, completely predictable movie! Weak plot, stiff acting, wasted Joan Cusack...all in all, a complete mess, and a complete waste of my time. BTW, this is the last time I get railroaded into seeing a movie that I'm not interested in seeing. YUCK! "},{"Title":"Pretty Women II just did not work!!!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As much as I enjoy Julia Roberts and Richard Gere, this movie was cute but really not good. It had some decent dialogue but the story line was lame and the fact that it was untraditional didn't help much. I liked the soundtrack from it and I got a couple of laughs out of it, but not much more.If you wanna see a great Julia Roberts and Richard Gere movie, go see Pretty Woman.  "},{"Title":"Content-free, non-caloric fluff.  If only it tasted good.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The best part of this movie was a scene in which the family sat down to a table full of blue crabs.  There's nothing really exciting about that scene - I just happen to like blue crabs.This is the best I can say about this movie.  The rest of it was so vacuous that I can't think of anything particularly bad to say about it, either, except that it irrevocably removed a couple hours from my life. "}{"Title":"Entertaining but quite lame","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In Pretty Woman, I hated Gere.. but in Runaway Bride.. I hate Roberts for her selfishness. All in all.. Pretty Woman is still the best movie for this couple.  There are something missing in Runaway Bride.. lack of chemistry between the couple and to the audience. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, entertaining fluff-just what I want movies to be","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't particularly care for Pretty Woman-the one spectacular scene-Julia laughing as Gere snaps the jewelry case on her is a spontaneous moment caught on film-NOT acting. I found very little in it charming. HOWEVER...... THIS movie is very charming; I very much enjoyed it. And PLEASE! Give us more Joan Cusack!! SHE is hillarious! I hate preachy, pretentious movies. I don't go to movies for a sermon, I go for entertainment. This was great entertainment! "},{"Title":"Save Your Money - Rent Pretty Women Instead","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For those of you that were waiting for a Richard Gere -  Julia Roberts rematch, this movie will truly be a disappointment. My suggestion is to save the cost of going to a first run movie ( especially the high cost of the snack bar) and rent Pretty Women instead. At least you can fast forward to the good scenes.I would be surprised if you see these two actors take on a joint project again. "},{"Title":"Tastes like leftovers","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This could have been a great movie.  It should have been a great movie.  I wanted it to be a great movie.  It was a pretty good movie, but it wasn't a great movie.I know it's not a PRETTY WOMAN sequel, but with Garry Marshall directing Richard Gere, Julia Roberts, Hector Elizondo, and Larry Miller, I couldn't help but expect at least some of the old magic.  And RUNAWAY BRIDE starts with lots of promise.  Good characters, interesting plot, actors I enjoyed watching.  But after a while, every scene seems like little more than a setup for the next punch line.  In any romantic comedy, especially in a Garry Marshall romantic comedy, and ESPECIALLY in a Garry Marshall romantic comedy starring Gere and Roberts, I know how I want it to end.  And at a certain point, I don't want any more plot twists ands turns, I just want to see the ending I happily paid 8 bucks for.  I'm willing to play the will-they-or-won't-they game for just so long.  RUNAWAY BRIDE messes with that formula a bit too much, and it ended up frustrating me.  And I had really enjoyed it up to that point.  After a while, it seemed like the story was being prolonged just for the sake of prolonging it.  It seemed forced.I won't spoil anything, but I will say that I loved the movie up until the scene with the FedEx truck.  Everything after the FedEx truck was unnecessary and frustrating.  That last 15 minutes or so took an 8 out of 10 movie and made it much harder than it needed to be.  Final vote 6 out of 10.Sequel or not, people will invariably compare it to PRETTY WOMAN.  If Marshall had wanted RUNAWAY BRIDE to stand on its own, he could have cast different actors.  (Kevin Costner or David Duchovny come to mind as the male, Jenna Elfman or Sandra Bullock opposite.)  But instead, I left the theatre with the taste of leftovers in my mouth; I liked it better the first time around. "},{"Title":"Oh dear, oh dear","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After Pretty Woman, it would be assumed that the new vehicle for Julia Roberts and Richard Gere would have similar success. I sincerely hope it doesn't. Although, on occasion an  intentionally funny movie, the frankly vomit-inducing final 20 minutes take it from an OK movie to an awful one. Initially promising, the film turns into a mawkish load of twaddle, not helped by the conveniently forgotten plotlines and, yet again, glossed-over age difference between two leads. This will undoubtedly do big business at the box office, mainly by those eager to see a repeat of Pretty Woman  "},{"Title":"Oh dear, oh dear","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After Pretty Woman, it would be assumed that the new vehicle for Julia Roberts and Richard Gere would have similar success. I sincerely hope it doesn't. Although, on occasion an  intentionally funny movie, the frankly vomit-inducing final 20 minutes take it from an OK movie to an awful one. Initially promising, the film turns into a mawkish load of twaddle, not helped by the conveniently forgotten plotlines and, yet again, glossed-over age difference between two leads. This will undoubtedly do big business at the box office, mainly by those eager to see a repeat of Pretty Woman &#150; I hope the critics  "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Despite me loving Julia Roberts and Richard Gere as actors, think the script is ridiculous.Reporters and journalists do not tell the truth one bit, they make their whole careers on lies, fabrications, sensationalism and fear stories and just ridiculous how they try to turn this on its head.In real life journalist offices, the more outrageous, juicy, hyped up and fabricated the story, the more you are praised and all journalists work to deadlines at the last minute.Whole story absurd and find it most shocking that two high profile great actors and great directors would choose to work on such a pile of crap script. Am astounded. "},{"Title":"GREAT !! Acting by Everybody in this one","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can understand why there were so many low votes for this EXCEPTIONALLY good movie in my opinion. There was NO! nudity, Very Little Bad language, Very Little Violence ( I believe just one punch in the nose) and the story line was just nothing but SUPERB !! It is no wonder most would not care for it, because there was not allot of faultiness in this entire movie, that most seem to crave now days. Just a Romantic Comedy drama at its VERY BEST !!!!! Richard Gere 10 for acting Julie Roberts 10 for acting . Just a very FUNNN MOVIE,,, I really LOVED IT !!!! From beginning to end this movie kept your attention riveted to the brewing love affair that you knew from the beginning that just had to happen. Funny is hardly the word that kept a broad smile on ones face the entire way through it. Although the plot is assumed from the beginning the way the plot was worked out came as a little surprise in getting to the conclusion. I watched this movie twice in 2 days and I was as much entertained the second time through as I was the first, just because of the Geteat !! acting of the Julie and Richard. This movie is a MUST see for all those who would appreciate lots of laughter without the stench of sex and immorality. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous movie!","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The movie is just as ridiculous as the story! Runaway Bride is predictable and lame. Even fans of the romantic comedy genre will be disappointed by it. For a comedy at has an awful few laughs and all the characters are stereotypical. This movie doesn't offer much pleasure or original surprises, story wise.It sounds weird but there absolutely is no chemistry between Julia Roberts and Richard Gere. Because of this alone the movie already is an huge failure.But thing that bugged me the most were the 'amature home video's' in the movie. They were filmed completely with different camera angles and were edited perfectly together. Couldn't they at least had tried to make it look like it was filmed by an amateur? Yes, it sounds nit-picky but seriously, it ruined a lot for me. I absolutely hated it and it seriously made me mad. I really don't understand what they were thinking while filming it...It's sort of symbolic for how the entire movie is; poorly made, not believable, simply a failure.Not exactly the worst movie ever but if you want to see a romantic comedy there are better movies to watch out there. Thrust me.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"You could watch half of the film to get the idea","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is about a girl who kept running away while someone was trying to marry her. Literally so she had already escaped amazing number of weddings, when a newspaper journalist wrote an article about her heroic deeds. Since his article was not based on facts, he got fired. His last chance was to prove that the story was true, that’s why he set off after the girl. And then we learn some more details about her behaviour.I don’t know the end of the story because I haven’t watched the film up to the end. I guess that newspaper journalist has finally married the girl and got his job back at the same time. Those kind of movies always have happy end so you don't need to watch them through. I think there is nothing special about the film, it is just a mediocre entertainment. "}{"Title":"Not even worth the video tape...","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is probably the worst ever film I have seen with such a famous cast. Already the story plot is more than stupid - why should a journalist take any kind of interest in a woman just because she dumped a few men? It's just so ridiculous and boring that you want to switch off after a few minutes. Jokes are missing, there is no real romance at all, you really ask yourself why so many plastic had to be produced for the video tapes of this movie - thats a case for Greenpeace actually! "},{"Title":"Garry Marshall ought to be ashamed of himself......","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was a great idea to get Julia Roberts and Richard Gere together again.  Just one thing, you needed a script and a plot. It isn't even funny.  The attempt at comedy is stale and cliched. This movie is an insult.  This from the man who directed The Odd Couplefor television? Mr. Marshall could have done a lot better than this. Save your money and skip this piece of trash and rent Pretty Woman again.  Unless you are a hardcore Julia Roberts fan, this one really sucks. I give it * out of *****. Julia needs to get out of her aren't I just adorable attitude.  She is really getting obnoxious.   "},{"Title":"I can't understand...","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  the reason which pushed  so many garbage-movies last year. Runaway bride, Notting hill, Next best thing, the bachelor, blair witch project; movies for primitive  brains and shot in an elementary way. Julia Roberts seems to me a new Doris Day. Thanks to the people who made movies like Being J. Malkovich, american beauty, the matrix, fight club, and saved us from this invasion fifties style. Honey I'm home "},{"Title":"Tastes like leftovers","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This could have been a great movie.  It should have been a great movie.  I wanted it to be a great movie.  It was a pretty good movie, but it wasn't a great movie.I know it's not a PRETTY WOMAN sequel, but with Garry Marshall directing Richard Gere, Julia Roberts, Hector Elizondo, and Larry Miller, I couldn't help but expect at least some of the old magic.  And RUNAWAY BRIDE starts with lots of promise.  Good characters, interesting plot, actors I enjoyed watching.  But after a while, every scene seems like little more than a setup for the next punch line.  In any romantic comedy, especially in a Garry Marshall romantic comedy, and ESPECIALLY in a Garry Marshall romantic comedy starring Gere and Roberts, I know how I want it to end.  And at a certain point, I don't want any more plot twists ands turns, I just want to see the ending I happily paid 8 bucks for.  I'm willing to play the will-they-or-won't-they game for just so long.  RUNAWAY BRIDE messes with that formula a bit too much, and it ended up frustrating me.  And I had really enjoyed it up to that point.  After a while, it seemed like the story was being prolonged just for the sake of prolonging it.  It seemed forced.I won't spoil anything, but I will say that I loved the movie up until the scene with the FedEx truck.  Everything after the FedEx truck was unnecessary and frustrating.  That last 15 minutes or so took an 8 out of 10 movie and made it much harder than it needed to be.  Final vote 6 out of 10.Sequel or not, people will invariably compare it to PRETTY WOMAN.  If Marshall had wanted RUNAWAY BRIDE to stand on its own, he could have cast different actors.  (Kevin Costner or David Duchovny come to mind as the male, Jenna Elfman or Sandra Bullock opposite.)  But instead, I left the theatre with the taste of leftovers in my mouth; I liked it better the first time around. "},{"Title":"Poor comedy, dud romance, hilarious product placement","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Some crazy lady dramatically escapes weddings on horseback or something. A lazy journalist irresponsibly writes about her without researching the facts, and gets axed. Then he goes to meet her. Twisted premise, puzzling plot holes. Why do guys keep proposing to this creep? Why would someone with obvious mental illness be the heroine of a rom-com? Never explained.Another question why Richard Gere? He looks like a grenade exploded in his mouth and blew his face away. His vapid acting is about as effective as you would expect from somebody without a face, too. As for Julia Roberts, even playing Little Bo Peep would be almost too complex for her. The script is just the usual unlikely couple becomes a couple while other goofy stuff happens story line. But it does't work with such vile lead characters. Not to mention the horrible acting of grenade face and bo-peep. The endless subliminal messages to subscribe to USA Today don't help, either. To be fair; a few jokes work, such as the wedding rehearsal scene. But that's about it. Otherwise, this is one long winded product placement infomercial. I hope director Gary Marshall enjoyed his complementary copy of USA Today after making this. "}]