[{"Title":"Much Better Than Its Reputation; Short & Fun","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"196 out of 326 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, this final episode in the Jurassic series did not deserve all the bad reviews it got when it was released. In fact, it was a lot more enjoyable than the stupid second JP. Did it equal the first? No, of course not. The original story was easily the best of the three, but I found this an enjoyable movie and far better than what I had been led to believe.The filmmakers were smart in making this a short film. People had seen plenty of the dinosaurs by now so let's no overdo it...and they didn't with an film just under an hour-and-a-half (not including the final credits.).That made this short-and-sweet. We saw some new reptiles, had a few scares, enjoyed the beautiful jungle scenery (filmed in Hawaii) and - bang - it's over. The characters were fine, nobody totally annoying as in the second film. The lulls featured a family getting back together and finding their missing teen. Nothing wrong with that.A good story unfairly maligned and nice, short evening of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Why not go all the way","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see JP3 last night to vet it before I take my 6 year old daughter. She is desperate to see it having seen JP and the Lost world and generally loving dinosaurs. I am a great movie fan so have my own opinions on the film but first I'll address the suitability of this movie for young viewers. The original film and Lost World are true 'family movies' containing elements for everyone - decent story, good acting, great (groundbreaking) effects and humour etc. There's nothing wrong with kids being scared periodically, being scared is part of the whole monster movie experience. All that said, JP3 is too 'full on' for one as young as 6 and I think I'll try to get her to wait for DVD, to tone down the whole experience. She saw the first two at home and wont be expecting the sheer sound and visuals of this movie at the cinema. I would advise other parents the same, at least with kids this young.As for my opinion of the film - well, we've seen it all before. I've read many comments and agree with most. Its lame storyline is its down fall and this could've been so much better. In my opinion a far better film would have carried a 15 certificate at least. One they could have made for adults only, and really explored new territory and therefore could not be compared to the previous two. A huge audience loves scary films and monster movies so why not go for it with a proper modern day horror. Throw in a good conspiracy theory plot about INGEN and some realistic profanity and gut wrenching effects. In short give people what they really want. JP3 does niether for either age group.For your children, I reccommend the BBC's series 'Walking with Dinosaurs' it's informative and has near the same quality of effects.See for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Were the filmmakers high when they made this terrible film?","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Awful follow up to the first two Steven Spielberg dinosaur epics finds Sam Neill anchoring a brainless, exploitative and almost unwatchable monster movie that lacks the intelligence, fun and brains that made the first two Spielberg films memorable. The special effects look like a major down grade from the last two films and the dinosaurs look more like mechanical puppets. Sam Neill is a very good actor but not even he could mask the contempt he has on his face for staring in this film. Sam did not look like he wanted to be there and his performance reflexes that in spades. The story makes no sense and the actions by the characters are so far out there that you are screaming in disbelieve on how stupid they are. William H Macy is a great actor and even he looks miserable being in this film. Macy in his credit is actually somewhat funny but not much else. Tea Leoni, who can be a very decent actor is just horrid here and Alessandro Nivola gives a useless performance and he's a good indie actor.I don't know what made the filmmakers here to go low rent but its the worst sequel in the series. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the previous JP's.","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 was a shorter and less entertaining of the three. I thought this sequel might be good because JP2 was good but I was wrong! I have picked some notes while watching this movie. Usually Jurassic Park films are 2 hours long, this one is some 40 minutes less! and does not quite contain the same fun and horror it did on previous jp's. DR. Grant returns which is a suprise. It didn't have it's entertaining parts though i must admit. JP3 had amazing special effects, most probably the best out of the three. I have heard that Jurassic Park 4 will be released in 2004. Should I say this one will be a bad sequel as well?  "},{"Title":"Makes the American Godzilla remake look like a masterpiece in comparison.","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you can remember the Godzilla remake by Roland Emmerich & Dean Devlin, then you must have had nightmares on how bad it was. The bad rip offs of much better movies and the extremely corny, sentimental dialogs only written to please slow adults and small children. This movie was so bad in fact that you don't need Mike and the Bots from MST3K to make fun of it, the movie writes it's own punch lines for you to say. Any movie with Matthew Broderick as an action hero should be an indication on how bad it is, and with a monster that looks more like a raptor than the Godzilla who all know and love, the recipe for failure is pretty big.Which brings us to this film which is not only one of the worse sequels ever made but probably one of the worse films made period. Sam Neil is a great actor, but the film itself is so bad that it makes him look like a buffoon. The way they tried to make him into an Indiana Jones wannabe is not only sad but also flat out laughable. He comes more a cross more like Chevy Chase than Harrison Ford.  The casts of supporting characters fares no better and in some respect fare much worse. William H Macy is probably one of the best actors around but you really can't tell that by his performance here which is beyond annoying.  Tea Leoni is flat out annoying as well as his wife, a woman whose scream could chip years old paint. I think the only actor who fares decent here is the late Michael Jeter, who is barely in the film at all. His performance is funny, and could have benefited the film a lot more if he was in it more.The special effects are not as impressive as they were in the last two films, and the direction is very disjointed compared to what Spielberg was able to do with the first two movies.  Spielberg was able to create tension and create action scenes that can blow your socks off. Joe Johnson, who steps in for Mr. Spielberg this time around not only abandons what his predecessor had done before but completely disregards any logic that the other movies had. The first two films where about science and the dangers of tampering with nature. This film is just a strait forward monster movie that does not even have a plot to go by. The characters here are nothing more than Dinosaur food and the setting itself does not even look like the island of the last movie. There are even certain things in this film that even contradicts some of the information that was giving in the last two films, and it tries to bring in a dinosaur that was not even created in those movies.Its really sad to see Joe Johnson demean himself with a bad film like this, because he has done much better work in the past.  The Rocketter is a prime example of a good comic book movie, and October Sky is a well-paced family drama that should have had more notice in the theater. With this movie, Joe looks like he just wanted to cash a pay check, and judging by the way every thing in the film was done, it looks like every one involved were doing the same thing. Which is sad in a sense because it's the fans that pay for it in the long run.  "},{"Title":"One long TV pilot for a bad family series.","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one terrible, terrible movie, every thing that can go wrong in a motion picture of this size goes wrong with a savage gusto that can be attributed to the fact that no one working on this film wanted to make a quality film. The actors themselves look like they don't want to be in this film, and the direction of the film look too disjointed to be taken seriously. The screen play feels like it was written by a five year old and judging by the ending of this fluff piece, it looks like the five year old just gave up and went to sleep.The real sad part about all of this is the fact that it's a sequel to two much better movies (Jurassic Park and The Lost World) that had a lot of quality to them. Judging by the way this was handle, it looks like Steven Spielberg is finally getting too big for his own head and not to mention too lazy to care if the movies he's making are even good or not.  "},{"Title":"talking raptors??!!!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What was the point of doing another movie.  You could also say what was the point of me seeing that movie, at least it was a cheapie night.The plot itself is really ridiculous and the acting about the same, except maybe for Sam Neill who is not bad in his character. It would have made a nice tv movie but that's about it.  There is no really original or exciting moments in the film, and not a lot a scary parts.  The only time i jumped is when one of the character stepped on a staircase and almost fell.The special fx are ok but nothing ground breaking.  And what is this... talking raptors??!!  Next thing we'll see is a movie about talking apes.... (oops!)The movie may be fine for kids or teenagers( i'm sure McDonalds will sell a lot of happy meals), but if you want a minimum of a good time, avoid this one, go see shrek for a second time. "},{"Title":"Why???","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To sum it up, I actually wanted more characters to get eaten. They were poorly directed and annoying. The dinosaurs - sure, they looked pretty real, but the scare factor the trailers seemed to entice weren't even there. Why do they keep adding to an old franchise? Pretty soon, even the food supplies on Isla Sorna are going to get old and then what are the stranded people going to eat? "},{"Title":"i HOPE THIS SERIES IS EXTINCT...","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP1 was pretty good, JP2 was decent, and JP3 continues the horrific trend, producing a large pile of t-rex fecies.  This movie was incredibly boring, unrealisitc, and just all around terrible.  There is no scientific angle to it whatsoever.  It is just stupid people running from dinosaurs.  The only good thing about it is that it is only 90 minutes long, and I am no longer scared of dinosaurs.  In fact, I find them funny.  If you have insomnia and are looking for something to put you to sleep, I highly recomend this movie. 3/10 "},{"Title":"If you ever want your childhood crushed then just watch this movie","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am just going to quote Devindra on the /filmcast and what he said about this movie Seeing Jurassic Park 3 made me realize how dreams could be shatteredThis just sums up the whole movie. People exaggerate how bad the Phantom Menace is but this movie is impossible to exaggerate how horrible it was. The original Jurassic Park was pure gold, the second was not a good sequel but an OK movie but this movie will rape your childhood up the ass till you cry.Please no matter how interested you are in returning to Jurassic park...DON'T. This film does not even take place in Jurassic Park and the only thing really connecting it to the original is Sam Neal and that is it. "}{"Title":"Oh my god what a load of crap!","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has just one to many mistakes, they clearly did this movie with only one thing in mind to make money and fast! I can't believe that a director can suck that much. I mean the effect where okay but the plot and casting sucked, not that they are bad actors but they just did not fit in this movie. I will keep this short and leave it by saying if i could i would call up the director and say what where you thinking, are you that bad or did you just sell your soul? I give this movie 2/10 The 2 points are for the special effects but what good does that make when your sitting there irritated by all the unnecessary mistakes? "},{"Title":"Unneeded","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" JPIII is very good at what it tries to do. That is, update the formula used in its prequels to create even more lifelike dinosaurs. Unfortunately, it didn't try to do much of anything else, leaving us with yet another big, dumb, summer action flick... hardly the caliber of the previous films.Basically, the story goes like this a rich kid is taken to Costa Rica by his parents to do some para-sailing... and, for some reason, he decides that an island famed for its man-eating dinosaurs would be the best place to do it. Surprise, surprise Something Goes Wrong, and the kid is stranded on the island. Who do his parents go to for help? Dr. Grant, the paleontologist who happened to get himself involved with dinosaurs before. Rather than telling him the truth upfront, they con him into coming by giving him a big fake check and swearing that they will not touch down on the island. Dr. Grant agrees hesitantly to this condition. But when they get to the island, they touch down anyway, making their plane a prime target for a dinosaur attack. Something Goes Wrong again, and this time, Grant and the kid's parents are stuck as well.The plot pretty much ends right there, and that's only the first thirty minutes of the movie. The rest of the movie involves people running from and/or getting eaten by dinosaurs. Like I said, it's a big, dumb, action flick. If you're looking for something that even remotely has an air of the old Michael Crichton magic, look to the first two films. Jurassic Park III is the beginning of what will become a reiteration of the Jaws fiasco... endless sequels until one of them sucks so bad, it finds its home in the infamous Bottom 100 list. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Porn","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie reminded me a lot like a basic porn movie. It was short when compared to the first two Jurassic Park movies; only 90 minutes long like most sex flicks. There was basically no plot, no character development, and no Jeff Goldblum. It really reminded me of a porno, because the characters would talk alittle bit, and then get chased by dinosaurs for a long extended period of time. Now, if you just replace the aspect of getting chased by dinosaurs with some hot guy/girl, girl/girl, guy/guy, guy/gerbil, or dino/dino sex action; then you basically have the same movie. This movie is terrible compared to the first JP, and bad when measured up to the sequel. Now JP2 was no masterpiece either, but I will take very cheesy T-Rex smashing through San Diego any day, before hearing that damn cell phone go off again. Am so glad that JP4 is currently titled The Extinction, because after this installment this franchise needs a nice big fat Hailey's comet to smash right into it leaving every dinosaur/character dead expect Jeff Goldblum. Goldblum is the man!!!! Anyway, you will get some entertainment value from the dinosaurs, but don't except much. Just turn off your brain, and enjoy a semi fun ride which includes getting chase by dinosaurs, getting chased by flying dinosaurs, getting chased by more dinosaurs, and yea thats about it. I should have probably have given this movie at least a five, for its effort; but the ending was so stupid and abrupt that I had to dock it a point. Its worth one viewing, and one viewing only. "},{"Title":"Eminently Forgettable","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why did Sam Neill return to the beasts? Why did Spielberg? Schindler's List The Return would make more sense. Sly Stallone has nothing on this bazillionaire.And perhaps worst of all is the totally unimportant score of Williams. Williams can write the occasional catchy tune, especially if it's supposed to be in the spirit of that great soul and blues man John Philip Sousa, but ask him to write incidental or a love theme and you go turkey. In fact it's a good guess that Star Wars I and II foundered as bad as they did because the score enhanced this empty stilted feeling.If one thing remains - even subliminally - after JP3 it's the totally spiritless and uninspired score. Why the rest of that crew - Sam what were you thinking - would return to the big bugs is beyond comprehension.Rent Rocky XXXIV instead. "},{"Title":"Two's company, three's a crowd. J.P. 3 doesn't compare to the first two.","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic park. The name alone strikes images of people, running and screaming--bleeding and sweating--from huge, ugly, fast, vicious DINOSAURS. Oh, joy. Now, don't get me wrong, I liked the first two movies alright, but I mean, come ON, people! It's like the old saying, Two's company, three's a crowd. In my opinion, this has gone overboard. There are some good aspects, but the bad tend to overthrow the good, in this case. For example, the graphics were 'a little bit of alright', but they didn't show enough dinosaurs besides the T-rex and the Raptors, so what's the point? Or, that some parts were great, and made you jump out of your seat, but there was NO PLOT! There they are. Run. Must get off island. There they are again. Run. Doesn't quite cut it in my book! And while the first two had the same underlying plot, they weren't nearly as predictable as this one. I don't understand how people can perfer a movie like this VS....Oh, let's say a masterpiece like Final Fanatsy.  People REALLY need to wake up, 'cause at this point, it's just sad "},{"Title":"Works on the basis that you don't expect something remotely as fascinating as the original, but still hunger for a shallow 90 minute thrill ride. *** (out of four)","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"124 out of 233 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JURASSIC PARK 3 / (2001) *** (out of four)By Blake French	Jurassic Park 3 is not as good as the first but a whole lot better than the second. It's also the first film in the series that is not based on a novel by Michael Crichton. That's basically JP3 in a nutshell. It's not necessarily a great movie, nor does it break any new grounds of adventure or take many risks, but it does take advantage of all the creative ideas. You will not hear anyone in the audience complain that the movie isn't inventive, because these writers, Peter Buchman, Alexander Payne, and Jim Taylor, really have an imagination. 	The story takes place eight years after the incident at Jurassic Park. Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) still works as a paleontologist on dinosaur dig sites in Montana with his young assistant Billy (Alessandro Nivola). He's offered a good sum of money by a wealthy couple (William H. Macy and Tea Leoni) who want Grant to guild them on a flight over Isla Sorna-also owned by the dinosaur cooperation. Sam agrees, but once over the island, something goes wrong and he's once again stuck on the dinosaur infested territory fighting for his life.   	Jurassic Park 3 is complied with stunning brevity. The dialogue is concise and doesn't wonder. The character's relationships are instantly obvious. It's very clear that this film is shorter, cheaper, and more simple than its predecessors. That is not such a bad thing. The second Jurassic Park was terrible-an all star cast placed in situation and situation where they run from big monstrous creatures. Although Jurassic Park 3 is more or less the same formula, it gets sassy and fresh. Eye-popping special effects involve everything from a bird-dinosaur attempting to feed a human to its babies to a massive battle between a Tyrannosaurus Rex and a new breed of lizard called Spinosaurus. Some of these scenes do not really work. Amazingly, many succeed. I have various complaints about the movie. There are not enough violent encounters to keep the audiences interested throughout. Unlike the first two films, the dinos in JP3 only eat a handful of characters and they occur in the opening half hour. You can probably guess the characters who meet a graphic demise; anyone who is billed in the film's credits that you have heard of will probably live. I also think the movie needs more thrills. It seems as if the producers are more interested in proving to the audience that these dinosaurs are really smart rather than focusing on lean, clean terror.Regardless of the pictures many problems, during a summer movie season jam-packed with special effects extravaganzas that don't work (The Mummy Returns, Pearl Harbor, Planet of the Apes, The Fast and he Furious, and Swordfirsh to name a few) finally comes one that does. I recommend Jurassic Park 3 on the basis that you don't expect something remotely as fascinating as the original, but still hunger for a shallow 90 minute thrill ride.    "},{"Title":"below average movie","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before watching the movie, I expected some new and cool graphics. That never happened. The graphics is the same as always and in fact, some parts in the movie is surprisingly disappointing, because of the poor animations. The acting in the movie is acceptable and good, but the story is VERY boring! It's very predictable all the way and there's no real WOW scenes. All in all a below average movie, which won't be remembered for very long. I gave it 3. "},{"Title":"They should have trashed the park after Lost World!","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park was great, The Lost World was decent, but his one bites the dust.  This movie, although fun at some points, is an overall disgrace to the Jurassic Park film series.  It tries to out do its original in an hour and a half and fails miserably.  This movie is just one chase scene after another, but without the fun and creativity that was seen in the first and carried over a bit into the second.This movie was a cheap exploitation of a great film.  Hopefully, unless film makers can actually try to put the essence seen in the first back into these films, we will stop at three.JP3 rates as a 3/10. "},{"Title":"A 5.9 for this abomination?! Lower the rating people!","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is awful. It ruins everything from the original.First of all, this movie is nothing like the first. It takes away all the original characters and put in these terrible new characters. What the heck, people?! And the writing is lazy. Plus, the special effects were cheesy. The dinosaurs didn't look real at all. So this horrible writer/director/producer took away all the magic from the first one. Its really dumb and it should've never been made. Why did they have to make sequels to Jurassic park?! I haven't seen Lost world, but this movie proves its bad. I hope Jurassic world is better than this. The trailer for it looks good. But seriously, this was toxic. It should be lowered from a 5.9/10 to a 1.5/10 just like Justin Bieber Never say never.As of 2/26/15 this movie has 7564 10/10s and 3383 1/10s. Why did it get that many stupid 10/10s?! It has less 1/10s than Guardians of the Galaxy, (which has 4462 1/10s!)which was funny and good. This movie should have little or no 10/10s and it should also have as many 1/10s as Justin Bieber never say never, (which is over 59,000!) and if it ever happens, I'd laugh my butt off.Story 1/10, its so weak and generic Special effects 4/10, no longer looks stunning, instead generic Characters 2/10, Panicking parents, annoying kid, scientist, enough said1/10 So disgraceful to the first one. Even Godzilla(2014)was better "},{"Title":"Extinction should be, in this film's case, forever...","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have watched this film before and I can honestly say that when I had gone to see the film, I had high hopes of a great action plethora, and many plot twists, but my hopes were, in an instant, dashed to pieces. The film had a poor plot, with a weak set of characters.Alas, my hopes were crushed, as were a fair few people who had seen this film as well. This film revolves around dear Dr. Grant from the first film, who has taken on an assisting new student. They have been promised funding by a couple who wish to travel to the island. But all goes awry when some of the travelers interact with the fauna and make their way into troublesome matters, involving the 'raptors as usual, and some new (and substantially bothersome) predator, who performs an unforgivable act for Jurassic Park fans...With less action involving scientific theory, as was the original intent with the first films, and more action involving blind terror and chaos, as well as gaudy family moments which choked viewers with cheesy false sentiment, the film leaves little to the imagination. All in all, this film was very poor and very clearly the worst of the series. "}{"Title":"Sometimes the bad word of mouth is justified.","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I heard reviews raging from bad to horrific concerning this film, and I still wanted to see it regardless of the extreme bad word of mouth. The word of mouth had kept me away from it for so long because I'm such a fan of the first two films, and I didn't want to ruin the experience of those films by watching this movie but I gave in out of sheer weakness. Now I know why the movie received all the bad feedback.The movie is a complete mess from start to finish. The plot absolutely makes no sense what so ever, even going as far as to contradict itself in certain points of the film. The acting is tepid at best, with Sam Neil giving the best performance out of the group, which is not a big feat considering the fact that he's sleep walking through out the entire movie. Jeff Goldblum is not in this film, and it's painfully obvious because he at least brought an intelligent sense of reality and danger to the first two movies, and top of that he was interesting character to follow. The cast of characters in this film are so unbearable to watch that you as the viewer will want to be transported into the movie in order to kill each of them in a slasher movie kind of way.  Interesting enough, The movie itself feels more like a slasher film that a Jurassic Park Flick because the dinosaurs look and act like murderous monsters that actual animals.Speaking of Dinosaurs mind you, the big creatures are more like live action puppets than the real dinosaurs we saw in the first two movies. I don't know what happen but these dinosaurs can't be from Stan Winston, because he of all people should know how to make a monster but hey, he like every one involve with this cinematic piece of trash probably took the easy way out thinking that people were stupid enough not to notice. In reality, who were they kidding? Themselves actually, because the movie itself is now being touted as one of the worse films ever made, and it deserves that reputation.It's a give that a sequel will never live up to the original, but The Lost World at the very least a worthy effort to The original.  This film does not even deserve to ride on those movie's reputations which it shamefully does. "},{"Title":"A disgrace to Michael Crichton's work.","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a big Crichton fan and I did NOT appreciate this movie. For starters, there was no novel for them to base it off of (even though they wouldn't have followed the novel very well.) Second, the writer obviously knew very little about the subject he wrote about seeing as the paleontologists talk in layman terms throughout the entire film, not giving it the scientific facts that add to its predecesor. Thirdly, and this one isn't all THAT big of deal, but the graphics and robot interaction was terrible. When they changed from one to the other, it wasn't very gradual or subtle. The skin looked way too plastic on the robot. This film should've been made by the original creators, then maybe it would've been better. "},{"Title":"Dino-Disaster","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a total tragedy from the very beginning.  So many scenes were so terribly done, with very fake backdrops and poor audio use.  The computer animated graphics definatley lacked the brilliance of the first 2 movies. It's like they wern't even trying with this one.  I thought that it might be okay that it was really short, because it was a thriller type movie and that way you wouldn't leave being absolutely worn out.  I was wrong with that assumption.  It was so short you had no time to get involved with the characters, it doesn't give you any time to have any kind of feelings for them.  Dr. Grant it taken back to Hell on earth and he's nowhere near as upset as you would think he should be.  There is no climax what so ever. The movie just kind of ends, with a short raptor seen and there we have it, you're going home mad that you've wasted $6.50 and an hour and 20 minutes of your life.  This movie was basically done for the money that they thought they could make off of it.  There is no art or personal touch to it at all. "},{"Title":"The Worst Sequel since BatMan and Robin.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is with out a doubt, one of the worst films ever made.  It's Mystery Science Theater 3000 material at it's finest. It does not have the Heart or soul that made the first two enjoyable, and it's bad in every way. The acting, the directing, and don't even mention a plot because it does not have one. The score of the film is even bad, so bad in fact that It almost destroys what John Williams Did with the first two films.  I don't know who is worse, The people who made this trash or the people who is defending it. These people Say it's better than Lost World but in reality, it's Not.   The Lost World is Way better than this piece of garbage.  Jurassic Park 3 even Makes Blair Witch 2 looked good.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of the summer!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently saw this movie, and was laughing hysterically throughout it. The plot was so outrageous and predictable that it lead to me taking the film in jest. With my two friends by my side, we made more jokes than Tom and Crow from mst3k. If you are somewhat witty and don't mind talking during a film, then this is definitely a must see with a friend. "},{"Title":"Let the kids see it--They deserve memories of bad crap too!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read the original Jurassic Park book. The first movie was very close to good. The second movie stunk up the place-- but this third movie version was insulting. Sam Neil, bless his heart, appeared so old, distracted, and tired in this movie. He was such a downer, I was rooting for some dinosaur to eat his bummer butt. William H. Macy is a champ. A brilliant actor, and by all accounts, a wonderful person as well. Tea Leoni is also a champ, and a treasure. And a babe. But despite their valiant efforts, even their glowing presence couldn't save this turkey. All of the supporting cast were completely inconsequential. As they died off, one could only wonder if their characters' deaths brought the movie any closer to ending. One good point, although not nearly enough to make this movie worth your time, is the quaint 1950's sci-fi vibe. Some of the linguistic talents and high intelligence ascribed to the monsters in this movie reminded me of Invasion of the Ant People, or some such. If I had been drunk, and sitting with a batch of drunken friends at a fraternity or dorm, we'd have been laughing and hooting our fannies off. As it was, I kept my yawns to myself, so as to not disturb the experience of the 5 and 6 year-olds in the audience. I have fond memories of the cheap, cheesey junk I saw at the local theater with my little brother and my friends when we were all very young. Great nostalgia for me as an adult. And I didn't want to wreck the moment for these kids now. After all-- they deserve childhood memories of bad crap too. "},{"Title":"If you thought the second was bad, this is worse","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was perhaps the biggest waste of 2 hours of my life.  From the opening 10 minutes, I was ready to leave. The cliches there slapping you in the face, and the plot was not only predictably stupid, but full of more holes than swiss cheese. I am considering suing for that lost 2 hours, and $6.25 along with the fact that I am now stupider for watching this waste of film.  The T-Rex's must be flipping in their graves, so to speak. "},{"Title":"Stupid Plot, rehashed ideas","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The action was not well developed, nor were the character or anything else about this movie.  One big rehash of the first two films, that didn't even come close to equalling their quality.  The ending and other parts of it were so bad, that I was laughing.  This is the worst movie of the summer, even worse than The Mummy Returns. "},{"Title":"Has it's heart in the right place but it's  with a doubt the weakest entry in the series.","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's hard to really put this movie down cause despite it's problems and there is many, it has it's heart in the right place. The aim I guess that the people behind the scenes were aiming for was a family movie with a bit of suspends and while there is a family movie to be had here, it also tries to be a Jurassic Park film and unfortunately it fails as both to a degree.It fails as a family movie cause the script is not strong enough to support the story. Despite the venom thrown at William H Macy and especially Tea Leoni, both are very appealing actors and they do work hard to make it all work but the script just handicap their efforts to make it possible. It fails as a Jurassic Park film cause it lacks the tension, suspense and the story points that made the first two films in the series ( Jurassic Park And The Lost World) so well made and memorable. Not to mention the fact that they felt like fully formed movies with a beginning, middle and end. Jurassic Park 3 just feels like a Saturday morning serial. Not bad but nothing like the other films in the series. There is one scene in the film that almost manages to bring a little tension which is the bird cage scene but even that ends up flat compared to any of the scenes in the other films of the series. The other major problem is the fact that While Sam Neill works his ass off to make this film watchable, the script does the most disservice to the character of Alan Grant, whose happy ending from the original Jurassic Park was not only ruined thanks to this movie but has his character dumb down in order to fall for the dumb stuff that happens in this film. Despite all of this, Sam Neill is working overtime to make you care. Too bad the script did not.As I said before, it has a lot of heart thanks to it's actors but thanks to a bad script, Jurassic Park 3 is with out a doubt the weakest entry in the series. "},{"Title":"What a piece of garbage","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" How did the movie industry end up like this. The movie moguls of yesterday knew how to make movies,they knew how to write and get actors who were larger than life. So today we have Sam Neill, Tia Leoni and a cast of nobodies. I blame Spielberg and the new crop of movie makers who decided that effects were better than having good stories and actors who had charisma. Tia Leoni would have to get the nauseating award for most irritating screams in a movie. The writing was so bad it was easy to predict what was going to happen in the next scene. It is sad that this excuse for a movie made so much money that people actually paid to see it in the cinema. as usual with todays writers,once they have a hit with one theme they go and make more and hope the film public is stupid enough to go see it.Thank god for DVD's where we can watch the classics on the home big screen TV and put this trash where it belongs. "}{"Title":"could this be one of the worst movies of all time?","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" i saw Jurassic park 3 when it came on video and hated it. that was quite awhile ago, for my birthday a friend bought be the Jurassic park movies like a box set of all three movies into one, so i said hey, F it i was bored so i popped in JP3 and again i hated (i actually had a hit my head against the wall for 22 seconds so i would forget about the movie and worry about my head) the movie stars off pretty good, seems like its going to be decent and then pure crap. the CGI was terrible it was like watching play station graphics. and the Spinosaurus, who seems never to let these people alone it's like the people screwed his wife and hes trying to get back at them. i recommend this movie one if your about to off yourself and your contemplating whether or not to do it...just pop this baby in. the decision will be easy. JP3 is REALLy bad. "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrendous...","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, the second one was bad enough, this takes the cake. Raptors, yes we get fierce creatures of old. Now I'll go a long with the whole preposterous fantasy of bringing dinosaurs to life once again. Whatever it's a movie. This takes nature and tells everyone that it's a horrible place to exist in. Perhaps Michael Crichton had a bad experience camping or at the zoo. First dinosaurs are mindless killers. Next they're obsessive compulsives with a penchant for human flesh. The people in the movie are approximately the size of baby bunny would be to me. I've seen the island, there's plenty of food. Why are they going to huge lengths to eat these FIVE people? OK so one guys stole some eggs. So the raptors are in search their lost young. Isn't that nice. But these apparently ferocious creatures are scared off by smoke canisters? And hey when do 14 year olds become commando and crocodile dundee all rolled up into one? A 14 yr old that can survive in a jungle WITH dinosaurs for 8 weeks. Not going to happen. This movie fails in every way imaginable. Indestructible satellite phones (I can barely get my cell phone to work), para military crap everywhere and a narrow way out at the last possible second every single time. Falling 50 feet from atop a crane into water... that's not going to hurt? Oh I forgot, William H Macy is Arnold Schwarzenegger. There's nothing plausible in this movie whatsoever save one thing. it's under 90 minutes. It's no wonder it stayed wrapped in it's plastic until today. Stay away from this movie. You have been warned. "},{"Title":"Killing the Rex kills Jurassic Park","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For me the T-Rex is Jurassic Park, Everything brilliant and groundbreaking about the First film revolves around the Rex. Jurassic Park was perhaps a critical flop, but it's importance regarding the incredible C.G.I must never be forgotten. Orginanly the dinosaurs where going to be brought to life using animated models(like Wallace and Gromit) for example only a tad more realistic obviously and full size anamatronic models, used in the T-Rex close ups. But Spielberg wasn't satisfied with the quality of the animation, despite Phil Tippert using the motion blur to make the movement of the models less static and more fluid. Then Tippet suggesting trials with C.G.I which was used for the first time by I.L.M in 85 on Young Sherlock Holmes, the rest as they say is history. The results in my opinion are awesome I am a great fan of stop motion animation particularly Ray Harryhausens, But the the first time I saw the Tyrannosaur rip down the fence I could'not breath. I'm work in the industry now and it was that scene more perhaps than any other film that made me want to work in film. The T-Rex is the star of Jurassic Park, the ending is probably one of my favourites of any movie, With the Rex saving the day at the last minute, Ripping apart the annoying Raptors. The spinosaurs is a joke, it's not only a incredibly stupid idea to introduce a dinosaur that wasn't even mentioned in the first two films or the books on a island no larger than 8 miles long, I would have thought we would have noticed it useless it was a incredibly shy 12 tons killing machine. But its not only the fact the appearance of the Spinosaurs is laughable, but it also breaks wind in the face of all the amazing work that was done on the first film. For me the T-REX is an Icon of groundbreaking visual affects, in the same way the original King Kong was at the time and later 2001 and star wars could be considered as landmark films effects wise also. The Rex is the Star of Jurassic park and is still probably the most popular dinosaur ever just ask your kids what their favourite is! So killing it off in the first half hour of what was a terrible, terrible film for me is nothing less than proof that Hollywood is slowly losing it's soul. Ignoring what films should be about Artistic expression and intelligent entertainment and instead it seems from an Englishmans point of view that the Art of film making is being destroyed my big company's who's sole motivation is earning money. And the constant stream of insulting re-makes and lame brain sequels flying out of Hollywood only gives weight to my argument. "},{"Title":"Dumber by installment","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If the first of this seemingly interminable series was rather far-fetched, at least it didn't push to the extremes of absurdity (well, maybe not more than a few times); Jurassic Park III does practically from the start.  Dinosaurs and pterosaurs are constantly depicted exhibiting traits that might be believable in primates, dog packs or even domesticated animals but would be ridiculous to attribute to reptiles; the writers go so far as to mention the alpha male of a pack of large herbivores - I guess that makes it sound more authentic... Even in the original movie such behavior strained credibility past the breaking point on a few occasions, such as having a dinosaur burst through solid walls as if it recognized what a wall is and anticipated what would be on the other side - was that a tyrannosaurus or Godzilla? How many wild animals has anyone ever seen demonstrate such behavior? With each movie the 'raptors become more and more fiendishly clever; by the time V or VI rolls out (probably on direct-to-video), you might almost expect to hear one of them say, I am your father! "},{"Title":"Dinosaur ca ca 1/2* out of 4","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is an old saying that a sucker is born every minute and after wasting $5.00 on this garbage proves me a statistic.Our only returning character from the first is Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neil)who hasn't returned to the island and has no immediate plans to. He and Dr. Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern, who blink and you'll miss her) have broken up for reasons unexplained. As an attempt to structure some kind of story, a couple meets up with Grant to ask for help in rescuing their son who apparently disappeared on the island and in return they promise a big reward. Now lets think about this for a minute. You've stumbled on to someone you've never met before in your life and you have no idea of their finances. Since Grant agrees to risk his life, wouldn't it be wise to collect some of the money upfront as an insurance policy? But with a plot that gets dumber along the way, why bother.Now the obvious happens. The plane crashes on the island leaving the dumb folks stranded and virtually no way to call for help. A dinosaur attacks them and normally this would be exciting but hey, we already saw this in 1 & 2. Now for the real fun. The missing boys mom, (Tea Leoni) barely escapes death from a dinosaur but soon after wards is screaming her sons name out at the top of her lungs giving the invite for every dino alive to come and have her for lunch. But there is still 45 minutes left of this slop so of course, nothing happens.Eventually, Grant finds their son Erik who is really the only interesting character in the movie. He's fairly bright and considering how stupid his parents are, you figure he must have been adopted.One (and I mean only one) exciting scene are the flying lizards that the group encounters. This sequence works well until one guy is grabbed by a lizard causing him to plunge into the river but only to survive with only a minor bruise. (Some may feel I'm giving something away, but in a movie where everything is so utterly predictable, I doubt I've spoiled it for everyone)One of the many reasons that the 1st Jurassic Park worked so well is that it was like nothing we had seen before. Wonder kind Steven Spielberg didn't rely on cartoon animation to give us the eye popping effects. Every character was interesting and virtually all the situations were believable. Although the second was missing some of the thrills of discovery, Spielberg made it work.At only 85 minutes long, Jurassic Park 3 follows the many sequels that shouldn't have been made but it did what it was intended to do; grab a worldwide gross of $365 million and offer nothing in return.Note Famous movie critic Roger Ebert gave the horrendous Jaws 4 a no star rating but gave Jurassic Park 3 a thumbs up. I think his other thumb was where the sun doesn't shine when he reviewed it.   "},{"Title":"Why oh why oh why!!","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is it about Hollywood that they keep making lacklustre sequels and tar the image of some true classics? JP3 is just one example. There are many more. 'Alien Resurrection, Star Wars (Both prequels, inparticular Episode 1), Beverly Hills Cop 2 & 3, Matrix Reloaded, Terminator 3, American Pie The Wedding and not forgetting the Jason Voorhees/ Michael Myers/Freddy Krueger franchises are a handful of sequels that are mediocre at best and should never have been made. All the earlier films in these franchises were genuine classics.POSSIBLE SPOILERS The original Jurassic Park was a stunning, groundbreaking feat in film-making by the legend that is Steven Spielberg. I loved it. The second was a welcome follow up, up until the farcical finale. They should have ended 'The Lost World' when they leave the island and left the Jurassic Park films alone. Instead we have a T-Rex made to look comical and totally undignified, chasing buses, drinking from swimming pools and eating dog kennels.And then theres JP3. Where to start. It has to be with Spinosaurus. Spinosaurus! What is that all about? It eats a mobile phone and kills the star of the first two, the T-Rex. Rapters having a conversation with each other! What will they do in the 4th? Strut around with mobiles and pagers, and give each other a call when they spot potential prey! Spino already has one.The pterodactils (the ones with the wings for non-specialists) section was a worthy addition and should have been given more attention before this when these films had an ounce of respect.Oh just a couple more things. If a dinosaur has swallowed a phone it would digest in its stomach. You would not hear it ringing from inside a dinosaur's belly. Why don't the rapters just eat them at the end, after they successfully negotiate the return of their eggs? They just leave them to escape with the navy who, without being noticed,  magically turn up in boats and helicopters on the other side of a few trees .As you have probably grasped by now this film frustrated me somewhat and is just as frustrating now as it was when it came out. Shambolic. "},{"Title":"JP3 Lacks Originality","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III is an example of an excuse to make a Jurassic Park film for money without any thought or care in the development of the plot.The original Jurassic Park had originality, it had a LOT of interesting SCIENCE fiction elements incorporated into it. The next JP film needs more SCIENCE in it to support its fictional elements; this was the genious of the original JP, and it is what gave the film credibility. Michael Crichton is a genious, but the writers of JP3 could not write their way out of a paper bag. Some of those lines made me flinch they were so bad (i.e., I dare them pterodayctls to nest in Enid, Oklahoma).  The worst part of JP3 William Macy.  Macy deserves an academy award for the most number of stupid faces made by an actor in 90 minutes. As Malcom would say about Jurassic Park III They packaged it, slapped a Universal seal on it, and now they want to sell it, they want to sell it!  I was a HUGE fan of the original JP films, and I watched the original JP mutiple times. I would like to see a JP4 with a REAL plot on a HIGHER intellectual level.   "},{"Title":"I can't find a kind word to say about this film, that's how bad it is.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I though the first two Jurassic Park films were fun, a grade A entertainment that had a little of everything to offer. A very good story pack with a lot of emotion and thrills. This film unfortunately does not have any of the things that what made those two movies so good, and it does not even have a shred of decency to cover up the fact that nobody involved even cared about what they were doing. The island looks like one big sound stage split in several pieces, and the actors involve look like they are sleep walking in their parts. The dinosaurs in this movie are a little too computer generated for there own good, and the new dinosaur looks like a man in a rubber suit. Don't expect to find a story here because that would be asking too much from this movie.  Think of it as the dumb down version of The Blair Witch Project, but without the thrills or the interest to make you care about what is happening on screen.  "},{"Title":"Excruciatingly Bad","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a wasted of time and talent. A movie so bad that it even makes some of the finest actors around look like they came out of dinner theater. The story is nothing more than a summery of a real story and the acting is way below averaged.  The Dinosaurs even look embarrass to be on camera, and they themselves don't look as well as they did in the first two movies. The movie barely gets anywhere before it ends, and is not even as long as the others in the series. I really loved Jurassic Park and The Lost World but this movie is just too disappointing to be added to my Jurassic Park collection.Entertaining for those who are sleep deprive only, and maybe they might even turn off the tape before the movie ends.  "},{"Title":"Not good at all","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Meat headed follow up does the low class approach to film making, and shames the franchise with a no plot story and incompetent acting. The special effects are bottom of the barrel, and the directing has no direction. The only decent thing about the movie as a whole is the facts that it's shorter than its predecessors so you don't have do sit there in agony for too long.Stick with the first two movies instead.  "}{"Title":"Makes straits to video look classy in comparison.","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Horrible, and really cheap looking sequel to Jurassic Park and The Lost World does not even do the title any justice with a laid brain plot involving a lost boy, and two annoying parents who you want to see eaten. Sam Neil is wasted with thankless role and The special effects are a major let down. The movie is so bad, that you really want to sue the makers of this crap for liable, and for every thing in their pockets.  I don't know what went wrong but I hope they bring back the people who made The original two movies for the (hopefully) Last Jurassic Park film. "},{"Title":"Do you really have to ask people on why they hate this movie? Wasn't it painfully obvious?","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a father of two children. Two Children who can sit quietly though the worse television known to man. Sponge Bob, Pokemon, etc, and still find some kind of entertainment value to them with a curiosity that can't stop traffic.  When I put this movie in my DVD player, I thought that this will be like the other movies in the series, Good enough to keep the kids quite for a while, and good enough for me to sit by and enjoy myself. Boy I was wrong and my family and I paid for it dearly. There is no other way to describe this movie other than the word Horrible, and I think that's even too nice a word for this piece of cinematic garbage.  I can't begin to tell you on how bad this film was, and I'm not exaggerating this fact. This movie has one unbelievable scene of stupidity after another, and it's about Dinosaurs of all things. The acting is so bad that to even call it amateurish is a slap in the face of working actors every where.  William H Macy, who is a true actors actor, is even bad in this film and I like almost ever thing he has ever done. To make a movie of this nature look so bad has to be in itself a feat that has to garner some kind of award because movie like this has always have had some kind of entertainment value to it. The worse the movie is, the better the laugh factor is, and this movie HAS NONE OF THAT.  Even the CGI effects look like crap, and that's the movie's main selling point.Any movie that can put my two kids to sleep is a selling point for me, but to put my whole family to sleep is down right dangerous. "},{"Title":"Film made to make money","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie did only sell because it has Jurassic Park in it's title. If this had been just another action dinosaur movie, then it would be forgotten within a year, but now JP is a trilogy with a very, sub-par third movie.The film is more or less non-stop action, so if you like that you're in for a hell of a ride, because it does deliver that. But, if you like more thought provoking, 'intelligent' movies, don't bother watching this. I saw because, I'm sorry to say, it had the JP title. I loved the first movie in the series. Liked the second one, but I think this one really stinks. The cast is great. Sure. Who doesn't like Sam Neil? Laura Dern is only featured a total of 5 minutes in the movie, so she doesn't bring much to the over all experience.My final verdict is that this is a movie that you can stay away from. Even if you do like the previous JP movies. "},{"Title":"Bad. Very Bad.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't really say much other than this is a far cry from the original. After the lacklustre JP2 - The Lost World, I was expecting something better here but instead I was greeted with incredibly bad special effects and blatantly annoying characters. The whole film lacks direction and suspense and in the end I was hoping for the CG dinosaurs to rip the cast to pieces to prevent a fourth installment. I give it 1 out of 10, seriously. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was by far the worst movie I have ever seen.  The first installment had the audience believing that dinosaurs could possibly walk the earth if enough DNA was found.  The second made it slightly more possible with its analytical portions in the exposition.  This third film (and I use that term VERY loosely) did a magnificent job of taking reality and dashing it to bits.  It had all the audience insulting humor and predictable plot of a bad 1950s B-horror.  It's no surprise that they couldn't get Spielberg to do this film; the script was not only full of holes, but also totally coincidental.  Plot points that are not explained.  Pointless characters. Furthermore, there are parts of this movie that contradict the first 2 films!  As far as the animation, the original JP of the 90s was far superior.  The close shots of these dinosaurs were about as impressive as the hand puppets sold with fast-food meals that came out with the original. Overall, a horrible film. "},{"Title":"No Suspense, No terror, No Good!!!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What was it that made the original Jurassic Park so amazing...The simplicity, the wonder, the amazement, and of course the suspense. I have seen a lot of movies, and when I say a lot that's exactly what i mean. I have never seen a more suspenseful moment in all of those films than the simple thumping of the approaching T-Rex and the soft rippleing of the water in the glass...what made this scene so suspenseful you may ask? The simplicity. You know it's coming and the charactors know it too. In the third film, the director (Joe Johnson) relied far too much on dinosaurs jumping out to startle the audience. Now these moments are good and all, but the sad part is that out of all of the moments like this in JP3 the one that made me jump the highest was a suspended bridge falling apart.If your going to make a sequel you cannot stray too far from the original. This movie looked different, and acted different, and quite frankly, that p***es me off! In the first two, the raptors were smart, very smart, but in this one they've become smartyer than the humans, and the audience. The movie dragged on ridiculously for the last hour, and the opening scene was so pathetic i almost broke out laughing! It was predictable, and there was far too much comic relief. Now, who was the favorite charactor of the first two films? not Alan Grant, or Ian Malcolm...it was the Rex, who was smart and chose not to take a starring role in such an obscure picture. It showed up for 2 minutes...sweriously...then it was killed by this all powerful spinosaurus...which by the way, if Ingen had really made such a super predator, why wasn't it mentioned in either of the previous films?!? The facts are clear...Spielbergs movies were so honest, and simple. Johnsons film relied on cheesy lines and poor effects. (You'd swear to god you wer watching clay mation dinosaurs stampeding below the plane.) Go see the movie, maybe you'll like it. But if you loved the first two, and i men really loved them, like me, chances are, you won't enjoy this movie too much at all...Jurassic Park        9.5/10 The Lost World       7/10 Jurassic Park III    3/10 "},{"Title":"A Jurassic Joke of Epic Proportion.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a very forgiving person, and I can sit though very bad films and be entertained by them if they at least had some kind of camp value to them. Jurassic Park 3 is the exception to this. This is a true Example of lazy filmmakeing.  It's like the director just put together a montage of action scenes and called it a film. There is no hint of a plot anywhere to be found, and it does not even fit with the other Jurassic Park films. The Only Link is Sam Neill Who was In the Original, but In this film does nothing but act like a Old shoe worried about not fitting in with the World around him. His character of Alan Grant has nothing of the flair That Made him cool in the first movie. William H Macy Is terribly wasted in this film as well. Macy has always been one of the best actors around, but in this film he is just as bad as the material. (If you want to see a really good Movie With Him, See A Movie called Panic. It's a hell of allot better than this) Tea Leoni Is a Decent actresses but is giving nothing more to do other than to scream and act really stupid.The Special Affects look like a step down from the last two movies, and The pace is way too fast to be taking seriously. They say that there were more dinosaurs shots in here but I really did not see a difference between this film and The Lost World.  The Only Difference Between this Film and The Lost World Is The Fact that The Lost World Is a Way Better Film. Which bring me to question allot of the comments on the board about this film being better than The Lost World. They all sound alike In their Opinions Which Makes me think that ether the film makers of Jurassic Park 3 are trying to put off their faults by bashing the last film. Or They are coming from people who have not even seen the Lost World. So they will excuse this film by bashing the last one. Stupid Logic if you ask me but people are easily fed into thinking something that others want you to think.Now I know that im going to get bashed for saying what I'm about to say from the mindless zombies who have no will of their own, but I don't care. It's the truth, and people don't like to here the truth. What makes The Lost World a better Sequel than Jurassic Park 3 is the fact that at least it respected the original film. It Had the wonder and danger to be taken seriously, and it held up the suspends. Did It have its faults? Yes it did. Not as Much though as Jurassic Park 3.If you still want to see Jurassic Park 3, then do so. But remember that you were warned  "},{"Title":"This movie really isn't worth it...","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Personally, I am very disappointed with this movie. The story is so thin, the special effects are well made, yet not very special.Only two new dinosaurs are introduced - the Spinosaurus and the Pteradactyl (not really a dinosaur) - and the rest of the movie is about the boring Veloci Raptors that now have learned how to communicate.The story is not by Michael Crichton. He's not been near the movie which is based on characters created by...I think Steven Spielberg should be hung, drawn and quartered for producing this nonsense.Before watching JP3 I watched Blood for Dracula from 1974 and I enjoyed that movie a heck of a lot more. "},{"Title":"By far the worst Jurassic Park movie yet!!!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is on my list of the top 20 worst movies I have ever seen. There is no suspense, no updated computer animation, and a horrible ending. There were a lot of holes in the story line that were obvious to an average movie goer. If you are curious, I would recommend that you wait for it to come out on video.  "},{"Title":"More like a telelvison show.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After coming off a sequel like The Lost World you would think it's not that hard to make a better film.  Though these films seem to get worse every time, the first one was just so good and the third one seems so bad.  The movie drags on telling you nothing about the jurassic park world, it's just a movie about some people trying to get off a dinosaur infested island. Just when you think that the plot could actually become  interseting the movie just blows by it.  There's also so many holes in the plot of the whole jurassic park world and they don't try to do anything with them.  The movie makes no advancement in the storyline of the jurassic park franchise that all this film comes down to is being a slasher thriller movie with not all that impressive special effects.  "}{"Title":"Wait for video, heck wait for TV!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After viewing a screening of this movie last night the only words that come to mind for this movie is awful and how could they?  Not only was the story weak, dialogue over dramatic and badly cast, its not worth seeing it for $7-$10!  Wait for this movie on to go on rent or watch it on tv.  I think the filmmakers tried to bank too much on the success of the first jurassic, but in my opinion they should have stopped there.  This installment was just another studio's bad-attempt at trying to top the first two (although the second one was bad as it is).  So, instead go see Shrek for the third time or better yet, stay home.. Save the gas money, the overly priced tickets, and the $4 popcorn! Thank god I didnt have to pay for this one...which seems to be a trend lately, what is wrong with hollywood?! "},{"Title":"Far-fetched and ridiculous.","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Its the third film of the Jurassic Park saga and tells the return of Alan Grant to Isla Sorna, of the second film, and that Alan never have thought to visit again in his life. He eventually returns, convinced by a couple who hides her true intent with that trip to rescue a child who was lost on the island.Its the only film in this franchise that has not been directed by Steven Spielberg, one noted and notable absence throughout the film, which reveals itself, scene after scene, increasingly far-fetched and unbelievable, to the point of becoming absolutely ridiculous and we almost wish all end up devoured by dinosaurs. The director, Joe Johnston, proved that he only serves to direct comedies (is the director of Jumanji and Honey, I Shrunk the Kids). The script is a shame and looks more like a parody of Spielberg's movies than something that we should take seriously. The characters are totally improbable, and who saw the first movies will never believe that a child can survive with such dangerous animals more than two or three days. The only positive note is the performance of Sam Neill, lending talent to a film that should have been lost in the bowels of the dinosaurs he portrays before coming to our homes. "},{"Title":"Get Closer with&#x85;The Adventures of Jungle-Boy","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Say what you want about Jurassic Park (JP1,) or the inferior follow-up, The Lost World Jurassic Park (JP2,) you know you had a good thing when the name Steven Spielberg is written on the back of the director's chair.This (should've been) direct-to-video mess of a movie, unoriginally called Jurassic Park III (JP3)&#x96; I'm guessing only because they wanted to show claws for the I-I-I, failed on EVERY LEVEL. So much so, I don't know where to begin.Was the downfall the awful (and over-)acting? The terrible dialogue &#x96; including one of the most unintentionally hilarious scenes, when the raptor calls out Alan's name? The downsized special effects? The sheer mockery of using the classic original score to remind us of a better film? The idiotic reasons to get both Laura Dern back and Sam Neill as well as Sammy back on an island full of dinos? How about the Saving Private Ryan Spielberg tribute finale or was it Jungle-Boy? (More on that atrocity later.) Or&#x85;was it the insanely 568th zoom-in/close up of the both the actors, namely Mr. Initforthemoney Neill, and the dinosaurs?Mercifully, the movie's only attribute was its 92 minute length. After you get past that sigh of relief and the regret of wasting those precious 92 minutes knowing all well you shouldn't have returned to the island with Mr. Spiralingdowncareer Neill, you have silly people running around doing and saying silly things making you wonder why this wasn't rated G. Heck, it was basically animated with some of the dinosaurs. Some that even talk!And what's worse? A character that vows never to step into the land of the lost-scripts, but sells out with the deposit of a check or an actor that does the same? What's that old phrase Fool me once&#x85;well, Alan (Neill) did make this very same mistake in JP1 but you'll have to forgive him though he was offered money, he was tricked onto the island of the dinos. Here, he, well&#x85;was offered money and was tricked onto the island of the dinos. How does someone of such idiocy become a doctor?I digress, he isn't real and this just further proof of poor screenplay writing &#x96; and from three different men, one of which I WILL NOT forgive Alexander Payne, author of excellent movies such as Election and Sideways.And speaking of poorly written Part IIIs, I'm sure it's already been stated this is the Jaws 3D of our generation with the coincidence of Spielberg directing both part ones of the series mentioned. Thankfully, in 2001, the 3D re-trend hadn't begun yet, so I can imagine this movie actually could've been worse with the use of 3D. Though they certainly tried to&#x85;with all those damned close-ups.I have NOT seen so many close ups in my life. Back in 2001, when I saw this movie for the first (of now only two) time(s), I saw it with a buddy friend of mine. We laughed our asses off throughout &#x96; yeah, laughing at it, but one of the things that were hilarious, though annoying, were the zoom in creatures, including the actors. This occurs roughly every 2-3, maybe 5, minutes of screen time. The last straw towards the ending when my friend wanted to put his fist through a wall in the fiftieth time they showed off their graphics of the dinos, the scene was set-up and was, once again another zoom in on one of the creatures. My buddy saw it coming and he warned me if they&#x85;if they do it&#x85; Of course, we always had the same response of whenever they did we would say to each other Alan? as in the first of many horrid scenes towards the beginning when a raptor speaks Alan's name to him&#x85;on an airplane.Anyways, I better seal off this review, though I am happy now that I've seen it, it's fresher in my mind to review it and now I never, ever have to see it again. The BASIC plot is idiot male takes Erik (Trevor Morgan, a.k.a. Jungle-Boy) on a Dino-Soar expedition of the restricted island of dinosaurs left vacant (of humans, supposedly) from JP2. Inevitably, they crash onto the island.In comes Mommy & Daddy, too inept to barely walk and chew at the same time yelling out idiot lines and gestures. They hire sell-out Alan to just fly over the island, but in reality, they're there to get back their son who's been gone for two months. Literally, after the AGAIN inevitable crash the movie turns to some odd-ball screw-ball comedy with all-but zero original ideas of how to now use the dinosaurs on screen.Then&#x85;Just when you thought it was safe to&#x85;wait, let me start over&#x85;Just when you thought JP3 couldn't get any worse, in comes Jungle-Boy to the rescue. And let's give him some credit he is one humble kid. After incredibly surviving eight weeks without training, adequate supplies, company, help or hope, his first concern when found Golly gee wilikers, I hope mom and dad are getting along!He swoops in (believe me, this had me and my buddy roaring in laughter in the theatre), saves Alan from the seventh near-death situation, who promptly has a very nice and calm conversation about Alan's books (again, see JP1), about how mommy & daddy are getting along while Alan unforgivingly eats the kid's precious final food scraps.At any rate, this leads to that, that leads to more of the same and the conclusion will have you, for the umpteenth time laughing out loud.Just skip the throw-away JP3. Unless you're a filmmaker and want examples of what not to do to ruin a highly successful franchise. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I spent money and time on this...","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To summarize, my group of friends and I spent about 45 minutes outside the theater sharing our favorites gaffes, plot inconsistencies, untied loose ends, and other ridiculous aspects of this movie.  I found the story trite to the point of inconsequential and the plot lines as underdeveloped as the dino embryos still locked in the shaving cream canister from Jurassic Park 1.  The editing was poor and none of the characters engendered any sort of sympathy or feeling.  In short, this movie lacked any of the suspense and thrill that the first movie provided from a story standpointEven the new dinosaurs were few and far between (although I really enjoyed the pterodactyls.)  We got several brief shots of the new species and only 2 really were involved in the action.As a scientist and former childhood paleontologist, the lack of any real scientific content (not that it had to be realistic, but logically formed i.e. how they built the dinos in #1 and malcom's chaos ramblings) was disappointing as well.In short, the movie seemed to be nothing more than an excuse to trot dinos back on the scene to make some money.  I hope that movie-goers don't fall for this trap again (although I did apparently) "},{"Title":"How to sell a movie with its name...","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers warning Jurassic Park, the first episode, was simply innovative, amazing, intelligent, and great. The Lost World was, let's say, bad.  But this is different from the two first chapters. Let me explain. This is the (very simple and stupid) story of a young boy doing some kind of parachute with a friend of his parents over Isla Sorna (the island where the story of The Lost World happened).  But with some amazing coincidences and unpredictable events (do you feel the sarcasm?), they crash on the island.  Then, 8 weeks later (that's a long time to survive, on a near island) the parents pay Alan Grant to come with them save their son on the island.  Don't you think the story is stupid? Don't you think this is gratuitous reason to go on an island and get eaten by dinosaurs...This is stupid to the extreme...seriously.  But, not only they have a crap-head scenario, but they also have special effects that are really not as good as the first two's.  I couldn't recognize the raptors, because teh dinosaur models are different and cheaper, and also, the dinosaurs are so fake sometimes, it's evident...the illusion isn't really there.  There are new species of dinosaurs, but the only T-Rex you see lasts only one minute.  But the most stupid point of the film, making it a possible winner at the Razzies fest, is the NEW intelligence of the dinosaurs...they communicate like humans (they don't speak, but it almost sounds like that sometimes), they look at each other, they trap humans...this is awfully stupid...and especially in the dinosaur fight, one of them kills the other by holding his head and breaking his neck...and why don't they eat the humans they kill?  The acting isn't so good, William H Macy is real bad and fake, like Tea Leoni...some awful one-liners, too predictable to be true...really.  The action is so brief, you can't enter into it, there is no stress, no suspense...and the movie has a running time of 85 minutes...plain bad. Overall, stupid story, bad acting, sucky scenario, lame action, no plot, no suspense, just a sell-out under the Jurassic Park title. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Please let this series die","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Number 1 was really great summer popcorn fun.  It was the modern Jaws.Number 2 is best summed up by Jeff Goldblum in the movie about being the stupidest idea in the history of stupid ideas (or something like that).Number 3 is the obituary notice...JP has achieved all it ever will. Once they realized they had no fresh ideas they should have just let sleeping dinos lie.That said.  Movie is ok if you don't mind knowing you already have seen it before. "},{"Title":"Be prepared to be disappointed.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's hard to imagine a Jurassic Park film to be this bad, but this is. It's a pointless follow up that really destroys the franchise with a montage of nonsense that takes the place of a story and for it's sheerer stupidity. The acting is beyond bad, and the special effects are a true come down from the other two movies. I don't like to stand with the majority but this time I have to. It is that bad. Stay with Jurassic Park and The Lost World Instead. "},{"Title":"Was not made by Steven Spielberg, and it shows.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is really no reason for this movie to have been made. First off, This is not even based on anything written by Michael Crichton and it shows by the lack of any real story or substances. Second, Nether Steven Spielberg or Jeff Goldblum is involved, and it shows by the amateur directing and the lack of depth. Spielberg knew how to spotlight the wonder and power of these wonderful creatures, and Goldblum gave the films it's intelligence and it's heart. Unfortunately, this movie does not benefit from ether of them. And it suffers greatly because of it. Sam Neil Returns as Alan Grant Who is trick this time around into looking for a missing kid who has crashed landed on the Island Sorna (Setting of The Lost World) And instead ends up trap on the island with the parents trying to get off the island. Now this would have worked if there were more to the story than that but unfortunately there is not, and it does not even try to be anything other than that. The whole discussion about The danger of playing god is tossed out for a run in the mill monster movie that has no brains or heart. Sam Neil is a very good actor but his character reminds us on why Jeff Goldblum character is so important to the series. One hint, Goldblum's character had brains, and a sense of humor. Sam Neil's Character has nether. If he did, he would have had the parents of the missing kid checked out before he agreed to go with them on the island. The parents of the missing kid are in fact so dumb, and so annoying that you end up wishing that they would be eaten by the dinosaurs, as for the screen writers and the director of the abomination of a film. There is barely any mention of the first two films, and the story does not even make any lead way into trying to connect it's self to those movies.  It does not even make sense in some aspects of the story, like how the Spinosauris even got on the island in the first place. It was not in The Lost World, so why is it in this one? At The End Of The Lost World, The military was surrounding the island because they did not want the Dinosaurs to go to the mainland, so where aren't they surrounding the island now? All of this and the quality of it make this the most pointless and useless film of this series. It seems like the makers of this film did not even try to make a good film, they just expected people to just swallow it, with out thinking on what they were seeing.  That is a really sad because it taints the magic of the extremely better first two movies.My advice Rent The first Two Films film of this series instead of wasting your time with this one.P.S. As for the whole Debate on which was a better sequel (Jurassic Park 3 or The Lost World) While The Lost World was not as amazing as the original, It still upheld the quality and substance. Something Jurassic Park 3 does not even attempt to do "},{"Title":"Good but no where near the original.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   This a good movie, but it's no where near the original. It had great special effects, but had a lame plot. JP had great special effects and a great plot. The reason that JP 3 was a good movie because it had new dinosaurs. For instance, a pteridactyl has never attacked before and I've never heard of a spinosaurus. But the special FX was awesome too. It didn't have a good plot like I said before though. The plot was simply this. A kid got lost on Site B and he has been missing for 8 weeks. SPOILERS! The parents which  you're not suppose to know ask Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) to fly over Site B because they're claiming they like to go on adventurous anniversaries so they want to fly over Site B to find their kid. So they land on the park, and disaster happens.  Overall, this was a good movie. It probably would be awesome on DVD. JP 3 gets a 7/10. Thank you for reading my comment. IMDb is the best! "},{"Title":"A steaming pile of.","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Extremely bad follow up to the Lost World manages to not only contradict what was set forth with the first two movies but manages to destroy the series as a whole with a plotless story that not only insults the viewer but manages to kill a few brain sells a long the way. Sam Neill Kills his career even more with a very hammy performance, and the cast in general is so annoying that you want the dinosaurs to kill them.  The Special Effects are a few steps behind the last film, and the Spinosauris is able to change shape during different parts of the film. This movie is so bad, that I don't even consider it a Jurassic Park film, and anyone who even dares say that it's even better than the first or the second (which despite it's flaws manages to entertain in a way this movies only dreams of doing) should be a shame of themselves.Avoid at all cost. You'll thank me in the morning.  "}{"Title":"they killed the trilogy","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They killed the trilogy! This junk was not even written by Michael Crichton Or  directed by steven speilberg. Dont bother with this junk its  waste of your time. I  hope that they dont make part 4 as it will do worse and suck. Thank You for Your  Time. "},{"Title":"No Frills, No thrills.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No frills entry in the Jurassic franchise follows Alan Grant as he attempts to save a child who crash landed on site b (The island of the Lost World.) Sam Neill must have really needed the money to accept the fact that there was not even a hint of plot to even drive this film anywhere meaningful other than a quick fix for action freaks who don't like to think too much. The movie does not even connect itself to the other two films, and manages to contradict a lot that was set up before.  Worth a look if you are a fan but prepare to be disappointed. It's not up to caliber with the others in the series. "},{"Title":"If you thought the second one was bad....","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so bad that it makes the Lost World look like an Oscar winner. Sure, The Lost World had it share of mishaps but this movie is really bad.  So bad that I return The dvd rental I got of this movie and ask for a refund.  I don't think even think the people of Mystery Science Theater 3000 would touch it, that's how bad this movie is. The acting is flat out laughable, the story is nothing more of a bad summery, and the FX shots of the Dinosaurs themselves look more like puppets that real animals. Even the island itself looks fake, like they film the entire movie in someone's back yard.  I don't know what went wrong, but I hope they end the series here before it becomes even more of a train wreck.  "},{"Title":"Nothing short of a disaster.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Head pounding bad third movie in the Jurassic Park series is nothing short of a disaster. Nothing in this flimsy follow up is up to par with the others in the series, and the bad part is the fact that the filmmakers may have wanted that way. This film has more of a strait to video feel than a real theatrical movie, and a very bad one on top of that.  Not even the special effects are up to snuff, and that must be saying some thing.My advice, Stay with the first two movies, leave the third one alone. "},{"Title":"With out a doubt, The worst sequel since Highlander 2 The Quickening.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Amateurish and down right degrading entry into the Jurassic Park series finds Sam Neill returning to play with the dinosaurs, and on a search and rescue mission to find a missing child. Unfortunately Poor Sam does not have the flare and coolness of the Character he played in the original Jurassic Park, nor does he have a script to work with. The rest of the cast in general is as disposable as paper and the special effects were done better before with the other movies in the series. The movie is more and less a rip off of the Lost World, and a very bad one to boot because at least The Lost World was entertaining enough to be considered a worthy follow up to the original Jurassic Park, and had a lead ` Jeff Goulblum' who held his own with the special effects with his great performance.  Poor Sam Neill though not only gets lost with the sub par effects in this film but actually looks like he does not want any part of what is really happening in this movie. The direction is a real come down from what Steven Spielberg had achieved with the first movies of the series, and the Dinosaurs themselves act like Serial Killers than real animals.If this the best they can come up with, then they should end the series right now before it gets any worse.  "},{"Title":"Hunt for more money","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Jurassic Park was exciting mainly because of the dinosaurs and the special effects, but the characters, the dialogue, and the overall plot were rather dull.By the third film the characters, the dialogue and the plot have all become much worse, and in addition to that the dinosaurs are no longer that interesting. The end result is a dull, unimaginative film filled with stupid characters, unrealistic plot twists, and not so impressive CGI creatures. This film wastes no time to introduce us to the characters, but it does not bother to develop them. Most of them die pretty quickly anyway. Of course, we are introduced to a child in the latter half of the film, and this character manages to be more irritating than all the rest combined. Apparently he has been living all alone for two months, evading giant meat-eaters and actually having fun. He almost seems sad that the show is over and shows no emotional reaction to the fact that he is not only being rescued, but that his parents are on the dino-infested island. It all ends with a deus ex machina that overshadows the one from the first film (of course, they could not use that one, because they used it early in the film, in a scene where they are saved from a dinosaur by having another dinosaur show up and start a fight with it, allowing the characters to escape in the confusion). Does anyone know how many islands inhabited by dinosaurs there are, and who is in charge? Who cares? There are people being chased by dinosaurs, and that's what you paid to see, right? So shut up and stop asking questions.This film was made for no other reason but to squeeze even more money from the franchise, and it exhibits no traces of genuine desire to create something artistic. One star, as far as I'm concerned. I don't appreciate being treated like this by filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Fail","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Boring. Painful. Annoying. Badly written. Anti-climactic. These are 0.0002% percent of the words I could use to describe this film, but I'll just stick with 'fail' to keep things simple. Alright, let's get into the 'spirit' of this ass-fest and insert a bad dinosaur pun.Let's take a bite right in (GET IT?)Talented actors go to waste in this third installment of the once dignity-possessing series. I'm going to spoil stuff, because I already summed it up by saying fail so why not go further? A divorced couple (William H. Macy and Tea Leoni, two good actors who's talent is set aflame by bad writing) pretends to be married and tricks some emotionless character from the first film to come with them to the island to find their son, played by Trevor Morgan, a decent young actor who mysteriously isn't doing many movies anymore. Oh, and I shouldn't really call the main character emotionless. His thing is to grunt and complain and give warnings about the island's danger, even though no one really dies except a few background people and one character who gets about 30 minutes on screen. What a dick of a main character. No one here is likable. Unless you count Udesky, played by Michael Jeter (RIP) who seems to be the only quiet and innocent character. But, he's a balding mercenary, so of course he dies after 44 minutes or so. And he's also the only character to die that we actually got to know (sort of, not really). Tea Leoni's thing is to complain and whine. At least she still has a career. And I'm pretty sure this movie is the reason William H. Macy ended up having to star in Shorts. Poor guy. He could have gone places after Fargo. So anyways, Grant, the super-grumpy main character, is also a paleontologist. He has a sort of intern or student or something named Billy,who is a young paleontologist. He supposedly is killed by Pteranodons halfway through the film, but of course he's alive at the end. Speaking of the end, there's no climax, unless you count the confrontation with the raptors, but that wasn't even an action scene. And I guess director Joe Johnson thought it would be cool to be more scientific by giving only the male raptors feathers. Okay, but why are they blue, and why do the Pteranodons have TEETH? THEIR NAME MEANS WINGED WITHOUT TEETH!!!! They even decided to put in a DREAM SCENE. No comment on that. I'm probably running out out of space, so I'll end on two positive notes-1. At least the music was okay. 2. There's still a different JP sequel to watch that has it's dignity. "},{"Title":"The best JP movie.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is, if fact, the best of the Jurassic Park trilogy. There is virtually no point to it, the dialog is hilarious (it took three people to write!!!), and there are lots and lots of dinosaurs.  My favorite scene is where the research assistant demonstrates a computer-controlled milling machine that magically creates a hollow velociraptor voicebox (note this is impossible).  The only improvement I would suggest is there should have been a spray-can of dinosaur repellent somewhere.   "},{"Title":"When a powerhouse franchise crumbles","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I mentioned in my review of The Lost World Jurassic Park that it would be difficult to call a dinosaur film, at that time, at least, routine or clich because of how rarely dinosaurs were put on film. With Jurassic Park III, however, we now have two very capable films to compare this one to, and this, on top of several issues this installment bears, work to not only derail a franchise that had fairly solid footing in the ground but managed to defy odds to become one of the few defining films in American history for its special effects.Jurassic Park III can't manage to conjure up the same kind of danger that the original film did, nor the moodiness and the energetic cast of misfits of the second film. It plays like a theme park ride, with little sense of danger and a heavy sense of perfunctory happenings that simply occur in without much added spark of ingenuity or creativity behind them. Where Steven Spielberg had a method to his madness, and a terrific sense of buildup in both of his films, director Joe Johnston and writers Peter Buchman, Alexander Payne (yes, Election and Sideways Alexander Payne), and Jim Taylor simply stumble when trying to find a route to take with Jurassic Park III that works and breeds new life into material that's beginning to show signs of wear.We refocus on Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) of the first film, who is now refreshed with the events of Jurassic Park out of his mind. Despite saying he has no ambition to return to a life involving dinosaurs, Dr. Grant meets a man named Paul Kirby (William H. Macy) and his wife Amanda (Ta Leoni), who cut him a blank check to give them an aerial tour of the island of Isla Sorna. He reluctantly agrees until, while on the plane, realizes that the Kirby's want to land on and explore the island, resulting in a plane crash that leaves the three of them, plus Grant's son Billy (Alessandro Nivola) and a handful of Kirby's men, stranded in a playground filled with dinosaurs. Worst of all, many of the dinosaurs are Pterodactyls, soaring menaces that hunt for prey on the ground before scooping them up and taking off without a trace.The Pterodactyls steal the show in this film, for they are the ones who are unpredictable, quick-witted, and more entertaining to watch than the group of misplaced actors on display. The Lost World had the likes of Jeff Goldblum, Julianne Moore, and Vince Vaughn, all actors you wouldn't think would star in a Jurassic Park film, but somehow found their way onto the set and decided to make due with what they had. In turn, they turned into be a cast of likable character actors, making for one of the most surprisingly functional misfit casts I have yet to see.Jurassic Park III, on the other hand, is what happens when a series of actors find themselves working together and something feels off. It's not really an involvement thing, but there seems to be a general level of discomfort amongst the actors; actors like Macy and Leoni seem terribly out of place with a film like this, and no character, not even Grant, bears any likability throughout the course of the film. The original Jurassic Park had its share of empty characters, but at least devoted enough time to them to show that Spielberg and company were trying to provide audiences with an even balance of talking and action, whereas The Lost World found a way to more-or-less balance the dichotomy out to a rather effective level. Jurassic Park III can't seem to do either very convincingly; it's too busy trying to set up the next action sequence when it focuses on the characters and is too busy looking for an easy way out during the action sequences.Finally, there's the emotionally manipulative angle that comes up with this film too, particularly in the ending, which ties everything together with a very incredulous circumstance combined with cloying choral music to let us know that everybody involved is safe and sound. This kind of thing only works to soil the scope and power of the original film and the kind of dark, brooding atmosphere The Lost World bravely built. The special effects are still strong, only this time, merging CGI with animatronics leaves a bit of a hokiness to the dinosaurs, particularly the Velociraptor, which bears a feathery coat (while this may be more scientifically accurate, it looks messy and unbelievable on-screen). Where the other two films were creating a powerhouse franchise in film, Jurassic Park III is looking for a quick buck, and that part is evident from the cast choices, the writing, and the general feel, all of which feel significantly squandered and traded in for something convenient rather than daring.Starring Sam Neill, William H. Macy, Ta Leoni, and Alessandro Nivola. Directed by Joe Johnston. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Filth","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's hard to find a good movie these days. I mean a really good movie; one you can leave the theater thinking your money was well spent.  I haven't felt that way in a long long time.  Hollywood lately is simply spewing out movies as fast as possible.  Plots, who cares, as long as it makes them money.  They're going for quantity and not quality.  After watching the movie Jurassic Park 3 (all 1 hour and 20 minutes of it), I was extremely mad.  80 minutes!!!! I didn't know that was even possible. I mean we know the dinos are fake by now, so how can it be scary.  I know add Tea Leoni screaming and running around like her head is cut off for half the movie. What were these people thinking&#133; oh yeah the $$.  That's all Hollywood cares about anymore.  All these sequels that we don't need, Pitch Black 2, Batman 4, The Mummy Returns, James Bond where Pierce Brosnan sleeps with every woman he comes into contact with.  It's disgusting what the world is coming to.  I admit there are good movies out there, but they're sparse.  I don't understand how critics could give movies that are clearly garbage, good ratings.  I mean if a movie is done by Spielberg, or Lucas, it automatically adds an extra couple of points to the score. Believe me that if John Carpenter had done A.I. it would have been seen as one of the biggest rip offs.  Pinocchio, the movie D.A.R.Y.L., this was practically the same story with somewhat of a twist and lots of special effects.  Which brings me to another point. It seems that moviemakers are so caught up in the effects of movies they'll use them to an extent, which is extremely overdone. If anyone has seen the preview for Spiderman yet, you'll know, the man looks like a shiny piece of metal.  This may be pushing it but the dino's in JP3 looked too real, I mean the spikes on top of their heads were metallic and almost multicolored.  Now I know not everybody agrees with me, but I also know that there are a lot of people who do.  Frankly we are fed up with going to the movies and seeing crap, and we're not going to take it anymore&#133; "}{"Title":"Awful","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP3 stinks terribly. It does not compare at all to the first two. Steven Spielberg had the edge to make two brilliant movies about dinosaurs. This guy has made two successful movies and thats it. Steven Spielberg has made more than ten blockbusters. I dont like E.T. but it is a really successful movie.The first Jurassic Park was an excellent movie. Sure parts of it were boring and could have been five minutes shorter but Jp3 could have been half an hour longer. Out of all three the Lost World is one of my all time favorite movies. The action is so much better than the other two. The Trexes are the best in this movie. Sure there is not many Raptor scenes in the movie but the ones that are in it are awesome. Jurassic Park and Lost World are on my top 100 list. JP3 is far from that list. Jp3 has a great beginning. Its exciting and a little creepy but not that scary. I heard that this movie was supposed to be a huge Thriller. I wasn't thrilled by one second of the movie. I think most of the scenes with the spinosaurus were stupid. I did like that boat scene but it was not my favorite. The raptors were stupid in that movie. No scenes with them were good. The pteranodon scenes were awesome. The best in the movie. But just when it starts to get interesting it ends. Leaving it open for a sequel. Which if it is not directed by Steven spielberg i will not be going. "},{"Title":"I'd rather die than watch this movie.","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There has got to be something wrong with a movie whose plot develops within the first 10 minutes. The plot was shallow, lacking character development, uninteresting even. It was obviously just a cheap reason to get them back off the island. I think as far as these movies go, JP1 was great, JP2 was tolerable, but as for this one, i want my money back! I think the fact that there wasn't a Micheal Crighton story that this one was based off was OBVIOUS to anyone who had seen the previous two.There weren't even very many things that made me jump, the worst of which had been paraded on the commercial so that by the time I actually got to the theatre i was already expecting it.Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"very little substance to carry the movie","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  although jurassic park III had a fairly good start, neither the plot nor the acting was on par with the previous efforts in the JP series.  The conspicuous absence of Jeff Goldblum in the role of Dr. Ian Malcom proved to be a major drawback.  His diatribes on the morality and philosophy of the re-creation of the dinasaurs in the first two films added a level of intelligence that was absent in part III. All in all, the movie turned out to be an average action film, but dinosaurs in place of the bad guys. "},{"Title":"Great special effects; No plot.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" JURASSIC PARK III   *___  Adventure Sam Nell (The Dish),  William Macy (Happy Texas, Fargo),  TZ(a Leoni (Family Man)A better title would be ESCAPE FROM THE ISLAND OF REALLY MEAN DINOSAURS. But then no one would need to see the film. In this sequel, a rag-tag group pays a visit to the island of dinosaurs to rescue the teenage victim of a hang-gliding accident.ACCESS HOLLYWOOD reports JP3 began filming without a  completed script. That explains why the film seems to have little or no purpose other than to demonstrate state-of-the-art special effects. Sure, there are a few clever scenes and some moderately funny bits, but no meaningful plot line to tie them together. The dinosaur puppets and animation in JP3 are very good to excellent, and more numerous than ever. But the overall film experience can not hold a candle to the original JURASSIC PARK or even JP2.JP3 is a mercifully short 90 minutes -- the last 10 minutes of which is credits. Even at that, I found myself frequently checking my wristwatch. The audience I saw it with left the theater in silence.A better bet  see the movie LEGALLY BLONDE.Dave "},{"Title":"Dull, Boring, Lazy, and Laughably Bad","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director Joe JohnstonWriters Peter Buchman, Alexander Payne, and Jim TaylorStarring Sam Neill, William H. Macy, Ta Leoni, Alessandro Nivola, Trevor Morgan, and Michael JeterRelease Date July 18, 2001MPAA Rating PG-13 for intense sci-fi terror and violenceRuntime 1 hour and 33 minutesStudio Universal PicturesI'm back and here to review the third film of the Jurassic Park franchise, Jurassic Park III. I haven't read the novels that the first two films were based on, but I heard that this one was not based on a novel. Instead, Jurassic Park III was original film story and I heard that this story took elements from the two novels that weren't in the first two films. Also, instead of Steven Spielberg (who directed the first two Jurassic Park films), this one is directed by Joe Johnston, who is the director of films such as Jumanji and Captain America The First Avenger. Just like its predecessor, when Jurassic Park III was released, it received poor reception from both critics and audiences. However, even though I think that The Lost World Jurassic Park is very underrated, I have to agree with most people that Jurassic Park III sucks.The plot of Jurassic Park III takes place 8 years after the events of Jurassic Park. With not having to deal with any more living dinosaurs, Dr. Alan Grant is now a happy man. However, businessman Paul Kirby offers Grant money, if he flies both him and his wife, Amanda over Isla Sorna (the island featured in the second film). However Mr. Kirby lands on the island and it is revealed that the Kirby's are looking for their son, Eric, who crash-landed on the island while paragliding with Mrs. Kirby's boyfriend, Ben Hildebrand. Now being stuck on the island, Grant, along with his assistant, Billy, and the Kirby's, must find Eric and escape Isla Sorna, which has many dangers including a velociraptor pack, and a new carnivorous dinosaur Spinosaurus (which is even bigger than a T. rex).The acting is not very good. There are only two performances that I think are solid. First off, we have Sam Neil who is still awesome as Alan Grant. The other one is William H. Macy as Paul Kirby. i thought that he was also good. Aside from those two performances though, the rest of the acting just isn't very good. The rest the actors try, but most of them (aside from Neil and Macy) honestly felt mediocre and kinda wooden.The technical aspect of this film is not very good either. The CGI is honestly pretty terrible as there is way to much of it, resulting in the CGI effects not looking realistic at all. There are a few attempts at practical effects, but even those attempts fail. For example, there are some scenes where the spinosaurus actually looks like a robot, as opposed to a dinosaur. Joe Johnston is probably a good director, but his direction fro this film feels very bland (Steven Spielberg was a much better director than Joe Johnston), and as a result, the action sequences feel dull and are very forgettable.Now, let's talk about the script. I know that Jurassic Park III is the third Jurassic park film (most third installments in franchises don't turn out to be very good and some of them are flat out awful), but this movie has a terrible screenplay. I did like the first act of this film, but after that it goes downhill from there. My biggest problem with the movie is that, despite having Jurassic Park in the title, it doesn't feel like a Jurassic Park movie. The first 2 film had a man vs. nature element to them, which made them more than your standard monster movie. Jurassic Park III, however, felt like a standard 93 minute chase sequence. This is mainly because most of the film consists of characters running away from dinosaurs (mainly either the velociraptor pack or the spinosaurus). The characters are also flat, which strips the film of any stakes, because the main plot revolves around their survival, but these characters are so dull that there is no investment to be found here. This movie also had some ridiculously silly comments whether it be a plot hole or a jump scare. For example, we are expected to believe that a spinosaurus can smash though a metal fence, but it can't smash through a wooden door (just watch the movie and you'll see what I mean). that is just so stupid. Don't even get me started on that fact that this movie tells us that even though a phones is in a spinosaurus's stomach, the group can still hear it from outside the spinosaurus's stomach. It's just ridiculous.Overall, I hated this movie. It has its fun moments but it is still too dull, silly, and worst of all, boring to recommend. The only new thing that this movie does is by making the spinosaursus the big carnivorous dinosaur, as opposed to the T-rex. Other than that, it's very standard and, like I said before, dull (at least The Lost World tried something new). I hope that Jurassic World improves upon this.I'm going to give Jurassic Park III a D+ (30%). "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park 3 Is Hideous!","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 doesn't take itself seriously like its predecessors and neither should you. Director Steven Spielberg and best-selling author Michael Crichton, who collaborated on the superlative Jurassic Park (1993) and the knockout sequel The Lost World (1997), had something to say about scientists who play God and the dangers of cloning. Sadly, Spielberg and Crichton had nothing to do with this sequel. Former Star Wars art director Joe Johnston of October Sky (1999), The Rocketeer (1991), and Honey, I Shrunk the Kids (1989) replaced Spielberg. You'd think Johnston's experience on Jumanji (1995) where zoo animals stomped everything in sight, would have made him an ideal candidate. Unfortunately, it didn't. You can count the major differences between Johnston's Jurassic Park and Spielberg's Jurassic Parks in minutes. JP3 clocks in at about 90 minutes, while both Spielberg epics exceeded two hours. Although it isn't as pretentious as the first two movies, JP3 relies far more on humor than horror to its detriment. This lukewarm, less-than-savage installment in the cloned-dinosaurs-run-amok series makes references to its predecessors that only hardcore, nitpicking Jurassic Park fans could catch. The joke about Jack Horner was cute. The dinosaurs are just as menacing, even though bloodthirsty moviegoers may feel cheated. (Imagine what Italian gorefest cult director Lucio Fulci would have done with a Jurassic Park movie.) Missing this time around is 'chaos theoretician' Dr. Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum of Independence Day), who enlivened both the original and the follow-up with his sarcasm. Paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill of Jurassic Park), who skipped out on The Lost World, returns as the dullest of dull heroes, while Grant's former colleague Dr. Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern of October Sky) reappears in a welcome cameo. Grant visits her in the opening scene and finds her happily married to a U.S. State Department official with a toddler son and baby daughter. Before she waves goodbye, Ellie reminds Grant to call her if he ever needs her help. Predictably, freshman scenarist Peter Buchman, along with writers Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor of Election and Citizen Ruth don't let her welsh on her promise. Film scriptwriting manuals classify this as 'foreshadowing,' setting up some future action so it doesn't appear to haphazardly pop up out of the blue.Basically, JP3 follows the formula that Jurassic Park and The Lost World created with greater detail and daring. Reportedly, after Johnston perused the shooting script, he tore it up and ordered rushed rewrites. If this was the best they could contrive, no wonder JP3 is so forgettable. Not only did The Lost World raise the stakes, but it also surpassed the original with its thrills and chills. Clearly, the third time wasn't the charm. Jurassic Park 3 is as pedestrian as Jaws 3. If you've seen the others, you know Laura Dern's cameo at the outset is standard Jurassic Park practice. In The Lost World, Malcolm reunited briefly with John Hammond (Richard Attenborough of The Great Escape) and his grandchildren Timothy 'Tim' Murphy (Joseph Mazzello) and Alexis 'Lex' Murphy (Ariana Richards) in an early scene. Children cannot die in the Jurassic Park franchise. Neither apparently can mother nor fathers. So much for suspense. Like Jurassic Park, Jurassic Park 3 has our desperate heroes plundering piles of dinosaur dung in search of a satellite phone that could serve as their salvation. That stinking satellite phone infuriated me initially when I heard it ring. I figured that some fool had left their cell phone ringer on in the theatre! Nevertheless, Sarah Harding owned a tattered camera bag she called her lucky bag, just as Belly Brennan sorts a similar camera bag. The scene where Tea Leoni hangs from a tree as ravenous raptors leap up at her alludes to the kitchen scene near the end of Jurassic Park. Instead of being jostling about in small recreational vehicles, Dr. Grant finds himself slammed around in the wrecked fuselage of a plane by a dinosaur. This scene lacks the sheer terror of the T-Rex's introduction in Jurassic Park and doesn't generate the suspense of The Lost World cliffhanger scene. Billy steals raptor eggs, and the mothers pursue them across Isla Sorna in a variation on The Lost World heroes that freed an injured T-Rex baby with a broken leg and found its irate mother pushing their motor home over a cliff. The Lost World T-Rexes subjected the motor home to more hair-raising demolition than the JP3 T-Rex does to the plane. This time around baby Pterodactyls attack a teenager, much as The Lost World lizards swarmed after a little rich girl. The major revelation here is the raptors can communicate with each other and might possibly have supplanted primates. Wait, didn't those same raptors communicate with each other back in Jurassic Park in the kitchen scene? Jurassic Park and The Lost World definitely weren't for the squeamish, but Jurassic Park 3 should give nobody nightmares. As in the first two entries, the genetically engineered dinosaurs walk tough, howl vividly, and snap up hapless humans in their jaws. Indeed, the visual effects technology has improved exponentially; sadly, the art of scriptwriting has regressed just as much. Unlike Spielberg, Johnston takes neither the plot nor the stakes to a higher level. Moreover, nothing in Jurassic Park 3 matches either the T-Rex gobbling up the lawyer, Donald Gennaro (Martin Ferrero of Get Shorty), in the original or the scenes from The Lost World where two T-Rexes tore poor Eddie Carr (Richard Schiff) apart. Grant calls Ellie when a real dino tries to chomp and/or drown everybody. Hilariously, her young son delays taking her the phone so he can watch his favorite Barney the Purple Dinosaur episode! The out of place Barney scene deflates any suspense or tension that the Site B dinosaur causes as he rips away at a cage housing our heroes. Anybody who thrilled to the first two Jurassic Park creature features will probably roll their eyeballs in disbelief at the infantile idiocy of Jurassic Park 3. "},{"Title":"Can I give it 0 stars???","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Simply horrible, pathetic!! I am surprised anyone can write positive comments about this movie that has no plot, no character development whatsoever and relies solely on special effects, and even those are not very good. In addition the movie is totally unrealistic. Not that having dinosaurs running around is very believable, but at least on the first movie of the sequel there was an attempt to explain rationally and scientifically what was happening (i.e how the dinosaurs were created) and that kept the movie interesting at different levels. All of that is gone on the third movie and we are left with a bunch of carnivorous dinosaurs (the vegetarians are only shown briefly at the end of the movie) set on eating humans (despite the large preys that lay dead at their pawtips) and pursuing the main characters during the entire movie -the remaining humans that is since half the cast dies within the first half an hour. The dinosaurs are clearly more intelligent than the human counterparts (which is not that surprising given how stupid the characters are) and set traps for them to which humans succumb (instead of the other way around). Fortunately they are saved from some perils by a 12 year old (the one who was supposed to be rescued) who has managed to live unfazed on this hostile environment where half a dozen commando style dudes armed to the teeth have been killed on the first few hours after setting foot on the island (someone explain THAT to me??!!!). To top the chart of ridiculous situations we have a paleobotanist of a God forsaken university who manages to mobilize the entire US air-force in a matter of hours. In sum, among the worst movies I have ever seen if not the WORST. I had never seen such a steady stream of people leaving the movie theater half-way through the story. I stayed until the end hoping that it would get better. It never did. Avoid this movie. Spare yourself the misery, don't waste 90 minutes of your precious life. "},{"Title":"Disgrace","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" How can a franchise fall so easily from grace? How can a film so completely turn its back on the premise of the franchise (and more importantly the books which structured it)? How can you screw up such a basic but entertaining idea? Well, Jurassic Park III does a pretty good job of the above.Starting off with this film butchering of the themes of the series. The whole idea of Jurassic park (the novel and subsequent films) was that it depicted the dinosaurs,for the first time, as normal animals not monsters. I mean Sam Neill in JP even explicitly stated this. The idea of life finding a way was draped all over the first film and The Lost World continued that on, however JP III does not follow this idea in a variety of ways The Raptor's can communicate? The Spinosauraus has no incentive to attack the actors but it just does. The raptors are intelligent enough to let the main characters go free at the end but savagely kill anybody else who they believe have their eggs?Another instance of the slaughter of Jurassic Park is the look of the Dinosaurs themselves. Many are new or have been given a makeover and most look and act more aggressively than the previous films. (I mean the Brachiorsauraus went from a typical mottled green look to a red and green monster with sharp teeth?). On the DVD extras the people who worked on this film boast about how real the animals looked but I honestly didn't see that in the film. Apart from the fact that they jiggle and are fatter than before there is little inspiration. Come to think of it all the new dinosaurs appeared to be either red or green or a bit of both...However what really annoyed me (and it seems many others) was the killing of T-Rex and the emergence of Spinosauraus. They have a sort of Kenobi-Vader Showdown where T-Rex (the master who hunts only for the need for food) is killed by Spino (the learner who seems to rather enjoy chasing the people around and kill other dinosaurs for no reason. It is explained why they are chased by Spino but the reason is so pitiful its an obvious after thought. But getting back to the point, Killing off T-Rex? Big mistake. It has sparked quite a debate about who would actually win. From what I've heard Spino was bigger but T-Rex was designed to tackle large prey while Spino was more equipped for fish. No matter what some people may say about Spino being bigger that doesn't necessary mean it would be a better fighter...I mean a basketball player is bigger than a boxer but who would you pick in a fight? Although obviously for the makers of JPIII Bigger=Better. On a side note I wonder which T-Rex it was from TLW?As stated before little plot was involved in the film and being only 90 minutes long that is unsurprising. 90 minutes? Where did the suspense go from the previous two films? The reason for this? It's a non-stop action film, it is claimed. Fine if we're talking about a video-game movie but not for Jurassic Park. I look at it this way, on a pure entertainment level at least The Lost World has 30 minutes more value than JP III. The makers completely lost the focus of the franchise in this film.The makers to their cried did try to put in a little continuity i.e. the smashed windows of the car in the compound for example, as the film was based on the same island as TLW but it seemed poorly done. Why is the island so different from before? From wide open grassy plains and coniferous forests to tight claustrophobic jungles? A lot is left unexplained...And the raptors? That deserves an article on its own...Another stupid point was again the idea of kid being able to survive a situation where full grown adults with guns cannot. 8 weeks? When experienced mercenaries barely survive for 5 minutes? Especially when this kid is all arrogant and chuffed about his exploits on the island and would probably get eaten because his big fat head would get wedged in the tankers trap doorBoy Oh look at meeeee I collected T-Rex urine. Aren't I the greatest?Grant How'd you get it?Boy Errr. (thinking fast), You don't want to know...The final nail though was the death of Alan Grant. Not the man per say but the likability of the character. He was involved, he is now dead, a redundant entity in the franchise. One of the best characters in the series snuffed out in the blink of an eye, tainted by association to this atrocity. And speaking generally about characters, who actually liked the Kirby family or Billy?So in summary, no plot, no good characters, tired, bored acting, an annoying kid, killing T-REX? Disgrace.... I mean it just didn't feel like the survival orientated first two films, more a cheap monster film. The only positive is they continued to use moving models which is an almost forgotten method in cinema. But apart from that avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"Everyone should watch this to see what a truly bad film is.","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The fact that the best and worst part about this movie constitute the same 30 seconds is enough said.  The terrific fight scene about 30 minutes in, and its over in no time.  If it were longer, then perhaps it would have been worth it.  But the best scene in the entire movie can be missed if you get up to answer the phone. The entire movie gets worse and worse as it goes, and it starts out bad. Beginning with Dr. Grant's foreboding lecture, the movie feels as though Speilberg grabbed a random film student and said Here, make a bad sequel of my movie. The animatronics are horrid, the acting is swill (which is suprising given those that starred), the screenplay was patched together from scenes in the first two novels not put in those films, the plot is as predictable as an overtold joke, and far too many people lived through their stupid mistakes. Oh yeah, I forgot. They destroyed one of the greatest villians of 90's cinema (the raptors) and turned them into feathery chimps. And just in case anyone who may be tied to the production of the fourth movie (trust me, when the sequels number 3 and are this bad, they keep coming), stop putting so many new dinosaurs on these islands.  These are huge creatures that one tiny little island has no chance of supporting. Besides, everyone assumes the lesser-known dinosaurs (Spinosaurus) are made up, which takes away from the mystique of Jurassic Park.  "},{"Title":"The problems continue","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (A possible minor spoiler)   The first Jurassic Park was an effective, but silly film that did it's job and was actually pretty good. The sequel The Lost World had a few decent moments, but those were ruined by the lame end portion of the film which had a T-Rex running amok in San Diego.    Now in Jurassic Park III, what little story there was in the first one and the sequel, has been thrown out the window and replaced by a mere 90 minutes of basically non-stop action, which would have worked had the film not been so poorly done.Sam Neill is back as Dr. Grant, who is given a proposition by a couple (William H. Macy & Tea Leoni) to come with them to an island to help them find their son, who's been lost for over 2 months. But of course this island just happens to be populated by dinosaurs and of course the plane the are on just happens to crash leaving them stranded with a bunch of dinos after them.This one was obviously intended as a thrill ride, with no real story whatsoever, but even on that level the movie doesn't deliver. Director Joe Johnston (Jumanji) somehow managed to take what little magic was left in the Jurassic movies and squeeze the life right out of it.  The dinos look okay, though by now they're just standard fair and not very scary. The bottom line is it's not a very good film, even as a thrill ride. * out of 4 stars.   "}{"Title":"Jurassic Park 3 is as Inventive as it's title.","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 was released four years after the Luke warm reception of Spielberg's (underrated) The Lost World. Spielberg opted to not return to helm another Jurassic film, and directing duties were passed over to Joe Johnston. Jurassic Park 3 see's the return of Sam Neill as Dr. Alan Grant, from Jurassic Park. Laura Dern also returns as Ellie Sattler, but sadly in a less prominent role. The story for JP3 is quite simple, Grant is lured by adventurous couple Paul, & Amanda Kirby, played by William H. Macy & Tea Leoni, to fly over Isla Sorna, with Grant acting as their guide, for money. However the Kirby's are not rich, and lied to Grant so he could help them find their missing son Eric, who wen't missing weeks ago in a parasailing accident near the island. Of course things go wrong, the plane crashes leaving the Kirby's, Grant, his colleague Billy, and a few others stranded on the island. JP3 can only be enjoyed as a trilling dinosaur spectacle, but there isn't much of anything new, or interesting.There are some positives aspects in this film, Sam Neill is a fine actor, and he brings credibility to the film, and is still believable as the Grant character. While the rest of the characters aren't all that fleshed out, the film is well acted, with William H. Macy, and Sam Neill being the standouts. There's a few new dinosaurs, Spinosaurus being the main one. Spinosaurus is a neat dinosaur, and the roar for Spinosaurus is also well executed, and is distinctly different sounding from the now famous T- Rex roar. The animatronic dinosaurs/CGI are once again well executed by Stan Winston's team, and Industrial Light & Magic (ILM). JP3 is the first film in the series to combine CGI dinosaurs along with practical ones in the same shot, and the blending between the two is well done. The Spinosaurus attack on the river is a thrilling scene, taking place in water, which hadn't been done. There is also a thrilling Pteranodon sequence, offering a ariel attack which hasn't been seen yet in the franchise. The scene is dimly lit, with fog, and creates the best sense of suspense in the movie. The music in the scene is probably my favorite bit of new music in the film. John Williams didn't score JP3, instead composer Don Davis best known for his work in The Matrix films, provides the music, and does a good job, creating new music that still fits stylistically within the franchise.Though there are positives in JP3 there are many negatives as well. One of the biggest ones I had was the screenwriters not having Grant, and Ellie as a couple. Instead they have a friendship type relationship, and Ellie has a child (with some random guy) who call's Grant the dinosaur man. It just seems stupid to not have Grant be with Ellie after the events of the first film. Grant's character arch of not wanting children changes after he saves Lex, and Tim, and is seemingly ready to settle down with Ellie, which now seems wasted. The dumbest thing about it is it adds nothing to the characters, or the overall film, and was a stupid decision on the writers part. Grant has a dream on the plane nearing the island, and turns to see a raptor that says Alan. The scene is very cheesy, and really is just plain silly, right up there with the gymnast scene in TLW. The Spinosaurus T-Rex fight is neat, but having the T-Rex (a fan favorite) lose, and die, just didn't sit right with many fans, myself included. The characters (while well acted), aren't all that interesting, or all that likable, the Kirby's put peoples lives in danger to find their son, and Billy, decides it would be a good idea to steal raptor eggs to help fund their research back home. There are also many continuity issues in the film, like why the island doesn't look the way it did in TLW, or why the raptors look radically different (some have feather-like quills on their head) from how they did in the pervious films. Where the Spinosaurus was during the events of TLW is suspicious too, the only clue given in the film is when Grant says that Spinosaurus wasn't on Ingen's list. Perhaps the worst part of JP3 is it's ending, which feels insanely rushed, and anti-climantic, almost as if the filmmakers said This is going on too long, lets wrap it up, but with a runtime just over 90 minutes, the abrupt conclusion seems strange, with the previous films being over two hours long. Jurassic Park 3 despite is faults, and there are multiple ones, is still an enjoyable flick for what it is, but it's a huge step down in terms of story, and character, and is just an unnecessary edition to the franchise. The story isn't very interesting, or inspired, and the only thing new in the film are the look of the raptors, and a few new dinosaurs. It's explained during a dinner scene with Grant, and Ellie that the raptors were far more intelligent than imagined, and could talk to each other, but much of this could be assumed in the previous films. Spinosaurus makes for a cool looking successor to T-Rex, but seems more like a movie monster than an animal, compared to T-Rex who while running around chasing/eating people, had moments in both Jurassic Park, and The Lost World that showed a naturalistic side of them, like caring for the infant T-Rex. The only real advances in Jurassic Park 3 are technical ones, but effects aren't what makes a film great, it's the story, and characters that drive a film, and that wasn't strong enough in this entry of the Jurassic Park series. "},{"Title":"A True Disappointment","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As problematic as 'The Lost World' may have been, it did expand the horizons of the Jurassic Park universe, 'Jurassic Park III' was a huge step backwards. The characters are sub-standard, the story is lazy and shamefully contrived, and the effects aren't as good as either of the previous movies, almost seeming to be a parody of a Jurassic Park film.The plot, as thin as it is, centres around the rescue of a boy named Eric who ended up stranded on the now restricted Isla Sorna, and the survival of the rescue team led by Alan Grant. Alan is lured to Isla Sorna by seemingly rich businessman Paul Kirby on the promise of cash to fund his dig. The plane lands and Amanda Kirby, Paul's wife, attracts the attention of Spinosaurus which causes the plane to crash and devour members of the crew. The rest of the movie is a series of chase scenes involving the Spinosaurus and the Velociraptors, interrupted by cloying domestic drama between the Kirbys reuniting with Eric and coming back together. The climax itself is unsatisfying, requiring a military deus ex machina that just feels tacked on.In all fairness, Sam Neill does a good job at bringing a jaded Alan Grant to the screen, working with what little he had. But his character is ruined by undoing his arc in the first film about learning to love kids and marrying Ellie, here Ellie is married to another man with two children. The writers could have prepared something special involving Alan and Ellie's relationship and their place in the world with live dinosaurs on the planet; it was insulting to undo all that development. His scenes in the prologue had potential, showing Alan's struggle to keep palaeontology alive and rekindle his love of dinosaurs. But it all amounts to nothing.The film has only a few worthwhile action scenes, specifically the Raptor attacks and the group's encounter with a colony of Pteranodons in a giant aviary, a memorable scene conveyed with an eerie and mysterious atmosphere. Some of the musical cues are melodic and charming, but I yearn for John Williams's talent. At times, the visual effects for the Raptors are actually quite good, but the rest are incredibly rushed and don't allow the audience to soak it in like in the first film. Due to the weak writing and wasted characters there are the many stupid moments throughout the movie. Barely twenty minutes into the film, Alan has a dream about a talking raptor on the flight to Sorna, it's intended to be scary and foreshadow the Raptors' capability of speech but it comes off as childish and goofy. (Real life raptors weren't even capable of human-level speech patterns). The ever annoying Amanda Kirby seems to exist only to scream, bicker and run away, never contributing anything but maudlin or moronic moments. William H. Macy is completely wasted. The rest of the characters are bland and forgettable. Some outright stupid moments include a satellite phone being heard from the belly of a Spinosaurus, said Spinosaur is shown as being able to break a fence designed to contain dinosaurs yet cannot break down a rusty metal door, a ridiculous cameo of Barney (I wish I was joking!!), and a cheap regurgitation of the dino dung scene from the first film.Even the dinosaurs themselves have been ruined; the CGI herbivores are pushed to the background with little screen time, and the carnivores don't behave like real animals, like in the previous films. The animatronics are clunky and the CGI is too obvious. The movie tries to recreate the sense of awe and wonder from the first film, but it feels forced and artificial.The most obnoxious change is the addition of the Spinosaurus. While I accept that it was larger than T-Rex, Spinosaurus was not a rampaging movie monster that hunted human-sized morsels like a serial killer. This leads into the infamous duel between the Rex and the Spinosaur, and it's a problem because the T-Rex was an integral part of the previous films and a childhood favourite. The fight itself was overly brief and anticlimactic. The T-Rex was set up as a predator with both ferocity and nobility, having it dispatched in such a way feels like a cheap shot. It was just a botched attempt to showcase a dinosaur that hadn't earned it's stardom like the Raptors.What frustrates me the most about 'Jurassic Park III' is that there was potential to make up for some or more of the shortcomings of 'The Lost World'. Instead it's the shallowest and the least adventurous film of the entire trilogy, there's too much focus on the domestic drama. While the first two films dealt with themes of science, technology, playing god, and man vs. nature, 'Jurassic Park III' took the franchise away from exploring such themes, choosing to be safe and marketable and lacking in substance. "},{"Title":"The weakest of the first two films.","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I LOVED the first Jurassic Park at the tender age of 10. It had everything you could want from a movie minus some underdeveloped character personalities but that film ROCKS even until this day and age. Part two was good though not as the original. The third installment Terrible. Where was the adventure? Where was the excitement? Where was the suspense? Where was the danger? Drained of all the qualities of what made the first one so memorable. This could be blamed primarily on the director, Joe Johnston, who made that box-office bomb The Rocketeer nineteen years ago. What more can be said? At least the special effects were good; the fight between the T-Rex and Spinosaurus and the scene with the Pterodactyls but the plot was basically nonexistent and the acting was wooden and lifeless with no sense of conveying believability. And what's with the theory on raptor intelligence part? Were they assuming that raptors were smarter than birds and primates? One needs only to read various books on dinosaurs to find out. Seriously I don't expect movies to educate audiences but a little research wouldn't have hurt. I first saw this on opening day expecting more action, adventure, suspense, danger, and terror. Yet I got a lot less bang for the buck. A fine example on what happens when you switch directors mid franchise.Not even up to par with the original. Pure piece of crap. If they got the gall to make a fourth installment, better get Spielberg back on board or else this franchise will become extinct like the dinos. "},{"Title":"Real lousy.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've been a fan of the Jurassic Park series since the original, and while The second movie (The Lost World) was not as fine a film, it still retain the some of the magic of its predecessor. This film unfortunately not only a major let down in every sense of the word but a major letdown to the fans in general. There is really no plot to speak off what so ever in this lousy follow up but another excuse to bring people back in contact with the dinosaurs.  The dinosaurs themselves look more like C.G.I cartoons than real animals, and when you have acting as bad as the special effects themselves, you know that the movie is in trouble. It's pretty sad when a sequel to two fine films does not live up to the standards of what it's predecessors set forth, but when the movie is this bad, then it should be considered a crime.Grade F-  "},{"Title":"Jurassic Rip Off","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a Rip off. This movie not only destroys what was set up before with Jurassic Park and The Lost World but does not even retains the same quality. There is nothing in this pitiful sequel that is up to snuff with the other movies in the series, and the actors themselves look like they are acting at gun point. This has a more strait to video feel than the first two, and judging by the lack of talent involve, it should have gone to video instead of the big screen.I hope they don't make Jurassic Park 4.  "},{"Title":"Absolute Trash","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, they officially ruined the Jurassic Park francise with this one. Far worse than The Lost World, this story completely lacked a plot and even at about 90 minutes, I found myself more than ready to leave the theatre. Who the hell came up with the ending? It was by far the stupidest ending that anyone could possibly come up with.  Much like with Jaws 2,3,and 4 except worse, they just pushed the original concept way too far.  If you liked the original Jurassic Park, or even the The Lost World a little bit, do yourself a favor and don't see this movie!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favor and just go from The Lost World and head straight into Jurassic World and make believe Jurassic Park 3 never happened.","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sad and pathetic follow up to the vastly superior Steven Spielberg sequel The Lost World Jurassic Park. finds poor Alan Grant down on his luck trying to fund an dig by agreeing to fly over Site B with a wealthy couple with interior motives. Of course they land on the island and murder and mayhem begins. First off, Sam Neill is a good actor but he looks like he does not want to be there and his performance shows with how phone in it is and you can't blame him. The story does not make a hill of sense and the dialog is crappy to say the least. None of the story progression of The Lost World is found in this dreadful film and none of the characters are remotely likable. You are actually rooting for the dinosaurs to kill every character on screen, especially the annoying wealthy couple played by William H Macy and Tea Leoni, who just grates on the nerves. The practical effects look cheap for a film that has dinosaurs in it and the new main dinosaur looks like a big and slim looking rubber duck who has believe it or not, a ringing cell phone in its belly for most of the film. The movie even gets worse from there believe it or not with one of the worst ending ever in a film, which is mercifully short.Do yourself a favor and just go from The Lost World and head straight into Jurassic World and make believe Jurassic Park 3' never happened. You will thank yourself in the morning. "},{"Title":"Fun Dino Adventure Without Any of the Sophistication or Craftsmanship of the First Two","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park is one of my favorite movies of all-time and it's sequel, The Lost World, is as thrilling as a film can get. I have a special place in my heart for Spielberg's wonderfully beautiful, and terrifyingly real Jurassic Park universe. With JP 3, the directorial torch was passed to Joe Johnston. The result is a film that strays far away from the first two adventures, but holds it's own as a fun dinosaur thrill ride.The story is simple. Our beloved paleontologist, Alan Grant returns as the hero of the film and finds himself duped by a divorced couple into visiting Site B in order to find their missing son. Tea Leoni and William H. Macy play the divorced couple, and they are good as typical Midwestern, suburban parents, but almost none of the other side characters feel like real people at all. With the exception of the kid, they are basically dino food from the beginning. The lone bright spot regarding the characters is probably Sam Neil's return as Alan Grant. He's the only major returning player from the first two movies, and he acts as someone we do care about over the course of the story. There aren't many twists or turns in the story. There is a subplot about some stolen raptor eggs that keeps some tension alive, but the story doesn't have half the kick of the original or even Spielberg's sequel.From the very start of the film, with a cartoony title card that shows a raptor claw slashing /// through the Jurassic Park logo, it's apparent that this Jurassic Park does not take itself near as seriously as the first two do. The dinosaurs themselves have taken the leap from lifelike animals to movie monsters. With the exception of the raptors, all the dinosaurs are nothing more than movie monsters or eye candy. You won't hear any talk about maternal instincts here. But that's okay because at least Joe Johnston got the action right. Watching people run from dinosaurs can only be so much fun, but Johnston and company do a great job constructing some truly rousing set-pieces. There isn't much in the way of tension, but the action scenes have a great sense of scale and drama. Above all, it's fun, and that was the goal. Jurassic Park 3 feels like a theme park ride. A quick pre-ride set up, and then it's time to strap in for non-stop dinosaur action. There's no question that JP 3 is not on the same level as Spielberg's original two movies, but with good special effects, fun action, and a thankfully short run time, Jurassic Park 3 is good fun.68/100 "},{"Title":"Meh...","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can sum up my feelings about this movie in one word Meh. While it's good at some points of the movie, overall it's very disappointing. I feel like they should've stopped making this trilogy before there was even a sequel, although The Lost World isn't too bad. I feel like this movie tried to hard. Now, eight years after the events of The Lost World, Dr. Grant is happy with his life far away from living, breathing dinosaurs. But when events lead him to have to go back and have an adventure that he didn't want to have, things get serious.Best part of the movie Sadly, the credits, because you know it's over.Worst part of the movie I can't pick, that's how meh it was.Overall, I give this movie a 4 out of 10, which in my ratings book is Kinda sucks. "},{"Title":"A laugh riot, for all the wrong reasons","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So bad it's funny 3rd film in the Jurassic Park series let's go of the intelligence, wonder and heart of the first two Steven Spielberg films (Jurassic Park and The Lost World) and just goes for it in just plain loony stupidity with a half baked rescues film that tries to be everything but entertaining.Alan Grant(Sam Neill)is tricked into going to Isla Sorna by a supposedly rich couple ( William H Macy and Tea leoni) wanting to go on a sight seeing tour of the island, unknowing to him that he's really there to help find their son, who was stranded there a few weeks earlier. In their search to find this dumb kid, their plane crash lands on the island and they meet the island's new dinosaur called the Spinosaurus, who manages to eat one of them and have a their satellite phone ringing inside its belly through out the film. Not to mention a bad subplot with the parents falling in love again with each other and talking raptors that are hunting our heroes through out the film for their stolen eggs. If the story already sounds like it's completely out there, it's because it is. Most of what is happening in front of you makes absolutely no sense and the acting from every actor in the movie in phoned in. Poor Sam Neill looks miserable through out the whole thing and most of the special and practical effects look second rate compared to the last Spielberg films and the movie that comes after it (Jurassic World). The characters act like idiots through out the entire movie and when it ends, it just ends. With No build up or climax. The only thing you know for certain is that you're laughing at all the wrong reasons, hoping and cheering on the dinosaurs in killing every human character in the film.I don 't know what when through the mind of the people in charge of this franchise but what ever it was, I hope they keep it to themselves next time. "}{"Title":"Character Assassination","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park the original movie spent a lot of time developing the characters of Dr. Alan Grant and Dr. Ellie Sattler, throughout the entire movie we watched Dr. Grant transform from a man who feared and disliked kids and not wanting anything to do with them, to a man who would make a wonderful father and mentor of kids. Dr. Grant's character grew as a person right before our eyes, and the natural progression of his character would be to marry Dr. Ellie Sattler and have kids of their own. Instead Jurassic Park 3 had Dr. Grant unmarried and alone, and visiting Dr. Sattler and her family, husband and kids... Dr. Grant character development in the original movie was all for nothing, he had not grown at all as a person, in fact he even lost Dr. Sattler to another man... Dr. Grant again in Jurassic park 3 faced with mentoring another kid Erick Kirby he takes to it like a champ. Dr. Grant again shows that he would be a great father. Dr. Grant our Jurassic park hero that we all love has not grown as a person at all... very disheartening and disappointing. They could have made the same movie, with Dr. Grant and Dr. Sattler married with kids living in that big house, as a family. Dr. Grant's character development would have been complete and come full circle tying the first movie and the third movie together much better and at the end of the movie it would be his wife that saves the day. The character assassination of Dr. Grant was written by these idiots, Peter Buchman, Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor and this train wreck of character development was directed by Michael Crichton, and together they took our hero Dr. Grant and made him the biggest loser of them all... Other than destroying the foundation of the first movie and character assassinating Dr. Grant and Dr. Sattler, the rest of the movie was great, it had dinosaurs in it! "},{"Title":"They Ruined it...","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This could have been a great film, but they decided to cut out the main antagonist from the original films, therefore destroying any good credit that it could have gotten from me. I was a big of of Jurassic Park, and I loved The Lost world because it had more scenes with the T-Rex, but this was just horrible. In reality, the T-Rex wouldn't have died because the Spinasaruaus ate fish and had really small teeth compared to the T-Rex. Plus, there are so many stupid details in this movie that it's shocking... It broke my heart to see the series die with this movie... after all the first was one of the highest grossing films of all time. "},{"Title":"What the... ?!?  (LOTS OF SPOILERS!!!)","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (LOTS OF SPOILERS...STOP READING!!!  SKIP THE WHOLE REVIEW)After the first ten minutes, I thought this one had potential, then it just turned into platter of crap.  It's interesting in horror movies how at one second the characters are running this way and that way at full speed without a moment to catch their breaths, and then phew! I think we lost the monster... they have all this calm time to develop the plot.  The monsters all stand along the sidelines, Let's get them!!! No!  We have to wait until they're READY!  It's ridiculous.Now, the Raptors can TALK???  They're smarter than primates???  And they've reconstructed the resonating chamber of the raptors through a fossil??? And, they can communicate with the Raptors using this thing???  C'mon this is weak!Then there's this kid who has managed to live alone on the island for eight weeks?  8 WEEKS?!?  These guys with weapons and blah, blah, blah can't last five minutes, but this kid just lands there with nothing and... what the hell?If I could award this with negative points, I would.  Hey, I can -10/10 "},{"Title":"More running and screaming.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  William H. Macy said himself that JURASSIC PARK III is, a $100 million dollar ship without a rudder. With more running and screaming than plot, JURASSIC PARK III out does the first two on only that level. Very little goes for this movie and it shows. The action is hilariously awful at times and the ending is rather pitiful.We see the fate of Dr. Alan Grant, now a major researcher specializing in velociraptors and Ellie Satler, finally a mother (but not with Grant). When a wealthy couple asks Grant for a tour of Isla Sorna, the money offered lures him in. This couple has other ideas though during the tour.More dinosaurs, more screaming, more hilarity, but Jeff Goldblum and his 'two-expression face' is missed at times. Other than being serious, JURASSIC PARK III should have become like TREMORS or LAKE PLACID. This stinker deserves no credit. It is a waste of time. The bird cage is the best moment, but one of the funniest. The end bout with the velociraptors should have Sam Neill hanging his head in shame. "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the entire Jurassic Park series.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"18 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horrible can't describe this film enough. Everything from the acting to the trailer for this film was low rent. Everyone who was involved in making this film should be a shamed of themselves for this dinosaur crap of a film. Nothing here in this movie even resembles the effort made with the first two Jurassic Park movies (Jurassic Park and The Lost World) or even the new film (Jurassic World). The script is barely even there to give this movie a coherent plot and judging by the quality, i can see why it almost put the entire series out to pastor for 14 years. Sam Neill and Bill Macy should be ashamed of themselves for even agreeing to be part of this cinematic crime and Tea Leoni should have been stoned. That's how bad their performances were in this film.Avoid. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as many people made it out to be, it's actually allot worse","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"22 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was warned by many of my friends about this film. They knew that I was a huge Jurassic park fan, so much so that I have the movie posters of both Jurassic Park and The Lost World Framed and hanging up in my apartment.  In My opinion, Jurassic Park is probably one of the greatest films ever made; and while The Lost World Was not as good, It's still a great film in it's own right.  So when my friends told me that Jurassic Park 3 was a real letdown, I was shocked. What was so bad about Big Dinosaurs walking the landscape of a forbidden world? On top of, one of my favorite actors around was coming back into the fold. I have been a fan of Sam Neil since he was in the movie Dead Calm, and he was really cool in the first Jurassic Park. I was overjoyed when I heard that he was coming back in Jurassic Park 3. I told my friends that no matter what they said, I still will enjoy the movie for the sheer fact that I'm not expecting it to be better than the first movie, but I expect it to be fun film none the less. Of course they laughed at me and said that I was warned. So I then went to see it, and words really can't express the feelings I felt when I was watching this movie. This was a really bad film. I could not believe my eyes; they took everything that made the first two movies special and literally flushes it down the toilet.  Everything that could go wrong in a film went wrong in this film. The story is nothing more than a really bad joke. It's like they were making things up when they were going alone. This movie makes no sense what so ever, and it's not ashamed to even admit it. It's like the filmmakers did not care what they were making; they only cared about making a fast buck. The sad thing about it is the fact that the quality of this movie is so bad that it should have gone straight to video. The cast in general is not that good. Sam Neil is one of my favored actors but I do question his decision on even agreeing to come back to a movie that almost has no script. He is ok but his character has none of the flare or charm that made him so good in the first one. He comes a cross as a grumpy old man, and during the course of the movie, he becomes sort of annoying. At least Jeff Goldblum Made you laugh during the first two films, and at least kept his coolness. I think Sam knows that he sold himself and the franchise out by just taking the money, and it shows by his performance. Unfortunately, His performance is the best in the film, compared to William H Macy and Tea Leoni.  William H Macy Is another great actor, but like Sam; he phones in his performance. His character is suppose to be the comic relief of the film but just ends up more like an idiot.  Tea Leoni is another good actor stuck in a really bad part.  She just comes a cross as a mother with no common senses what so ever. I don't know about the special effects but it really does not hold a candle to the first two movies. It supposed to have more effects shots than the others but it in my opinion, it did not. The Spinosauris is really nothing to brag about, and does not have the menace or the presence of the T-rex's. The only decent scene in the whole movie is the bird cage scene, and that alone can't save this movie. The ending is down right disturbing, because there is really no end. It just came to a stop with no explanation what so ever. It's offensive because it does not have a climax and judging by the lack of story anyway, it's clear that the film makers just ran out of ideas.While The Lost World Did not have some of the magic of the original, it still retains its sense of wonder, and it was fun and scary. Jurassic Park 3 is neither of those things, it's more of a big screen version of a Saturday morning cartoon; and a bad one to boot. To sum it up, it's one of the worst films I have seen in a very long time. It's a real shame because I really loved the first two Jurassic Park movies but this one is just too ridiculous to even take seriously.  It's not even a real sequel; it's just a sad excuse to make money.  If this is the future of the series, then they just turned off another fan from seeing the next one. "},{"Title":"Enough plot holes to fit a herd of T-Rex's through...","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"27 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is perhaps the best example of why excellent actors (Sam Neill and William H. Macy have both turned in stellar work in other movies) cannot revive a dead script no matter how much they try, and they do.  But there are too many plot holes, outright acts of lunacy, and utter impossibilities for them to overcome.***SPOILERS***1) A plane crash usually causes a great deal of injury.  Let's see...the plane's wings get torn off, the plane hits a tree, the dinos attack the plane.  Does anyone get killed?  Well, no, the pilot gets eaten, but the plane crash seems to affect utterly no one.2) Everyone's favorite carnivore, the T-Rex, has only a cameo in this movie.  (I guess the T-Rex must have a better agent than the raptors.)  In his place is Spinosaurus, aka The one with the fin.  Spinosaurus wasn't on InGen's lists, we learn in this movie.  So how the heck did it get here? The timeline in the JP movies could be anywhere from 10 years to fifteen, there's simply no way a new life form could evolve in that short amount of time. This was a plot development that went nowhere.  I was waiting to hear that InGen was developing 'military' dinosaurs for third-world military use; that there was some sort of black-ops project, SOMETHING interesting to explain why Mr. Fin took the Head Baddie spot away from the T-Rex.  I would've settled for a geneticist at InGen designing it on his own, 'under the table'.  (After all, if *I* knew how to make dinosaurs, I'd probably whip up a few super-carnivores myself.)  A possible subplot (perhaps have some Third World baddies who contracted with InGen for their very own Spinosaur and are now trying to get it, for example, at the same time Our Heroes are looking for their boy) could've been made here.  How did the Spinosaur get there?  Was it a 'black-ops' dinosaur deliberately designed by InGen to eat soldiers?  Was it a 'private' project gone horribly wrong? Was it working for a pizza delivery service?  We don't know, it just gets dropped.3) The aforementioned Spinosaur apparently came equipped with its own copy of the script and cloaking technology that the Air Force would envy -- he manages to get from here to there without being seen or heard by the humans (difficult indeed for a creature 70 lbs + and God only knows how many tons) and tracks them down very efficiently.  Even when he's eaten the annoying cell phone.4) The raptors have gone from a Lord-of-the-Flies mentality to a rather high moral stance.  When the humans give them back the raptor eggs, they simply take them and after hearing Sam Neill attempt to speak with his handy-dandy raptor-voicing-chamber, they let them live.  Apparently the raptors have been flipping through old copies of 'The Rights of Man'.  Um, no.  What was scary about the raptors from the get-go was their human-level intelligence combined with their complete LACK of human-style morality. Plus, some continuity issues here -- if they couldn't talk in the first two movies, how is it they've developed a whole language of their own now.5) The kid is awfully well nourished for someone who's been spending eight weeks on an island surrounded by killer T-rex's (and Mr. Fin, of course), raptors, and untold small predators.  He arms himself with 10-to-15 year old gas-grenades which work fine, apparently.  I'm sorry, that kid would've been eaten within a few hours in reality. "},{"Title":"The worst of the franchise","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"45 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love the original Jurassic Park, it is such great fun and one of Spielberg's better movies. However, I dislike the third film and The Lost World intensely. This one is the worst of the series, as awful as The Lost World was(it is actually a contender for Spielberg's worst film) this movie's awfulness makes it look like a Oscar winner.Jurassic Park 3's only good points are the splendid scenery and the wonderful looking dinosaurs. Everything else falls down the plug just like that. I was very disappointed in the direction and the music, the sluggishness of Joe Johnston's direction and the banality of the score here makes me miss Steven Spielberg and John Williams even more.The script and story are also major problems. The script is very poor throughout and wastes anyone who has to utter any line from that script. The story is almost non-existent, with superfluous scenes and the odd plot hole. The action sequences also disappoint, instead of being suspenseful they are more mildly amusing but serve no purpose to the plot, while the ending has a that's it? feel to it. The acting is not very good either, and these people are actually very talented, and it doesn't help that none of the characters are very likable. And to top it all off, I thought the film was too short and too rushed as well.So overall, the worst of the franchise and like The Lost World a big disappointment. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A Mindless, soulless, and ultimately pointless sequel to two great movies.","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"56 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is really no reason for this movie to have been made. First off, This is not even based on anything written by Michael Crichton and it shows by the lack of any real story or substances. Second, Nether Steven Spielberg or Jeff Goldblum is involved, and it shows by the amateur directing and the lack of depth. Spielberg knew how to spotlight the wonder and power of these wonderful creatures, and Goldblum gave the films it's intelligence and it's heart. Unfortunately, this movie does not benefit from ether of them. And it suffers greatly because of it. Sam Neil Returns as Alan Grant Who is trick this time around into looking for a missing kid who has crashed landed on the Island Sorna (Setting of The Lost World) And instead ends up trap on the island with the parents trying to get off the island. Now this would have worked if there were more to the story than that but unfortunately there is not, and it does not even try to be anything other than that. The whole discussion about The danger of playing god is tossed out for a run in the mill monster movie that has no brains or heart. Sam Neil is a very good actor but his character reminds us on why Jeff Goldblum character is so important to the series. One hint, Goldblum's character had brains, and a sense of humor. Sam Neil's Character has nether. If he did, he would have had the parents of the missing kid checked out before he agreed to go with them on the island. The parents of the missing kid are in fact so dumb, and so annoying that you end up wishing that they would be eaten by the dinosaurs, as for the screen writers and the director of the abomination of a film. There is barely any mention of the first two films, and the story does not even make any lead way into trying to connect it's self to those movies.  It does not even make sense in some aspects of the story, like how the Spinosauris even got on the island in the first place. It was not in The Lost World, so why is it in this one? At The End Of The Lost World, The military was surrounding the island because they did not want the Dinosaurs to go to the mainland, so where aren't they surrounding the island now? All of this and the quality of it make this the most pointless and useless film of this series. It seems like the makers of this film did not even try to make a good film, they just expected people to just swallow it, with out thinking on what they were seeing.  That is a really sad because it taints the magic of the extremely better first two movies.My advice Rent The first Two Films film of this series instead of wasting your time with this one.P.S. As for the whole Debate on which was a better sequel (Jurassic Park 3 or The Lost World) While The Lost World was not as amazing as the original, It still upheld the quality and substance. Something Jurassic Park 3 does not. "},{"Title":"Just about your basic adventure chase","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"70 out of 135 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" To call this movie an extravagant piece of art would be a joke. The plot was extremely hollow, and a majority of the acting was less than stellar. However, I won't deny that I enjoyed the 90+ minutes I spent sitting through this film. There was everything to expect in the typical JP movie victims with awfully good endurance, a jungle, and some scary dinosaurs.Truthfully, it felt as if I were watching a different sequel to the original, not a second. The premise was pretty much the same a survivor of the Jurassic Park incident is forced to return to the island, and when all communication is cut by unfortunate circumstances, it's time to run around like crazy, trying to find a way off the island while escaping vicious dinosaurs at the same time. This time, we get to watch Sam Neill squirm instead of Jeff Goldblum, and instead of doing research, they're looking for a twelve-year-old kid. Not exactly the smartest move, but all is forgiven and forgotten when the dinosaurs are unleashed once more.If you're expecting something original and spectacular, then you're going to be disappointed. If you're like me, who only expects to see a fun-filled chase through the jungle for an hour or so, then sit back and relax. "}{"Title":"This Dino Franchise Has Lost Most Of It's Bite","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There comes a point in any franchise life where the sequels cease to be about good storytelling and become primarily about making money. This tradition goes back as far as Edgar Rice Burroughs Tarzan novels (Mr. Burroughs also wrote the original Lost World, interestingly), can be seen in more recent series like Jaws, and makes it's presence known in the modern day with the seemingly endless Saw movies.Jurassic Park III does not break from this tired and true money making ideal, but in it's defense it does aim a little higher than many of its fellow putrid III movies. Sam Neilson returning to his role as Alan Grant is definitely a treat, and most of the other actors in the film do a fair job at their respective rolls as well. As is expected from the franchise, the dinosaur CGI looks fantastic (though it still lacks that certain edge that T-Rex scene in the first movie had. Fellow fans will know what I'm talking about,) and there are plentiful scares to be had from the dinosaur islands more voracious inhabitants. Unfortunately however, this is where the good of the movie ends, and the bad starts to begin.The film opens with a man and a young boy going para sailing (at least I think that's what it's called. It involves a boat, a rope, and a glider, so forgive me if I called it wrong) over a beautiful sea with a tropical island in the backdrop. Can you guess where this is going? Yep, that island is none other than Isla Sorna, Site B itself. What this guy is doing taking his son para sailing next to one of the most dangerous islands on earth is beyond me, and it's one of the weak points in the plot. Which is bad, considering its the frigging OPENING of the plot. As you might expect, something goes wrong, the father and son crash on the island, and the game is afoot.To sum up the following events for you, the boys mother and divorced former father hire Alan Grant, under the fake pretext that they're owners of a major corporation just wanting to go on a tour of Dinoland, to be their guide of the islands habitat (so they can find their lost son.) Alan takes his ward with him, I don't even remember his name (you won't either) and before long the whole bunch is on a flight into the bowels of hell itself. Needless to say, things go the way of a T-Rex turd pretty much after the plane lands on the islands moss covered runway, with half the professional mercenaries hired with them dead in ten minutes and everyone is running for their lives. Major Spoilers! While the things mentioned above aren't exactly terrible (if not uncreative), than heres a quick list of the things that AREThe kid is found alive, after being alone on the island for weeks, without even a sign of psychological damage no less (I know I'd start to go a bit batty if I was alone in a jungle full of murderous reptiles.) Way to be realistic there, Mr. Spielberg. On top of that, the ordeal of fearing for their sons life brings the divorced parents back together (cheese. Alans ward is carried away by a murderous tyranodon and is found alive with only a few cuts at the end of the film (super cheese). And to top it off, the marines and half the navy come in just to save the little group right at the end (uber cheese.) The murderous nature that made the velociraptors movie staples in the last two films is pretty has the edge filed down in this film, all in a almost-corny effort to make them seem smart. Like Lost World, which tried to promote the idea of dinosaurs being caring parents at the films expense, this film tries to push the idea that raptors were geniuses in dinosaur terms (they weren't, by the way. Most raptors weren't much smarter than a wolf.) The end result is just an unfair robbing of what made the raptors scary in the first place. That cold, merciless nature of theirs.JPIII is a competent film, and you can see there were a few good ideas thrown in, but in the end, without any inspiration from one of Crichton's actual novels, the story falls flat. It's nice to see some flying Dino's and the Spinosaur is a competent villain (though not nearly as scary as Rex,) but other than that, I really wouldn't recommend this film as a must see. If your a major dinosaur fan, go ahead. For anyone else, rent, don't buy. "},{"Title":"Fun, as it should be","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the slightly (or not so slightly) disappointing first sequel (Lost World), I thoroughly enjoyed this Jurassic flick. Its greatest virtue is that it does not want to bite more than it can chew. It's just another monster chase movie, 'running and screaming' with goofy jokes and lots of teeth, but if you're up for that, it is one hell of a ride.The cast is great (minus Ta Leoni who often gets somewhat irritating here), the story, however simple, makes sense (OK, 15 years ago it wasn't such a rarity as nowadays), and the visuals are of top quality, as expected. We get new monsters, and exciting, well-choreographed, memorable action scenes. (T.Rex vs. Spinosaurus. Flying dinosaurs. Even smarter Velociraptors. What's not to like?)The movie is short and sweet. 90 minutes, that's all. 90 minutes of relentless, uninterrupted fun. Just like a good, escapist, endlessly rewatchable Sunday flick should be.And you'll never forget that ring-tone. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park 3... getting close to the same category as Jaws 3...","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While still no where near as bad as Jaws 3, I'd have to say that if they're not careful, the producers are going to have the Jurassic Park series go into B movie territory. This movie was a huge disappointment. I was only ten when I first saw this film, and even then I saw the major flaws in the movie.Firstly, WHY did the Spinosaurus kill the all-time classic character, the Tyranosaurus Rex? From that point on, I knew that this movie wasn't going to be anywhere near as good as the previous two movies. Then, I saw how hollow the plot was. Compared to Jurassic Park or even The Lost World, this movie seemed to have virtually nothing to it but surviving the dinosaurs. Couldn't they have gotten even a LITTLE creative? When I saw the film, I was expecting at least a little more blood shed. There were how many deaths? Five? And four of them were right in the beginning of the film! After that, there was nothing left to see except for to wait for Udesky to get killed. And did anyone else notice that having Billy actually survive the end of the film seemed very familiarly close to the ending of that all-time dud of a film Jaws the Revenge? There were several good points to the movie, though. Bringing the family closer and all that good stuff was okay, and doing more with the intelligence of the Velociraptors was a good idea.I said in my comments for both of the other Jurassic Park movies that CGI characters these days are nowhere near as good as they were for the original Jurassic Park and its first sequel, and here is a good example of what I meant. During the fight with the T-Rex, you can especially see the poor computer graphics in this movie.I am glad that these writers brought in the Pteranodons in the series at last. They had been in the original book, but you only got a glimpse of them in The Lost World.To be honest, this film still wasn't God-awful, but I have a feeling that Jurassic Park IV won't be much worth watching. "},{"Title":"Tight, Thrill Ride","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What is the most common movie complaint these days? Too long.Jurassic Park 3 may suffer from a few shortcomings, but gratuitous length is not one of them.Where it succeeds The narrative is engaging and plausible. A boy gets stuck on Isla Sorna (site B, where Dinosaurs were bred), which has since been abandoned by the InGen corporation, and where Dinosaurs run rampant. The plot takes shape in the form of a basic rescue-mission, with some delicious twists added.The action wastes no time in getting kicked into high gear, remaining immune to any sort of extended sub-plots or scientific filler.There are a few new dinosaurs added to the mix, and some truly graphic deaths that will make your skin crawl with prehistoric anxiety. The acting is competent, and does not detract from the high-octane story. There are some memorable discussions and one-liners, including Dr. Grant taking a well-deserved shot at Dr. Malcolm's personality. Where it fails Some of the CG looks highly dated in 2016, and the opening scene, where the boy is paragliding, looks like something that a guest would be able to make at a poorly executed green screen attraction at Universal Studios.In the end, it didn't further the narrative the previous two movies built. So if the positives outweigh the negatives, why did it receive such a poisonous reaction in 2001? I can only venture to guess that at the time, audiences felt it didn't measure up to the high standards set by Jurassic Park or even The Lost World. This may be true, but it still holds up as a solid film, worthy of 90 minutes of your life. "},{"Title":"An excuse to milk CGInasours","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read that this movie contained a lot of left over ideas from the previous ones. That's really what it feels like. The story really is nothing but an excuse for the characters to walk through a string of dinosaur action scenes.In a few scenes it flirts a little with the imagination teasing imagery-ride you were brought on in the first instalment. But that is all that's left of the legacy, flirts with what was. This is a monster flick; people get into a situation (whether it be dinosaurs or zombies) and then spend the rest of the movie being chased through action sequences 'til the end. And of course they had to invent an even bigger and badder baddie than the previous T-rex.The only thing teasing your imagination in this one is whether there's gonna be something remotely original (the answer unfortunately is no). They make the same mistake as so many other movies in the genre, focus is on the monsters and on action shots. Characters remain shallow and story oh so thin. This just doesn't make you buy into the emotions along the ride. Another mistake is killing of to many of the side characters in the start of the movie (the mercenaries). They could have added an interesting dimension.So, this turns out as a rather flat movie. The upsides are that Sam Neill and William H Macy has some charisma (however untapped in this one). Also the amazing score, composed by John Williams for the first one, lifts a couple of the few non-action scenes. "},{"Title":"Raptors with walkie-talkies","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A film can be fun and purely entertaining without being serious. This is not that film. There are many good special effects, though nothing that we haven't seen before. The plot is very predictable and silly by any standards. It is all pretty standard, and that means it is absurd. The filmmakers don't have the guts to go completely over the top, i.e. Tremors, and what we get is pretty ridiculous. Sometimes it is funny accidentally, but not often. I would have been happy with even a few more incidental laughs. The acting is sub par. With all the good actors, you would think they could do something with the plot, but they don't. Not even a genius could sculpt a David out of a pile of crap. I don't expect JPIV to be much different. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first two","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed this film enough to buy a copy of the DVD, but I did not find it as enjoyable as the first two. I think Spielberg should have directed it instead of Joe Johnston, I'm not saying that Johnston is not a good director I am just saying that when a series is directed by the same person it is usually better than when there are two or more directors.PLOT (some spoilers!) A divorced couple (William H. Macy Tea Leoni), trick Dr. Allan Grant (Sam Neal) into helping them look for their son, who was lost on the island in a parasailing accident. There plane crashes and it gets worse from there.Not as good as the first Two 7/10  "},{"Title":"A Bad Sequel","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"                                    Jurassic Park III is the worst out of the Jurassic Park trilogy. It failed in making a great film. The spinosauros just disturbed me throughout the movie of how stupid and dull it was to be the main dinosaur of the movie. T-Rex has been my ultimate favorite dinosaur and Joe Johnston made the stupid spinosauros kill it. The T-Rex was amazing and even the scientists said it was the most fiercest dinosaur on the planet. Why did they make the spinosauros be the best. Paleontologists haven't even found all of the fossils of the spinosauros. Sorry, but that just makes me mad that they would put the spinosauros the fiercest when the T-Rex was. But, I did like the raptors in the movie. They were very neat and the raptors were the ones that were the mostly entertaining throughout the movie. I guess this was an entertaining despite the stupid spinosauros and the bad acting this could've been a good film.5/10 "},{"Title":"I hated the Kirbys and I hated their brat kid","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The yuppie Kirbys succeed in getting the three mercenaries they brought killed trying to rescue their out of control brat kid (Papa Kirby acknowledges that the root cause of the problem has been their total failure at disciplining him). As an aside, these men are described as professional mercenaries. Since the Kirbys paid them with rubber checks, did it occur to them that stiffing killers isn't a terribly safe or smart thing to do ? Or like their son were they selfish, spoiled people who want what they want right now without ever considering the consequences ?One can clearly see that the root cause of the entire project was a fat paycheck. A starring role in a major franchise is money in the bank. Sam Neill is a fine actor but he has never been a major box office star so he can be begrudged this. "},{"Title":"wow.... a disappointment","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park was destined to be a classic from the beginning with nice special effects, a fun story, and decent scary moments. It followed with a nice sequel with more nice special effects, a different story, and some freaky creepy parts. And they were both directed by Stephen Spielberg, known for his cinematic masterpieces, for god's sake... Then came Jurassic Park 3, a flop as you could call it, directed by Joe Johnston, who directed Jumanji and the Rocketeer, two average movies... JP3 is very predictable for example, when someone is taken away by a dinosaur, you can expect them to die... And they add comedy to this movie, more comedy than action!!! But don't get me wrong, the special effects in this movie are really nicely done, maybe a little better than the first two movies, but if you don't want to watch a disappointing movie, don't buy this... if you really want to see this, rent it for the weekend... 3 out of 5 stars "}{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This horrible sequel was produced to make a quick buck and has tainted a seris that was once considered great. The fact that their will be a fourth sickins me. Please stop encouraging these efforts or we will have a fifth were the dinosaurs fire guns and talk to us. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, even for me","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Warning contains spoilers. *****This would be a pretty good movie, if you took the dinosaurs out.True, you'd be left with a movie about people running from something that you never see... and that actually worked out rather well in the Evil Dead series.Or maybe you'd just have people trying to escape an island. But even survivor has had its share of success.As it is, people who get stuck on an island and run from dinosaurs just isn't as entertaining as it once was. Especially when the dinosaurs aren't trying all that hard anymore.So Dr. Grant is tricked/kidnapped and brought to the island by a couple, hell-bent on risking the lives of everyone involved, in hopes of finding their young son who's been on the island for 8 weeks. Does anyone hate them yet? At this point I already wanted them dead.Among other things that almost made me cry were the phone the spinosaurus (I think that's the name) ate, which you could hear ringing anytime it was nearby, and the raptors which apparently gave up their carnivorous heritage for a more peaceful, vegan lifestyle.Not to mention an entire battalion of marines landing on the island to save a party of 5, which they had no proof of still being alive other than a phone call from Dr. Grant to Ellie.Thoroughly silly and sadly unentertaining, despite what seems like genuine effort and creativity in finding new ways to film dinosaurs that wouldn't come across as simply ripped from the first two movies. If the trend continues, the next movie(s) in the series - should they be made - will be even more bland, weighing even more towards CG and gimmicks and further away from the intellectual, factual aspects that made the first one so much better. "},{"Title":"Here's something really good about this movie...","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...now that a couple years have passed, you can get it free at your local library.  And it *is* better than the nonstop reality shows that are monopolizing TV this summer.  But not by a lot.This is a simple case of the Jurassic franchise getting too greedy.  It doesn't have to be good.  It'll sell on the coat-tails of the first two.I thought that the first one was extraordinary.  Great plot - lots of surprises, groundbreaking special effects, good acting.  In the second one, they took away a lot of the build up and got to the dino terrorizing right quick, but they still managed to pull it off.  The third one is just a matter of lather, rinse, repeat.  Been there, done that, nothing new here.In the first two movies, the suspense was as terrifying as the attacks themselves - when the raptor breathes and fogs up the kitchen window - the water vibrations as the T-Rex approaches.  In this one, it was just dino-attack, unrealistic escape, second verse, same as the first.And although this is fantasy, they took a lot of liberties.  The T-Rex killing dino breaks through the cage underwater and has Tea in his mouth and is shaking her.  You can see blood in the water.  This is is a monster of unimaginable power, but in the next scene, Tea is unharmed.  Billy is being attacked by multiple dinos, but he survives.  An hour after Dr. Grant gets a very obscure message to Ellie, a couple of aircraft carriers show up. How many Joint Cheifs did she have to boink to pull that one off? "},{"Title":"Director Johnston did a perfect job...killing the Jurassic Park franchise!","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That's what you get for making a third Jurassic Park movie, this time not adapted from a Crichton novel.  That's what kept the first two alive the brilliant, complex characters that Crichton created in his books.  The characters in Jurassic Park III?  They're all cliche Hollywood mothers, fathers, sons, stepfathers, blah blah blah blah.The story focuses on Alan Grant (Sam Neill) being tricked into flying to the dinosaur-infested Isla Nublar by the Kirby parents (William H. Macy and Tea Leoni) to help find their son (Trevor Morgan).  Guess what happens next?  They're stranded, and munched one by one by hungry dinos.Why is it that things ALWAYS go wrong in this series?  I know, it makes for good drama, but the family brought three professional merceneries with them (led by the late Michael Jeter) with weaponry that is seen decimating airliners earlier.  You're telling me that bullets that can blow up a plane can't hurt a little dino?Oh, and another thing, talking dinos?  This movie not only destroys the Jurassic Park franchise, but destroys all sense of reason in it.  6/10. "},{"Title":"This is getting a bit tiresome","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III/ * 1/2 starsThis movie added more humor in it than it did action. I was not impressed with how this movie turned out. It was a big come-down from the sequel, and it was just barely better than the first movie. This is getting really fake now, too. I mean, it has been all along, but when you have 3 movies of dinosaur encounters on the same island, you would expect them to have bombed the island or something so it was not dangerous anymore, or maybe you would expect people to use this weird thing called COMMON SENSE! I mean, common, it's not like they haven't heard about the dinosaurs on that island, so why are they still going there? If there was a person I knew on that island, I wouldn't even bother trying to rescue them if they were that stupid in the first place. Also, on the subject about humor in the movie, this is an action movie, not a comedy! Why did they put so much humor in this? This was just a hair better than the first movie, and that doesn't take much. "},{"Title":"Not worth the effort","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I would have to say Lost World is better than this one in the trilogy, and as a movie on its own it was horrible.  Grant, after going on and on about how nothing ever could get him to go back, is bought out and without even clearing it first, agrees to go to the island again after complaining so much?  What's up with that?On the island is even worse.  About every ten minutes you hear a random sound and everyone going Shhh!  What was that? like it is a cheap horror flick.  The parents are so annoying it's not funny, and Grant seems less like a scientist and more like a politician in his decisions.  The thing I hated the most was the sound making vocal chord blowing at the end; anyone who has taken a biology class would know that a cast like that could never ever make noise like that because animal vocal chords are based off of flesh moving at high speeds, not solid state throats.Basically the whole movie was not only unbelievable (even for living dino's) but also poorly written and acted in.  Did you know they started filming before the script was done?  And it wasn't even remotely based on a Crichton book, and he even it was a ridiculous plot?  At least Lost World was somewhat realistic and based off of the original work.  I would say this is definitely worse than the second, and nothing compared to the first.  If they do plan to make a 4, they should consider remaking Lost World based on the better book, or wait fro another book to be written, but other than that let's just let this once good franchise die with whatever dignity it has left. 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dumber for having seen it.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie 2 years ago in the theater. After my initial experience with JP 3, I was in a state of shock and disbelief. Was it a joke? Was the script written by a 10th grade English class? William H Macy signed on for THIS??? 2 years later, I stumbled across this flick in the video store and decided that I might have been a little harsh on the movie and I may have not paid close enough attention and therefore missed some vital parts of the plot. Turns out, I did NOT. How does the guy in the parachute die? We don't know. How does a 10 year old kid survive weeks in the jungle with Dinosaurs no less, by himself? We don't know. How does Laura Dern's character know where they are, at the end, from the faint sounds of a cell phone call? We don't know. How do the Marines show up, about 15 minutes after the phone call, on the beach of the island? WE DON'T KNOW? It's like the writers thought of all these cool scenarios but never bothered to link them with reality. Maybe the writing budget was exhausted and they just went Hey, let's just distract them with CGI and they won't be any wiser. And, for some, that was exactly the case.    "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw this, I liked it enough to buy the previously viewed DVD at Blockbuster for a low price. I hated it the second time. The cleches, the predictable action sequences, the horrible acting. 2001 was a really bad summer popcorn movie time. Worst Movies of That Summer Include Tomb Raider Cats and Dogs The Fast and the Furious Planet of the Apes Rat Race. This makes #1 of the worst of the summer. -(My Take 3/10 My MPAA rating PG-13 for constant sci-fi violence/terror. "},{"Title":"Pompous Sam Neill and the most amazing satellite phone in the world","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Sam Neill is dragged back to dinosaur land. Some kid went vacationing near Dino island and his parents trick Sam along to help them find him. Things don't go as planned. Chaos happens. Dinosaurs attack. Plenty of little people running from big dinosaur action. This was an OK flick. The question is, Are we tired of watching dinosaurs chase after people? The answer is Sort of. So instead of having the same old dinos doing the chasing and the howling, they have thrown in two new dinos for our viewing pleasure The Spinosaurus and the Pterodactyl. Both of these are fine additions. Overall, it was a fairly fun romp on dino island.Sam Neill struck a nerve with me though. He was an arrogant, condescending, pompous windbag in this flick. His dressing down of Billy for stealing the eggs did not endear me to him. He was overreacting just a tad. I thought he was going to start comparing Billy to the Nazis. You'd perform genocide if you thought it would further the dig wouldn't you, Billy Hitler? Geez, he needed to lighten up.The one plot point that irritated and amazed me was that incredible, one of a kind, built to last, yellow as the sun, satellite phone.  That phone passed through more hands and more dino intestines than any phone in the world. And it kept working! I'm surprised there wasn't an ad for the makers of that phone plastered at the end of the movie. Buy this phone today! It will never fail you! It can survive dino ingestion and still make collect calls! There are too many points in the story that depend on that phone working to go into but let's just say this movie would not have been possible without it. The last scene where Sam is calling his ex girlfriend while drowning caused me to stretch reality beyond any hope of ever coming back. "},{"Title":"Basically good movie, but far too shallow","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 is a strange nugget of a movie. It's got all the appeal of the first 2, and yet seems to be a pale imitation of both. The first time you see a dinosaur is not impressive at all. It looks animatronic and fake. It might well be the former, and really, it shouldn't look like that. The plot is standard Jurassic Park fare - everything great to begin with, and then all hell breaks loose. The ultimate problem here is that the film appears to have absolutely no purpose. Once the initial plot goal is achieved, it simply appears to be a case of 'get out of here'. And that's the failing. It all ends too quickly with no plot development to speak of, a clumsy attempt at romance, numerous predictable moments (The amount of which I've never seen in any movie before, or is it because they're all borrowed from the previous 2 movies?), and obligatory fatalities. But for all its failings, and there are many, it doesn't pretend to be anything more than it is - a blatant attempt to cash in on a successful franchise. End of the day, it's a half decent slice of entertainment for a short while, but expect nothing in the league of even The Lost World, never mind the original Jurassic Park. "}{"Title":"Virtually, a failed attempt at repeating the hype over the first two films","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are two ways you can see this film either a usual movie, or a sequel to the Jurassic park series. If you choose to ignore the previous facts attached to the JP universe, what this film offers you is a cheap, easy survival movie where the enemies are dinosaurs.In itself, the subject is interesting and cool, but the way they used it to form a plot was uninteresting and unoriginal a bunch of middle-class people being thrown in a dinosaur infested island looking for a kid.Now, if you have to compare it to the first 2 films of the franchise, it gets even worse. What first comes to my mind is the style of the movie and it's atmosphere in Jurassic Park and in its sequel, you had a change in mood that reflected to social situations explained in their respective films (JP1 was a movie about new technologies and showed the duality between great ambitions and critic regard of the consequences behind every action you decide to take, JP2 was about preserving what's left of the good side of your acts and interfering with those who did not yet achieve this state of consciousness) as opposed to this film, where stereotypes and rests of the first installments are brought up to screen without trying to satisfy the hunger for what made JP1 and 2 better films.In fact, they loosely followed the setting of these movies a rich man walk to Dr. Grant's digging site offering him a trip to a dinosaur island... and ends with Dr. Grant looking at birds (this time, it's those flying dinosaurs) trough an helicopter with a satisfied look on his face. But between those two parts, there's no food for thought, and if you defend it calling it a pure entertainment, let me call it a cheap one. As for the characters, they are merely shallow clones (!) of the ones they previously incarnated Grant is a bitter man who at some point in the film shows contempt on Ian Malcolm's preaching, yet the only 2 lines (with variations) of what he says throughout the movie are Don't do that and Ingen played god when they shouldn't have.Much of the magic that made JP1 a terrific film and JP2 an OK flick is gone as the only things I looked forward to by the first 20 minutes of the film was seeing as many humans being torn apart by dinosaurs as possible and in how many different ways. I was even disappointed by that, because Universal wanted the movie to be PG-13, so they could earn a few dollars more.And, as for a more formal analysis of the movie, the actors couldn't develop a good chemistry with each other, as they delivered their lines rather cheesily and perhaps undirected. The special effects were as good as usual, but less money in it, and more in efficient scriptwriters would have helped building a story without a book of Michael Crichton in the background. The dialogues were repetitive and unenjoyable, the realisation uninspired and the result, a LAME B-movie that should be categorized as a dinosaursploitation since I believe none other than a fan blinded by great expectations could enjoy it, and if it is not your case and you really want to take a look at it, download it prove with a small action that you won't pay for the crap (synonym censored here) they show you, no matter if the props man no.2 is starving on the streets or if Tea Leoni can't afford another plastic surgery/mansion (if you can't look beyond that last statement and plainly consider it at first degree, do yourself a favor and ignore it instead of showing how much an intolerant dinosaur you are -> addressed to intellectual rights self-righteous rats).I would like to describe with greater words what I think of Joe Johnston, but it wouldn't be allowed by IMDb's terms of use. "},{"Title":"The music swells the same, but the excitement isn't there anymore.","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There wasn't a good reason to make this movie except money. That is the only vibe that I get from it. You liked this before, so here is some more. Why? I'll just go watch the original. It's not that I don't believe that people could be stupid enough to think that an island full of predators would be a good vacation spot, it's that the idea is flimsy. Then, we are supposed to believe that another group of people could go and the government would do nothing. We are just leaving the island of death open to the public? Yes, the f/x are good, but they are good in the original and it has a story to go with the visuals. This is a waste of the talents of Sam Neill, William H. Macy, and Laura Dern. To make matters worse, nothing is resolved, leaving the door open for more inane sequels. "},{"Title":"The park should be closed.","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Boring and dumb entry in the Jurassic Park series becomes a ninety minute excursion into stupidity with the most annoying characters ever put on screen, and the most ludicrous plot ever put on paper. All the actors in this movie phone in their performances with a lazy shriek, and the director of this fiasco does not seem to care if any thing that is happing on screen makes any sense what so ever. This is a movie about dinosaurs, plain and simple, and even they themselves look embarrass to be here. I don't know about you but if you spend any time with this movie and not try to throw some thing at the screen out of sheer desperation for some kind of entertainment, then you must be more forgiving than I because I almost threw my TV out the window because of this film.   "},{"Title":"Not impressed","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much from this film, but this is crazy! I figured it was gonna be another mindless summer sequel. I thought at least the dinosaurs would be cool but they really weren't. The Raptors were promoted as being so intelligent, but they really didn't show it all that much. I thought it was great how Steven Speilberg pulled off directing like Stanley Kubrick in A.I this summer but Joe Johnston trying to direct like Steven Speilberg was not good for this film at all. I still think that the original Jurassic Park had a fine plot, great suspense action, not great acting but who needs it when the dinosaurs were amazing enough. The two sequels are just begging the viewers for more money and not giving us good entertainment for our dollar, the sad thing is that hhahaha if they make another sequel, I will probably go see it! Go figure! Peace "},{"Title":"In Two Words, Utterly Stupid","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Utterly stupid sums up more than this film's dry vapidity. The term also summarizes many of the characters, situations, the acting, and the directing. One burning question, though, before we begin-- why is William H. Macy, known to love independent cinema, participating in a completely dry, utterly stupid big-budget Hollywood piece? Moving on. This picture is filled with idiots, from Macy's wife to Dr. Grant's student to the people on the plane. The only intelligent people on the island are Dr. Grant and the kid. Also, after the original weighed in at 127 minutes and the second film was 129, it's irritating to see this film is about a choppy 99 (on the bright side, it doesn't prolong this torturous experience). "},{"Title":"Biggest Piece of A$$ Ever!!!","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh where to begin? I can only say that I'm upset because my favorite author's name is attached to this cinematic disasterpiece. I understand that the first two earned huge amounts of money, but at least have a literary basis for making the two parter into a trilogy. This was just an attempt to make more money. If any of the creators of this movie can say that it wasn't about the money with a straight face, I'd be shocked. I mean I like some of the cast members (in other movies) but no one could have saved this. And this is probably the third worst ending to a movie ever (after The Perfect Storm & Cabin Fever). My jaw dropped at the end. Somebody somewhere was having a good laugh about making people sit through crap to be bombarded with, well, don't know that I can say that here. Do not see this movie. Complete waste of time. This is without a doubt my pick for the worst movie of all time. Crossroads, Glitter, Caddyshack II, way better than this movie. Once again, Biggest Piece of A$$ Ever!!! "},{"Title":"A film that can be sum up in one word Crap.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so bad, that it really gave me a headache, and it's only Ninety Minutes long. Sam Neil really destroys the character he made popular with the original with a lackluster performance that is really heart breaking to see, and the rest of the cast don't really help him look good. It's really not the actors fault, but because the story itself is nothing more of a joke, it's hard not to blame them for their performances. While the special effects are ok for what it is, it's really nothing in comparison to the first two movies. If you want to see a real dinosaur movie, See Jurassic Park. If you want to see real sequel, see the Lost World. It may not be as great as the original, but it's a hell of a lot better than this crappy film. "},{"Title":"The film that Destroyed the Jurassic Park series.","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is so glaringly bad that it only shows that Universal really does not care for the fans of this once promising series. It's a juvenile follow up that really makes it's processors look really bad, and that's a great feat considering the fact that the first two had a little thing called class. Steven Spielberg surrenders the directional control to Joe Johnson who proves with out a doubt how Spielberg is the master of filmmaking by his extremely lack of talent. There is no direction to be found here, and the confuse look of the actors involve is a clear indication of this. Sam Neil And William H Macy are two gifted actors who literally destroy their reputations with performances that clearly contradicts their talent, and the rest of the actors involve as just as bad. There is literally no sense of plot to go by, and there is no climax. The dinosaur effects are not even up to standard, and that's a sad case because it came from the same tam that did the first two movies.Do yourself a favor, and pretend that this movie does not have anything to do with Jurassic Park. "},{"Title":"No wonder Spielberg wants to forget this movie.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is defiantly a major step down from the first two films, It has strait to video written all over it, and that's an understatement because strait to video has a little more class. Sam Neil tries his best to work with out a script or a director in this feeble follow up, and still falls flat on his face. He's a good actor but it's clear from the get go that there was no reason to bring back his character, and the way his character is drawn back to the island proves that. It's more contrived than reasonable, and the cast of characters that he is suck with only proves that the writers of this mess had no idea what they were doing. William H Macy, who is a brilliant actor, is annoying, and Tea Leoni is equally as bad. You actually want them to get eaten but the dinosaurs, and in fact want the dinosaurs to get the rest of the people who worked on this movie. The Special Effects are not as good as the others, and the story lacks a climax. The Lost World was not as good as the original, but at least it's a good follow up. This film does not even have the quality of the other two movie's trailers.  The only good thing in this film is the fact that it's very short, so you don't have to sit there and waste any more time out of your life wondering on why this film was ever made.Word of advice, Sick with Jurassic Park, and The Lost World.  Stay away from Jurassic Park 3.  "},{"Title":"An educated critique on Jurassic Park 3","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This contains **SPOILERS**As it was said before by the critics, Jurassic Park 3 offers no standard to character interaction, time, feeling, story line, or believability whatsoever. The movie only relies on loud sound effects, special effects, music, and only the money from the box office. Everything else is just garbage. Whats worse is that there were four screenwriters who couldn't come near the talent of screenwriter David Keop(Screen writer for Jurassic Park and The Lost World) and who couldn't finish the final production of the script when Jurassic Park 3 started filming. And to sum it all, there was the kid's film director Joe Johnston who thought in his foolish ways to make Jurassic Park 3 light, and to settle this as a kid's movie ruining everything great and imaginable from Steven Speilberg.The plot?  Two divorced parents rent a plane for a low flying tour over the dinosaur Island and invite Dr Alan Grant as their guide. Thats all there is to the plot. They go to the Island and a couple minutes later, people start running and getting eaten. Sorry to say, but thats all there is. Couldn't those four screenwriters come up with anything better? Come on, thats more like the idea from an 8 year old.Joe Johnston doesn't want to put any thought or time whatsoever in the movie development. Instead, he ignores the standards that Steven Speilberg has set up in the first Jurassic Park movies and does things his way. He ignores how Speilberg has done the action. Joe Johnston takes the action his way making the action quick, lacking build of suspense, and having the action last only up to 2 minutes. Spielberg on the other hand does the action right making it last more than 6 minutes and adding suspense.Johnston also enforces the new super dinosaur. Its a Spinosaurus to be exact. He can take out a plane in seconds, kill off a couple merchants, and take out a T.rex. He can't scare the audience. Johnston next enforces the new talking and smart raptors. Instead of frightening the audience as Johnston wants them to do, the raptors make the audience laugh out loud.There is also stupidity. Amanda Kirby calls for her son through a loud speaker phone during a desperate situation. Paul Kirby tries to get snacks from a broken down vending machine. Billy steals raptor eggs for funding. A satellite phone survives in a dinosaur digestive system and rings. There is just more stupidity I can list on and on.Everything is so predictable. Who didn't know what was going to happen next when Amanda gazed too long at the raptor head in the lab? Who didn't know who would live and who would die in the movie? Everything is so darn predictable. This movie had to have been set out for the weak minded audience.The only better acting is from Sam Neil and William Macy. Tea Leoni's acting was horrible. Jeter's and Nivola's parts were wasted. Morgan was just randomly chosen. And the other two were just there for dinosaur food. Thats all there is to the acting.And theres more. Not only have the four screenwriters come up with corny dialogue such as Into the herd, Into the trees, Your no better than the people who built this place, What was that?, and the Barney joke, they also got away with RIPPING off from the well thought of lines in the movie Aliens. This has been noticed by other critics so I thought of mentioning it to others here. They stole We must leave! We must leave now!, He's alive. I know he's alive and we're gonna find him, No matter what turns out...it wasn't your fault, It makes me wonder what else they were up to, You're alive...And thats the important thing, and I am so sorry you have to be here.The film running time is only 83 minutes. That is short enough for a kid's film. It also makes the film entirely weak for just relying on quick action and sound effects without a complete story line or development.The ending was just plain weak and stupid. We later find that JP3 is also a Dr Dolittle RIP-OFF where Dr Grant magically talks to the raptors. How absurd. The raptors soon leave without killing anyone. Next, the marines randomly appear and pick up the survivors. No new action in the end happened or was climatic as Johnston promised. Billy appears after having been thought to have died. The characters are horrible in the end. They don't care at all where the Pteranadons fly off to leaving room for another HORRIBLE Jurassic Park sequel.And thats about it. Jurassic Park 3 makes William Macy, Sam Neil, and Steven Spielberg look bad. Jurassic Park 3 only craves for quick action. It was put there only for the money. It messed up the entire JP series. "}{"Title":"Jaw Dropping Bad.","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not only is this movie as bad as people have been saying but it's ten times worse than you can imagine. At least Jurassic Park and the Lost World had a believable story plus some great action and special effects. This one just sinks up their legacy. There is not one good moment in this piece of trash that even lives up to expectation, and that's a big feet considering the fact that even the trailer gave you an hint on how bad the film was going to be. Please, if you are really hard up to rent a dinosaur film, then rent the previous films of the series (of course, Jurassic Park and the Lost World) at least they were made with some class and decency. This one was just made for the money. "},{"Title":"Deserves The Mystery Science Theater 3000 Treatment.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Movie is so bad that it even makes the fans of this once promising series look stupid. First off, it does not even follow the same premise of the other two movies, which explains the lack of any real depth, and characterization found here. Second, Not only does the special effect look cheap, but they look like they were bad, abandon prototypes from the first two movies. And last and not least, the acting is just too laughable to even comprehend. All the actors in this film phone in their performance, and lose their dignity in the process with this atrocity of film making. . I wish that Mike and the bots were still around, because they would give the poor people who had to sit though this film the justice they deserve.  If you loved the first two movies, do yourself a favor and skip this one. It will destroy any hope you had for this series.P.S. Even with All it's problems, The Lost World Is still a much better film than this.  It had better acting, and a little thing called a Plot. Some thing this film does not have.  "},{"Title":"The movie brings shame to Jurassic Park fans everywhere.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can I add to this conversation that has not already been said before? It's awful, and it insults the fans of the two previous movie. The Movie is bland, stupid and nonsensical. Any body with a pencil could have written a better plot, and the acting is just way too bad to even comprehend. The special effect are down right atrocious, and is a definite step down from the last two movies of the series. I don't know about you but if this is the best they could come up with for part 3, I can't even try to imagine on how bad the next film is going to be. "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this third installment of the Jurassic Park series, Sam Neil reprises his role as Alan Grant.  (The paleantologist from the original)  First of all, I think Joe Johnston ruined the Jurassic Park feeling. In the two previous films, you care about the characters.  You actually want them to escape the hostile island.  In this film, I felt no sympathy for any of the characters besides Neil. Also, the story was terrible.  Why would Grant go back to a dangerous island, only for money.  And how could a boy survive on an island, for what was it?  Two weeks?  And when Grants buddies land, two of the special forces men get killed almost immediately.  Another thing, why would you get rid of the T-rex?  He was the main dinosaur in the two previous films, and he barely gets five minutes before he gets killed by the spinosaurus. Johnston also did poorly by making every dinosaur evil.  In the previous two, the brachiosaurus were kind.  In this movie, they have evil eyes and sharp teeth.  And where did the spinosaurus come from?  He wasn't in any of the other films, so was he hiding before?  And why were the velociraptors so smart?  Does that mean that millions of years ago, velociraptors learned to talk, then evolved into stupider animals?  The hole movie was terrible, except the affects. ( 1/10 )  "},{"Title":"I can't believe that people liked it","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first movie was great - I think we can all agree on that. The second one was much less; mostly because of the ending - but the third one is crap from beginning to end. There is no story only a storyline with more holes than Swiss cheese. But fair enough, these movies don't really need a strong movie - they live on the special effects. But once you saw a dinosaur, the magic ain't there anymore. And that deltaflying scene at the beginning.... cheap, very cheap. The ending is worse than the second movie, the humour is still there but very lame, and no suspense. I don't need a part 4 anymore. I've had it. "},{"Title":"insulting","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let's talk, for a moment, about the first one, and what made it work. Mostly, it was because it created a kind of dream world for anyone who was fascinated by dinosaurs. It did something that had never been done before; to show a realistic depiction of what a prehistoric world might have been like. However, this more recent edition to the JP collection was more like a monster movie than one about dinosaurs. Aside from the bad acting and extremely lame story, it simply failed to capture my imagination the way the first one did. It came across as just another horror flick, yet never scared me once (I was usually laughing during the scary parts). One thing I should mention is that today, with all that can be done with computers, special effect are no longer special like they used to be. Anyone can make a creature like a dinosaur look real. So it almost becomes a joke when someone makes a big summer film like this, and it has already been done several times before. Let's face it, we will never be surprise by seeing a dinosaur in a movie again, but film makers still seek to cash in on good movies like the first Jurassic Park by making unimaginative sequels. So, in short, I felt that Jurassic Park 3 was just another boring, unoriginal, cash in flick with possibly the worst ending in cinema history.  "},{"Title":"total crap","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is not a single redeemable quality about this 1.5 hour flick. You've seen it all before, many many times, so every shot and every scene is predictable to absurdity. Maybe if the makers of this movie were not such control freaks who tried to control your every emotion, it would have some innocence to it, some spirit of adventure. As it is, it feels like you're watching coins drop into a slot machine. I don't know why they keep making this crap and, frankly, I don't care anymore. Whatever this was supposed to be... it ain't. 0/10  "},{"Title":"Should Be renamed Showgirls 2; Attack on Dino island.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have not seen a film as bad as Jurassic Park 3 since Showgirls. If you remember  Showgirls, you know that it was one sorry excuse of a movie. Jurassic park 3 is just as bad, and maybe a little worse. It's disgraces the other great films in the Jurassic Park series with ease with it's extremely brainless plot that really makes no sense what so ever once you start to think about it. The Acting is flat out awful, and the score is a bland rip off of the other two movies. On top of that, it really does not even follow the same storyline from the other two movies. At least Showgirls had some senseless T and A, and some camp humors to help you coup with what you were seeing. Jurassic Park 3 is not even funny in a bad sort of way. It's just jaw dropping bad from the beginning to the end. If you are really hard up to see a good movie, then to go out and rent any movie other than this.  "},{"Title":"Other than the Special Effects, The movie is a total disaster","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While The Special Effects Are incredible, The movie lacks one major thing, A STORY. This has to be the pinnacle of lazy filmmaking. Sure, The dinosaurs look better here than before, but where is the plot? Where is the suspends? Where are the likeable characters?  Special Effects are fine if this was made with a camp sense of humor (Like The Mummy Returns or any of the Tremors movies) but this is not even funny in a camp sort of way.  It's just down right bad. Even Sam Neil is bad in this film, and that is embarrassing because he is great in anything.  I know Some people are saying that if you don't compare it to the First Two films, then you will enjoy it, but that is a bunch of crap. The first two movie( Jurassic Park And The Lost World) were great because they were about something. They had compelling stories to them, And characters you can care about. They also were great popcorn films that were fun and exciting to watch. This one is just a mess with no sense of purpose at all. This is just a bad film with the name Jurassic Park attached to it. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?  What was I thinking?","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, new resolution  I'm never letting my boyfriends choose the movie again.  Mac made me sit through Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down.  Chris inflicted Godzilla 1998 on me.  And now the current beau has exposed me to Jurassic Park 3.  I need a bath.Lord, this movie was appalling.  It doesn't even deserve the 3--call it Jurassic Park Two-and-a-Half.  Half for half an effort.  Half for half a movie.  Half for half of my evening completely wasted.I don't know what Crichton and Spielberg thought of this turkey, but if I were them, I'd be nauseated.  The creators (and I use the term loosely) of this travesty took the elements of the first two books that didn't make it into the movies, shoved them into an idea processor, ran it on liquefy for five minutes, poured it into a mold, half-baked it (there's that half again), and served up this incoherent, predictable mishmash that isn't worth my toenail clippings, much less the price of admission.  The whole thing feels rushed, with absolutely zippo suspense and some pretty amateurish animation.  The few stabs at wit and irony fall so short they're practically not in the same theater.It's truly a shame to watch Bill Macy and Michael Jeter waste their efforts in this natural fertilizer, Tea Leoni is giving Maria Patillo competition for Worst Actress Ever, and will you all please give generously to the End Sam Neill's Career fund. "}{"Title":"Top of the list for the worst ever","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Worst movie I have ever seen!  No plot, and if there was any, it was horrible.  Fake effects and some of the stupidest scenes in history.  How the makers of this movie sat down and watched it, and said  We've got a real winner here. is beyond me. "},{"Title":"JPI was a masterpiece compared to this...","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting absolutely nothing in the area of characters and plot. I got just that- a short, meaningless plot with lifeless, cardboard characters running about. Contains spoilers I did, however, expect to get some decent dinosaur effects. I did not get even that. Instead of the harsh, animalistic dinos we got in JPI, we get stupid looking, obnoxiously colored, clearly animatronic dinosaur puppets (for some odd reason, the raptors are blue and red, with MOHAWKS!!).Now lets talk about plot...there is not one. The plot seems to have been invented by my five year old cousin. It consists of Sam Neil and company running and....running...oh, yes...and running- away from dinosaurs. That is the plot.The film is so full of inconsistencies that I felt ill by the time the credits rolled (even though only about an hour and 20 minutes had passed).How exactly did this mysterious finned, T-Rex killing dinosaur get on the island?How did a 12 yr old boy manage to survive 8 weeks on an island that trained mercenaries lasted 3 minutes on?How did the Raptors turn blue and red, and get those fantastically stupid mohawks on their heads?How did Dr. Eli Satler understand that Dr. Grant was trapped on Isla Sorna, simply from a mysterious phone call in which he says help me!Where exactly did Dr. Grant learn how to speak Raptorese?Why is this franchise being continued?So many un-answered questions that I could care less if they have an answer to.There is no time taken to develop characters in this movie, so we (the audience) care nothing for the characters in the film. I could care less whether they died or not. As soon as the film begins, the pointless action starts, and it doesn't end until their predictable escape from the island.This film is not worth debating, and certainly not worth seeing. When I spent $8.50 on a short, pointless, irritatingly illogical film such as this, I was angered severely.Anyone who likes this film obviously cares nothing for integrity and quality in movies. This film sets an all-time low for motion pictures. If a movie gets any lower than this, than it is made by a 12 yr old with a video camera in his garage.Pointless plot. Cardboard actors. Bad director. Truly horrible film. For your own sake, SEE SOMETHING ELSE!! "},{"Title":"Preposterous and Bad...Simultaneously","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUTOMFG this movie is awful. I cannot believe that Sam Neill had any part of it. I'm convinced that Jeff Goldblum deliberately injured his leg so he could avoid being in this movie.I won't detail every ridiculous scene because there are too many, but I'll summarize enough to make my point.The biggest problem I have is that the parents who effectively kidnap Dr Grant not only survive, thereby not being punished for their stupidity and self-importance which cause three deaths to save one life, but they recover their son and find love again with each other (never mind the fact that the mother just lost her boyfriend (husband?) and was face-to-face with his rotting corpse with no seeming mental distress).In one scene the middle-aged, out-of-shape (thin != world-class sprinters) parents and scientist are fleeing from velociraptors (escaping from one would be silly enough, but escaping from many is beyond ridiculous) and manage to outrun them and run into a herd of presumably herbivore dinosaurs that are about the size of elephants. Upon seeing the velociraptors the herbivores begin stampeding and bumping into each other, but somehow neither trample the humans nor crush them between each other.The 12-year old child apparently survives eight weeks alone on the island having previously read a few books about dinosaurs (making him an expert on dinosaur hunting tactics) and later survives a pterodactyl attack and pursuit of it's young which were roughly the size of a 12-year old human, but with presumably better killing skills. Then when the 20-something model/paleontologist is attacked by 2-3 adult pterodactyls not only does he survive, but he is apparently able to swim far enough from the island to find US troops AND convince them to amass a small force to storm the beach to save the Dr and the delusional parents and spoiled child.Look out Plan 9 from Outerspace &#x96; your crown is being threatened.FWIW it's not a suspension of disbelief thing because I own over 400 movies many of which are scientifically improbable and some of which are scientifically impossible, but this movie is more outrageous than Angelina Jolie having the strength to fling a fired bullet faster than the earth spins (Wanted, if you don't get that reference).And before the fans of this movie jump on me I may have missed a few minor details that explain some of the things about which I'm complaining because I was working on a computer while 'watching' it, but I didn't miss enough details to take my 1 * rating to a 10. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Fart","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Normally I am not the one for fart jokes, but I must say this was the worst movie I have ever seen that involves dinosaurs. I loved the first one, the second one was a passable sequel. But the third BUM-BUM-BUM!!!!!!!!! Oh God, when I saw this one in the 'big bobby theatres' it did not shock me-it didn't pass as a sequel. I didn't like it and I'm sure it didn't really like me. So anyway, the plot is thin and Sam Neill----well this is his worst absolute performance. This film makes me think of what Jurassic Park IV will be, and if they're going to have the same director, the same supporting actors (Sam Neill and William H. Macy were great in this, though) and the same writer then God help us all. I hope I never see this film again because it's a really crappy movie. 0/10 "},{"Title":"That's it?","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know what is worse, The plot, or the running time? This is really such a slap in the face of the fans of the series that it makes them look really stupid.  The intelligence and heart that once made this series great is replace with a mindless and heartless monster movie that really was made to drive a once great series into the ground.  The movie is barely 90 minutes long, and the plot is way too simple to be taken seriously. The special effects are not even up to standard with the other two movies in the series, and the island itself does not even resemble the one from the previous film...If you want to be let down then by all means see it. If you are a fans of what made the other two movies so great, then end your Jurassic Park experience with the Lost World and hope and pray that the next movie follow in their footsteps.  "},{"Title":"More of a Disney Film Than a Jurassic Park Film.","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's more of a little kids film than the movies Steven Spielberg made before, and I think there lies the problem with the film itself. This one is more of a Children's film version of Jurassic Park and The Lost World all rolled into one film. A pretty bad film to say the least, but a kids friendly one none the less. Rent it if you have little ones, but if you are a fan of the more serious movies in this series, then move on. There is nothing to see here other than the studio trying to water down a once great series in order to please extremely sensitive parents of spoiled rotten brats.   "},{"Title":"If you like this film, then don't you dare call yourself a Jurassic Park fan.","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know what is more insulting, the movie or the people who think that this movie is any good. This was just so Bad. It does not even come close to the excellence of the first two films, and the special effects are a giant step down. I love Sam Neil, but even he can't save this film from it's own stupidity.  The director can't direct at all, and the script is beyond laughable.  This does not even deserve to be mention as a follow up to Both Jurassic Park and The Lost World because it's really is not.If you like this film, then don't you even bother to call yourself a Jurassic Park fan.  "},{"Title":"A real sorry excuse for a sequel.","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love a good popcorn movie, and I am willing to forgo any sense of logic in order to have a really good time.  I for one thought that this was going to be one of those times, and boy I was wrong.  This was just too stupid for words. It's very short compared to the other films of the series, and it definitely lacks the power and the thrills from those two movies. I don't know why but I even did not like Sam Nell in this film, and he was really good in the first one. The story was not up to snuff with the others, and the Dinosaurs were more like brainless killing machines than wild animals. I can suspend disbelieve and just go with the flow, but after two much better films in this series, we deserve better than this.Do yourself a favor and skip it.  "},{"Title":"A disgrace to all things Jurassic.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is One horrible movie. Every thing for the special effects to the directing was beyond sub-par, and there is no story to even keep this mess of a film together.  The Lost World has it share of problems as well, but at least it respected the original film and was at least entertaining enough to be a considered a worthy follow up. This film is even sub par in its entertainment value, even in a sequel sense. Don't be fooled into thinking that because it's a sequel to two great films that it's just as good as they are, because you will find out the hard way that it's not. I did, and i regret it completely . "},{"Title":"An insult to fans of the two films.","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'll tell you this, never have I been to the theatre and seen such tripe. Joe Johnston should be hunted down and shot for how he has handled this, the third instalment of the popular and highly successful Jurassic Park franchise, such is the degree of sheer incompetence shown in this near unwatchable creation.The Plot, Story, acting, characterisation and dialogue were never anything more than just plain awful. The action sequences were far too short and extremely unimaginative (most are inferior and blatantly obvious carbon copy's of what we saw in the first two instalments). None had any form of tension, build up or suspense worthy of mentioning, and from start to finish were about as intense and scary as your average episode of 'Tom and Jerry'. The death scenes were (yawn) plain to say the least, not to mention predictable, and on *all but one* occasion took place completely out of view. Its was painfully obvious they aiming towards the younger audiences this time around, the film even had Barney (the pink dinosaur) thrown in to boot.The Visual effects were nothing special either. Certainly NOT on par with what we saw in the first two `groundbreaking' instalments. Some of the CGI shots in particular (e.g. 'Brachiosaurs on the bank', and this goofy looking Red thing we see near the end) looked so cheap they could quite easily be confused with something that was done using clay models and 'stop-motion' techniques. Worse still was the animatronics. The way they moved, the way they acted, the way they were presented, they seemed generations behind what we saw in the first film and certainly the second. You knew instantly that you were watching a puppet with foam rubber for skin, the very second it appeared on the screen. Joe Johnston simply could not convince me that the puppets were real dinosaurs the way Spielberg did, and thus, throughout the film, the awe, the majesty and the belief that dinosaurs were alive on this distant island was totally lost.On a lighter note however, at least this films utter hideousness has allowed a great many people to see Steven Spielberg's 'The Lost World' for just how underrated it truly was.My final score - 1/10 (Just for the record, I gave both JP and TLW 9/10) "}{"Title":"An embarrassment to the entire Jurassic Park series","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only word that come in my mind when I think of Jurassic Park 3 is Why? Why would Any body with common sense would even think that this film is any good? This was horrible, a slap in the face of everything the first two movie ever stood for. Even The dinosaurs look embarrass to be in this dino dump. The action is horrible, the acting is extremely bad, and the directing is so off the mark that you end up thinking that it was filmed on some ones video camera. There is no story in this awful movie, and when you get any kind of a story during this mess, it makes no sense. Give and take what you may think of the Lost World, at least it was entertaining, and it had the essence of the first film. This Dino Crap has literally nothing going for it another than a Roman numeral. Do yourself and your self esteem a favor and avoid at all cost. You will thank yourself in the morning. "},{"Title":"Worse and worse","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a horrible film.  The acting wasn't terrible but after the first fifteen minutes I found that I was wishing death on every one of the characters.  Especially terrible was the jungle boy who survived for eight weeks by him self.  To sum up, the directing was terrible, the plot non-existent and the acting substandard.  I enjoyed the original Jurassic Park but the trilogy has gotten worse with every sequel. "},{"Title":"Why do we need this movie???","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"     This has to be the lamest sequel ever made. It's completely pointless and unnecessary other than to suck money out of unsuspecting filmgoers' pockets. Yeah, yeah, Sam Neill is back, but so what? The second JP was awful, and this makes that look like a masterpiece. The whole film goes like this actors get into sticky situation, dinos attacks, dinos go away, repeat ad nauseum. It's so BAD it's not even worth reviewing. Yecchh. "},{"Title":"This film deserves to be called trash.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can I add to this conversation that has not already been said? It's bad, The acting is beyond awful, and it's no where near as good as the first two movies. I think those who liked this film really have not seen a really good film in their life. This was horrible, a film that literally spits in the face in the fans who loved the first two films.  The FXs were not up to par with the first two, and the movie is way too short to be taking seriously.To put every thing in a nut shell, Don't waste your time. If you want to see Two Good dinosaur movies, rent the first two (Jurassic Park, and The Lost World.) They at least gave you a story. This does not  "},{"Title":"Spielberg should lower his head in shame.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know what the hell Steven Spielberg was thinking when he let his name be put on this piece of dino crap. This was awful, an abomination to the whole Jurassic Park series. A movie so bad that even with its short running time, it out stays it's welcome.  Sam Neil Gives A decent Performance but Let's face it, his character is the least interesting of the entire series. All he does is look stupid from one scene to another, and even acts dumber in this than in The first one. (The Scene with the talking raptor is a good clue on how bad this movie is)Save your money and your dignity, and rent the first two films (Jurassic Park and The Lost World), They are a hell of allot better than this.  "},{"Title":"A waste of my time and money.","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you have any respect for Steven Spielberg's original film or either of Michael Chrichton's novels then please do not watch this horrible, horrible film.  From the opening scene it presents itself as a soulless, plotless piece of garbage simply meant to make lots of money.The special effects are far below the level of the original.  The directing is almost adolescent in its simplicity, and I do not mean that in a good way.  The plot and storyline are absolutely ludicrous, and that is before the characters show up.This is one of those movies that will irritate you because the characters are so unbelievably stupid in all of their actions.  The idiocy of the characters made any good points of the movie lost to me.The editing is quite pathetic as well.  I find it amazing the a thirty foot tall dinosaur that could most likely run in excess of thirty mph could go from being a few feet behind some slow running humans to a hundred feet behind whenever the picture changes.  Every scene that is not is sunlight is so obviously on a sound stage that everything that happens during the scene is unbelievable.  In short, a ten year old could have devised a better plot, character development, and cinematography.  Spend your $7 on something worthwhile, like a bunch of tylenol. "},{"Title":"If Ed Wood Made a Dinosaur movie, Jurassic Park 3 would be it.","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films I have seen in years. Badly acted, badly directed, and has no plot what so ever. Jurassic Park 3 is with out a doubt one of the worst movies ever made. It has nothing to do with the first two Jurassic Park films, and of course has none of the heart or charm that made those films special. This film does not even qualify as a B movie.To all of those people who say that it's better than the Lost World, I even doubt you people even saw it. Because if you did, you would not even compare The Lost World to this film.Don't pay attention to those people who say that it's better than Lost World. Chances are, they are lying in order to sell this lemon to you.  "},{"Title":"Jurassic Trash ( No, It's not better than Lost World)","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Who ever says that this film is better than Lost World has to be  working for the studio who made this garbage. Because no one in their right mind would even think that this film has any merit at all. It's just too bad for words, and a pure disgrace to the name Jurassic Park. This film is so bad, that it makes Battlefield Earth look even remotely good.  The acting is atrocious (I still can't believe that Bill Macy decided to do this film, He's better than this), and The Special Affects look worse than the last two films.  There is no story, and there is not even a logical ending to this disaster. Do yourself and your family a favor and just stay away.  It's really that horrible,   "},{"Title":"Wince-inducing B-movie","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park was good. The Lost World wasn't. This sucks Tyranosaurus balls.Even William H Macy (who was brilliant in Fargo) can't save this, as the writer has him spouting unintelligable dialogue and unfunny, inappropriate jokes.Tea Leoni is awful - her emotions are so contrived you couldn't really care less about her son. Mind you - you wouldn't anyway the story is so ridiculous.Amazingly the dinosaurs look far, far less convincing than they did in the original Jurassic Park. I suspect this is due to an over reliance on CGI, as opposed to the physical effects used in the first film.So, with an awful story, hideous dialogue, painful jokes and suspect dinosaur animation, Jurassic Park 3 is a soul-less cash-in on the original.If you really want to be insulted for 90 minutes, do yourself a favour and invite some friends round to do it for you. You'll most likely have a much more entertaining time than if you go and see this! "},{"Title":"I was bummed out!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When i went to see this i thought, i liked the first two and thought that they were very suspenseful so this one should be good also. WRONG! There was NO suspense and they don't explain about the new dinosaurs! When i was done watching this i had lost all respect for Steven Spielberg and Michael Crichton but then it turned out that it wasn't directed by Spielberg or written by Michael Crichton! This movie was going through the motions. i thought that this movie had absolutely no plot and i thought that no one should waste their money to see it. "}{"Title":"A disgrace to the Jurassic park franchise","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What happens when you put a group of second-rate filmmakers together on an island, give them an enormous budget, and provide them with one of the most valuable film franchises of all time? You realise just how brilliant Steven Spielberg is.Jurassic Park III is simply a pointless movie that never should have been made. The film simply reeks of a cheap sequel. The basic plot tells of a couple who tricks Dr. Alan Grant to take them into Jurassic Park after their son is lost on the island while parasailing. Predictably, all hell breaks loose as the dinosaurs continue to wreak havoc. Unfortunately, in all of this havoc there is not a single moment of decent dialogue, acting, directing, or special effects. The filmmakers seem to have interpreted the original Jurassic Park as a horror film, and treat this movie as such. Characters die in a timely and organised fashion, characters attempt to separate in order to be more effective, and so forth. The original Jurassic Park was not a horror film, and this movie should not have been treated as such.I doubt that many people had high expectations for Jurassic Park III as a good film. Most probably thought the movie would simply be an enjoyable escape for an hour and a half with great special effects and a few memorable scenes. Yet somehow, even with a budget of approximately ninety million dollars, the movie's special effects were terrible. In the opening scene, I heard a kid behind me who couldn't have been older than eight turn to his mom and say Mommy, that looks so fake. If the special effects couldn't even make a child believe, how are they supposed to convince the rest of the public? Another huge weakness in this movie is the timing. One thing that made the original Jurassic Park great was the memorable scenes. I can instantly recall great scenes from the movie, such as the T-Rex chasing the Jeep at night, the young boy climbing the electric fence and getting electrocuted, and so forth. Jurassic Park III doesn't have any sense of timing, and as a result the film just feels like a bunch of scenes that bleed into each other without any rhyme or reason. A few moments in the movie could have actually been memorable scenes had they been timed correctly, but instead they are easily discarded and thought of as a joke. The lack of special effects and memorable scenes kills the possibility of Jurassic Park III even being an enjoyable excursion.Yet through all the bad acting, poor writing, and mindless directing, the biggest weakness in the film is not as obvious. The filmmakers failed to realise what the original Jurassic Park was about. It was not simply a horror or action film in which the protagonists ran away from scary beasts. The film was an examination of man's role in nature and of how we view ourselves as the mighty rulers of the universe. While there were exciting chase scenes and great special effects, those were not the theme of the film. Jurassic Park III forgets all of this, and even occasionally mocks these themes in the original. If you took these themes away from the original film, all you would have had left would be a hollow horror film with great special effects. Jurassic Park III is simply a hollow horror film with mediocre special effects. Jurassic Park is a story about man; Jurassic Park III is a story about dinosaurs. That is the primary difference between the two films.One would have thought that with the budget and the resources the filmmakers had, they could have produced a better movie than Jurassic Park III. Instead, the movie is a reminder of Jaws, another amazing Spielberg film that had sequels made by different directors that were subsequently mindless waste. While Jurassic Park II was not a great film by any means, it at least understood the original and tried to carry on it's themes. Jurassic Park III does none of that, and as a result is simply rubbish that should definitely be avoided. "},{"Title":"Lives up to its reputation as one of the worst sequels ever made.","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love bad movies, and I can sit through them with a perverse delight but this was bad, really bad. So bad that I can't even believe that the studio let this movie be release. Sharknado looked like a A grade movie compared to this, that's how shoddy this film looks.First off, it's not even a sequel to the other films in the series. It's more of a remake, and a bad one to boot. The whole story makes no sense, and the acting is flat out laughable. To sum up this movie in one word is even too much to bear. Crap is one word, and trash is another. The sad part about all of this is the fact that some people (Either very sensitive small kids or extremely mentality challenge adults) think that it's better than the second film film (The Lost World). Granted The Lost World was no where near as good as the original but at least it keeps its sense of wonder and thrills. But compared to this piece of cinematic disaster, it's a masterpiece. Word of advice, Stay with the first two movies, and Pray that Jurassic World is able to get the bad taste of Jurassic Park 3 out of all our mouths. "},{"Title":"This movie is Steven Spielberg's way of giving his middle finger to his fans.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tedious and pointless follow up to Jurassic Park and The Lost World leaves behind the sense of wonder and fun of it's predecessors, and instead becomes a by the numbers B monster movie that really does not even make a serious attempt to be any good at all. The acting is horrible, as well as the special effects and there is really no feasible plot line to go by.  This movie was only made to capitalize on two much better films, and judging by the lack of class this production seems to have had, It shows that Spielberg really did not care what so ever if this movie was any good or not. It seems to me that the only thing he did care for was a quick pay check, and not the quality that made the first two movies so great.What a shame, and the sad part about it is that Spielberg is seriously considering making Jurassic Park 4.Avoid at all cost. "},{"Title":"Following the same pattern as the Jaws movies, going right down the toilet.","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The comparisons are right there. Every Jaws film was worse than the other, and The Jurassic Park series is going through the same pattern. Here is an example1 A) The Original Jaws Landmark Film That set the bar in suspends, and sheer thrills. Directed By Steven Spielberg.B) The Original Jurassic Park Landmark Film That revolutionizes special effects, and combined them superbly with suspends, thrills, and heart. Also Directed By Steven Spielberg.2 A) Jaws 2 A sequel That does not equal the original but manages to keep up the suspends and thrills. This was directed by Jeannot Szwarc, who does not have the flare of Steven Spielberg but manages to keep up the pace set forth by the original.B) The Lost World, Jurassic Park A sequel that does not equal the original but manages to surpass it in the special effects department. Steven Spielberg directed this, and this is the first time he directed a sequel to one of his original movies. Although It does not come close to the magic of the original, it does retain the superb combination of Suspends, thrills, and heart.3 A) Jaws 3 (also known as Jaws 3D) A bad cash in that is more of a gimmick that an actual movie. The gimmick in question is the rendering of 3D images over bad shark effects that tries to cover up the fact that the story is preposterous, and the acting is outrageously bad. This was Directed by Joe Alves, who proves with out a doubt that anyone with a camera can be a director, but talent is giving to a few.B) Jurassic Park 3 A bad cash In that is more of a gimmick that an actual movie. The gimmicks in question are the discovery of a new dinosaur called the Spinosauris that was hiding from the other films of the series and the evolution of talking raptors. All this and a very short running was clear attempt to cover up the fact that there was really no story to be told, and the fact that acting is so glaringly bad gives a real indication of actors just trying to collect a check. Not even The special effects are up to expectation, and that shocking because it came from the same man who did the others movies in the series. This was directed By Joe Johnson Who previous outings includes Honey I Shrunk the kids and Jumangi were mediocre at best. (Word Of advice, Never Give over a franchise To a man name Joe)I don't know about Jurassic Park 4 but if the pattern holds we will all see another Jaws The Revenge. If that happens then The Jurassic Park series is truly dead. "},{"Title":"It was Joe Johnson Who made The dinosaurs go extinct.","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one terrible film. It literally destroys every thing that made the others so good, and really sinks this series into strait to video limbo. They is nothing of redeeming value in this movie other than the fact that it has a very short running time. The special effects were cheap, and the acting was flat out bad. The story seems like it was written by a five year old, and the characters were the most annoying people who have ever hit the screen. Even at it's worse, The Lost World was at least entertaining enough to pass the time away. Jurassic Park 3 is not even entertaining enough to sit though if you were forced to at gun point. Now we know who made the Dinosaurs go extinct, It was The director of this film. "},{"Title":"A Real waste of time.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was one horrible film. It made no sense what so ever, and it was way too short. Every thing from the acting to the directing was bad, and the ending was one of the worst endings I have ever seen. To make a long story short, Stay Away. Not only is this movie as bad as people have been saying, but it's not even worth your time thinking about.  It does not even deserve to be in the same category than Jurassic Park and The Lost World (A much, much better Sequel ) "},{"Title":"how low can you get?","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III can be ranked with such great movies as the Fourth Return of Indiana Jones Part II and the Mummy Returns Once Again (director's cut). I was really annoyed by how bad this movie was. Most dinosaurs are visibly made by a computer program. I do not recommend this movie to anyone who's time is worth something. HERE COMES SOMETHING OF A SPOILER TO CERTAIN PARTS, READERS BEWARE! The only slightly original idea was that of the bird cage. Also, the part where the child criticizes a book along with the professor while his parents are probably being eaten alive by velociraptors is annoyingly unrealistic. Overall, I believe this was a horrible remake to get some more money out of a popular movie (and its not-so-good sequel). "},{"Title":"Someone should burn this park down.","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a major letdown.  This is with out a doubt one of the worst movies ever made, and that is about the nicest thing I could say about this movie. There is nothing of value to even make this worthy of the previous two movies of the series, and there is nothing of value to even make this a decent film. The acting is amateurish, the directing is disjointed, and don't even mention the script because there aren't one.  You can see how much Spielberg really cares about the fans if he green lighted this abomination. Do yourself a favor, and forget this one ever existed. One more thing, even thou The Lost World was not Spielberg's crowning achievement, it's still light years beyond better than this film. "},{"Title":"The Worst sequel in a history of bad sequels.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was crap, pure and unforgiving. This would be a great film for Mystery Science Theater 3000 because It's THAT BAD. The acting is horrible, The dinosaurs look worse than before, and story is literally non existent. This is a tremendous come down from the first two movies and it really shows. Who ever thinks that this film is even remotely good should have their head examined. Not even worth seeing on TV. Yes, It's that bad. "},{"Title":"A Spit in the Face at True Jurassic Park fans.","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was so bad. The Acting, The Special Effects, and The Story were all just horrible.Let's Start with The Acting, that is really a real come down from the first two movies. Sam Neil is a great actor but in this movie, he is as bad as the material. He is no where as good as he was in the first film, and unfortunately he character was not that interesting in the first film anyway. William H Macy Is some what decent but he himself becomes Annoying after while. The true horror is Tea Leoni, who plays probably the most character ever conceived. You yourself would be cheering for the Dinosaurs to kill this woman.The Special Effects are extremely dismal, Even for a Dinosaur film. At one point, The Spino Looks as big rubber puppet (Yes, that bad) and Changes Sizes through out the film. The Island itself looks like it was filmed in a Suburban park. It's nothing like the beauty and the savagery that was in The Lost World, and it's the same island.The Story is probably the most offensive part of the whole movie. There is no logic or common sense to be found in this story. It does not even follow the first two movies, and it's a sequel .The characters are just too stupid for words, and their reasoning for being on the island has to be one of the worse ideas of the history of bad ideas. The end thou is really the most offensive ending ever made because it just ends. It's merciful considering how bad this movie was, but there is no climax. It just ends with out warning, and with out pity. Like the film makers were trying to spare us from the worse thing ever viewed on screen. If they wanted to be merciful, they should have never made this movie. A movie that Spits in the face of every thing that made the first two so great.Not Even worth a rental.  "}{"Title":"A movie so bad, it should be a crime even to sit through it.","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A real sinker of epic proportion, and with out a doubt one of the worse sequels ever made. Ed Wood himself would be ashamed of this film, and that is saying allot. Sure, Sam Neil Is Back but He's character in this film is nothing more of a reminder of how good the first film was, and unfortunately his character was really not that interesting in the first film anyway. (Jeff Goldblum, You are missed) The Special effects are Sub Par compare to the first two movies, and the story itself is a cruel joke. All the logic, wisdom and heart that made the first two movies great are replace with badly directed action scenes that make no sense what so ever, and dramatic scenes are unintentionally funny. William H Macy is probably one of the greatest actors we have around, and he even embarrasses himself in this film.  When ever you see a talking raptor in the first fifteen minutes of any movie, that is a pretty good indication on how bad the movie is going to get; and boy does it get worse.After a short time, you will be rooting for the dinosaurs to kill all the characters in this film, not only because they are the most annoying characters ever put to film, but because of their sheer stupidity. This is one very bad movie, and if this is the future of the Jurassic Park series, then please end it.A disappointing and shameful movie that does not deserve to be called Jurassic Park. "},{"Title":"Where's Steven Spielberg and Jeff Goldblum when you really need them?","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was horrible, extremely horrible. It ranks right next to Highlander 2 as one of the worst sequels ever made. There is barely a plot in this train wreck, and the acting is just way too bad.  The holes in logic are just way too huge to ignore, and it's goes against every thing that was put forth in the first two movies.  The dinosaurs even look worse than they did before, and the island itself looks like some ones back yard.Do yourself and some one you love a favor and avoid this film at all cost. It does not even deserve to be added to your DVD collection, That's how bad it is.  "},{"Title":"Pale in comparison to the first!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed the first Jurassic Park, semi good story and great special effects. When the second came out I very disappointed, very poor story and the dinasours didn't even look as good. Well the same goes for three! From the trailer I thought it had potential to be almost as good as the first, but let me tell you. I was extremely disappointed. the movie was totaly different then the trailer, in fact I cant stand the movie. But this movie will obviously do good at the box office, so I expect there to be another one made in the years to come. Lets hope it will actually be better than the last 2!! "},{"Title":"another dull thriller","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Jurassic Park 3' is a third story in the sequel to Speilburg's popular and well-received dinosaur film. The film does not have much of a plot, and the characters themselves are pretty one-dimensional. Like the other films, it just plays on special effects and dinosaurs to kill off the characters - or to drive them mad. This film did try to have more of a plot, but it failed miserably. The whole aspect of the dinosaurs and communication was a little cheesy, and I don't think that the dinosaurs would let them out alive just because they managed to make the right sounds. Wishful thinking. It's cheap thrills but nothing else. Give me more substance, please. "},{"Title":"Should of been a direct to video movie or TV movie! Pathetic sequel!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I will not give away major plot points that has already been posted. The third movie in the Jurassic Park series feels like it should of gone straight to video or at least a made for TV movie. The story is lame. The people in the movie are dummies(even Alan Grant and he is a dino expert!) ,and the special effects are decent. if you really want to see this movie, wait for the DVD as you're not going to miss much on the big screen. But if you must see it,on the big screen, wait for it at a cheap movie theater. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing how they butchered the end of Jurassic Park 2, you think that that would be the lowest they could go...but no! Not one part, not a single part, of Jurassic Park 3 made any sense. First off, was there a plot? I don't remember...Was it something like these parents lost their son on an island inhabited by dinosaurs, and told these archeologist that they would pay them a lot to rescue them. But wait...those parents weren't really rich at all! They faked it! Man, like that couldn't have gotten any worse. And the whole thing with the Spinosaur snapping the T Rex's neck, what's up with that? The T Rex was one of the coolest things from the first one, I mean, c'mon! And to top this crap movie off, is an unbelievalbe ending.My rating (out of 10) Characters(including dinosaurs), 5. Music, 7. Plot, 0. Stupidy, 10. Money wasted, $6. Overall, barely a 1. "},{"Title":"To call this film a letdown is an understatement.","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hands down, this has to be the worst sequel ever made to a movie. It even makes strait to video look classy, and that really hard to do. Sam Neil literally destroys any creditability he had as an actor with this mess, and the rest of the cast is just too horrible too even mention (William H Macy should be a shame of himself.) There is not even a hint of a plot any where in this movie, and the dino effects look like crap.  The direction is a joke, and the pace of the film is too fast to even make sense of what is happing from one scene to the next.  Sick with the first two movies and stay way from this one, it is really that bad. "},{"Title":"What the...????","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just got finished watching it and I have a lot to say.  This movie was downright awful!!!!!  It's like they had in one hand good choices and in the other hand bad choices, like a taste test, and they always picked bad choices.  I'm convinced that this movie was a joke to all who participated in it.  I mean, did the cast READ the script????!!!!  What were there salaries again????!!!  Must have been a lot to make such great actors seem so less-than.First off, the cinematography - what cinematography???  How the heck do you light a movie so badly.  I saw so many chances to make things look, I don't know...SCARY or great or at least interesting that were just passed up with overlighting from unidentified and unmotivated sources that frankly didn't make any sense whatsoever.  Even simple setups like lighting from the SUN was messed up - how hard is that.The script????  Perhaps if they'd spent just a little of the money used in special effects to develop a proper script, I might have been able to stomach the sludge that was pouring from that screen.  Character arcs? Who needs them?  Convincing dialogue that maybe, even vaguely resembles basic human speech and not that random stuff you get when you try to get your computer to say sentences?  How about some storyline, maybe some filler to back up all the plot holes?  And I know it says in the guidelines to refrain from revealing plot elements, but...well you don't have to worry about that here.  I can't reveal what's not there.And I've figured out what they did in editing.  They were charitable and hired this guy who was down on his luck who'd never edited a film before and said, here, you put this together and they stuck him in a room without even metronome to keep up the pacing with.Some movies are made in sound effects.  This was not.  Cartoonish at best, yes.  This is unforgivable.Anyway, I think I'll keep this movie on my shelf and just relabel it, you know?  Crash Course In How NOT To Make A Film. "},{"Title":"More of an afterthought than a follow up.","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is really more of a summary than a real sequel. It does not address any of the issues raises in the first two movies, and it really does not add any thing to the story as a whole. The Movie lacks any real depth, and it really does not have a story. It just has very stupid characters running around, and making fools of themselves. Sam Neil (Who was in the first one) does not have the charm and wit of Jeff Goldblum, and really does not add anything to this flimsy movie other than a reminder of how unnecessary it was to bring back his character. My advise, Let's make believe this film is not a part of this series because it's not even worthy enough  to be even mention in the same breath as the other two movie in this great series. "},{"Title":"Laughable","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first one was great, the second one was a disappointment, this one was absolutely awful.  Poor performances by all the actors with the exception of Neil.  Add in a non existent story along with special effects that are in my opinion no better than the first film, you have a terrible movie.  I thought the second one was really a disapointment, but this one makes the second film look like an academy award winner.  This movie will make money, no doubt, but please put the Jurassic park franchise to rest.  It has become an extremely tired idea.    "}{"Title":"Zero story-line!!!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You could have put the characters on the island for any reason at all and had the same movie.  The first one had an original story, the second stole one from King Kong, and in the end (I hope) of this trilogy the story seemed to have been bypassed altogether.  Drop some people on an island full of dinosaurs and watch them run for their lives.  That was about all there was to it.  The special effects were decent but not worth 8 dollars.  If you have a discount theatre in your local area, wait and see it for a buck.  I wouldn't even bother renting it.  That would be too much money for this unthrilling thriller. "},{"Title":"THEY NEVER SHOULD HAVE DONE IT...","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If I was writing Jurassic Park 3 I would've followed the movie rules.  Make it a trilogy,  but I guess MCA/UNIVERSAL want to just make money.  They don't care about the fans.   If they did they wouldn't have given us that piece of crap call a film.   Now to the film.  1.   You cannot do better then Spielberg, 2. The plot was too thin, and jumpy. 3. It was a short  movie.  They go from a scene with Raptors in which they barely get away from to a beach  scene where the ARMY, NAVY, AND MARINES come to save them.  It rolls on to the same  old expectations.  Jurassic Park 3 didn't even need to made.  They closed the book with the  second one.  All MCA/UNIVERSAL wanted to do was have movie that could make some  money during the summer.  You have FOX releasing Planet Of The Apes in 2 weeks which  will win summer time box office race.  MCA/UNIVERSAL Just wanted to steal some  spotlight.  Back to the trilogy rules.   Every great trilogy always had a surprise you never  thought of.  Jedi had it, Godfather had it Indiana Jones had it.  So did Scream and Kevin  Smiths films had it too with Clerks, Mallrats and Chasing Amy.  The third one always tells  you something you thought you knew but had no idea.  So since Jurassic Park 3 was just  another walk in the park so to say.  I would tell you to expect a Jurassic Park 4. THEIR  BACK AND MAD IN MONTANA.  If you disagree with me then what ever.  I don't really  care.  I was just sad to see a great franchise bite the dust.  I know the movie will make  money cause it has to.  So I'll say the movie makes 200-250 Mill. Here in the USA.  But  that is being nice.  I hope it tops out at 88 Mill.  Cause over all this film was a crap shot  in the dark that rolled snake eyes. 1.1 rating from me. "},{"Title":"Terrible and quite painful to watch.","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Terrible and quite painful to watch 3rd film in the Jurassic Park series finds poor Sam Neill slumming it and looking quite annoyed in a movie that manages to not only contradict the plot lines of the first two movies in the series but turns what was once an intelligent, thoughtful subject of those who should not be playing with nature into a sappy, painful melodrama about family issues. William H Macy and Tea Leoni play the parents of a missing child who was stranded on the island where the last film took place(The Lost World). So they trick Alan Grant into going on a rescue mission to find him. That's pretty much the story as a whole and its more and less a standard creature feature but with out the thrills or fun that comes with it. The 4th film in the series (Jurassic World)at least was fun and lived up to its B movie roots while this film does not know what it wants to be. The acting is poor and for 90 minute film, you're looking at the time wishing it was finish.To sum it all up, don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"It's not worth its weight in celluloid.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Where's the beef?' I said to a friend as I watched this film. Where is The intelligent characters that is always associated with these movies? Where is the interesting plot that is always found while watching this series? Where is the common sense that made this series a step above a mindless special effects movie?   I asked myself these questions and more while I was wasting my time watching this movie, that was mind numbing at best. A movie that was really only made to capitalize on two much better films.  Spielberg was right to walk away from this film, and judging by the lack of a real story; any self respecting director would do the same.  At a mere ninety minutes, it manages to insult the viewer in ways that can only be contributed in the lack of respect of for the material at hand. Every thing from the acting to the special effects is awful and the directing is lazy attempt to copy what Spielberg did with the others movies in this series. This film was only made to please simpletons who rather foam at the mouth and charge at their cages other than for the real fans who loved the interesting characters, plot points and story telling that made this series respectable. Even the Carnosaur films were better than this movie, and that's a sad thing to say because all of them were horrible rip offs of this series. Stay with the other two movies and let's completely forget this one. Wait for a real Jurassic Park 3 that actually follows the events and quality of The original, and The Lost World.   "},{"Title":"A Jurassic Joke of Epic Proportion.","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a very forgiving person, and I can sit though very bad films and be entertained by them if they at least had some kind of camp value to them. Jurassic Park 3 is the exception to this. This is a true Example of lazy filmmakeing. It's like the director just put together a montage of action scenes and called it a film. There is no hint of a plot anywhere to be found, and it does not even fit with the other Jurassic Park films. The Only Link is Sam Neill Who was In the Original, but In this film does nothing but act like a Old shoe worried about not fitting in with the World around him. His character of Alan Grant has nothing of the flair That Made him cool in the first movie. William H Macy Is terribly wasted in this film as well. Macy has always been one of the best actors around, but in this film he is just as bad as the material. (If you want to see a really good Movie With Him, See A Movie called Panic. It's a hell of allot better than this) Tea Leoni Is a Decent actresses but is giving nothing more to do other than to scream and act really stupid.The Special Affects look like a step down from the last two movies, and The pace is way too fast to be taking seriously. They say that there were more dinosaurs shots in here but I really did not see a difference between this film and The Lost World. The Only Difference Between this Film and The Lost World Is The Fact that The Lost World Is a Way Better Film. Which bring me to question a lot of the comments on the board about this film being better than The Lost World. They all sound alike In their Opinions Which Makes me think that ether the film makers of Jurassic Park 3 are trying to put off their faults by bashing the last film. Or They are coming from people who have not even seen the Lost World. So they will excuse this film by bashing the last one. Stupid Logic if you ask me but people are easily fed into thinking something that others want you to think.Now I know that im going to get bashed for saying what I'm about to say from the mindless zombies who have no will of their own, but I don't care. It's the truth, and people don't like to here the truth. What makes The Lost World a better Sequel than Jurassic Park 3 is the fact that at least it respected the original film. It Had the wonder and danger to be taken seriously, and it held up the suspends. Did It have its faults? Yes it did. Not as Much though as Jurassic Park 3.If you still want to see Jurassic Park 3, then do so. But remember that you were warned "},{"Title":"Disgraceful","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad can't really describe this abomination of the Jurassic Park series other than who ever even made this film really rip off the fans. No script, no story, bad bad acting, and an ending that really says it all makes this one of the worst movie ever made. Who ever even says that this movie is ether better than the first or the second or to put bluntly any good at all is ether working for the studio or is on very heavy medication. Keep away, it's as bad as people have been saying.  "},{"Title":"Don't even bother.","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was able to finally see this on cable a few nights ago, and to not write what already was written a thousand times on this board, I going to say that I agree with every single negative things that has been said about it. It's not a Jurassic Park film to say the least, and anybody who has the goal to say that it's better than ether Jurassic Park or the Lost World are full of it. If you want the truth, rent all three of them together and you will see how bad Jurassic park 3 is to the others.  After that, Take Jurassic Park 3 back and rent a different movie in order to get the bad taste out of your mouth.   "},{"Title":"Coleman Francis must have made this movie.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are a Mystery Science Theater 3000 fan, you would know (and dread) The name of Coleman Francis.  He's responsible for some of the worse movies ever made, and judging by the way this film was shot and performed, I would not be surprise if Joe Johnson was a devoted fan.  A good way to describe this film is to compare it to a train wreck, you feel mournful after seeing it. The story is a boring mess, and it has no coherence what so ever, and the acting is especially dreadful.  All the actors involve phone in their performances with a laziness that can only be contributed with the fact that none of them really wanted to be there.  The Special Effects are not so special, and in certain point of the film, you can see a lot of mistakes in the way the dinosaurs look and move. The direction is even a bigger joke because it lacks style, and conviction. In the first two films of the series, you felt for the characters and you felt the suspends building up. With this one, you fell nothing but the sense of being hounded by a used car salesmen trying to shove a lemon down your throat.  If you are a fan of this series, stick with the first two (Jurassic Park, and the Lost World.) Jurassic Park 3 is just a real bad cash in that merits no respect at all. "},{"Title":"Down, Down, Down Goes the quality. Pop, Pop, Pop Goes the Plot","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lazy, unimaginative sequel brings back Sam Neil as he escorts a wealthy couple to Isla Sorna in order to rescue their son who has been stranded on The dinosaur infested island. This film really has nothing to add to the series as a whole, and has for the first time in motion picture history a script free story that makes even cartoons seem intelligent by comparison. If you are desperate for something to watch then feels free, but I recommend that you see the other two movies of the series instead.  "},{"Title":"When The Raptors are the smartest characters in entire the movie, you know you're in trouble.","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"22 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lackluster entry in the Jurassic Park series leaves behind the continuity of the last two movies, and goes for the gusto with a brain dead plot involving a lost kid and super intelligent raptors. Add to the mix a Dinosaur that chases our heroes though out the film, and you have a really bad Land of the lost episode. Worth a look if you're into really bad movies but if you are a fan of the series, You will be disappointed.  "}{"Title":"Useless and down right horrible.","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"24 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was warned by many of my friends about this film. They knew that I was a huge Jurassic Park fan, so much so that I have the movie posters of both Jurassic Park and The Lost World Framed and hanging up in my office. In My opinion, Jurassic Park is probably one of the greatest films ever made; and while The Lost World was not as good, It's still a great film in it's own right. I did not have the time to catch this in the theater when it was released but promised myself to see it when it hit video. So when my friends told me that Jurassic Park 3 was a real letdown, I was shocked. What was so bad about Big Dinosaurs walking the landscape of a forbidden world? On top of, one of my favorite actors around was coming back into the fold. I have been a fan of Sam Neil since he was in the movie Dead Calm, and he was really cool in the first Jurassic Park. I was overjoyed when I heard that he was coming back in Jurassic Park 3. I told my friends that no matter what they said, I still will enjoy the movie for the sheer fact that I'm not expecting it to be better than the first movie, but I expect it to be fun film none the less. Of course they laughed at me and said that I was warned. So I rented it, and words really can't express the feelings I felt when I was watching this movie. This was horrible.The cast in general is not that good. Sam Neil is one of my favored actors but I do question his decision on even agreeing to come back to a movie that almost has no script. He is ok but his character has none of the flare or charm that made him so good in the first one, and during the course of the movie, he becomes real annoying. Unfortunately, His performance is the best in the film, compared to William H Macy and Tea Leoni. William H Macy Is another great actor, but like Sam; he phones in his performance. His character is suppose to be the comic relief of the film but just ends up more like an idiot. Tea Leoni is another good actor stuck in a really bad part. She just comes a cross as a screaming idiotI don't know about the special effects but it really does not hold a candle to the first two movies. It supposed to have more effects shots than the others but it in my opinion, it did not. The Spinosauris is really nothing to brag about, and does not have the menace or the presence of the T-rex's. The only decent scene in the whole movie is the bird cage scene, and that alone can't save this movie. The ending is down right disturbing, because there is really no end. It just came to a stop with no explanation what so ever. It's offensive because it does not have a climax and judging by the lack of story anyway, it's clear that the film makers just ran out of ideas.To sum it up, it's one of the worst films I have seen in quite some time. It's a real shame because I really loved the first two Jurassic Park movies but this one is just too ridiculous to even take seriously. Judging By the word of mouth that Spielberg himself hated this film and wants the next movie to have nothing to do with it is a definite step in the right direction. Because If this movie is the future of the series, then they are going to turn off a lot more fans from seeing the next one.  "},{"Title":"Underrated pure fun popcorn Action film!","Date":"7 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III (2001) is a pure, fun, popcorn, Action Film and the third entry of the Jurassic Park trilogy. It is an awesome underrated Action flick a million ways better than the new movie Jurassic World (2015)!!!!!!!! The third entry of Jurassic park Trilogy is very underrated solid action flick. I will take third Jurassic Park III movie over Jurassic World! Just like a pure, fun, popcorn, Action Film, I will take this one. They brought Sam Neill back as Dr. Alan Grant back. The film was a rescue mission, it was fast paced and it was short than the second flick. I still love The Lost World Jurassic Park equal as the first flick Jurassic Park, but this flick grow on me and I love it and I have changed my mind. I love this flick I love it to death. I will rather watch this flick than forgettable Jurassic World! I love this flick to death and it is my third favorite film in the Jurassic park trilogy. As the first time I saw this film, I wasn't fan about it, but I keep watching it and I liked it, this movie grow on me. The film was fast paced, it went really fast around, it was an action film, it wasn't an epic adventure like was the first movie Jurassic Park (1993) it was actually an action flick an a rescue mission. Plot Adventure runs wild when renowned palentologist Dr. Alan Grant agrees to accompany a wealthy adventurer and his wife on an aerial tour of Isla Sorna, InGen's former breeding ground for prehistoric creatures. But when they're terrifyingly stranded, Dr. Grant discovers that his hosts are not what they seem, and the island's native inhabitants are smarter, faster, fiercer and more brutal than he ever imagined in this heart-stomping thriller.The film was directed by Joe Johnston who also directed The Rocketeer, I haven't seen that flick in ages yet, The Pagemaster, Jumanji and Captain America The First Avenger that I am fan of that film. After the success of Spielberg's Jurassic Park, Joe Johnston expressed interest in directing a sequel. Spielberg instead gave Joe Johnston permission to direct the third film in the series, if there were to be one. I don't think the director did a terrible job, I think that this movie more lacked on a script writers, so is not Joe Johnston fault for directing this film for using more CGI in the film.I love Sam Neil as Dr. Alan Grant and I love that he goes on an Island Isla Sorna, where man is up against dangerous predators in the ultimate battle for survival. This movie takes no prisoners and pulls no punches. It takes the idea of the original, puts an interesting twist into the plot, injects it with good FX, good acting and a decent budget, and you have something far superior to the original.I like all- new dinosaurs and the special effects CGI, more practical effects are in there, they did not bothered me or that it was directed from someone else and not Steven Spielberg himself. I like the CGI in this film.A wealthy couple with Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neil) land on a island Isla Sorna and all the mercenaries are killed off, I like that in the film that the mercenaries are killed off. This film is very quickly paced, is not boring film and it is not a dull movie, it does not drag a long, is very interesting to me and it is a good action film. Jurassic park III is MILES way better to me than Jurassic World, I will rather watch this film than the new one. The first time I reviewed this film I hated it, but now I loved it a lot.I am fine with the FX of the Spinosaurus, I like Spinosaurus, I thought it was pretty cool. Btw the kid in this movie wasn't annoying and I think he really did a good job, he was smart and recourses, he was useful in this movie, he survived that length of time by himself & saved Alan against Spinosaurus, so yea I like that and I like this film. I don't think it was terrible or forgettable at all. I really did not like that Laura Dern can't return with her character in a cameo scene, but still I liked that they made her a happy married woman with the kid and I still like that Alan and Ellie are still in contact together, that is decent in the film. Also Michael Jeter from Drop Zone (1994) as a mercenary is in here, John Diehl from Miami Vice is in it and Bruce A. Young from The Sentinel and Basic Instinct (1992) is in it, as a third mercenary. Overall The ranting for this film I am giving is an 8.5/10 I love this film and In my opinion is the last good Jurassic film, a very hated and underrated. Jurassic Park III is a 2001 American adventure science fiction film. It is the third installment in the Jurassic Park film series. The film stars Sam Neill, William H. Macy, Ta Leoni, Alessandro Nivola, Trevor Morgan, and Michael Jeter. It is the first film in the series not to have been directed by Steven Spielberg, nor based on a book by Michael Crichton (though numerous scenes in the film were ultimately taken from Crichton's novels Jurassic Park and The Lost World).8.5/10 Grade B+ Studio Universal Pictures Starring Sam Neill, William H. Macy, Ta Leoni, Alessandro Nivola, Trevor Morgan, Michael Jeter, John Diehl, Bruce A. Young, Taylor Nichols, Laura Dern Director Joe Johnston Producers Kathleen Kennedy, Larry Franco Screenplay Peter Buchman, Alexander Payne, Jim Taylor Rated PG-13 Running Time 1 Hr. 32 Mins. Budget $93.000.000 Box Office $368,780,809 "},{"Title":"a 10th watching","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this movie again for about the 10th time and thankfully I have a remote to forward through parts. I enjoy the movie, Dr. Grant, Billy and Eric were good to watch with the dinosaurs. Tea Leoni and William Macy were terrible actors in this. It seemed like they were reading the script for the first time. Tea Leoni was just a whiner and didn't shut up. At the end Tea Leoni and William Macy come running out of the woods yelling, that's a very bad idea. Shut up and get off the screen. After viewing the movie so many times, you can actually take these two idiots out of the movie and very little would change. I will watch this again in the years to come with a remote firmly gripped in my hand. "},{"Title":"Part 3 is scarier then the first 2","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This a get movie 5.9 is just underrating it. It is no 5.9 it is a lot better. The first two Jurassic Park movies are very scary. But this one is scarier. This is one of the scariest movie made before 2015. Jurassic world is scarier. But still this is the scariest movie from the last decade. See all the Jurassic Park movies they are some of the best scenes fiction movies of all time. This movie has a great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. Joe Johnston is a great director. Sam Neil is a great actor. William H Macy is a great actor. Tea Leoni is a great actresses. See this movie. It is a great movie. It is very scary. "},{"Title":"It's gonna be a walk in the park.","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not being a big fan of movie sequels, I've watched the Jurassic Park films in totally random order with no sense of continuity from one to the next. As a stand alone film, this third movie in the franchise was generally OK, though with it's shorter length and emphasis on action it was rather apparent that the film makers were relying on the success of the first two pictures to make a go of it with this one. The dinosaurs make their presence felt almost immediately, and there's an array of creatures either seen or mentioned that I'd never heard of before, like a 'suchomimus', a 'baryonyx' and a 'spinosaurus aegypticus', so if they appeared on screen, I'm no one the wiser. Actually the 'spinosaurus' had a descriptive enough name, so the walking dinosaur with a large fan on it's back was probably that one. Let's face it, with a franchise like this, the series can probably go on forever if the writers can get creative enough with it. For my part, when I'm looking for a little diversion I can count on a few stand-byes, among them martial arts flicks, Japanese monsters and the occasional dinosaur movie. If I want to think, I go for something else. "},{"Title":"Worst Jurassic Park movie.","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is the worst Jurassic Park movie. I don't recommend you watching it unless you must. The plot is awful, the characters are poorly written and it's too short. 90 minutes? Look at the first two movies. They were 160 minutes. The best part about this movie is Alan Grant, but he seemed to be bored when they were filming. Is like he didn't want to be in this movie. We also have Billy, a lame character who doesn't really do much. And there is the annoying family The Kirbys. Amanda Kirby was the worst character of the movie. No, even worse. Of the franchise. All she did was to scream BEN! ERIC. And of course, they introduced us to a new dinosaur the Spinosaurus, portrayed in an awkward animatronic and CGI. When I was a kid and I saw this dinosaur, I knew I wasn't going to like it. All it did was to chase Grant and the others. This movie was so unnecessary. We had TLW which is a great sequel and Universal wanted another one for some reason. Joe Johnston, the director of this movie, did a terrible job. I also like the fact that in a pod cast they actually said that it will be original. It was not. It was a cheap copy of The Lost World. Being a Jurassic Park fan, I wanted to like this movie. I watched 20 times,trying to figure out why I didn't like it. It's bad, that's why. A weak sequel. But hey, at least Jurassic World was a better movie and it didn't let the franchise end like this. This movie represents the Phantom Menace of the Jurassic Park franchise. "},{"Title":"Jurassic park III Review","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a huge fan of the Jurassic Park franchise. I loved the original and The Lost World, I did think Jurassic World was a bit disappointing but it was still a good movie. Jurassic Park III on the other hand is an embarrassment to this franchise. When I watch a movie I review it based on the acting, directing, cast, camera angles and the budget. If it weren't for this movie having the name Jurassic Park in it, I think Jurassic Park III would be considered one of the worst movies ever made. It isn't directed by Steven Spielberg it's directed by Joe Johnston who only has made one good movie which was October Sky. The main problem with this movie is that it seemed rushed and unfinished. The thing I loved about The Lost World is that Steven Spielberg tried to make it different than Jurassic Park, the problem with Jurassic Park III is that it's just trying to get Sam Neill back on the island and feels like a cheap version of the original. There are just so many moments where your thinking to yourself they actually put that in the movie or They thought that was a good idea?. The animatronics in this movie are bad too! It's crazy to me that a movie that came out in 1993 has better CGI and animatronics than the one that came out in 2001. Besides Sam Neill's character Alan Grant everybody in this movie is flat and boring and has no emotion whatsoever. It's 30 minutes shorter than Jurassic Park and The Lost World and there isn't even a main antagonist in this movie. A spinosaurus is on the poster of this movie so you would assume that they are being stalked by a spino right? No that thing appears like 3 times and just chases them into an area where they can hide from it. Alan Grant is also going crazy because he is obsessed with raptors or something, I don't know it's very unclear. There's a dream sequence on a plane where Alan sees a raptor sitting next to him and it says his name. That was one of those wtf moments in this film. Here is a quick fun fact before we wrap up, they started filming this movie before the script was finished. That explains a lot. This movie is truly terrible and if your thinking of buying the Jurassic Park trilogy on Blu Ray or something don't waste your money. Just buy Jurassic Park and The Lost World separately. This thing is one of the worst sequels ever made and one of the worst movies ever made. The final grade for Jurassic Park III is an F. "},{"Title":"The franchise enters B-movie territory","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Remember when you first saw Jurassic Park? Remember that pulse-pounding opener that offered only the most minimal tease as to the carnage that would follow? Remember the long slow build up to the eventual unveiling of the Dinosaurs and sharing Dr Alan Grant's wonder at the first sighting? And the same adrenaline pumping thrill when the Rex first broke loose? Well I'm sorry to tell you that the same rapture is absent from the third instalment in the franchise, but on a second look this isn't so much of a hindrance as you might realise.The film makers this time around realise that offering us only the barest glimpses of Dinosaurs will not have the same effect anymore. We've already marvelled at the herds of Brachiosaurs marching before the sunset so now, we can get stuck right into the thick of the action without hesitation. As a consequence Jurassic Park 3 is considerably more light-hearted than it's predecessors (Sam Neil in particular seems to be having a blast playing Indiana Jones's reptile bothering cousin again) and if you approach it as such, it's a very enjoyable movie.There's no theme park backing or evil corporate agenda behind the plot as Dr Alan Grant is hired by the rather odd married couple the Kirbys (Tea Leoni and the ever watchable William H Macy) as a guide for a special Dinosaur spotting flight over Isla Sorna. And before you can say no secret hidden agenda here no sir the cast are once again running through jungle, screeching in fear for their lives as monstrous prehistoric beasts pursue them through the undergrowth. And here is where we're treated to the real stars of the show, the Dinosaurs themselves.T-Rex however plays a much smaller role passing the torch to the new king of the thunder lizards, the monstrous Spinosaurus. This may have rankled with some fans but the new addition to the menagerie makes for a remarkable creature a 60 foot predator with a snout filled with teeth and the kind of temper that'd put a pro tennis player to shame. The early clash between this new apex creature and the former tyrant lizard is one gob-smacking (but painfully brief) highlight and not even the rather silly Peter Pan-style gag involving it swallowing a mobile phone can ruin it.That aside, there are also plenty of fast-paced set pieces to keep the pace at a constant high. The raptors return once again and there's also another fresh menace in the shape of the Pteranodons; colossal winged reptiles that weren't actually dinosaurs but a whole other species entirely. The scene where the cast gets stuck in their massive aviary is a riot and if you've ever found yourself being pecked at by seagulls on Brighton pier, just imagine it but a thousand times worse and you'll get the idea.Not the gob-smacking brilliance of the original by a long shot but with the refreshingly daft approach, it's certainly better than The Lost World (which was to all extents and purposes a remake of Aliens but with Dinosaurs instead of extra-terrestrials). It does suffer from the lack of Jeff Goldblum and the non-climax is a big let down but as popcorn munchers go, there are far worse ways to spend an evening. "},{"Title":"No surprise here, least favorite of the 3","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have posted my comments to the first to films, 1993's great original Jurassic Park & the 1997's follow up The Lost World.Again, being a dinosaur Fan since I was a kid was a motivation to see the films & being female makes the unusual.Surprising this film was just an hour & a half long.But, just like with The Lost World the problems with this film was the subplots with the characters.Broken marriage, stealing Raptor eggs, etc.Now, I know & have nothing against putting new dinosaurs in this film we did not see in the 1st 2 films. But.....T-Rex should have won the fight. My favorite scene of the film.Tea' Leoni & that mans hair cut. Terrible. Lady, let your hair grow so you look like a woman.I do hope there is a 4th film.Just hope the film makers learn from the 2cd & 3rd films & improve the story line. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park Franchise Mauled","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved the original JP. I found it very scary. The characterizations were very well done. The suspense well done. You cared about who lived and who died. Spielberg/Crichton did a great job at presently a fantastic (read unbelievable) story as believable, part of which was an apparently plausible way of resurrecting dinosaurs. I guess we knew that the kids wouldn't die and Neil/Dern would probably live too, but even so the suspense scenes with the Raptors were remarkably well done. And everyone else was well done, so we cared to the very end.I didn't care so much for _JP2 Lost World._ Occasionally Spielberg loses self control and as he did the _The Temple of Doom_. Watchable. Just. Once.Spielberg is only billed as an Executive Producer on _Jurassic Park II_. Instead the reins are turned over to director Joe Johnston, who promptly rides the franchise off a cliff. Johnston's claim to fame is Jumanji. And it shows. This is Jumanji with Dinsoaurs. I know what Johnston was thinking, but what was Spielberg?Take the plane crash on the island. A shot of the plane falling towards the ground begins with a close-up of the passengers faces saying Wooooahhhh! through one end the ripped-open fuselage, pulling back as it falls vertically into the ground. Not a bruise! It was like a cartoon.Then when they stumble upon the Spinosaurus eating a carcass, Grant says Everyone be very still!. They all turn and run. And then Grant runs. The Spinosaurus chases them, but they outrun it, at that by first outrunning him across a grass plain!!! Again, a cartoon.Maybe Joe Johnston was trying to make this a light hearted comedy. But heck; *COME ON!* This is set on a remote Island with vicious reptiles with big sharp teeth. A Comedy? Nah. Comic relief? From what? The scenes which could be tense/dramatic *are* the comic relief. Johnston isn't funny. Not one bit.JP3 becomes a cartoon. Cartoon Characters are indestructible, so you don't have to worry about them. This completely killed the suspense. Some characters did die, but you knew who they were right from the moment you saw them. When you realized Tea Leoni/William Macy were parents, you knew they wouldn't die because that would upset the kid. It was that formula. When the boy came running out of the jungle, the audience isn't surprised. More like well, duh... Apparently the characters knew this too, because they walked brazenly without any concern about what might be creeping up on them, and talked loudly (and often shouted) as they went. Imagine how much better these scenes would have been if they darted though the undergrowth, whispering and looking over their shoulders as they went? That's pretty fundamental film making, but one Joe Johnston doesn't grasp.Presumably Joe Johnson thought he could make the Spinosaurus seem scary to us by having it kill the T-Rex at the beginning. Well, it didn't work. It didn't look scary and seemed pretty silly. Spielberg's T-Rex really did have screen presence; It's expression and actions were those of a bloody-thirst meat-hungry dinosaur. But Johnston's Spinosaurs looked and acted like an angry Turkey.The Raptors were lame. All they want is their eggs back. (I was waiting for the CE3K aliens to land and make hand signs to them.) The supporting cast was killed off within maybe half an hour, only leaving the characters you knew would live. You knew Nick wasn't going to die, so when he disappeared under the Pterodactyls, you knew he'd be back. (He was.) Besides, the characterizations really were crap. The bond between the boy and his parents is unconvincing. The boy and Grant together are like two people in an Elevator.I was glad to see Sam Neil and Laura Dern at the beginning, because I know good actors avoid sequels because they're often crap. I (incorrectly) surmised that because they were both here, it would be good. They must have tempted Neil with big bucks, but he risks B-grading himself here. Laura Dern's performance is a cameo.The script writers should be flayed too. It wandered aimlessly. Stuff that could have been developed like the raptors talking, the boy surviving or Ellie/Grant's relationship don't go anywhere. Even Leoni/Macey reconciling. These things go for 15 seconds of dialog. You're left expecting something to follow, but they never do. Plot holes and stupidity galore When Grant and the boy meet, instead of bringing the others to safety, they go back to the Boy's hideout and eat. There is a dream sequence with a talking dinosaur which just isn't funny. If you do something like that, at least make it funny! We are also expected to believe Grant and Nick were too stupid to make sure the check didn't bounce before agreeing to the trip. There's more, but you get the idea...The ending, thirty Marines suddenly making a beach landing (heard of helo recon guys?) is just dumb.I say (half in Jest) maybe Johnston could have saved his movie if he'd cast Robin Williams in Sam Neil's part. I understand Kennedy/Spielberg are putting together a JP4. Here's a warning Audiences can get sucked into seeing a bad film by well-crafted publicity, but when they see a bad film they bank it and you end up paying for it next time. "}{"Title":"Special Effects 'commentary' on DVD","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anyone else as bored as I was by the supposed commentary from the effects team on the DVD? After a slow and stupid start, Stan Winston and pals talk a little about the challenges of creating the dinosaurs, and merging the real with the CGI. But after about 10 mins of sort of interesting info, the rest of the commentary seems to get stuck on 'that's real, that's CGI, now we're in the studio, now it's CGI'. Back and forth. Boring! What's the point?One of the big benefits of DVD is the commentary. It can enlighten film viewers. It can give viewers a clearer view of the director's aims. Or the challenges faced by various depts. eg, the commentary on the LOTR 4-disc sets - exceptional! yet still informal.We're paying good extra money for these 'features'. Jurassic Park movies are significant Hollywood releases. Don't they deserve better than 3 guys sitting around earning god-knows how much money to yak and drink coffee for an hour or two?  "},{"Title":"not the state of the art","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all I would like to say that JP III is mainly a potpourri of a lot of dinosaurs showing up at random and having been chosen for their brutality. That's not up to the standard of the other 2 Jurassic Park movies. And second, I have to point out that the JP III movie has absolutely nothing to do with Crichton's third JP novel. I believe the movie would have been a lot better if the movie makers had used Mr. Crichton's story plot. The novel is great, the movie isn't. I don't understand why experienced movie makers sometimes make such bad mistakes. It was, however, somewhat interesting that new species of dinos were introduced. However, only brutal dinos were used. And for example, why would the Pterodaktyls (the flying dinos) attack people? Weren't they bound for much smaller prey?  "},{"Title":"You know, what if they went back...","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is the typical example of a million dollar hit that had a sequel... and another... A bad one... The plot is very simple, a couple of people drop by Alan (guy from the first movie) they want a tour of the second Island from part 2. Alan agrees if they don't go on the island but of course they do, they have to find their son who landed there with a parachute, in the first scene on the island 2 or 3 people die. The rest of the movie is a series of predictable and unrealistic Dinosaur attacks. Somehow the velociraptors suddenly have intelligence and speech (in their own language), so now they seem to be the kind of badguys that would bug Scrooge McDuck. And another thing, that woman... that awful, awful woman... If she screams one more time I'm gonna go to that Island and rip her lungs out! She is so annoying through the entire movie, that I was really hoping that her head would get bitten of... Well, it didn't. As I predicted she got back with her man after this Horrible adventure... The visual effects are pretty good, so is the music, although it's no John Williams anymore... If you wanna see a dinosaur movie, watch part 1 again... This is only for Ross from friends, because he's the biggest Dino freak in the universe! ;) "},{"Title":"Exciting but silly movie","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like action movies, this will satisfy you as something is always happening.  The characters don't sit around and talk and there's no boring examination of relationships.  It's one crisis after another plus tea leoni looks great. I give it a B+.Lots of holes in the story though.  SPOILERS - When the characters were pulling the cell phone out of the dinosaur crap why did the t-rex look at them and then walk away?   The kid living by himself for 8 weeks in the old bus.  Why didn't the dinos tear it apart like they did  the airplane? And that nonsense about the raptors being mad cause two of their eggs were missing out of the hundreds they had laid. "},{"Title":"I wish she would've got eaten.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm watching this movie right now and that lady thats the kids mother is so annoying! I hope a T-rex or something gobbles her up talk about over-acting and just plain bad acting. And how does that kid survive in there with all them supposedly smarter dinosaurs?? "},{"Title":"Neither fish nor flesh","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP III is nothing more than a snappy B-picture with great effects and no money left to be spend on a good script. But who really expects grade A acting on a B - story?It does not fool around with subtleties; it gets right down to the nitty-gritty of fast paced action from the outset and stays there for 90 breathless minutes. Everybody is acting at fever pitch, although Miss Leoni seemed to have at least coiffeurs and make-up men hidden in the studio jungle while the men toiled, sweated and forgot to shave.  "},{"Title":"Daft but entertaining","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is pure hokum.  It's main attraction is (again) the CGI dinosaurs. Good thing too as the 'plot' and dialogue is stupid and silly.  However, it's PLAYED like they all know it's daft and yet it is entertaining.  My Year 5 kids loved it!  "},{"Title":"BETTER THAN LOST WORLD... MUCH BETTER!!!","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw Jurassic Park, I was disappointed because I just finished reading the book the morning that it opened.  But after the years, I realized that the movie was good... why?  Well, if anyone reads my posts, you'll know that I believe that if a movie is going to be based on a book... it should at least follow the book.   And for the most part it did.  Though I did miss not seeing the Ptarydactals... but hey, that's me.Then a couple of years... I saw Jurassic Park THE LOST WORLD... I specifically waited to read the book until after seeing the movie.  Guess what?  I thought that the LOST WORLD was okay until... SPOILER!!! SPOILER!!! SPOILER!!! A T-Rex ends up in San Diego.  At that point, I lost it.  I can't watch it.  The departure from the novel started relatively early in the script... and with each passing page, the divergence grew.  I have the movie in my collection... and why?  Don't know.  Anybody interested in a seldom viewed copy of LOST WORLD?  Years later, I finally decided to READ Crighton's fantastic novel and asked myself... why didn't they make this (the book) into a movie.  It would have been cheaper and more entertaining.  Crighton was probably spinning in his chair about how rotten LOST WORLD turned out to be.  Now, I first saw the trailers of JURASSIC PARK 3 and thought, hmmm, should I even give the movie a chance?  But it did have Tea Leoni and William Macy, plus the return of Sam Niell as Doctor Grant.  I was totally entertained and walked out of the theater thinking how much better this JURASSIC PARK was over the second movie.  Yeah, it does pale in comparrison with the original movie, but it kept the fun of the original as well, and also I think that Michael Crighton probably enjoyed this movie as well.Only watch JURASSIC PARK and JURASSIC PARK 3. "},{"Title":"Worst of the series for many reasons, however, it is still entertaining","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disappointing sequel about a couple who convince Dr. Alan Grant to go to an island and help them find their son. When they get there, the dinosaurs take over the island. They try to mange a way to contact someone for help, and find a way to escape.Average at best, 'Jurassic Park III' would have been a lot better with Steven Spielburg. Why? Because his direction is part of what made the first two better. Also, the dinosaurs effects are far superior to the ones in this movie. John Johnston's direction isn't very good. However, it is good to see Sam Neil again. In a way, he saved most of this. I felt his absence in the second film. Overall, 'Jurassic Park III' may be worth viewing, but it is my least favorite in the series and it is a step down from 'The Lost World Jurassic Park'.3 out of 5. "},{"Title":"The Worst of the Three","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My Rating** out of ****. Jurassic Park III was the biggest disappointment of the summer of 2001. The trailer looked great but the movie is not. It is easily the worst of the three films. This movie lacks the excitement that the first two had. It doesn't really start moving till the end. The scene which it starts is the Pteranodon scene, which was very exciting. However, thats about the only standout action scene. The others are very poorly done. Well actually the first scene of the movie with the fog is kind of creepy.  The Special Effects are still impressive but they are losing their freshness. They were eye popping in the first two movies but there just good here. There is actually one scene where the effects look sort of fake.These movies have never been actor movies, the dinosaurs mostly overshadow the actors. But the acting was still a little better than ok. Here, Sam Neill is flat. Laura Dern has barely any screentime. Tea Leoni is very out of place. William H. Macy has one funny scene but other than that his performance isn't much. Whats really disappointing about this movie is that dinosaurs are less interesting here. We have an oversized Crocodile and Raptors with shi* coming out of their head. The Pteranodons are the only ones that shine. There actually more evil. Yeah and what the hell??? The T-Rex, he was the star of the first two films. Why the fuc* would you kill him off. Where the hell are the other two? They could kill the Oversized Crocodile.Overall, JP3 was a disappointment. Its hard to say if there should even be another sequel. It may be time for this franchise to go extinct. "}{"Title":"Why bother?","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of my friends was watching this on TV last night so I had to watch it too, there is no way in the world I would have made any effort by myself to seek out and watch this film. It baffles me why anyone would pay money to watch lots of bad actors being chased by computer generated images. Maybe thats a bit harsh because the first Jurassic Park film was pretty good at the time (although hugely overated and over hyped), that time was 1993. Its time to move on but I suppose as long as people actually still want to watch the same old rubbish they will continue to churn them out. I hope there isn't another island, or another new dinosaur that carries mobile phones around, or more annoying kids or another Macdonalds Jurassic Park burger tie-in. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park Rampage Edition The Movie","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Final Score 5.7 (out of 10)In all the running from dinosaurs and people being eaten of 'The Lost World' and now 'Jurassic Park III' it might serve as a good reminder to point out that what made the original 'Jurassic Park' such a terrific movie was that it was one very, very rare monster movies that was smart, serious and most of all based around a simply brilliant premise from the fertile mind of author Michael Crichton (involving extracting DNA from amber and recreating a theme park of living dinosaurs) that found that perfect pitch between being completely out of left field and yet oddly possible. As well as dazzling the eye and quickening the pulse, it inspired the imagination.'Jurassic Park III' marks the first movie where the studio takes the JP license and runs with it. Anyone that read Crichton's book could say that 'The Lost World' was actually the first, but here we seem to have a real attempt to turn a once fresh, serious, event movie into a routine franchise. It's a surreal cringe to think that 'Jurassic Park' might be another 'Friday the 13th style series of endless sequels - each one more rehashed than the last.  I'm glad there's a 'Jurassic Park 4' in the works because someone needs to pump this series with new life - and fast.Not that 'Jurassic Park III' is a total failure by itself. It's just that when a series starts out with an idea as innovative as 'Jurassic Park' I don't know how any subsequent movie could improve or inject something new into it. JP3 takes the simple way out. It toes the Hollywood line of thought that people only go to these movies to see people running from, screaming at and being eaten by dinosaurs. Ok, that is some of the fun... but director Joe Johnston simply settles for being a late night B-movie amusement instead of instilling any suspense and excitement into the proceedings.It's hard to really fault Johnston for the film's ineffectiveness. The talented director of 'The Rocketter', 'Jumanji' and 'October Sky', this is an example of a complete studio mismatch between director and material. This same awkward marriage of independent talent and big Hollywood production goes for writers-for-hire Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor as well. Apparently, when your previous films are as brilliant and daring as 'Election' (and the Laura Dern movie 'Citizen Ruth') you get a shot with a 'Jurassic Park' movie. Despite their considerable talent in other generas, nobody behind the camera here is in their element. Still, in their element or not, a monkey could have come up with a better catalyst for the plot then a goofy hang-gliding accident. Oops.As for the story itself. When the original movie came out it was like a wet dream for video game designers who now had a ready-made license to put people and dinosaurs together without any brain strain. What came out of it was a subsequent game for the Sega Genesis called 'Jurassic Park Rampage Edition' featuring scenes from Crichton's original novel, like a pterodactyl fight and a ride down the river rapids, not included in the movie. 'Jurassic Park 3' is like the movie translation of that game. It's like the 'lost scenes' from the original. There should be a DVD feature where you can meld the two and form the ultimate Jurassic Park ride. Also like the game, the movie doesn't really end as much as it just stops cold in it's tracks and starts ushering people - dazzed and bewildered - out of the theater. The scenes themselves are pretty spectacular in their execution and it's nice to see them come to life. Along with that, the vibrant color palette, some remarkably detailed special effects and well sprinkled doses of humor here and there elevate the movie above its mindless script to being likeable, watchable fun. William H. Macy and Tea Leoni look embarrassed, but it's great seeing the unflappable Sam Neil (and Grant's trusty hat) back in action.  "},{"Title":"Jurassic Light Not Quite Right","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sequels are a study in diminishing returns with few exceptions, and when it comes to tri-quels, it's an even starker situation. From Superman to Star Wars, the third time's no charm. More often, such films only manage to pad producers' wallets while diluting the memory of what came before.The first good thing about Jurassic Park III is diminishing what came before is beyond human capacity, because what came before was Jurassic Park II, the most monumental turkey ever to bear the name Steven Speilberg (and not just as producer, mind, but director as well.) At least in JP3, there's no obnoxious Greenpeace guy, no tacked-on San Diego sidebar, and a lower budget that tamps down on the plot sprawl.It's still not a good film. With only a handful of characters, there's not much suspense about who's going to get it, nor any big surprises in how that happens. A lower budget might lead to more thoughtful marshaling, but not as far as the characters are concerned. The actors playing Billy and Erik annoy tremendously, while the late Michael Jeter, playing the leader of a trio of dim mercenaries, does not stick around nearly long enough. In a film as sparsely populated as a Beckett play, such poor resource management is hard to overlook. We get plenty of CGI, but nothing we haven't seen, except a couple of new dinosaurs who roar and snap their teeth pro forma. Show me something new. Billy's fate feels like the result of a quick tack-on after a poor initial audience screening, and his out-of-the-blue paragliding exploits stretch the conventions of even this series (where 10,000-volt fences have been known to barely muss the overtended coiffures of young boys.)Though directed by Joe Johnston, this remains Steven Speilberg's baby, which means you can count on a few things. The woman will make it through alive, the hero will make witty asides while wearing a rain-soaked fedora, and the kid will show spunk and enterprise well beyond his years (seeing Erik suddenly show up in his shrubbery costume was the single biggest groan in a movie full of them. Of course the movie's for kids, but do they have to rub it in?) Amazingly, violating Speilberg's no-guns provision in which no character can accomplish anything positive with a loaded weapon not pointed at a German, one pistol does manage to come in handy. It's a flare gun, but a welcome change of pace still.I liked Sam Neill a lot, and found myself enjoying William H. Macy and Tea Leoni's portrayal of the unhappy couple despite myself. Leoni deserves a better career than she's had. I'm not sure whether the film is sending up their yuppie self-absorbtion or celebrating it (three or four dead people and a crashed plane is a hell of a bill for relationship counseling, wouldn't you say?) but I'll say the former and enjoy it for what it is. The action sequences are reportedly rejected storyboarding from the first movie, but work surprisingly well for second-hand cobblings, not thrilling so much as effective in moving the plot along quickly. JP3 is not a good film, it's not even fair, but there's intelligence and talent behind it all the same.Ultimately, the fault here is not one of a director's lack of vision, or writer's block. It's that the third time around the Park, the wonder of dinosaur-gazing seems gone, and much of the film has a tired, put-upon feeling, like We're here because you want us here, not because we want to be here. They say we're due for Jurassic IV in 2005, but I for one would gladly vote them off the island if they gave me the chance. "},{"Title":"An ok sequel, but nothing more.","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the third film in the Jurassic Park franchise.In 1993 the first Jurassic Park hit theaters worldwide and it became one off the higest grossing films in history. That one was directed by Steven Spielberg and it was, to say it in one word, Amasing. It was a landmark in film history.Since that one did as well as it did at the box office and it was also well recived(won three oscars)it was given that a sequel had to be done. And it was, in 1997 The Lost World Jurassic Park came out. It, also did amazingly good at the box office though was not near as criticly acclaimed as the first one(it did accualy receive one oscar nomination for best sound).And in 2001 we all went to see the third installment in the series. Jurassic Park 3.This film starts with Eric Kirby and Ben Hildebrand going parasailing near Isla Sorna(Site-B). But, when they are in mid air a Dinosaur attacks the boat underneath and they are helpless. They manage to cut themselfs free, but only to glide in over the dino filled island...Dr. Grant(Sam Neil) is still in paleontolegy. He is trying to raise fundings to his projects, but without any biggers successes. Then one day Amanda and Paul Kirby(Tea Leoni and William H. Macy) contacts him. They give him and offer to come with them as their guide when they are going to fly over Isla Sorna. since they offer him a fat pay check he gomes a long, with him comes Billy Brennan, his partner. Once they are flying over the island they land the plane, someting Alan does not like.After that it all goes to hell. People dies and all hell breaks lose. Alan also finds out that Eric is Amandas and Pauls son.So, what did I like about this film? The acting from Sam Neil and William H. Macy was very good. Teo Leoni on the other hand;no. Alessandro Nivola did ok as well, the same with Trevor Morgan and Michael Jeter, but those who stood out were Macy and Neil.I like the story. They go back to the 'civilians trapped on the island' concept, with I think is way better that what they had in The Lost World('militarys trapped on island').This one is directed by Jeo Johnston, the man behind Jumaji and October Sky. I think that some people think that this one is not as good as the first two only because Steven Spielberg not directd it. Joe Johnston has done a good job directing this one in my opinion.What bothered me? The script. It sucked. Some bad dialouge. They were doing rewrites on the set, and it was not a writter who did it, it was the actors(Macy and Neil). That is NOT supposed to happen.(They also started to shot without a complete script). There is to MUCH action in this one, it starts off right away. In JP1 they spend like 40 m to build up the characters and then the action kicks off. In this, BAMM, like that. We do know Sams character from the first one but there are several other new ones that we know nothing about.This film is also way to short(81 m) for that much action. It is like the writers have only one thought in their heads, and that is action, action and action. Sure, a film like this needs action, the first one had it and the second one had alots off it. But this one is only 83 minutes long and it has like 7 or 8 action sequenses.I did like the dino fight. really cool. it looks so real. The 'bird cage' sequence is also pretty good but then the other ones are, well, not that good.And the raptors in this one are smart. Yes, smart. Smarter than primates. Ok. Maybe they were, I'm no expert or nothing but in this film they set trappes for the persons. They talk to eachother. call for help. Gimme a break!And there is one weird thing in this film, and the endSPOILERS when the guy stands on the beach. Why the heck is he standing there? Why? Maybe it is supposed to be funny, I don't know. And the a second later there are marines on the beach and helicopters in the air. Later when they fly off the island we also see ships, three of them if I am not mistaken. Now How the **** does Elle Sattler, a nobody, manage to call the military and convinse them to go there to save Alan and the others? Not only that, earlier in the film, Paul Kirby say that the embassy had told them to 'forget it' or something like that. Then, the marines are AMERICAN, pretty fast americans too. They manage, in only a few hours, to assemble the soldiers, send out the ships and sail to the island. Not that likley to me.So in concluding, it is an OK sequel to an OK sequel to a masterpiece. Good acting, great dinoes -- bad script and pretty lame ending.6.5/10  "},{"Title":"Exactly What You Expect","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP-III delivers exactly what you would expect. The third in the series does not invent anything new, neither in effects, not in the way reptiles and humans relate. Everything is in place - some humor, some family relations syrup, some new effects well done and not too scary. Predictability is the main quality and the main defect of the movie. It is however well made and never falls in the ridicule or bad taste - this may be the effect of the adult supervision of producer Spielberg. If you know that you go to a dinosaurs movie, and do not expect anything else, you may even enjoy it. 7/10 on my personal scale.   "},{"Title":"See man run.  Run, man, run!","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can you do different in the third Jurassic Park that hasn't been done in the first two?  Not much.So just show more and different dinosaurs terrorize foolish humans. JPIII does it quickly and economically. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Springers Final Thought","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is essentially what happened when The Jerry Springer Show met the BBC's Walking With Dinosaurs.The tale is one of a dysfunctional family who aren't quite as rich or important as they at first appear to Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill). He unwittingly embarks upon an adventure to help them find their son Erik, who they sent on a trip to dinosaur island some eight weeks earlier; as you do!Clearly the intended audience demographic is split 50/50 between kids and parents and no time is wasted patronizing either. Kids are educated on various aspects of paleontology (far too much theory and not enough fact); parents are given tips on how to tolerate each other and how to bring up their kids (just in case you're curious don't ignore them and don't give them everything they want, particularly all expenses paid trips to Butlins Jurassic Island). To be honest, when the film ended, I felt a little robbed by the lack of a 'Jerry Springers Final Thought'.Summing up, I can't help but remember a scene in which Erik holds up a huge jar of T- Rex pee. Symbolic not only of what the Director was extracting from the audience, but indicative of the sheer scale upon which he was doing it. "},{"Title":"Fun for a dinosaur fan","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a big fan of the Jurassic Park movies.Jurassic Park 3's Plot was kind of weak, but the effects were awesome!!I liked it for the dinosaurs though.They had the right idea, it just needed some touch ups of how and why and a thicker story line.Either way it was just something fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Goes by way too fast, but the ride is fun","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is nothing compared to the first two.  Jurassic Park- A+, Jurassic Park II  The Lost World- B+, hell maybe an A-.  Jurassic Park 3 just goes by way to fast, and doesnt take the time to really introduce us to the characters.  Hell, there's a ton of things bad about this movie.  But if the first two Jurassic Park movies never were- think about how much better this movie would be.  It's an entertaining popcorn flick, worth the money to see carnage and a few smart lines. It's great they brought Sam Niel back, I missed the guy.  So long, Jurassic Park franchise.  You left me feeling kind of empty inside, except for the popcorn. B-, 7/10 "},{"Title":"It was the coolest movie","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3, was the beautiful move of all time. I also loved Jurassic Park 1 & 2. They both also ruled!! I can't see why anyone would hate either of the 3 movies. I mean everything about the 3 movies were just way to great. The graphics were way to wow. I've seen the Jurassic Park 1-3 more then once. I can't stop watching them all. "}{"Title":"Jurassic Park 3 summary","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While Jurassic Park 3 doesn't hold a candle light to it's original, it still sends the audience on a thin plotted adventure with enough thrills to keep the film shining. Good sequel... see it "},{"Title":".......","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park - Good Movie, closely based on the book. The Lost World - Mediocre movie, BARELY based on the book. Jurassic Park 3 - Same old thing, THERE IS NO BOOK.This film is simply a regurgitation of the previous two, with just more special effects. Sure they are great but some real story would be greatly appreciated. Seeing how they each movie in the series strays farther from the book, and the story/film gets worse, I would think that the makers would notice something...Don't bother with this unless you just want more of the same dino rampage. "},{"Title":"There isn't supposed to be a plot","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of the comments I've read complain about the fact that Jurassic Park III has no plot. Well that's the general idea. It's a straightforward action movie that's supposed to be big, loud and enjoyable to watch if you turn your brain off. This is better than the Lost World but not as good as the original. Although I don't think anything could top the original. The Tea leoni character is annoying sometimes, but not as bad as the kids in the first JP. My only minor complaint about the movie is that some things are too conveniently placed. Without revealing too much, there is a scene that features characters running along the side of a fence while being chased by a dinosaur, the thing is that about 60 feet down the fence is a convenient opening for them to slip through before the dino catches up. Other than that, the action sequences are enjoyable and the corny lines are at a minimum. So grab your favourite snack, shut your brain down for 90 minutes and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Definitely not a walk in the park!","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***Starring Sam Neill, William H. Macy, Tea Leoni, and Trevor Morgan.A (supposed) couple ask Dr. Grant and his assistant to give them a tour of Isla Sorna.  When the plane crashes, Grant learns that the couple is actually looking for their son who was parasailing with a man, who got lost on the island.  The movie is full of intense thrills that hardly ever stop, and they add a new dinosaur, (a mean one too) the Spinosaurus. "},{"Title":"Better than The Lost World but still a bit of a copout","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Story Years after the disaster at Jurassic Park, and it's fellow island Site B, Alan Grant is peacefully working away as a paleontologist. But the lure of financial security to fund his projects is too good to pass up, which Grant reluctantly accepts from the Kirbys, a wealthy couple to return to the island in hopes of a tour. But Grant soon learns of their ulterior motives, leaving all of them trapped on the island, and trying to evade it's residents who seem steadfast on getting rid of their guests.The Review The first Jurassic Park was indeed a groundbreaking film, implementing special effects completely unseen in any other film. Technology at it's highest, Jurassic Park emphasized a thrill ride of a story with visual effects that were beyond impressive. It's sequel The Lost World was obviously a step down from the first with the impressive special effects against the weak backdrop of a story, and a ridiculous ending that had movie audiences wanting less. This time, Jurassic Park III, is essentially different from the first two. Sans the Spielberg touch, Jurassic Park III is a B-movie that has essentially dropped the dreadful exposition that we knew all too well in the first and even the second one. This time drawing on good old fashioned suspense with our troubled heroes on the run, and introducing new creatures. Part 3 is in fact, better than the second one, especially the ridiculous climax from the sequel, but not all that much better. The predictibility factor reaches an all time high in this one, which could barely be found in the first two films. There is less human carnage and more suspense jacked up. But there are fewer and more subtle surprises that be found in this. And I only have one thing to say about the dinosaurs There's only so many times you can see another velociraptor snarling and fighting before it becomes tedious. It's obvious that part 3 could never match up to the magic of the first one, because it was all about timing, and in today's post-Titanic, special effects driven films, Jurassic Park III is just another entry that is nothing more than good old fashioned entertainment, short that it is. If you go in expecting something like the original, save your money. But if you just want a straight through action adventure, then see Jurassic Park III. On a neutral note, there are rumors circulating that Spielberg is interested in making a Jurassic Park IV.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly strong, though still a mediocre movie.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best thing you can say about Jurassic Park 3 is thatA) Sam Neill is in it.and B) It's way, WAY better than the second one.   It does fail in the department of character development, and the ending is really too abrupt, but this movie is such a relief from the second one that I hardly cared about its shortcomings.  For a third installment, JP3 isn't half as bad as it could be--  It could have even been great with just a little tweaking.   They need to return to those dinos the same sort of quirky behavior and personality they had in the first one, and spend a little more time on dialogue between the characters and maybe a little less on thrill effects... Comparing 3 to 1, there is a glaring difference in that the original JP spent a lot more energy building up the story and the people in it, while 3 spends too much on chases and escapes.  There is also a dislike factor of two of its characters (This married couple which is pretty uninteresting) which leaves Dr. Grant and the Kid to carry the whole thing-- they need to throw in a little more People Action, keeping in mind that The Human Zoo can be just as interesting as the prehistoric one, and complement it to a very positive end.  It's also becoming *necessary* in this age when computer-produced creatures don't draw the wow that they used to.   Still, #3 is a vast improvement over #2 and that's worth commendation.  I'm all set for JP4--  It's sounding pretty good and here's hoping they can get Neill and Goldblum together again. "},{"Title":"It's bad ... but a little better than JP II","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A forgettable movie ... but better than JP II.***little spoiler***Despite all the adventure in the misterious and dangerous jungle to rescue a missing child clich, the story was believable and realistic ... apart the end ... when the whole US Army shows up only due to a dubious, incomprehensible and short satellite-phone-call from the Professor!!Moreover this time Sam Neill is almost a secondary figure, and the story is too simple to have interesting twists.   It's a special-fx-expensive but somewhat entertaining movie.The little dinos were really nice while the big ones were frightening, but don't compare this movie with the first of the Jurassic series. It's another kind of movie.   "},{"Title":"You Won't Leave This Island Alive","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS          One afternoon a parasailer and his little friend Eric Kirby went parasailing by Isla Sorna and disappeared. To this day, they remained lost.           Dr. Alan Grant is still a palentologist. He's also still good friends with Dr. Ellie Satler. I think they're married. It wasn't specified. One day, a man named Paul Kirby and his wife Amanda, parents of lost Eric got together with Grant and offered to take him on a low-flying plane ride over Isla Sorna. Grant had no intention of going so they had to shove a little money his way. He finally gave in and took along his friend, Billy, who was a digger at dino bone sites.                    Alan has studied Raptors lately and learned they are very intelligent. Much more so than primates. Accompanying the team to Isla Sorna were Cooper, Nash, and Udesky. They finally arrive flying low over Isla Sorna and to Alan's horror, land there. They meet with a dinosaur that's bigger and more ferocious than the T-Rex The Spinosaurus. He gobbles up Cooper and Nash. They try taking off again but the plane crashes and is no more. Alan also learns that Paul Kirby is a mere hardware store owner, not a rich enterprise owner and the checks he gave Alan and Billy were no good. Pretty soon, the team meets with Raptors and Alan meets Eric. They're soon all reunited and try to find a way off the island. They find an abandoned boat, which runs, and make their way down stream but meet up with the Spinosaurus again. Some quick thinking get's rid of him. Alan is able to use Paul's satellite phone to call Ellie for help and before long the army and navy show up. They're finally rescued and some Tyranadons fly along side them.                  I have to say this is the worst of the Jurassic Park movies. What would've been a good story was for them to go to Isla Nublar, Site A where the original Jurassic Park was. The Lost World took place on Isla Sorna. No sense in having two movies take place in the exact same place in the exact same situation! Where's the fun in that? If they decide to make Jurassic Park IV, hopefully it will be on the island where the theme park was. So, unless you're a big fan of the first one and maybe the second one, that's the only reason to see the third one. Other than that, don't bother. - "},{"Title":"Godzilla meets R.L. Stein.","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I figured JPIII would be lame. What amazed me was exactly how lame.My daughter used to read those lame R.L. Stein horror books for teens, books in which nobody behaved with the sense God gave cabbage. Human beings just don't behave that way. Well, JPIII manages to go R.L.Stein one better by also providing dinosaurs that behave in ways no animal would ever behave.Huge predators continue to attack inanimate objects, for no rational reason. It's just to provide a prolonged, Oh dear! The dinosaurs are attacking! How great is our peril! Excuse me, animals don't act like that. A shark might bite a surfer once, but once it tastes fiberglass -- even though it also tasted blood -- Not food registers in its teenie weenie brain and it goes off and looks for some seals or fish. But JPIII's predators keep chomping on an airplane fusillage, and a boat, without once getting a taste of food. And they persist and persist and persist. Even making the bizarre plot assumption that they were being genetically engineered to attack anything that might have people in it, these critters would have long since died out from having spent all their time trying to eat empty jeeps.Then we have the party startle a T-rex munching down on his prey. The T-rex then abandons his prey half-eaten to go chase the teenie humans. Again, animals don't act like this. They'll do something to scare off the people, which they perceive as scavengers after their dinner, then go right back to dining.Then we have the mega-dinosaur that evidently preys on T-rexes. Why go after prey with big teeth when you have a nice fresh carcas right nearby that T-rex is abandoning?The behavior of the people is even more bizarre and inexplicable.So if you like R.L. Stein, and you like the old Godzilla movies in which monster creatures attack humans and smash vehicles for no discernible reason, by all means enjoy. Otherwise, don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Hey guys, its just entertainment!!!!!!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What were you expecting, Gone With The Wind? JP3 is meant to be nothing but entertainment. Its a huge summer blockbuster with a thin plot, thin characters and fantastic special effects. When I went to see this movie in a theater I wanted to see such a movie and thats exactly what I got.I actually prefer JP3 to the Lost World. The original Jurassic Park is naturally an unbeatable classic that started the whole Dinosaur hysteria. I enjoyed JP2 too, but the final of that movie was a real letdown. Actors in these kind of movies could be total nobodies, but JP3 gives us Tea Leoni (an actress I like very much... She was very good in Family Man and Deep Impact), William H. Macy and Sam Neill who do as much as they can with their characters. Once again the real stars are the gorgeous dinosaurs created by ILM. This time the top billing should go to Spinosaurus which looks a lot scarier than the good old T-Rex. Spinosaurus really knows how to kick some butt! Those new Velociraptors are cool too, but how did they learn to communicate that way? They didnt talk to each other in the first two parts... Movies are rarely too short, but JP3 is such a film. I wouldnt have minded if the film had run for another 10 or 20 minutes. But at least the movie doesnt run out of steam because of its running time.In my opinion JP3 delivers the goods though I hope that itll be the final episode of the series. It couldve been a lot better with a really good, imaginative script. On DVD you can see some early promo posters that indicate a somewhat deeper movie than the JP3 we were given. Oh well...8 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Better than the second one","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There isn't much to say about this film. If you like straight action flicks you may enjoy JP3. The plot follows a couples journey to find their son. Of course their son has became lost on one of the scary dinosaur islands from the JP mythos.Sam Neil returns as Dr. Grant and is tricked into journeying to the island to save the couples son. What follows is basically a series of scenes that finds the group(Sam Neil, the divorced couple learning to love each other again, the couples son, and the heroic 'cute guy') running from dinosaurs. Cliches are everywhere and you have to love when Laura Dern figures out Sam Neil's characters exact location, and what's going on, from a phone call. She even manages to bring the marines!! Also the subplot with the raptors was totally stupid. On a more positive note the special effects were great.I have to say that JP3 was an average movie. It has some good moments (like the pterasaur cage) and some bad ones (they've taken the raptor intelligence thing WAY too far).Of course it is far superior to that mess that was The Lost World.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good...","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"     I never the saw Jurassic Park I or Jurassic Park II. You don't need to have seen those in order to really get this one. Well, at the very beginning was a little weird, but the rest of the movie isn't that surprising. Dinosaurs come! Ahhhh! Run away!! But of course, they outrun them EVERY time. It's pretty funny because in one seen a dinosaur actually runs THROUGH Sam Neill. I guess they weren't really careful with all the computer graphics. )But all in all, I think William Macy was really good for his role, and of course Same Neill was as well. Tea Leoni got a tad annoying in some scenes ( I HATE the way she screams!!), and Trevor Morgan and Alessandro Nivola were good as well. **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A must-see!!!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen all three Jurassic Park films and I must say that out of the three of them, the first one and JP3 are excellent movies.JP3 really, really kicks butt.  Sam Neil is awesome as Dr. Alan Grant and Tea Leoni and William H. Macy are wonderful as the dysfunctional, divorced couple looking for their son on the dinosaur-infested island of Isla Sorna. Forget the bad reviews this movie has received.  Rent this film and you will NOT be disappointed.  While this movie is excellent, don't expect the novel-quality writing that came with the first Jurassic Park film. "},{"Title":"A long time in the making, should have been longer.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Six weeks before the start of principal photography, director Joe Johnston tossed out the Jurassic Park 3 script, opting to write a new one off the cuff, and conducting his production with often only a day long advance on the next two or three page installment. This is how Johnston, cast and crew made their way through a 100 million dollar motion picture. But I don't need to tell you any of this. Whether you've heard the news or not, it'll all become patently obvious if and when you cross paths with this action-smart, story-stupid sequel.Like the wrecked buildings and ravaged genetic laboratories that Dr. Alan Grant visits when he finds himself stranded on an island of dinosaurs, the third Jurassic effort stands as only a hollowed, corpse-like reminder of the original, raided of all back-plot and substance. Where there were once potent ethical implications, there is now action. Where there was once social commentary, there is now action. But who's to blame here? Where else could Johnston have gone with this relatively exhausted ongoing storyline? The industry executive setup We've got a huge market for an island full of dinosaurs, but no rational or convincing reason as to why any character would end up there. The industry executive solution We don't need a reason. Lighten up. Have fun. If you're smiling, then we aren't technically stealing your money.But perhaps this is all overburdening the issue. Sam Neil does do a good job of re-hashing lines that read like water-doused kindling; We probably won't get off this island alive, This is playing God, you know the drill. Any issues his dramatic, monotone dialogue addresses were dually covered (and then some) in the original. Neil also does a good job of totting around his quick-tongued, dim-witted posse of fools, including William H. Macy and Tea Leoni, who play the divorced parents of a boy caught alone on the island after a parasailing accident leaves him stranded. Psssst there's your plot.The fact of the matter is, Johnston knew he had no outs. With no capacity for further originality or expansion, Jurassic Park 3 could only solidly capitalize off of one thing. Give the people what they want, feed them their own tails when there is no tale to tell. And action is what you'll get. The fast paced, digitally perfected sequences rarely let up, growing in intensity and sheer aesthetic believability as the movie progresses. Jurassic hasn't gone CG like Star Wars. You won't find outlandish, graphically animated figures of The Mummy variety. These dinos look as real as they ever have, but show up throughout a lot more of this picture. With full-sized, animatronic models that weighed up to 5,000 lbs, moved limbs at speeds of 100 mph, and could pick up 5G's of force per movement, the dinos were more present than the actors in the majority of scenes. And this is only fitting.Perhaps Johnston would have made a bigger mistake had he actually tried to insert an innovative plot or theme or group of memorable characters into this feature. He cut a lot of the fatty sequel excess - protracted melodrama, bunk character bonding, and distended revelations - for a much more streamlined, action-stocked vehicle. Although the film's overall visual rendering is more drab and much darker than the former two, the (at times) humorous one-liners and on-going comedic bits (for instance, a ringing cell-phone in a Spinosaurus' belly) contrast well with the heavy effects, and give the movie the feel of a genuine, old-school popcorn flick.Does this make scriptless direction, storyless action, and the abandonment of all formerly pertinent themes and social issues an acceptable solution? Jurassic Park 3 may have bite, but unlike the original, it gives you nothing to chew on. "},{"Title":"Compact Fun","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If I had to describe Jurassic Park 3 in one word, I think compact would be the most appropriate word. With a run time of barely 90 minutes, the tiniest of plots and an almost smaller cast group, I could hardly think of a more appropriate description.In all honesty though, taking a compact approach to this film was probably a better idea rather than producing another overblown, over-long effort like The Lost World.Let's face it, these films are never going to be oscar winners (except maybe for technical awards). They are just meant to provide sheer thrills and cheap, unchallenging entertainment. Without any meatier content, the best way to provide this is to keep it short and sweet and get us out of the cinema before the monotony of rampaging dinosaurs sets in.Jurassic Park 3, in a nutshell kicks off with Sam Neill's character from the first film heading back onto another dinosaur island with assistant Alesandro Nivola and ex-couple Tea Leoni and William H. Macy. The latter grouping's young son has been stranded on the island for 8 weeks after a hang-gliding accident and for some reason they believe he can survive this long against mobs of man-eaters. With a bit of coaxing, our resident dino-duo end up joining them.This is where plotting ends. It doesn't take long for everything to go sour and before you know it everyone is alone in the jungle with more lurking predators than Arnie would ever be likely to face. From here on there are more loud shocks and close calls than you could imagine, with a large array of old faves and new dinos slicing and dicing from every direction.These setups are always what make the Jurassic Park films, and because this one keeps it so compact, these moments aren't spoilt by unnecessary plotting, grandiose speeches or techno babble. All we are left with is the sweet dessert minus the distraction of the main course.In terms of cast, the four above-mentioned big names aren't really necessary, although they do have a pile of fun running around screaming and doing their best to attract dinosaurs. Everyone else is (unsurprisingly) dinosaur fodder and usually disposed of in inventive manners. What more could you ask for??On the down side, there is some sensationally dismal dialogue (you're just as bad as the people who made these dinosaurs) and the effects, although not terrible, don't have the same awe-inspiring quality as the same film.Still, as far as blockbusters go, Jurassic Park 3, thanks to its compact production style, generally hits the spot in entertainment value. The conclusion seems to hint that more is to come too. I guess the producers don't believe that the compact idea that  worked so well here applies to the rest of the series. Time will tell I guess.7/10 "},{"Title":"Next time around, the script will be even stupider, and the raptors will be composing violin sonatas","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When a film lacks the courage to play the RIGHT plot development, opting instead to give the audience what it wants, this is a bad, but forgivable.  What's unforgivable is when a film lacks the courage to play the right plot development and opts instead to give the audience what it DOESN'T want.  That's what happens here.  (At least, that's what happens unless I have an unrealistically high opinion of popular taste, which, admittedly, isn't hard.)  When the two adventurers reveal that the real reason they've kidnapped Dr. Grant and risked their damn fool necks is that they're looking for their missing son, whom they're SURE is still alive, even though any reasonable person would realise that (a) he must be dead by now, and (b) even if he isn't dead by now, the attempt to rescue him would almost certainly prove futile ... well, surely any audience with blood flowing through its veins will be longing for the parents to be proved wrong, for the rescue party to fail to find any evidence that the child is alive or to find irrefutable evidence that he is dead (either would do), and for the two selfish, idiotic violators of international law to return from the island sadder but wiser ... but, of course, we can sense that the narrative is being driven by autopilot from one clich to the next, and that this won't happen.  And indeed it doesn't.  The boy is alive and he is rescued.  (Three men die in order to save the life of this one boy, but Amanda and Paul see no need to worry about that, because, hey, they're other people's sons.)I'm not sure that this miserably stupid film (rule of thumb the intelligence of a Jurassic Park movie varies inversely with the depicted intelligence of its raptors) is any more ludicrous than its predecessor; its basic story is, if anything, better motivated.  But make no mistake it's far worse.  In The Lost World, Spielberg seemed to be going through the motions, shooting a script that bored him, and even so he brought the story to life in a way that Johnston could only dream of doing.  To see Jurassic II and then Jurassic III is to understand the difference between rubbish that works and rubbish that doesn't.Even the photography seems to have gone badly wrong.  This may have just been the particular print I saw - I suspect it was - but the fact remains the colours were sludgy, the shadows were misty, the blacks not nearly black enough ... exactly as though the film had all been badly under-exposed.  Did anyone else notice this?  Did I see a dud print, or was the under-exposure deliberate, something which made it easier to insert the (not particularly impressive) digital effects? "},{"Title":"Possible To Not Like, But Hard Not To Enjoy!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand why they made this movie with such a week script and story. I find it hard to believe that this looked good on paper as a whole. But that is too harsh of course, this really is an enjoyable movie. The movie is made up of a string of really great scenes, most are as good a ride as the best of the first two movies. But it was frustrating to see them so uninventively strung together.I knew going in that Spielberg didn't direct. I also knew that the music was not by John Williams. But I adjusted my expectations for that and so should you if you feel you have a sense for such things. I also managed to watch Jurassic Park and The Lost World the day before seeing JP3. All that did was make the difference in the music stand out (to me).I would not mind another installment in this franchise, but I hope they wait for a really good story before doing so. Lethal Weapon 4 was a great example of a good 4th installment after a bad 3rd movie. Though it doesn't need to be Spielberg, the director of JP4 needs to be a good actor's director; someone capable of really bringing the characters out of the actors (e.g. Bryan Singer or Stephen Frears).I read a few other reviews before seeing JP3 and I can't help agreeing that this movie was a great ride, but only a 'good' movie. "},{"Title":"I think dinosaurs are really cool...","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  but the Jurassic Park movies are not. I never thought the first or second Jurassic Park movies were very good. The plot was always too thin. I will say this third installment of the series is better than the second.  You are better off watching the Dinosaur series on Discovery if you just want to see cool/realistic looking dinosaurs.  Also, all the actors are so annoying and awful except for Sam Neill.  The other characters just scream and run about, doing all the things you wouldn't want to do on a dinosaur filled island.  (SPOILERS) And there is no way some kid could survive on the island 8 weeks.  Get real. If you lasted a couple of hours that would be good.  Also, did the kid just leave that guy in the tree attached to the parachute. Because if a dino got him, it wouldn't be a whole skeleton.(END OF SPOILERS)PS  Tea Leoni, can you please shut up now and stop screaming!FINAL VERDICT  If a paper thin plot with annoying stupid characters doesn't bother you, I guess this is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Poor movie...","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was poor stuff.The first one is best.This one was boring.Better than the second,but that`s not saying much.Just another actionpacked blockbuster with no story.You don`t care about the characters and the acting is OK.Some scary scenes,but that`s all.Avoid this one and buy the first one on DVD.Rating 3/10 "},{"Title":"In a summer of sequels, this was probably the best.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *** out of ****As you can probably guess on your own, a third film in a series about big dinosaurs chasing after measly, little humans is probably going to wear itself thin in terms of plot, and let's face it, Jurassic Park III doesn't have much story.  But let's be honest, do we really care?  All I ask for my hard-earned money is a competently made thrill ride that features big dinosaurs chasing after measly, little humans.  And on that level, JPIII is a pretty damn good success.  Certainly, this series is turning out better than the Jaws franchise.In this third-go-round, Sam Neill returns as Dr. Alan Grant, the now-world famous paleontologist who's having trouble coming up with grant money thanks to the fact that everybody in the world knows real dinosaurs exist.  Thus, Grant is a bit easily goaded when a couple (William H. Macy and Tea Leoni) offer to pay big bucks for him to give them a little tour guide of the dino island.  Reluctantly agreeing, Grant brings along his protege, Billy (Alessandro Nivola), and they all head off to Isla Sorna.Not all goes according to plan, once Grant finds out the couple is really searching for their son, who was stranded six weeks ago.  Then there's that slight complication when this really big dinosaur called the Spinosaurus rips apart the airplane the group arrived in.  Afterward, there are only five survivors, and they set out to look for the missing boy and a way off the island.Plot-wise, it would probably be easier to simply state that a bunch of people get stuck on an island with man-eating dinosaurs.  After all, thrills would be the only reason anybody would watch this kind of movie in the first place, yet I find it funny I keep hearing complaints about bad story-telling and little characterization.  Really, the general movie-going public has got to re-evaulate their expectations a little more if they don't know what to expect out of a movie called Jurassic Park III.  Things such as story-telling and character development mean little to a movie about dinosaurs, much less a third film about said dinosaurs in a series, but those elements are adequate enough for the thrill-ride experience to work.Directed by Joe Johnston, this movie still often has the look and feel of a Spielberg film.  There's a bit of sentimentality here and there (as opposed to almost zero in the The Lost World), particularly in the beginning, with the scenes between Neill and Laura Dern (these moments work quite well), and later on in the film, between the estranged couple, played by Macy and a very annoying Leoni, and their son (these moments don't work so well). It's these scenes that lead me to question how so many people can proclaim this one superior to the original because of no sentimentality when it clearly has some.  Really, what I learned from such statements is that some people out there are just desperate to come up with something to bad mouth Spielberg.Johnston is not quite as good an action director as Spielberg.  By that, I mean there's not as much build-up to the attack scenes, nor is there really that much suspense, especially when compared to the nail-biting finale in the original and the trailer park scene in the The Lost World.  Johnston gets to the action quickly, almost as if though he were afraid he'd lose our attention otherwise.  It feels a little sloppy at times, but at least it eventually builds into that thrill-ride experience.The excitement delivered in spades, thanks to moments such as a nice little drag-down knockout fight between the Spinosaurus and the T-Rex.  The guy I was rooting for didn't win, but it was still a damn good fight.  The raptors are sorely underused here, and there were a lot of possibilities Johnston could have come up with, especially set inside that village.  But, unfortunately, he abandons the enclosed setting (which really could have led to a lot of great thrills) and sticks to the jungle.Mind you, the jungle is still set up for quite a bit of fun.  The Spinosaurus makes several more appearances, one of them telegraphed by an amusing riff off Jaws and Peter Pan.  The pteranadons are put to good use here, with a sequence set inside a cage that's fairly exciting.  Sure, that evil stare that one pteranadon gives is pretty unintentionally hilarious, but stuff like that is appreciated in a B-movie.Speaking of B-movie, this one's a little more obvious of its roots than its predecessors, which is a plus.  JPIII has a pretty good sense of humor, as shown during a laugh-out loud dream scene that mocks the series itself. William H. Macy also gets in quite a few good laughs, a lot of them at the expense of the character himself!Special effects are what we would expect, meaning they're mostly excellent, with the only real complaint being that some of the dinos seem a little too CGI and the Spinosaurus' animatronic origins are far too obvious.  Mild complaints, though, considering the effects are really very impressive.Acting's also decent, with Neill, Macy, and Nivola registering positively. Michael Jeter's actually pretty likeable as a mercenary and Trevor Morgan is a kid who doesn't save the day or act as comic relief, thank God. However, Tea Leoni's just annoying, as she just about always is.  I can't quite put my finger on what it is about her that irritates me so; perhaps it's her speech pattern, or maybe just her general lack of acting ability.Don Davis' score is noticeably John Williams-ish.  The jungle drums from The Lost World are replaced by a more traditional action/adventure theme, which is effective enough if nothing spectacular.  The original movie's main theme is present, too, though for some odd reason, it felt oddly inappropriate to me.  I guess I was just hoping for more of the dark tone and atmosphere the second film gave us, and that musical theme from Williams (which is great, I'm not trying to knock it) sounds way too bright in tone and awe-inspiring to punch that feeling home.Where Jurassic Park III really stumbles is the ending, which is incredibly abrupt and lacking a bit in basic logic.  I'd go a little further, but I might spoil things somewhat, suffice to say that judging from what I saw, raptors don't really have very good auditory perception and we'll just leave it at that.Given that this is a third movie in a series known primarily for its action/special effects, I'd say Jurassic Park III rates quite highly as an entertaining action/horror excursion.  Perhaps not quite as intense as its predecessors, it still works considerably well, and it's story doesn't quite have as many idiocies as The Lost World, as it is known infamously for. JPIII was also probably the best sequel in a summer chock full of them. The Mummy Returns was a colossal disappointment, Rush Hour 2 pretty much repeated most of the same mistakes of Rush Hour, and American Pie 2 is...the sequel to the already dreaded American Pie.  Anyway, JPIII's good fun, and I guess it says something positive when I actually don't mind the prospect of another sequel. "}{"Title":"The Jurassic Park I've wanted to see.","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"       Ever since the Lost World came out, I've been in a gravedepression. I was not very happy with the second film. Like the firstit lacks some of the elements in the books that were better. When Iheard that they were doing a third film, I was hoping to see if theycould get it right.      Joe Johnston takes the directors chair for Jurassic Park 3. Hedirects an action packed thrill ride that does not let up for a minute.It takes place on INGEN's Isla Sorna, the breeding island. Dr Grant (Sam Neill), his student Billy (Alessandro Nivola), a divorcedcouple and thier son (William H Macy, Tea Leoni), and a fewmercanaries are stranded there after a serious plane crash.      They have to fight for thier survival against dinosaurs, new andold species. The formadible Spinosaurus meat eater makes hisdebut in this film. It proves to be a terrifyingly nasty beast that lovesto stalk its prey no matter it goes. The Velociraptors return withsome new looks and the brains they had in the novels.      The film is shorter than the others, but it delivers what it needsto in 92 minutes. I was chilled more by this film than the second. Itbrings us back to the origional elements of thee first film! I wouldsay the acting was pretty good, and I glad there was no stupid kidtricks to save the day scenes in this film. The gore factor of thisfilm is a bit bigger than the previous two films. I was more jumpyand excited through the whole film! All in all 3 stars out of 4. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not quite good enough.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read a review that said that Jurassic Park III is as good as Jurassic Park (the original) if not better.  It most definitely is not.  This is infinitely better than Jurassic Park, The Lost World; but that doesn't mean its particularly good either.  I guess OK would be about the right word.This film has an incredibly weak ending, but other than that, it's not too bad.  Worth seeing once...but not more.  "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is no different to all the other Hollywood sequels that suffer from the law of diminishing returns. But to be quite honest, many of the criticisms I've read here on IMDB have been completely unjust and blown out of all proportion. No.. it's NOT the worst motion picture in the world, and I can't quite understand why anybody would say such a thing, except to appear clever to our fellow reviewers. JPIII is a fairly decent action movie that should be seen on the big screen with a large group of friends. Not worth watching twice though. THE PROBLEMS   Apart from avoiding dinosaurs, the screenplay doesn't have any clear gut goals for Dr Grant and Co to pursue, which does makes it harder for the audience to emphasise with the main characters. The characters in this movie don't take matters into their own hand, they are not driving the movie forward to it's envitable conclusion. All they do is avoid dinosaurs - boring! If we look at the screenwriting techniques employed in Jurassic Park, it's easy to see why the original was far more exciting. For example, the characters were split into two groups; Dr Grant and the children had to find their back without being eaten, while Dern's bunch had to restore power to the island. This setups up two goals for the audience to follow, thus adding considerable interest to the story. It almost has the effect of watching two films at once, but with more cohesion. Thirdly, there is very good saying that applies here, less is more. If you cram too much action into a motion picture, particulary one without any worthwhile goals, then the audience are going to become desensitised.  By the end of the movie I was glad we didn't have one last showdown between Dr Grant and the Raptors.To the director's credit, Johnston is good at staging action sequences and the special effects shots are well thought out. I'm also glad he decided to remain with John William's brilliant score, it would have been pretty foolish to leave it out. However, Joe doesn't know how to handle suspense or horror scenes unlike his predecessor, Steven Spielberg. The legendary director knows how to use pace to create that eerily feeling of suspense, whereas Johnston is just content with giving us a rollercoaster ride. I also felt the screenwriters didn't take advantage of certainly opportunities that could have added more depth to the characters. Bringing two divorcees to the island is a good idea, but there is very little conflict between them - a chance sorely missed. If handled properly it might have made Macy's near death experience more heartfelt. And of course, there are the usual number of plot holes that plagued most blockbusters  1) In spite of being considerably larger than the T-Rex, the Spinosaurus managers to sneak up on Dr Grant when Rex can't even take a step without causing a small earthquake under it's feet. 2) There should have been soldiers guarding the island from nosy tourists or foolish poachers.  3) Can you really hear a phone ringing from inside a giant dinosaur? Probably not.  4) Dangerous Pteranodons have flown the coup and the army does nothing?Still, I would have overlooked all this if the movie had been better. I rate this movie 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not really bad, but not a classic","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie, in my opinion, wasn't nearly as bad as some people believed it to be. Want bad, rent Omega Code--enough said. In any case, it wasn't a classic, either.For starters, I really wish they had explored the relationship between Grant and Sattler a little more. All they did was basically make a passing mention of it, and that was disappointing. Then, after a five-minute or so setup, the fun begins.As for the plot being contrived, hell, a written plot is contrived by definition. And as for things not necessarily being realistic, if I want reality, I'll listen to a police scanner. So those things didn't bother me. The divorced couple that miraculously works out their problems in a survival situation did seem to be more than a little sappy though.This is a straight FX movie. Want a deep, meaningful plot? Go see something else. As for FX, this was a lot better than the other sci-fi offerings that were out there this past summer, esp. that $8-per-viewing Playstation FMV called Final Fantasy The Spirits Within. Half the time it's impossible to tell where the CGI is or where the robots are, it's seamless. And these creatures actually *look* alive. 10 years from now it'll probably be easy to tell where the transition is (look at the first JP) but for now these are state of the art.The biggest problem that I had with the film is that it could actually be summed up in one line (spoken by William H.Macy, ironically enough) from another film.       When the fit hits the shan, someone's gonna have to stay after school.--Wag the Dog Read this line, rent the film, and most people could take it from there. "},{"Title":"WHY?","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had more fun reading the ending credits of the Steven Spielberg's previous Jurassic Park movies than watching this movie.  I mean what was the director thinking? He could make better that Spielberg? On top of having a cheezy story and lack of originality IT WAS PG-13.  I'm not a big fan of gore, but commmmmoon!! 4/10 "},{"Title":"too short","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think an action movie needs to have a certain length to be truly satisfying. Two hours is perfect, no more, no less. The first two JURASSIC PARK films satisfied in that area. You felt drained, excited, and satisfied after seeing those movies. Unfortunately, JURASSIC PARK III is an unnecessary sequel that's fun while it lasts but leaves one wanting more. It's disappointing, and a bit of a cheat when you pay the same amount of money for this movie and the first two and with this one you only get 3/4 of the running time of the other films. You just don't gte your money's worth. It's not that PARK III doesn't have enough action. It has plenty, and some neat new dinosaurs too. But so did the previous two movies. They had non-stop action as well, but they took half an hour longer to end, so you got much more from those films. This movie takes about 80 minutes to happen. I felt cheated. That's not even the length of a TV-movie. What a letdown.  "},{"Title":"unremarkable but the pros outweigh the cons","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Respectable third entry in the series has Neil making a welcomed return as Dr. Alan Grant, a brilliant but struggling paleontologist. In order to support funding for his research, Grant reluctantly agrees to accompany a wealthy couple on an aerial tour of the dreaded prehistoric island, but it quickly turns disastrous when the plane crashes and the survivors find themselves marooned on the island, now populated with new species that are quicker, fiercer, and deadlier than those in years past. The most major criticism of this sequel would have to be that it lacks a really fresh or original story, but the special effects are terrific, the action/chase scenes are exciting and fun to watch, and the film makes a return to the dark, chilling atmosphere that made the original so successful. The new dinosaurs and a clever raptor subplot are a nice touch, making this an above average third installment in the highly popular Jurassic Park series. *** "},{"Title":"women who scream should be eaten","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After Sigourney Weaver I have no patience at all any more for women who scream when the monster is after them, or people in general who trip and fall down when they're running away.  At one point, many many many years ago, Sam Neill was sort of cool.  If he ever did have it, and it wasn't all my imagination, he's lost it entirely and is sort of over-the-hill dreaming of Indiana Jones that he could never be, drooling.  It's all just stupid (but William Macy is kinda cute). "},{"Title":"A Simple, Thrilling Rollercoaster (It Does What It Says On The Tin)","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having seen JP3 only a couple of days ago and then having read other comments on it within the last five minutes - I can't believe people are talking about the same film!  Have the other (negative) contributors to this site ever seen the second sequel of a movie before?  What on Earth where they expecting?  How can you watch a second sequel without possessing the lowest entertainment threshold imagineable; especially after the mess that was The Lost World - gripping first half/ludicrous second!JP3 is a total load of old hokum!  And there is no point in the movie where it suggests it is anything else For God's sake - it even introduces a made up dinosaur!  So what JP3 sets out to do is cram as many moments of giant reptilian action as it can into the longest allowable time (90 mins is probably spot on) and over the kind of cliched, unobtrusive plot that won't get in the way.  And anyone who even possesses the temerity to question plot or narrative flaws really should seek out counselling  IT'S A FILM ABOUT DINOSAUR'S SUNBATHING IN COSTA RICA!!!!  And it's a very enjoyable film.  It's not as overblown as Johnston's Jumanji and it has the added bonus of the marvellous William H Macy.  If you want to see a profound, literate movie - AVOID THIS.  If you want to watch people getting chased (and eaten) by fantastically grotesque creatures, twenty times their size, in a jungle - WATCH THIS.  It's as simple as that.  And please don't say you expected it to be anything else.  Not if you don't want people to laugh at you... "},{"Title":"Wisely chooses to get stuck in......","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It must have been as obvious to the film makers as it is to the viewer that the Jurassic Park franchise will only work if our heroes are facing the monsters on the latters' own turf. The Lost World ended with a T-Rex ramaaging though downtown California, and while that's all well and good, the fact remains that he could only inflict so much damage before military gunships blew the mother away. So if there was going to be a second sequel, they had to contrive a way to get the characters on one of the dino islands.And since there are no plot devices remaining that can achieve this without insulting the viewer's intelligence, the writers wisely use spend as little time as possible on the build up, transporting us to the scene of the action in no time and without much explanation. Which suits me just fine.Suddenly we are on the run from a new collection of CGI beasts, in an adventure crammed with excellent set pieces and, surprisingly, a set of characters I cared more about than in either of the previous films.Three stars out of five.    "}{"Title":"it could of been better","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic park 3 is the worst movie of the trilogy. The plot wasn't bad. I thought it was good actually, Neil was kidnapped on the island to help find a child who was lost on isla sorna. But the rest of the movie stunk. Yes the dinosaurs were cool, but not as pretty as Spielberg's dinosaurs. Speilberg used more robots in his films, this movie is all cgi's.  The jungle looked no where near the way it did in the lost world. Was it supposed to be the same place? The setting in this movie looked like the woods you see in Staten Island N.Y.!! The script was as bad as it gets, people outrunning dinosaurs and spitting out corny lines throughout the whole film. You did not get a sense of terror the way you did in the first two films. I wasn't on the edge of my seat once while watching this movie. Too bad  "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park III","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I find it difficult to believe that anyone thought this film better than the original.  The plot can be described as nothing more than an afterthought, the special effects still don't come anywhere near the BBC's Walking with Dinosaurs (made for a fraction of the cost) and the whole thing lasts just 80 minutes (not including the end credits).And the main attraction which I think was the invention of the SFX department was a huge disappointment.  Its movements were completely unnatural and it was easy to tell when they were using computer generated effects and when they were using a large puppet dinosaur.---Possible Spoiler Alert--- And they clearly had problems with the lifesize model, because in the final scene, the head of this dinosaur sways about as if it has been dosed up with sedatives.  It really looks quite absurd!! ---End of Possible Spoiler Alert---What was even more annoying were the blatant plot holes.  Yes, I know action films always have holes in the plot, but they're normally concealed in some way, or the action moves at a pace that doesn't give time for you to think about them.  You can see they're trying to get your pulse up, but every supposedly frantic scene holds no tension whatsoever.  The main reason for this is that you just don't care about the characters because not one of them is in the least bit likeable.  By the end of the film, I was hoping that they would all be eaten!And the ending is just so dumb and over-the-top (and completely contradicts something you've been told all the way through the movie), my wife and I were in disbelief!I know the first two films have their flaws, but to me they stand head and shoulders above this version, possibly the mark of being directed by a real director and not just a special effects technician. "},{"Title":"Nice bland clean cut horror","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 92 minAfter the wonder of JP1, the shambles of JP2, JP3 brings the trilogy to a nice (in the worst possible sense) clean conclusion. This is a movie that every blue haired granny would be happy for their grand children to watch.As you would expect 'no expense is spared', as with the previous movies the locations are very good, Sam Neill does a solid job given the weak story. The director (Joe Johnston) likes his little tricks, the early scene with Sam Neill in the garden being a good example. The effects are better then JP1 but time and technology moves on and the impact is lessened, we do finally get to see a big dino fight.A big gripe with JP3 is that the horror aspects have been so diluted. At one point a character is waist deep in a very large and toothy dino yet manages to shed not a single drop of blood.6/10 worth watching, about half way between JP1 and JP2. "},{"Title":"Quite ridiculous","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This  movie just fails in more areas then it achieves. There is some thrills in it, etc action and how the dinosaurs looked, and of course the addition of Grant, but as other people have said I'm sure, the plot is nonsense, the Rex V Spino fight was too short and so was the actual film itself. Plus the ending was utter filth with the navy and army coming up on the beach like that. When I watched this, there wasn't any Jurassic park feeling about it. I can't understand why people think this beats the Lost world. Forget this one. "},{"Title":"Wam! Bam! Eeee!!!  THUMP.  Crunch!!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first JURASSIC PARK film not to be based on a Crichton novel (although no.2 certainly avoided most of his ideas) and it shows - while it's probably better than No.2 this is only because of increased simplicity, even better (!!) effects and more action.  There is minimal plot here - no scientific jargon or plausability whatsoever, though, and compared to the original it is almost a failure.  Based on two premises, (1) that velociraptors can communicate with each other on a high level, and (2) that a recently separated couple's 12-year-old kid goes missing on a dinosaur island off Costa Rica, you can probably figure out where the film's going to go if you've yet to see it, given twenty seconds thinking time.  Great action scenes, and those dinosaurs are continually going to amaze me - in particular the scene in which two massive carnivores are going at it while the small party of humans, led by Sam Neill, tries to avoid being squished in the process.  I gave it a 6/10 for pure entertainment; outside of effects and possibly sound, no awards here. "},{"Title":"Great visuals, weak screenplay","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this film contains technological advancements over the first two and presents the return of Sam Neill, the franchise seems to have run out of ideas and resorts to one big game of dodge the dinosaur.  I guess they figured that it is better to have no story than a stupid story (see JPII). Dr. Allen Grant (Neill) is tricked into returning to dinoland by a couple trying to find their son, who was lost on the island in an inane parasailing accident in the opening scene.  Once there, it is the movie version of `Survivor' where the creatures carnivorously vote the cast off the island. The chase begins very early in the film, pre-empting any hope of a meaningful storyline.Director Joe Johnston started his career as an art director, doing visual effects for `Star Wars', so it is no surprise that this film emphasizes visual effects.  In this respect it is superlative.  The integration of computer generated images and animaltronics is state of the art and brings us a realism that could barely be surpassed by being amidst the dinosaurs in real life.  They have improved the look and movement of the dinosaurs and have integrated them more realistically with the actors.  Despite having a lower entertainment value from a screenplay perspective, this film is pure genius as regards visual effects and uses vanguard techniques that will surely become commonplace in sci-fi films of the future. There is not much to be said about the acting.  There isn't much meaningful dialogue.  All the actors are effective at looking terrified and then looking relieved only to be terrified again five minutes later. The only way I can rate this film is to average two components.  The story is a 2/10 and the technical component is a 10/10.  So I'd have to give it a 6/10.  It is worth seeing just for the visuals, but don't waste your time if a strong screenplay is your primary consideration in selecting a film.  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was idiotic at best,,,,not ever coming close to the first 2 in the series they should have had Steven Spielberg direct this one as well. I think he will direct Jurassic Park 4 (I think there will be one). Not even Sam Neil could save this movie I'm just glad Jeff Goldblum got out before it really got bad. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the Year!!!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Movie just simply rocks! The first Jurassic Park movie was pretty good, and a mild stone for special effects. Then came it's sequal, and it was down-right horrible. It was Slow, Corney and stupid. But than came Jurassic Park 3! It was so much better than both of them. The Special effects were just about the best ever (once again), But this time they also put in a plot. Well, I can't say the others were mindless, but they didn't have the twists and turns that this one does! The action sequences were superb! Most notibly in the bird cage. Just breath taking. And while just about every aspect of this movie is so impossible it's corney (like surviving the plane crash and Raptors being able to communicate like they did), this is a FICTION movie. People don't seem to realize that. Just swallow hard and accept it rather than complaining about it. It is deffinatly a highlight of this year as far as movies go, and just barley out of reach of my top 10. It is VERY funny, Exciting, filled with awesome special effects and Breathtaking sceneary and even a little dramatic love interest, which doesn't flood it, but just enough to keep things interesting. Im telling you, this movie has it all! It's the Bomb! 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fun mindless flick","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie does not have much of a plot. It's just an excuse to get people back on an island full of dinosaurs and have them being terrorized by them. THis isn't as good as the first two movies but it's still alot of fun to watch. The dinosaurs seem a bit cheesy this time around and sometimes they look awesome. I dont know how they got a decorated actor like William H. Macy to be in this dumb flick but he's very good in it. The action is cool in this movie and alot of it is exciting. The movie is based on a dinosaur theory which makes it better because at least the writers tried to put some educational stuff in the film. Overall good job but Spielberg should only be allowed to direct Jurrasic Park movies. "},{"Title":"Better than the second.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a good movie, I'm not saying it's the Godfather or anything but it was better than the second film, (which in it self was a good movie but just a little over the top). I give it 7.5/10. Like I said, a good movie but it's no Godfather. "}{"Title":"Good for the kids","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many have damned it.But the kids were stuck to the screen, and quiet for 2 hours! (OK, a few shouts and screams, but less than usual.)Makes it a good movie for me.Dumb things, heravores eating others, etc., but a good flick for the kids.Give me more that keep the attention of children!!!!  "},{"Title":"Entertaining if you want Dino action, forget the story","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Jurassic Park franchise started well, the first film is a lot of fun despite the character flaws. The 2nd film was a big disappointment, lacking a strong narrative and the finale was horrendous, it was full of stupidity.Third time lucky? Well, not really, JP3 is an improvement over part 2, but it lacks a strong story and dialogue. We all want to see Dinosaurs, but I feel that the characters and story need to complement the monsters. It's great to have Sam Neil back, Bill Macy was a great coup. The rest are filler, well, Tea Leoni isn't a great actress, is she?The dinosaurs are much more intense here, Spino is awesome. The flying dinosaurs are also brilliant. The special effects are nicely tuned, very believable.Joe Johnston does a good job, but the constant rewrites have hurt the film. Speilberg's influence is in the film.The score by Don Davies is rather nice, very much in John Williams's style.The screenplay is largely a disappointment, the beginning is absurd.Overall, entertaining to see Dino action, just forget the story. "},{"Title":"What else is new?... Nuthin'","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Needs a better story. Too much attention given to the dinos, not enough character development. I did not care what happened to anyone in this movie. JP-TLW is still the best because it was more about the people and they are what I thought about when the movie was over. Not this time "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first two, but JP3 is easier to watch.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers???I'm split.  For years I've been giving (since about 1995 was my first visit to imdb) stars on imdb.  For over 2 years I've been writing reviews on imdb. I've come to the opinion that I can still give a lower star rating and still love the movie.  My star ratings are mostly given on what stars I think it deserves.  Not how much I like the movie.  So hence I give it a 6/10.I found that this is definately not like the first two.  The first two made you utterly scared to replay the movie.  Simply because you felt that the lead characters were going to die.  But because of that edge, in the end you always came back.  Ten years from now, I'll probably still watch JP1.  But not JP2 or maybe JP3.  It's kinda like watching Braveheart verses Dr. Dolittle.  I loved the Dr., but I rarely play it anymore.  It got tons of play that I got tired of it.  But Braveheart I haven't watched alot.JP3 is too easy to watch.  There is no edge to it.  The scariest part perhaps is in the aviary and that's it.   The rumbles don't scare us anymore.  The frightful sounds that we should be scared of are often so faint that who the hell cares.  I had to turn up my volume to 50 just to figure out that the dad had heard his kid cry for him.I'd compare this like Firestarter verses Salems Lot.  Which is easier to watch?All I'm saying is JP3 will not make you pee in your pants.  If you want that, you'll leave disappointed.(DVD comments  dvd isn't bad, but it's features are more complicated than they need to be.  )6/10Quality 4/10 Entertainment 8/10 Replayable 9/10 "},{"Title":"A PROMISING FUTURE FOR THE FRANCHISE.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 holds more excitement than the first two movies simply for the fact that we see more dinosaurs and the Vertigo esque camera movements adopted by Dir J Jhonston works like a charm.I did not like the story very much unlike the first and thought that they should have spent more time on character devolopments and less running,remember in the first Sam Neil scared us with his ability to tell what dinosaurs are capable of and not how they ate the lawyer.In this film this is the point whre the film fails to impress as the Dir depends too much on the Dino's without any dialogue.The film is photographed in a very gloomy atmosphere and the camera work is quite impressive and I can see another JP film on the horizon.The story revolves around a couple (played by Leoni and Macy) with the aid of Dr Grant tries to rescue their son and escape the island before they are eaten alive.I don't like explaining the plot but all I can say is that this film reminded me of Goldeneye as there is a lot of action and is directed in a very stylish and slick manner.It lacks solid characters and more importantly bit of gore/violence.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly, I found myself jumping (not literally).","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently rented Jurassic Park III and watched it on the couch while my infant son went to sleep laying on my chest.  I eventually had to give up on this special father/ son time and put him in his crib, because I kept startling him awake when something happened onscreen.Man, this movie nails it -- the startles abound, and I could tell my heartbeat kept revving a few BPMs as the movie progressed.  What fun!Good pacing, good acting, and the perfect running time make this the better of the two Jurassic Park sequels.  One wonders if they're planning a fourth installment -- if it's as good as this one, I may just go see it in the theater.I'll leave my son at home. "},{"Title":"The Magic is Back","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III recaptures the magic of the original movie.  It will make you forget that turkey, JP II.Getting Dr. Grant back to the second island is a bit contrived, but once he is there, the story takes off. Heart pounding excitement, sudden camera cuts and <gasp> there is a Raptor, no ... two,  no ... three. We are surrounded.At one point, Dr. Grant talks about his two books (one before JP, one after JP) and the book by Dr. Malcolm (I wasn't there in San Diego).The boy in the movie gives a review of Malcolm's book which summarizes JP II well.  The book wasn't worth much.There is an earlier review, posted in Dec. 2001 on this web site, which summarizes very well this fine movie.It is worth the fee to rent or buy it.  Jurassic Park III is an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Mr. S. Spielberg messed TWO films with this.","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After Mr. Spielberg decided that the direction work was being taken by John Johntson, and then focused his imagination in A.I., he really F***ed both of them.The first one Jurassic park III, was a box office success, but it didn't really had that little special thing that every Spielberg movie has... because he wasn't there!First the dinosaurs, they didn't have a soul, I mean, in the first movie you think oh those dinosaurs look real, in the second one you think those dinosaurs ARE real... but in the third one you think those dinosaurs are computer generated... and they act like people...in this one all the animals looked like robots... not like real living animals.Second the plot, couldn't they think in something better?... what is wrong with Allan Grant?... everything they did was giving him the most nonsense and stupid reason to go back to that island.And the third the Spynosaur... well, what can I say?... IT SUCKS!... that horrible thing killed the real symbol of the other movies, it killed the reason everyone wanted to watch them!...So, it's a good action movie... but a crapy excuse of a Jurassic Park sequel.PSAbout A.I., check my comment on it. "},{"Title":"Derivative, yet exciting eye candy...","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This third installment of the Jurassic Park line does not really give us anything new.  Here, we have a fresh set of characters who just happen to find themselves on an island teeming with man-eating dinosaurs.The movie is formula action/adventure all the way characters are saved at the nick of time just when they are about to be eaten alive, one is whisked away by a gigantic pterodactyl, then dropped by the nest, unharmed, etc., etc.Taken as a fantasy, the movie is, more than anything else, derivative of its first two predecessors, and of similar fantasy/adventure films. Yet, somehow we just don't care. This movie's entertainment factor coupled with its state-of-the-art special effects win us over.Sure, it's silly, but when a film is as visually appealing and as exciting as this one, we are always ready for more. "},{"Title":"Morally Ambiguous, again.","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's an OK movie.  I liked it more than JP1 and 2 because the characters are a tad less annoying.SPOILER ALERT.  But like JP2, Michael Crichton's message is morally confusing to me.  Who are the good guys and bad guys?  The original JP book is preachy, and Sam Neil's character reflects it -- Them scientists are playing god!!  But Sam doesn't mind that he just freed the pteradactils so they can fly away and eat, say, Hawaii.  Is W.H. Macy a good guy?  No, he's a selfish liar.  Tea Leoni cannot be a good guy because she plays the annoying screaming lady.  Back in JP2, the good guy was the eco-activist who caused all the death/destruction in the first place.  The bad guys simply made the mistake of always engineering too delicate dinosaur cages.I just hope they eventually make a JP sequel where the hero, heroine, and kid all get eaten.  Yum! "}{"Title":"One of 2001's Loudest Films","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like one of the previous posters, I rented this DVD primarily to give the new home theater system a workout. Although I don't get into the minutia of exactly how many decibels my subwoofer cranks out, suffice it to say, it's pretty darn loud. I viewed it in both Dolby Digital and DTS and quite frankly couldn't tell much of a difference. I would recommend the film in order to experience the audio effects; the room will shake. Be sure and watch the DVD bonus features on the production aspects (animatronics, CG effects, etc.) as they more often than not prove to be more interesting than the feature film itself. The amount of detail and work that went into this production is amazing, and gives you a good idea of why budgets for films like this run into the tens of millions.The story itself (if you suspend your believability threshold for a few hours) was mildly interesting. The egg plotline was about the most outrageous thing I've seen in a while, and there are some interesting holes and unanswered questions what actually happened to the speedboat crew? why did the boy leave his companion to die hanging in the parasail? how did the Marines know to storm the beach exactly as the group comes running out of the jungle? For that matter, how could the Navy have deployed two amphibious vessels to that part of the Pacific in that short amount of time, based on a phone call from a paleontologist?  As a former naval aviator I know from experience that even at 30 knots it takes more than a day for a ship to get from point A to point B.Okay, okay; we all know you can blow a million holes in the plot of most movies these days. That notwithstanding, JP3 was nevertheless entertaining. Perhaps I'm not as enthusiastic as Michael Entertainment in the lead review (who is that guy, and was he paid for that review??) but then again I saw JP1 but missed the Lost World so perhaps I was a little lost throughout most of the first half of JP3... "},{"Title":"this series has run its course","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Jurassic Park III' proves definitively that the bloom is off the rose when it comes to this particular movie series.  In the third installment of the dinosaur epic, virtually every plot element &#150; nay, every shot &#150; seems like a tired rehash of the ones found in the two previous works.  The only difference here is that the dinosaurs manage to serve as unwitting family therapists for a tiresome divorced couple and their precocious young son.Sam Neill, the star of the original film, returns in the role of nerdy paleontologist, Dr. Alan Grant &#150; and his presence merely reminds us of the power that was generated by this material before it lost its originality and luster.   With nowhere left to go with the concept, this third version is reduced to little more than a series of monotonous chase sequences involving the actors running around like mad through masses of jungle growth in the foreground while some impressive looking dinosaurs wreak havoc in the background.  It seems inconceivable to imagine that it actually took THREE paid writers to come up with a script as lacking in originality and interest as the one we have here.  The anticlimactic ending is particularly ludicrous and incredible (not to mention faintly distasteful since the final shot turns out to be a close up looking straight into a pterodactyl's rear end).  Unlike the previous two films,  `Jurassic Park III' fails to generate even a modicum of chills and thrills.  There is, literally, not a single scary or suspenseful moment in the entire film.  Where is Steven Spielberg when you need him?   (Joe Johnston took over the directorial chores for this outing).  At least Spielberg knows how to get the adrenalin pumping &#150; even with hokey material such as this.The real problem with this film lies in the nature of the series itself.  Unlike the `Star Wars' films, which provide us with an ever-evolving story line and set of characters that help to make each new installment an integral part of a varied whole, the `Jurassic Park' franchise is pretty much limited to finding new excuses to get people in front of those rampaging dinosaurs.  The writers of this latest version, desperate to bring even a trace of originality to the concept, play with the childish notion that the veloceraptors are actually able to communicate with each other.  In other words, we have left the world of `reality,' where dinosaurs are allowed to be dinosaurs, and have turned these magnificent creatures into reptilian versions of ourselves.  What could be more arrogant?With this third edition, the `Jurassic Park' series has hit its proverbial brick wall.    "},{"Title":"Good Action Movie","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Without a doubt the first movie was the best by a long shot.  The second movie was a second movie.  With III we get what we should have had with the second one.  No, there is no real character development (but do you need that in every movie?) as there is no real reason to in this movie.  This is a true movie about survival in a world of dinosaurs.  When you are trying to survive you are going to have a lot of action.  III gives you all of the action you want and more.  There is a definite plot with a beginning, middle, and end.  These are kind of movies you can become part of.  Everyone likes a grand adventure and with III you can be a part of the adventure. "},{"Title":"The expected good special effects, thats it.","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only good thing about the movie is the dinosours and the atmosphere of some spots in the film, with the fog etc. Jurassic Park 3 falls in line just where it is supposed to. 3rd. The first two are definitely better. The characters in #3 are just totally annoying, and the sappy family reunion love story was enough to make me want to puke. In the first two movies, there were certain people that you just didn't want to see get eaten. In this one, it's just not the same. "},{"Title":"Non-stop action, little else","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III was basically a movie that had no real plot and tried to keep the audience's attention by having non-stop action. This will obviously work for some but not for me. If you like non-stop action or are just trying to pass the time then check this movie out. Otherwise you'll probably be bored. 4/10 "},{"Title":"people run, dinosaurs chase, people get eaten","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 really wasn't that bad.  Although it doesn't have much of a story, it has some ok acting,an ok score, and very good visual effects. In the third instalment to the Jurasic Park trilogy Docter Allen Grant (Sam Neil) is tricked into going to the island that was visited in The Lost World Jurassic Park, by a couple looking for their son who was lost on it.  My favorite sequence is the fight between the spinosauress and the t-rex.  This is the second best JP film and the most intense.  I really didn't think it was a total loss.  Worth renting (if for nothing else than the visual effects). I give Jurassic Park 3 6/10 "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park 3 is better than the 2nd but not the 1st.","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park kept your attention through the whole thing.The Lost WorldJurassic Park (Jurassic Park 2)was ok but it wasn't as exciting as the first.The Jurassic Park 3 started off a little boring, but once it got to about the middle it got a little more exciting. JP3 is better than the second, but not the first.Sam Neill, who was in the first but not the second, came back as Dr. Alan Grant. Sam Neill has always been an OK actor but it was Jurassic Park that actually made me recognize him. Another one of his movies that I thought was ok was The Memoirs of an Invisible Man.I never liked William H. Macy, the ONLY movie that I like of William H. Macy was Ghosts of Mississippi.Tea Leoni played Amanda Kirby in JP3. She was also in The Family Man with Nicolas Cage. Tea Leoni did a good job as Amanda Kirby.I never heard of Alessandro Nivola, who played Billy Brennan , until Jurassic Park 3. But he did a good job.Like I said every body did a good job in the movie and I enjoyed the movie very much. "},{"Title":"Worth the price of admission","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After reading Michael Sibley's review (21 Nov 2001), I just had to comment on the film.After being disappointed with Pearl Harbor, Planet of the Apes and the rest of the summer fare, I was hoping JP3 would save my summer. It did.This movie series has never really been about the actors-just the dinosaurs - and the third installment brings a darker, edgier, Aliens-style moodiness to it. There's the ridiculous excuse to get Dr. Grant (Sam Neill) back on the island and immediately we're rewarded with the site of dinosaurs running amouk and eating hapless humans.Whereas Sibley gushes Leoni continues to charm audiences with her presence and beauty all I've got to say is that she did OK. Not great and not horrible. Ditto with William H. Macy, Sam Neill and the rest. Like I said, it doesn't matter if they can't act well. They just need to know how to scream and run on cue.If you really liked JP1 and were a bit disappointed in the blahness of JP2, you'll enjoy JP3. I recommend. "},{"Title":"Reminder of the original Jurassic Park.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has excellent graphics and good, deep characters.  It is almost a remake of the original Jurassic Park, and that's why it's so much better than The Lost World.  This one tends to value life a little more than The Lost World, and I think these are the two reasons this movie is so underrated. The movie gets a lot more in-depth with the characters, instead of The Lost World's attempt at making new characters who were just there to be killed and give the main characters something to worry about. The movie introduces a new gargantuan dinosaur  the Spinosaurus.  Man, this thing is awesome.  It is as big as a T-Rex and is tougher (seeing a fight between the two is a very special treat). Once again, the special effects and even the music (which is now done by Ron Davis) makes this movie a true Jurassic Park movie.  Michael Crichton even contributed by writing for the characters. This is a movie not to miss, especially if you like the Jurassic Park Saga. "},{"Title":"Not a bad flick","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just watched the new DVD release and I would say that the movie was not bad. Don't compare this with the other 2 movies and watch it as it is - an action picture with roller coaster thrills. Forget the plot, enjoy the special effects and the action. The DVD features were excellent and the live animatronics were unbelievable. Would recommend this to your collection.  "}{"Title":"An Honest Review","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is the third movie in the series. People keep saying that there's nothing new and they get a sense of deja-vu. What they failed to realize is that after seeing two movies, there third one has no chance to be as appreciated. Seeing dinosaurs isn't spectacular anymore, and whatever the storyline is wouldn't be original. All I can say is that JP3 had a much better script than the Lost World, and much more suspense. JP3 actually provided some solid scares, whereas the Lost World relied so much on action that it became illogical and silly. Sure JP3 is faulted, but if its better than its predecessor than there should be no reason to complain. JP3 was a decent ending to a popular series. It made up for the many faults of part two. I kind of wish it had bombed because JP4 is in development. Now the series is being pushed too far. Movie companies seem to do anything to try and make money, even if it means ruining a great series. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As far as sequels go, this one wasn't too bad. I enjoyed it. It was better than the second one. Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) returns to the Jurassic Park island to help a couple find their child, who disappeared there two months earlier. Once there, they battle both each other and those dinosaurs.Once again, the dinosaurs are the main highlight, and they are FANTASTIC. However, it does also feature a feasible and able-to-follow plot and good characters. I recommend this to any fan of the Jurassic Park film series.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Effective enough to pass the time.","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JURASSIC PARK III (2001) Rating 6/10If you're looking for a tight script, interesting three-dimensional characters and something new with this movie, you will be disappointed. If you're looking for some cool action scenes featuring dinos chasing and chewing into people, some tense moments, and a B-movie feel, you might enjoy the summer aspect of this popcorn flick. This film doesn't come close to its previous incarnations in terms of story, laughs and interesting characters, but it does provide for some loud, good times every 10 or 15 minutes (think slasher but with dinosaurs!). The movie is also very short, so you aren't really all that bored between the action sequences. Of course, if you're already sick of seeing dinosaurs crunch into people, and don't really find mindless action summer movies all that entertaining, I would personally suggest that you never see this movie and live a fuller life. For those who do intend on seeing the film, be prepared for some uninteresting characters, yet another boy genius-type kid and Sam Neill weighing the whole thing down with his uber-serious moments, cliched dialogue and idiotic moments of talking to himself (read explaining the plot to the audience - I think they're talking to each other - uuuhhm and who are you talking to, Sam?).You're also not gonna give half a crap about the bogus mom/dad/son reunion that they decided to slap into this chomp-fest and will certainly roll your eyes after you see how one cellular phone could survive being thrown off a plane, eaten by a dinosaur, digested by the same, c*****d out, searched and found by certain humans, rained upon and then used to make a long-distance phone call. What on God's name were the screenwriters and director thinking there?!? But moronities aside, this movie is really all about action and dinosaurs, and if that's all you're looking for, you'll likely be somewhat amused by it all. Either way, the film barely lasts an hour and a half, so it won't be like you're investing too much of your time into it (is that an endorsement or what?!?). I'm also not sure why they even brought Laura Dern's character back for one scene and I personally would have liked to have seen more killings and more hardcore dino-stuff, but alas, maybe the next time around. Overall, the film succeeds in providing for some thrills, some chills, and entertaining moments here and there but fails in providing us with a plot that maintains interest, characters who we should care about and much originality (other than those crazy flying thingamajigs). See it for cheap fun, otherwise...move on! "},{"Title":"I'm not sure about that bridge...","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Too short, too obvious. If I was going to review the movie in the same vein as it was written, I would stop here. It could have been so much more. It was entertaining, this cannot be doubted, if a little predictable. I had heard it was a little more gory than the original (let's forget the sequel) but I have to say that I must have missed it. The velociraptors were back, this time talking to one another no less. Sam Neill tries valiantly to make this more than an obvious cashing in exercise but fails nonetheless. The arrival of pterodactyls was welcome and were strangely absent from the first episode. Little to make you jump or smile or cry or frown. Looks pretty but you get the feeling that maybe this cash cow should finally be put out to pasture after a lifetime of dedicated service. It boils down to being just some more dinosaurs in a plethora of movies depicting much the same thing. The original was so successful because of it's FX and originality, at the height of public interest in all things genetic. Been there, done that, bought the t-shirt and the coffee mug and the toys and the plates and the duvet cover and the...see where I'm going here? It was fun, in parts for about five minutes in total, if you add all the bits together.  "},{"Title":"This is the real sequel to JP","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A mysterious millionaire-couple Paul and Amanda Kirby convinces Dr Alan Grant to return to one of the dinosaur-islands to give them a guided tour. Grant needs money bad to fund his diggings, so he reluctantly accepts the offer. But when they arrive at the island, it turns out the Kirbys had other motives. They have a son who is all alone on the island, and they want to save him at any cost. Grant has to face his worst nightmare once again. Oh, and their plane crashes.The Lost World was a huge disappointment to me, it was too silly, with irritating characters and it had a stinker of an ending. But fortunately, Jurassic Park 3 is everything the sequel should have been. It has bigger and meaner dinosaurs, and more suggestive environments and exciting scenes. The Spinosaur is great to look at (although he was a bit too scary for me), but my favorite dinosaur this time around was definitely the Pteranodon, the bird-dinosaurs. That scene was more exciting than anything that The Lost World had to offer during its whole running-time. Joe Johnston is certainly a good choice if you want action.The effects have not been modified that much since last time, but they are still spectacular. Of course you can see when its CGI-effects and when its Stan Winstons mechanic dinosaurs, but still. My only complaint about the dinosaurs is that the classical T.Rex wasnt showcased that much. And for the sequel (yes, JP4 is already on its way) it would be cool to see some water-based creatures. It was a relief to see Sam Neill again, oh have I waited for his return! He makes a solid performance as Alan Grant, and the supporting actors (William H Macy, Tea Leoni, Alessandro Nivola, Michael Jeter), do fine jobs as well. Trevor Morgan was a bit too much of a mix of Young Indiana Jones and MacGyver for me to appreciate, but he wasnt all bad.Everything was great with JP3, untill that ending&#133; I mean, what was that? Did they run out of money, or ideas perhaps? Yes, it is actually worse than the ending of The Lost World (!), which means its really, really bad. It ruins the overall impact, sadly.Still a great roller-coaster for the whole family, and 90 minutes of running time is perfect. Now Im looking forward to seeing the dinos for a fourth time.* * *   "},{"Title":"Just a Sequel...","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Right from the first shot, an aura of genericness that is common to many sequel movies became apparent and persisted through the end. Perhaps it was the lack of touch of  Spielberg & Co. that caused this movie to lack a distinctive edge. This is not to say that the authors (not Michael Crichton) did not try to up the ante. The characters do encounter dinosaurs that are bigger and smarter than in the previous movies, but the movie itself seems smaller and dumber. Smaller because we follow the fates of fewer people overall, the action moves through fewer scenarios and the film is over a half an hour shorter than the first two installments; dumber because it stretches its credibility further than the previous movies. Granted, suspension of disbelief comes with the franchise, but there are situations in this movie that violate its internal logic. For instance, only after the group gets stuck on Isla Sorna, the Kirby couple learns that Dr. Grant had never been on that particular Island before.  If they did their homework well enough to get the number one paleontologist to accompany them to that destination, then they would have had to come across this  detail.On the positive side, the movie had many suspenseful moments despite having fewer gore scenes, it made a sincere effort to be different by introducing the thematic element of the odd couple and it had quite passable special effects. The effects, though they were fun to watch, did not break any new ground, however (with the possible exception of a fight between two giant carnivores early on).  On the contrary, it was surprising to see that this movie probably employed live action effects much more than its predecessors, which, in a sense, is almost a step back.All in all, this movie will certainly be enjoyable to most fans of the genre, but the fact that this is just a sequel is conspicuous in more than one aspect of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Bad way to finish the trilogy","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is one of the worst films that I have seen this year. This movie has just about sealed the fate of the Jurassic Park franchise. I didn't expect the movie to be as good as the first Jurassic Park but this movie can't even compare to the disappointed sequel The Lost World. Even though The Lost World wasn't too bad of a movie, it wasn't the best of Steven Spielberg's work. Jurassic Park 3 even falls below par of The Lost World.The story takes place a 4 years after the events of The Lost World. Sam Neill returns to take the role of Dr. Alan Grant who has just about returned back to his old life. That is until he is approached by a couple Paul and Amanda Kirby. They trick him into joining their crew to look for their son who was lost over the island of Isla Sorna (The second island) during a paragliding accident.Soon enough, things turn bad and Dr. Alan Grant once again has to keep himself and his peers alive from the horrors of the island. The storyline is pretty weak and the movie doesn't explain anything else about InGen's experiment, the only thing this movie has in common with the first two movies is the characters and setting.The thrill hardly reached a climax and was a bad excuse at throwing scenes to scary the audience. The special effects didn't improve on what we have already seen in the previous films. The role of the Spinosaurus didn't live up to the hype and besides the scenes with the Raptors, there isn't much expose on other dinosaurus. As I mentioned early, the storyline is weak and it was just about them trying to escape off the island (been done before in Jurassic Park) and along the way being thrown with lame action.Joe Johnston has done a terrible job at directing this film and I have no idea why the producers would want to make another Jurassic Park after The Lost World, this movies is all about milking all the money possible out of the Jurassic Park franchise. At least they could have given us a more memorable movie that this. It started with a bad note and finished with a bad note, not a movie that you would want to watch, even if your a Jurassic Park fan. "},{"Title":"Tremendous leap over the Lost World","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I knew walking into the theater (driving in actually) that this film couldn't be as bad as The Lost World. I was right, this is an awesome film. Not as good as the first (who's expecting that?), but good fun with great special effects. Basically the movie is just people getting chased around by dinos. Actually they get chased by really big cgi dinos, and it's real fun to watch.Overall, one big, fun chase 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Step up from II,but nothing major","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is a step up from II,but(take my word for it)nothing major. In my opinion it's better than The Lost World Jurassic Park II. However, not better than the first. The second was, plain and simply, silly and seemed to be proud of it. JPIII is the perfect summer movie. Unlike II, which was too long for me, this movie goes by quickly and pleasantly.GOOD QUALITIES Dr. Alan Grant is back, eight years older but not wiser! The special effects(CGI)are as magnificent thanks to thousands of special effects wizards.(The dinosaurs move and run as realistic as ever) The animatronic effects are great too thanks to Stan Winston and his team. The action is packed in a tight little 95 minute package which is good! (Never a dull moment) The comedy is good, which I think the series needs as of this point. They've got a new dinosaur loose in the series, the spinosaurus, which is very cool.BAD QUALITIES It has imagination but lacks originality.(It's the same old same old but ten times better) Some of the dialogue is so retarded that at times it's unbearable! Tea Leoni's character, Amanda Kirby, is very annoying.(I was kind of hoping for her to die) The script is bad(the biggest drawback)and it took four people to write it. You can tell that David Koepp,the writer of the first two, didn't write this. Steven Speilberg isn't back to direct and it shows, but Joe Johnston did a good job.So Jurassic Park III gets a7/10, 84% from a 100%, B from an A+, Good! "},{"Title":"Bland and unexciting","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was a little skeptical, being dragged to the movies by my mum who was very eager to catch this movie, and for once, I was right. Jurassic Part 3 failed to deliver. I remember waiting for the excitement that I had felt while watching the previous two Jurassic Park films, but it never came. There was no adrenaline rush whatsoever, and the events which took place were quite expected, especially after catching the first two films. It was certainly a disappointment in terms of the plot which seemed quite ludicrous and unreal. One thing which made up slightly for it were the dinosaurs. The special effects were probably the only things which made me give this movie a 6/10. "}{"Title":"Please no more...no more!","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dear, dear me.  What does Spielberg think he is doing?  First this then AI. Jurassic Park 3 is no where as good as the original and it is even worse then number 2.  The plot is weak as anything, despite the fact that the Jurassic Parks are not exactly well known for their riveting plots. However there are several unrealistic points disregarding the fact that the entire movie is about really angry dinosaurs trying to kill some really stupid people.  Along with this are some irritating bits.First of all Sam Neill's character at first seems hell bent, dead set straight about not returning to the dinosaur island then changes his mind in a couple of ticks after a pair of complete strangers claiming to be multi-millionaires offer him a blank cheque.  Oh no, it's not as if you are going to dis-trust a couple of weirdos offering you a hundred million bucks. Like this guy has a moustache and that girl is hot so I can trust them.When the group predictably and inevitably land on the island Tea Leoni goes screaming her head off for her son like a headless chicken despite Neill's fruitless attempts at shutting her gob.  Don't worry its okay I think the man-eating dinosaurs will love my screaming voice.  The fact that the audience wanted to bash the supporting actress's head in right from the start did not help.Then come the dinosaurs.  Why the hell are they so angry?!  The dinosaurs are seriously pumped up about something or other.  They are incredibly mean and aggressive.  Okay I understand, these are scary dinosaurs but they are just too aggressive to the point of fakeness - if that's even a word.Now comes the creme de la creme.  This ten year old kid or whatever he is manages to stay alive for some 2 months on this island while two commando ex US marines armed with grenade launchers and SAS assualt rifles are picked off within 10 minutes of arriving on the island.  This kid jumps out of no where like jungle boy and saves Neill's life with some tear gas.  Like tear gas is not dangerous or anything it just temporarily vapourises your retina. Sure a 10 year old could use that.  I m sure his muscular 10 year old baby arms were good at battling the 500,000 tonne spinosaurus with attitude. These dinosaurs really had attitude!  Can you believe it - attitude!? This part just made me laugh and the rest of the movie was farcical I just could not take it seriously.  The movie lost the atmosphere, it lost its fear factor, it was no longer a movie just a heap of special effects.The film is fairly short too.  It just came and went.  I think it just took a couple of months to shoot using old dino models and the rest was done in front of a computer screen.I watched this in the cinema and the nincompoop of an attendant forgot to turn on the surround sound, which did not help either.  I struggled to hear what the characters were saying...this in a so-called state of the art cinnemax theatre.  Oh the humanity!5.5/10  "},{"Title":"RAR!","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Definitely the kind of movie that you don't see much any more; lots of really well-done dinosaurs, plenty of munching, (especially in the first few minutes on the island), and not a whole lot of technological babble about why the dinosaurs exist. Much better than Lost World, for whatever reason (hint better script), and it had a few things I'd wanted to see in the second movie and didn't, like the aviary which was, in my opinion, one of the best scenes in the movie. Not the paragon of 'high acting' but good fun all around. And lots of dinosaurs to make everybody afraid to turn around. )Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Unsurprisingly mediocre","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well what can one expect from a movie where the script was written along as they filmed it.  Obviously no one had time to see if the movie made any sense - obviously they felt the special effects would make up for the lack of any storyline.  Oh yes and at the end they panicked on what to do and decided to bring in the marines - 'help guys we need to wrap up this film!' "},{"Title":"Brilliant, imaginative sequel..","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie, I thought 'what new things can they do this time?'. But I was wrong. They have added whole new scenes including Pterodactyls (at least I think they were). While some parts of the film are a little unrealistic (mainly the ending) it is very good but some classic scenes have been included again from the previous movies. It is definitely better than the 2nd, but not as good as the first one. What I like is that it went back the the general location of the first movie and included some dinosaurs.Very imaginative, but if they make another one, I wish them very good luck, as they will need it to come up with a better ending.  "},{"Title":"Jihaa!!!!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie ROCKS!!! It's great! I couldn't wait to see this movie so I went to London (England) and saw it in cinemas there. It so good! It's so exciting so you can't concentrating eating you popcorn! The special-effects is like usual very, very good and  the actors to. In this film Dr. Grant (Sam Neill) come back. See this movie, its so, so GOOD!!!!  "},{"Title":"I have died and gone to heaven!","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My favourite movie of the year! So great, such beauty on it. I don't have the word to describe this movie, it is so Brilliant! I have never seen a movie so brilliant in monstors! I just loved it, everything in the movie, the plot, the cast, I can't think of any better cast for the movie, the cast is Brilliant! "},{"Title":"MORE OF THE C.G.I GENRE","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was less than impressed after sitting through a mere 90 minutes of a boring, wanna-be-action movie genre Running Syndrome.Dinosaurs looked impressive as usual, especially the flying pteradactyls. This flick gets 10/10 for excellent dinosaur scenes. I liked the addition of a new super-predator as the villain.But the plot was a complete shambles! Sam Neil, an excellent actor, did his best as Dr Grant. But the supporting cast were a crashing bore, especially the husband/wife team and their constant nagging at each other. This movie would've been more successful (and interesting) if the screen writers had bothered to add on at least another half hour of story line to go with the running, but.... WARNING! SPOILERS STAMPEDING TOWARD US!!!! WARNING!It has really easy paint-by-numbers-plot Running around for 90 minutes from lots and lots of dangers. Thats it. There are some mighty big holes in the plot which will require complete shut-down of one's brain cells in order to derive total enjoyment of this movie. A few of the most annoying holes had to be...1) The kid everyone's rescuing. He survives, alone with no weapons, on the dinosaur island for 8 weeks 2) Communicating raptors!!! Most animals communicate. What makes raptors so different? I think I missed something there 3) The arrival of what looks like the entire U.S. military. They don't even get to shoot anything. Thats it folks! BoringCONCLUSION? This movie is not as good as Jurassic Park 1. The ending was another disappointment! Overall, I give it 5/10.   "},{"Title":"Not what we expected...","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was nowhere as good as the first two. The story is a little off, relying on coincidental benefits rather than the sheer survival instinct and wit of the characters. The graphics were still good, but overall the movie didn't quite have the punch. "},{"Title":"A fun ride that betters The Lost World.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JURASSIC PARK 3 (2001) Rating 7/10The much-anticipated sequel to the highly successful previous 2 Jurassic Park films Jurassic Park 3 is a highly plausible and moneymaking cinema event. It succeeds mostly because it doesn't try too hard to be a sequel to Jurassic Park, it seems like a film all on its own. If I had to complain about something, the kid story is far too unbelievable to trick even the dumbest viewers and the characters sometimes do stupid things. Despite that I really enjoyed Jurassic Park 3 and it kept me highly satisfied and entertained for the overly short running time. The dinosaurs look fantastic; the film is awesomely entertaining and improves on the quality of the 2nd outing. The film also improves because it is much scarier than the first two Jurassic Park films. The scenes may not have as much build-up or suspense but in the moment, right then and there, they are absolutely horrifying, more so than the first two films. The new dinosaur creation, The Spinosaurs, also helps to give the film a slice of originality and creativity. The acting isn't great and the absence of previous director Steven Speilberg shows in dramatic scenes, but this remains a highly crowd-pleasing and enjoyable summer horror adventure flick that I'm sure you'll enjoy if you don't expect too much from it. So, just get the tickets, prepare to have some major-ass having fun, kick your feet up and watch some spectacular special effect dino action!   "},{"Title":"Sometimes the worst things happen based on the best intentions...!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The tag-line (above) serves as theme I was appalled to the point of disgust over just how AWFUL this film's story line really was. And herewith we'd been promised, finally, something of a 'human element', a story, something on which to grab as regards the people in this film. And quite simply, we were robbed.Instead, we find ourselves with even less of a feasible story line than in either I or II. We find some absolutely AWFUL miscasting in some of the key roles, and our heroes come down to the good professor once more (Sam Neill) without whom this series would have never survived, and only a brief appearance by his former working partner (Laura Dern), now moved on to other matters. Trevor Morgan and Alessandro Nivola provide some good supporting moments for Sam Neill, without which the film collapses entirely -- like just another flimsy protective barrier supposed to confine our dinosaurs in all three films.Macy and Leoni could NOT have found themselves more out of place than a pair of vampires on a Spring Break outing to Miami Beach. Both were misfits throughout the film, and provided reverse entertainment in that the audience was kept betting on how soon they'd be squashed by a careless roaming Dino on a Sunday stroll...Story line was non-existent. Plot development missing. Indeed, such could have been assembled over coffee and croissants by amateur university film students with far better results. The only thing missing was shaking cameras, as in the original BLAIR WITCH PROJECT (which was far more original). From opening premise to closing escape we are left wishing Hollywood could wake-up and smell the coffee not all films need a target market of ages 8-14, and that's about where this film falls.Sacrificed is quality time viewing the marvellous animation effects of the creatures themselves, a primary reason for viewing these films given the gross departure from the Michael Crichton novel. Films I and II would manage 3 stars each (on five), but this third endeavour garners only 2 stars on pure generosity alone. Do NOT pay money to see this; cable will get it soon enough. "}{"Title":"Lazy ending lets down a good movie(Spoilers)","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS***Having loved 'Jurassic Park' and been fairly disappointed with 'The Lost World' I was keen to see the third instalment of the world's biggest dinosaur franchise.Although this movie asks the audience to make a few leaps of faith ( Spinosaurus, mysterious fog which whips up whenever the pterodactyls are around, Sam Neill's Luke Skywalker-esque mind control over his cellular phone) it is an enjoyable piece of brain candy. The action scenes are, as always, superbly done, the CGI is second to none and the acting is fairly solid, especially from Macy and Neill.The major disappointment with this movie is the ending. Whilst the ending to 'The Lost World' was the only decent thing about the film, the ending to JP3 looks like it was written after the producers had run out of money. In a nutshell, our intrepid heroes manage to 'talk' to the raptors and convince them to go away, and then what looks to be the entire US Marine Corps appears on the island. Expecting Uncle Sam to open a whole six pack of whup-ass on the prehistoric pests, I was left walking out of the cinema in disbelief as the might of the US military machine clearly scared the dinosaurs all the way to the other side of the island and our heroes stolled home.So, a good movie, with plenty of action to keep you interested, let down terribly by a truly awful ending. "},{"Title":"Fast fun","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park is an idea that will spawn a multitude of sequels, of varying quality. The second movie, The Lost World was pretty good (and I for one loved the ending), and the third is slightly better. We're back to the confines of Isla Sorna, Site B, and the ferocious Velociraptors and Tyrannosaurs, the cast is small and the action is pretty much constant. Fun for everybody. The idea to play around with a mobile phone is very clever. But why did they have to make this huge monster that bellows like Godzilla (and acts pretty much the same)? It doesn't look like a dinosaur. The T-Rex is a lot more effective ('cause everybody knows they existed). "},{"Title":"Time to put this series to bed","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was inevitable that with the box office of The Lost World somebody would try to squeeze at least one more episode out of the Jurassic Park franchise; and boy is this one squeezed, except that there's no blood left (pardon the pun).  Every tired cliche has been trotted out once more, and you get the feeling like the writers even felt bored of the whole process.  Even the music seems stale the grandeur of John Williams' score sounds lifeless and canned, totally drained of wonder.I don't think a plot rehash is necessary, because what there is of a plot is quickly dispatched with so that we can get what we paid for cool looking dinosaurs, lots of screaming, running around, last minute escapes, and special effects galore.  Suffice it to say that when Sam Neill is tempted back to the dino islands by a huge wad of cash via William H. Macey, it's as if you're REALLY seeing Sam Neill the actor being handed wads of cash by the JP people, his reluctance to do a sequel overwhelmed by all the good films he could do with this paycheck.  In fact, you pretty much know who's going to survive based on salaries in this movie.  And the rest of the film has a similar taint to it gouts of money thrown at the film to make it look decent and fistfuls thrown at the audience in the hopes that the audience will throw money back.  It's only partially works.The film starts out quite well, actually.  There's some suspense, a child in peril, and a bickering divorced couple.  And once we get the requisite stranding on the spooky island, there's quite a bit of tension built up.  But soon all the neato creatures get introduced early on and JP3 rapidly uses up its arsenal of tricks, and when the film ends its more like a tree falling in the forest, you almost don't even notice although the thud is resounding.  For JP movies I am willing to toss a lot out the window for a good thrill take away character development, pacing, plot continuity even, but at least exhilerate me!  Alas, JP3 does none of these things.  See it if you must, but consider yourself warned. "},{"Title":"Better Than Other Sequels","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this wasnt exactly what i would call a big hit, but it served its purpose. it was a sequel to one of the most creative movies made.Jurassic Park was a great action movie. it had everythingaction, humour, and an interesting story to it. The Lost World was not bad. Jeff Goldblum pretty much made the movie. in this version, i was glad to see Sam Neill back in the story, but i was disappointed at the fact that William H. Macy and Tea Leoni were placed as a couple. The only good part of the movie was Alessandro Nivola. At least i had something to look at while i watched. that is the only reason i would go see it again. "},{"Title":"At Last!, This is the real and expected Jurassic Park 2.  contains spoilers )","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw Jurassic Park, back in 1993, I thought Oh my God, What a movie. It was unbelievable, not an Oscar competitor, but it was ok. Then I was hoping for the sequel. 4 years later I could see The Lost World Jurassic Park. And then I cried. I couldn't understand how My dearest filmmaker ever had passed from great creativity and first level suspense and real Science fiction (I mean Real Science fiction) to a pseudo ecological stupid tale. I just couldn't stand it. A great disappointment. Then, in 1999, Mr. Lucas did the same with The Phantom Menace, and I realized it was a sort of Hollywood disease. In those days I thought Jurassic Park' franchise is dead. Then appears JP3 and... Surprise!, It was like to be looking back 1993. It was a thrill. What a pity Jurassic Park III is so underestimated. It's not going to be as box-office-success as The Lost World. I was pleased this sequel was 30 minutes shorter, though. It kept all simple. It has no villains, dinosaurs were leading characters again. It was not ambitious at all. In fact, my favorite scenes were those in which characters were not even in the island 1)When Dr. Grant asks for money for his research, and the audience just want to know about Jurassic Park and the San Diego's incident. 2)When talks about his theories with Lovely Dr. Sattler. 3) That wonderful sequence comparing a huge dinosaur and that stupid purple one named Barney. (That was hilarious!). I think It was amazing to watch also Alan Grant's dream sequence. It was unexpected and dared. JP3 it has value of its own, and I agree with all who said that this is the real sequel and that The Lost World should not have been made. This is one of the greatest Third part sequel ever. Not even Return of the Jedi, Robocop 3, or even Superman III were good ones. Think about it.  "},{"Title":"one of the worst sequels ever!!!! (spoilers included)","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a moviegoer, I felt insulted after watching this load of crap! This sequel ranks up as a stinker like Jaws 3 & 4. JP 3 is a perfect example of how Hollywood's creative endeavors have become extinct!I had the impression this movie was written and produced in the same day. The script is sooooo flimsy, the dinosaurs have more personality than the human characters, and all the cell phone antics are so idiotic. The movie is so lame the original musical score from the original JP movie was reused (talk about lazy)! And for crying out loud, the lame-ass scene including a Barney the dinosaur cameo makes JP3 an utter joke. And for all Sam Neil's character boasting of how the Raptors are so intelligent, the Raptors get fooled into his blowing into a Raptor fossil (and magically reproducing their sound)! Oh yeah, the raptors are looking right at the doctor. So much for superior intelligence. The boy who miraculously survived on the island for so long by himself hardly looks like he has been fighting for his life from ferocious and savvy dinosaurs. He looks as if he as been staying at a Holiday Inn-all clean and well-fed and poorly disguising himself with leaves and branches.The only part of this movie that had some decency (other than when it is finally over) was with the Pterodactyls. However, the movie demands great leaps of faith from its viewers. The boy gets taken by a flying dinosaur and dropped onto a nest. The doctor's assistant miraculously puts on a glider and soars through a dense pea-soup fog and finds the boy with no problem. Yeah right! Later, four pterodactyls are seen chomping on the rescuing man, but at the end of the movie all he has is a like a scratch on his shoulder! I guess those particular pterodactyls were vegetarians.The lake scene with the Spinosaur is completely laughable! The viewer is supposed to believe that a cell-phone will faithfully and perfectly slide up and down a boat while a ferocious spinosaur is shaking the same boat like a rag doll. Please!!!The ending of the movie is an absolute abomination! The ending is proof that the so-called writers had no clue how to write a script. The army shows up to save everyone! What a joke! I actually felt this is where the movie could have been entertaining.the army could have engaged in heavy artillery fire with the dinosaurs! But no, the ferocious dinosaurs are now no where to be found and everyone gets to leave the island as if punching out the time clock at work!I sincerely hope this is the last JP sequel!!!! 1/3 star out of 5!  "},{"Title":"Too short","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie was visually great, but storyline was quite dull. Some few dialogues though. Sam Neill and the look of the birdcage sequence saved the show from being a total disaster. And the movie itself was too short. 92 minutes for an adventure movie just isn't enough. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILERS* (It may give some little things away but nothing major.)Better than the second but of course, not as good as the first. The coming attractions were good but that's only because they showed the whole movie in them. In the first JP, there were all these different scenes the beginning Raptor scene, the TRex vs. the car scene, the electric fence scene, etc.. In JP3, it was like one scene...everyone running on the island. But Sam Neill is an excellent actor and he was one of the few things that kept me interested, along with Ta Leoni (David Duchovny's wife). I am a huge fan of David, so I was happy to see her in this movie. And William H. Macy is another great actor. But not only were many scenes unrealistic (a plane crashing into a huge tree without ripping apart)but this BIG Jurassic Park action movie was only...an hour and a half. As soon as I was getting into it, it was over. And I know they weren't in it, but the movie wasn't that great without Malcolm, Lex or Timmy. Also, since Steven Speilberg didn't direct this movie, you can tell they struggled coming up with a plot. In this one, the Raptors talked to one another. It's true what they say...the original is always the best. Overall, Sam Neill rocked and the dinos didn't. "},{"Title":"This time it's not just a walk in the park... sadly.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, the first movie was breathtaking and stunning. The second was... hum, fun, at best. Now, the third was just a walk in the park... Well, not quite. The movie had it's thrills, the dinosaurs was great as always, and the acting o.k. The music was perhaps the best thing about the movie. But the movie provided much better entertainment than Tomb Raider, Evolution and the Mummy 2. The best thrillride of summer 2001, at least. a solid +++ of +++++, or 7/10. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am the biggest fan of the first two JP films. I was thoroughly satisfied with the 1997 sequel. This one clearly suffers from the completely different crew and writers. It should never have been made, and isn't worthy of being part of the Jurassic Park legacy. When Steven Spielberg said no to directing a second sequel, they should've quit right away. Although it certainly wants you to enjoy it, I really couldn't get myself absorbed in this banal story. I knew this movie was going to sink from the moment those people arrived on the island. The music was completely terrible. It was the recycled John Williams theme from the first movie, but it wasn't even recycled that well. It sounded different, strange, and didn't come close to generating any sense of awe the original had. The music by Don Davis throughout the movie is completely lackluster or badly recycled from John Williams. When Alan Grant and company arrived (read crashlanded) on the island, the action starts and never stops for a second, and I'm not saying that as a compliment. It's just so damn hard to follow. One moment they escape from the Spinosaurus, and right the next they meet a T-Rex. After that the T-Rex gets killed by the Spinosaurus, and our group immediately meets a band of Velociraptors. The whole movie is nothing more than dinosaurs, silly jokes, and no story at all whatsoever. At least THE LOST WORLD had elaborate action sequences that lasted more than two seconds. And Jeff Goldblum to make us laugh a little. And some decent John Williams music. It was no masterpiece, but at least it took itself a little bit seriously. There is no suspense at all in this movie. There is nothing here to match the T-Rex-and-cars or T-rex-and-trailer action sequences from JP and TLW. Remember when Sarah from the second movie was lying on the breaking glass in the trailer? Weren't you on the edge of your seat? Or when T-Rex was breaking into the kids' car in the first movie?JURASSIC PARK III is immensely inferior to the first two films in terms of pure action and adrenaline. OK, so there is more action than you can think of. But the suspense utterly lacking. The ending here is absolutely awful. Remember in TLW when the T-rex escaped from the boat and roamed around the city? Wasn't that exciting, funny, and surprising? Or in the first, when our heroes were saved from the Velociraptors by the T-Rex? These were inventive, and satisfying climaxes. In this film, the climax is nonexistant. The movie just ends. It all but ends with a bang. That's what these movies are supposed to do.JURASSIC PARK III is not an awful film. But it is an average action film. It is a very by-the-numbers effort. It couldn't have been much better, though. This is a classic case of unnecessary sequel. The second movie worked because the script was decent and the director knew how to thrill an audience. But after that movie he had had enough of action films and refused to direct. Also the usual scriptwriter (David Koepp) didn't sign on for the screenplay. Hiring a new director, a new screenwriter, as well as a completely different crew was a bad idea. Why make another sequel? To make money? This movie is actually doing pretty poor business. The story is such an appallingly shameless rehash of the second film. In that movie, the idea of dinos roaming free without fences was fresh. JURASSIC PARK III has nothing new to offer.  "}{"Title":"An insult to every Dinosaur that ever walked the earth (spoiler)","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (be aware Spoiler) JP3 is the worst JP movie ever!!! There is absolutely no story involved, they're just after our money!.The movie in short 12yr old Boy goes parasailing at Site B and something happens to the boat and he has to land at the island. DR. Allan (JP1) gets tricked by boys parents to go to the island and help them find there son. there's 1 big dino (even bigger than t-rex) that eat 2 crewmembers and with that the satelite phone. Here's a little PeterPan crossover (remember the croc that's after hook with the ticking clock in his belly?) now when we hear the phone ringing (who the hell is calling THEM??) the big Dino pops out from somewhere to chase them. there are also a couple of raptors, which can communicate with each other. fortunately Dr Allan has got a raptorhead fossil thingy end at the end of the movie when they are surrounded by 5 raptors he pops it out of his bag and communicates with them and they leave (yeah right!) OH and 2 min. later the army arrives at the beach. How the hell did they get there so fast!!! I'll tell you... the big dino takes a s*** somewere and poops out the satelite phone whit that Dr Allen calls his former colleage dr Ellie (his girl from JP1) which is now married to some foreign affairs guy whom we meet for 2 sec in the beginning of the movie. He gets an entire US fleet to the island in a couple of hours since the made the call... hell there only on the island for 2 days.... happy end ... I think the making of JP3 is better than this movie altogehter, cause the Dino's were great. Unfortunately the pathetic story distracts us from that fact.JP3 my #SS! "},{"Title":"Equally as good as The Lost World","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThe entire Jurassic Park trilogy are the kind of films designed to be seen in the Summer.The third instalment is generally a good addition.It's not as good as the original,but it's equally as good as the previous feature,The Lost World.But it is at this point they must stop.It's mostly good points to write aboutthe opening scene has some beautiful cinematography as they swoop over the green hills and the rocks,the dinosaur effects are superb as ever,Sam Neill gives his standard eerie/cynical lone man performance to great effect,and there are some welcome and amusing comedy interludes,which are completely uncontrieved.However,with even the standard 'children under eight' warning of the previous two films missing,you can't help but feel especially so that this time round ,it's all been concocted at the last moment as something to show in the summer.*** "},{"Title":"Better than expected.","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just having Sam Niel back in the saddle is a bright ray of hope for the Jurassic Park series. Maybe he'll be back for (the inevitable) number four. All in all, part tres was fairly formulaic. Dinosaurs see people, dinosaurs attempt to eat people, people run away screaming. This movie easily fits into the let's put our brain functions on hold for two hours and enjoy some neat special effects. Let's not forget the addition of the pteradons. I've been waiting to see them since the first movie. Not Oscar material, but still worth a look. Of course, it could have starred Yahoo Serious and it still would have been an overwhelming improvement to the cornball second installment. "},{"Title":"the worst of the 3, but still some fun","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is painfully obvious something is different about this one, and to find out that Spielberg is not directing answers some questions and explains some of the problems.There will be spoilers, so if you plan to actually see this one, go see it, come back and read this review, and see if you agree with me or think I'm nuts.The acting is poor, the special effects are the poorest of the 3,the action is...ok.The acting was really quite unbelievable. By their acting you'd never know there was a thing that would actually kill a T-Rex, which makes me wonder, why would something so big be at all interested in a couple of tourists when there is so much bigger game available?The special effects were terrible. The standard terror of the firstT-Rex jeep scene and the Mercedes SUV destruction scene in 2 were waaaay better than the plane mashing scene in 3. The action in 3 was so fast, and so zoomed in close that I could hardly see what was happening, which is a pain.The idea of these creatures getting smart was great, but the direction didn't land it home in such a way to create that real sense of dread that it should, based on what we saw in 1 and 2. The idea thatthese creatures were interested in their egg was not near as well played out as was the T-Rex couple interested in their young'un in 2.Leoni is terrible. Her face to face scene with the raptor was nowherenear as terrifying as in two when the T-Rex sniffed at their tent. You kinda wish she'd get eaten, because her behaviour was ridiculous given the circumstances.The new beastie that killed the T-Rex was quite scary, but the scene where it actually killed our old nemesis was hardly worth seeing.It happened too fast, and didn't spend enough time allowing us tomourn the T-Rex (remember, in 1 it actually helped save them, and in 2 we were sympathetic to their basic desire to care for their young. By 3, we should have at least spent some time pondering the meaning of a T-Rex, heretofore the meanest thing there is, being discarded by.. what the heck was that? but, no, they failed to make it an issue).About the most fun I had with this film was the first sign of trouble where they heard the thing and tried to get back in the plane and take off.All in all, I suppose they set the standard so high with 1 and 2, which were both great, that they couldn't do it yet a 3rd time.This Jurassic Park is just summer fun, which is a failure given its proud heritage. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Monster Movie","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My expectations of this movie were optimistic, since it had, like it's two fore-runners, great production values, and a seemingly competent director. Ten minutes into the movie and an awkwardly scripted scene raised some doubts about the latter point. I could sense we were already being rushed into the dinosaur effects ridden action by the bluntness of the conversation, during which Sam Neill explains to Laura Dern that the dinosaurs are more intelligent than they had previously thought. What a coincidence that this is relevant to the events that happen later. So a boring, inadequate excuse to get Neill to an island full of dinosaurs later, and the action begins.It seemed to me that the main point of this movie is to show some footage of dinosaurs attacking people. There is little reflection on the people affected, as in the first two Jurassic Park films. All we learn about Sam Neill's character (Alan Grant) here is that he would rather study fossils than be chased around an island full of living dinosaurs. Hardly a profound statement about human nature. The only underlying theme here is to address the moral questions and dangers involved in tampering with nature's processes of creating life. Unfortunately, the manner in which it is explored is rather unimaginative (and inconclusive). For example, there are some freakish looking baby dinosaurs in test tubes, who have apparently had some rather unsavoury experiments performed on them. Sound familiar to any other sci-fi fans out there?While a film does not, of course, need to be realistic to be entertaining, this movie is, at times, so unbelievable it seems ridiculous. In particular, the fate of the child lost on the island. And three mercenaries, each armed with rocket launchers, feeling the need to run from two dinosaurs. Half of the plot seems to be based around many of the central characters being incredibly stupid. Stupid enough not to adequately prepare for the eventuality that upon visiting an island full of dinosaurs they might be attacked by some. The effects on the dinosaurs are virtually flawless, as previously in the series. Several new types of dinosaur have been introduced, most noticeably the Pterandons and the Spinosaurus, which is basically a bigger, scarier super predator in the vein of the T-Rex. While these are impressive to watch, there is very little of the suspense that made the previous films in the series so entertaining. The focus here seems to be on providing fast paced, adrenaline-charged action.Unfortunately, none of it really ends conclusively, which left me feeling dissatisfied. There are also some rather misplaced light-hearted moments, that only serve to loosen the tension yet further. Although the mobile phone ring-tone joke is funny.Jurassic Park III feels like an old monster movie, with the Spinosaurus looming throughout the film, the characters being as stupid as they are, and the plot being as scrappy it is. I didn't hate the movie, but after being thoroughly entertained by the older films in the series, I was extremely disappointed by it. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Nice graphics, nice cast, nice try...","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having watched Jurassic Park and The Lost World, I was eager to watch the 3rd in the JP series. Although Lost World was not as good as the original Jurassic Park, it was still a high quality movie. Based on what the producers of JP3 said, this one had to be the best so far. It seemed that either they lied or they are quite full of themselves... either way, JP3 does not meet the high standards JP and Lost World met.Let me go into further detail. Note that I might be revealing a few things here, so for those of you who haven't watched it yet  don't blame me if I spoiled it for you -) First of all  the dinosaurs are graphically the best ever made. In terms of motion, they're the best ever made. To put it simply  they're brilliant !Item 2  the acting of the cast is excellent. Sam Neil does a great job (as usual) and the rest of the cast doesn't lag far behind.Item 3  the quality of the plot isn't even close to JP 1... the basic concept is great, but that's where the good stuff really ends. There's been no deep thinking about the whole plot and what effect it has on JP fans and people who are new to JP. Basically, they seem to have forgotten to put it on paper and have 100-200 people reading it.Item 4 (watch out, I'm going to reveal things here...)  Not only is the plot terrible, the end is the worst I've ever seen in a movie... replace the end by a decent escape from the island and you get a movie that rates 1-1.5 higher here on IMDB. Be serious  there's no way  a. The rescue team (let's call them like that, not spoiling too much) could have gotten there that fast. b. They would do that, causing a political incident. c. Go through that much trouble for 5 (?) people. So it's far from realistic. They should have come up with something more realistc than this...Item 5  you clearly notice a difference between the directors... now that Spielberg's gone, you see camera movements changing to exactly those moves they shouldn't be making... JP 1 and Lost World had excellent directing... I've noticed quite a few flaws in terms of wrong use of panning, sweeping, etc. I suppose it's the difference between a good director and a very good director.Who's to blame for these things ? Probably everyone... the story isn't right (blame the guys who wrote it... JP1 and Lost World were based on a decent story by Crichton, now they've written their own... the result is clearly visible), the directing has flaws... The only people we can't blame for much are the people who took care of the graphics (both the models and CGI) and the actors.I suppose it's a matter of whether you like watching movies with lots of action and nice graphics... if you're looking for a good story as well, you might as well save your money and wait for it to reach your local TV channel. "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nothing beats the first Jurassic Park movie, but this one came fairly close. It was a little bit more humorous than the first two, but not as quite exciting (it's hard to decide if The Lost World is better than this or not, but I still go with the first Jurassic Park as my favorite). One thing I'd like to point out is that the spinosaur was kind of cheesy--nothing beats T-Rex. I saw this in the theater and wasn't completely satisfied, but I didn't waste my time either. I wish they would have stuck with the old raptors instead of the new ugly ones, also. I own the first two films, but I'll have to put some thought into buying the third one before I do. I guess no one really beats Steven Speilberg. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Short and sweet Great movie (especially compared to most part-3's that drag out a tiring old story).  The ONLY thing I found wrong (and it could be because I was at the front row with my head kinked) was the camera angles. That's it. "},{"Title":"Just when I thought the world was making sense, people liked this film","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The fact that some people liked this film shakes my world view.  Jurrasic Park meets Dumb and Dumber (except not as good as Dumb and Dumber). It is almost too painful to try to remember why JPIII was so bad. High order bit The big CG dinosaurs did not look as good previous JPs.  They were trying to simulate the bulk of a dinosaur's abdomen when moving but it just looked like textured balloon filled with jello (what happened to the contribution of the skeleton?). In the original book Crichton wrote the kids as very annoying characters (at least Spielburg softened them up).  Now the wife in JPIII has surpassed the kids in being annoying and behaving badly. JPIII's script is unbelievable and not internally self consistent so that it is hard to care about anybody or anything that happens in the film.  No I don't believe that Macy's character could pull off this scam.  No I don't believe that a kid could survive for weeks on Isla Sorna on his own. Sam Neill is worth watching, so is William H. Macy is doing his irresponsible father from Fargo, but no one else is. Shaking the camera does not equal action!  Watch Die Hard if you want to see action sequences that communicate. The fact that the audience rewarded the studio with big time attendance for JPIII means that studio will continue to shovel out stinkers with a vengeance. I am not fond of trashing films, I'd just as soon see all good ones.  If this comment saves just one person from squandering 92 minutes of their life it will have done its job.   "},{"Title":"That's it?","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its not a bad movie, but its just so short.  You're really just starting to get into it at around the 75 minute mark and you're forgetting that this is the 3rd time around and you've seen it all before and you just kind of get lost in the raptor and then all of the sudden --- THAT'S IT, and it feels like its over before it even began --- not worth seeing at the theater b/c you'll feel like you got cheated out of your money...but it will be worth renting. "}{"Title":"Wait For Video - contains a BIG BIG spoiler (like the ending)","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** When i heard that William H. Macy was in this film i absolutely wanted to see it. The only problem is that (besides the dinosaurs) he's the most interesting thing on screen. Of course we need a reason for the people to be on the island  A missing boy VOILA. 2nd we need a team of experts or semi-experts to guide the trek through the park. Sam Neill VOILA. And now we enter the ravaged B-SITE from the 2nd Jurassic Park and for about 90 minutes we get chase/scream scream/chase chase scream. Now don't get me wrong because i certainly didn't expect anything more but the only attempts made in this film were in the area of the dinosaurs themselves and in the performance by William H. Macy. It's not his best role but it'll do. The entire thing finishes off with everyone being saved (expect for maybe 2 dead people - 1 who was already dead when they got there) and i have to ask you the movie goer something. Was this ending believable in any way shape or form ?. The entire team (including the missing boy - they find him alive and well BIG SURPRISE !) gets rescued by a phone call to Laura Dern's character (how did she know where they were ???)and voila the army appears on a beach to save the day. Thank God for cheap seat Tuesdays because i couldn't have tolerated paying full price for this feeble attempt. Where's Steven Spielberg and Jeff Goldblum when you need them ? "},{"Title":"Dinosaurs in the hood","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No no no ! I cant take it anymore !On the one hand there is the main character that doesnt want to be on this damn island again (I can understand why)-but on the other hand he wants the money. Guess what he chooses. Yup. He takes the money, crashes on the dinosaur island again... with some punks... and the story continues.What will be the next movie-plot? Jurassic Park IV yet another island - Quote Whoops major, I forgot to tell you about the other 40 Islands, where dinosaurs took over control.Congrats for the good effects but forget about the rest. "},{"Title":"Brings back some of the wonder","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While not as good as the original Jurassic Park, I have to agree that it was better than the second. Jurassic Park II was just a monster movie while this one actually had dinosaurs doing neat things and had more of the original sense of wonder with it.  The story wasn't great and had some plot holes but still stood up pretty well.  The action, the dinos were just brilliant.  I loved looking at the intelligent raptors and the pterosaurs were the best!One thing though - I wish they had less cheesy human parts (particularly at the end) and more dinos!!! "},{"Title":"Jurassic Krap III","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever see one of those video games that proceed the release of a 'blockbuster' film? Playing the game is sort of lke revisting the film, but its really not. Its just a shadow of the original. Silly, boring and a waste of time. In a way, Jurassic Park III is new kind of sci-fi film. 'New' because for the first time, the special effects sequences are so much more interesting and intelligent than the live action. For the FX crew, this film must be a massive letdown. There's a tremendous amount of work and detail present on-screen, but the film flops every time the dinosaurs make an exit. The acting and dialouge are excruciating. Sam Neill is fine, but the rest is pathetic. This film has a totally transparent storyline and some of the lamest plot holes this film viewer has ever seen. The photography is awful as is the editing.  "},{"Title":"Decent scares, just don't try to analyze it","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must say that I did really enjoy Jurassic 3.  After sitting a few hours after the movie, I could think of things that were a bit ridiculous, but to me it did not detract from the movie.Of the 3 films, this movie seemed to be more action/scare oriented, and I like horror/scary movies so I guess it appealed to me.All 3 films had ridiculous parts, so I'm not sure how this one ranks.  Lets say the ending could have been a little longer and a bit different, and I think I would have rated the movie a little higher.  I give it a 6 out of 10.  The new dinosaur Spinosaurus is very scary.  It's interesting how each new movie introduces a dinosaur I've never heard of before.  Of course wondering on the accuracy I checked it out.  I always thought T-Rex was the largest predator.  It seems I have found that Spinosaurus was indeed larger. However, in the site I looked up, it stated Spinosaurus was indeed LONGER, but not the biggest as T-Rex was most likely Bigger as Spinosaurus was more lightly built.In either case, I thought the scene with the two dinosaurs was great.I would recommend it as a matinee, or on video as a rental. "},{"Title":"Quite a step down!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Jurassic Park III' is NOT an improvement over the second film like many are saying.  At least the second film was directed by Spielberg.  It had a sense of wonder at times, some magical special effects at other points and a more terrifying surrounding.  This film, directed by Joe Johnson, is nothing but a one dimensional chase film.  It's a major disappointment.  Spielberg's name is on it, as executive producer.  But like so many films in Spielberg's career, I suspect he simply slaps his name on a project and does little else because his name lends the midas touch to the box office returns.  I would be very surprised if Spielberg had any major creative involvement in this movie at all.  Joe Johnson's background is mostly in the special effects department and his flare for story, characters and depth are limited.  Sam Neill is the only semi-interesting character in 'JP III'.  William H. Macy's character is a nerd who would not survive this whirlwind of nature and the worst performance is by Tea Leoni, who plays a screaming, neurotic and naive wife and mother.  She looks like an extra with an expanded speaking part.  'JP III' is also only 90 minutes to boot and nothing new is to be learned with the exception of seeing a couple of new prehistoric menaces. "},{"Title":"El Martino strikes again!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There's something about dinosaurs&#133;  almost every kid is fascinated by them and when you start thinking about the fact that these creatures took a dumb right there where your house is, it is &#150; to say the least &#150; extraordinary. So Hollywood had to catch up one time.  In the old movies dino's were shown as gigantic monstrosities extravaganza but it wasn't until &#145;Jurassic Park' that we really &#145;saw' dinosaurs.  And we know what happened then; major box office, a sequel that's not worth mentioning, a BBC show called &#145;Walking With Dinosaurs' and a Disney flick.  Enough, however, is enough and this third installment is nothing more than a quick buck.  Steven Spielberg decided he just wanted to be an executive producer and he gave the directing honors to pal and special effects geek Joe Johnston, whose previous outings in blockbuster territory were &#145;Honey, I Shrunk The Kids' and &#145;Jumanji'.Sam Neill is back as Alan Grant who devoted his life to raptor intelligence, claiming everywhere that he's never going back to the island.  But when Paul Kirby (William H. Macy) and his estranged wife (Ta Leoni) ask them to be their guide while visiting Isla Sorna (the second island) Grant faces a dilemma.  He needs money for his work and the Kirbys promise him a lot. Before you can say &#145;the fast-food restaurants are gonna have a field day' the dino's are back on screen.  As usual they come in all forms and shapes; there are raptors (to me they are like old friends dropping in every couple of years), compys, pteranodons (great scene!), brachiosaurus and a bunch of others.  The T-Rex is underused which is a shame but in pure Hollywood &#145;bigger is better' way Johnston and his team of writers (three!!!) have come up with the Spinosaur a predator in every way of the word.  After a really short &#145;Hi we're back, do you remember Grant' beginning the movie kicks off with a Spinosaur &#150; T-Rex battle which serves no other purpose than to show off some effects and to tell the audience that the Spinosaur is really the meanest bad-ass among lizards.&#145;Jurassic Park III' is a ninety minute chase movie.  It resembles a video game version of the &#145;Wacky Races' cartoons.  I didn't care about the characters at all, except for Grant because we know who this guy is. Somehow I liked Alessandro Nivola's performance because he seemed the most human.  But William H. Macy (a great actor), Ta Leoni and that damn kid Trevor Morgan (why do these movies always have to have kids?!) are the most ludicrous, unlikely family you're gonna see on screen this year.  There is zero chemistry.  And I don't wanna see scenes of bonding and getting back together bull****.  I wanna see a frightening monster attack popcorn flick. In many ways &#145;Jurassic Park III' is exactly that.  Action scenes follow rapidly and some of them almost reach the level of the first.  Don Davis (who took over from John Williams) delivers a rousing, adrenaline pumping score while making hefty use of the famous Williams themes.  All this makes up for a nice cinematic adventure.  There are stupid, even lame jokes (to my own surprise I kind of liked the cellphone running gag) and the ending is preposterous, but overall, this is what I expected.Too bad though that movie moguls enjoy f***ing up a franchise.  The first one was such an amazing movie, mixing wonder with incredible suspense; the sequel was a very disappointing King Kong &#150; Godzilla rip off and this one is just a no-brainer cartoon where the death of a character has no impact at all.  Roll on number 4?  I'm there but with low expectations. "},{"Title":"Wow this was bad.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film only because it provided me with an opportunity to experience Oakland, California's opulent Grand Lake movie palace. Boy was I glad the old theatre was spectacular - at least there was one good aspect to the night... **SPOILERS** This movie is awful. I don't even think the writers considered the thought of a plot, let alone development of a plot. The boys are lost. The plane crash lands. Then, like the plane, the movie falls to pieces. Sam Neil's character should know the island well enough to know his way around. OH NO, let's arbitrarily make this a DIFFERENT island than before so Sam doesn't have that luxury. A boy is dead, but OF COURSE it's not the important boy. The other boy is missing but MIRACULOUSY he appears out of hundreds of square miles of jungle. Watch the pano shots as the plane is landing to see how big the island's supposed to be. The boy gets chased by dinosaurs but BY GOLLY somehow a companion has salvaged a shredded parasail and made it work perfectly, ripchord and all, and the boy is saved. The group needs some water transport. NATURALLY, there's a boat in great shape, with gas and engine that starts right up, on the river even though everything else on the island was destroyed. The group needs to phone home. OF COURSE! The satellite phone that's been eaten by a dinosaur and beaten all to hell is in perfect working order and standing by for a quick call to North America. The call is in effort to request rescue. VOILA! Within MINUTES the whole Pacific Fleet has arrived at the island and a man in a nicely pressed suit is on the beach with a megaphone calling for the group. My God, you can't get a pizza delivered that fast. Enough for now. I was disturbed, however, at seeing pteradactyls (sp?) flying away from the scene. Does that mean JP4?  "},{"Title":"A major letdown.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ********MAJOR SPOILERS**************** MAJOR SPOILERS*****************Attention!  Everyone listen to the real Jurassic Park fan.  I have been a fan ever since the first second of the first Jurassic Park. Why?  Because I loved dinosaurs.  And to make a true dinosaur film (feast your eyes on the other two Jurassic Parks), you have to rely on the facts.  First off pterodactyls can't eat people, and they don't crawl on the floor, ok? Second, the Spinosaur is not that huge.  Thank you for listening me on that minor dinosaur analysis.  Now for the movie.Ah, yes.  The movie Jurassic Park 3 is finally in theaters, and it looks very interesting.  Hence Mickey's speech in Scream 3  The last part of the trilogy, it's break all the rules.  Jurassic Park 3 did not break any rules, except for the fact that the dinosaurs are poorly analysed.  But it still delivered the same rules, and that is not necessarily a good thing.The movie Jurassic Park 3 is about Dr. Allan Grant (Sam Neil, who is coming back from the first one), a paleontologist that is payed by a divorced couple Mr. Kirbey (William H. Macey, who should stick with dark comedies), and Mrs. Kirbey (Tea Leoni, who was good), to bring them to Isla Sorna to help them find their son, who got into an accident and is landed on the dinosaur-infested island.  When they get there, they are attacked by a spinosaur, and some of them die.  The spinosaur (as I have mentioned before that he is not the big) is now our big predator.  No!  Not the T-Rex or the Velociraptor, but the Spinosaur.  This is a letdown.  Now they have to get off the island.  This is followed by an attack by the Pterodactyls. This movie's biggest letdown was that it wasn't a survival movie, but a pick up the kid and leave movie. At the end, the velociraptor picks up his egg and leaves, then the helicopter arrives.  The idea of a smarter breed of Velociraptors wasn't developped!  There was no climax!  There wasn't even a big showdown with a T-Rex!  All of this happened in an exasperating amount of time of 1 h 25 minutes.You might think Oh yeah, like he lost interest at the end, but actually, I lost the interest at the part with the Spinosaur in the river.  That wasn't a good enough of a showdown for me.  What I wanted was the T-Rex to come and kick that big thugs butt.  But he didn't.  Even when they were in the Pterodactyl bird cage, I heard a sound and I was hoping that it would be T-Rex.  It wasn't.  Some dinosaurs that I could have recognized from the 5th grade made cameos, but the characters didn't exactly confront them.  For example, a Megalausaurus (a T-Rex with a horn) comes to eat them, and then he takes one whiff of Spinosaur crap and leaves, that's it.  A Compsognathus (the smallest dinosaur there ever was, who had a major part in killing a character in Jurassic Park 2), made a cameo, but theirs was smaller.  The compys looked at the building, and then they left.Another thing that bothered me is that the kid had been living in a dinosaur-infested island for 8 weeks, and he never god eaten.  He should have been dino dinner.Now, for the good things.Same Neil!  He was one good thing.  I'm glad he came back. The other thing was that when there WAS a velociraptor attack, it was worth it. That's all for the good things.  William H. Macy should not have been put on the cast. He is a sissy in this film.A warning  T-Rex dies at the beginning.  WHAT?!  MAJOR LETDOWN FOR JURASSIC FANS.  The movie should sound really bad coming from a hardcore Jurassic fan, but hear me on this.  I pity anyone who paid a lot of money to see this film, and I pity the people who have anticipated to see this film for such a long time.  Sam Neil and the Vlociraptor attacks were the only thing that saved this film from pure fail-ness.So,3/10 (which is the lowest I would ever give to a Jurassic Park)I hope another one comes, and I sure as hell hope it's better than this. And please, this time it WASN'T directed by Steven Speilberg, but Joe Huston.  That was yet another letdown.  Steven Speilberg would have known what he was doing.     "},{"Title":"A paleontologist who doesn't want to deal with the real thing?","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The biggest kick I got out of this film was the Sam Neill character Dr. Alan Grant, the paleontologist who eight years after his experience in the first film is still at work trying to solve the riddle and mystery of Dinosaurs by digging for and studying their bones.  All the while real living and breathing Dinosaurs exist on an island that he is fully aware of. This would be like a Historian studying history through books while a time machine exists that could take them to any period they wish and see and experience it firsthand.  Yet the viewer is led to believe he wants nothing to do with the place.  Other than that at 90 minutes it's about the right length for this type of movie.  "}{"Title":"Am I being cynical?","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, definitely!Just a post script to my previous comment.Many people have commented on the length of the movie, which was annoyingly short at about 1 hour 25 minutes. Have the makers of JP3 saved loads of goodies to ensure the DVD sells well? "},{"Title":"well, at least it was better than the 2nd one","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recommend watching JP3 during a night of heavy drinking, otherwise you'll keep asking too many questions, too many logical questions. This movie certainly won't be able to answer any of them for you. Except for maybe one Yes, at least it's better than The Lost World. Ooh, and maybe another one So this is what happens when you shoot a movie without a finished script.If you knew that big, man-eating reptiles inhabited a certain spot in a certain place in the world, wouldn't you have the common sense to stay as far away from that place as possible?  OK, well, neither did anyone in this movie, namely Eric Kirby (Trevor Morgan), who decides to goPARASAILING within close proximity to Isla Sorna, the *other* island where genetically revived dinosaurs are running around.  Eric is then inexplicably surprised when he's attacked by some big scary flying creatures and must make an emergency landing.  His parents, Paul and Amanda (played by the always brilliant Bill H. Macy and the consistently irritating Tea Leoni), decide to go to Isla Sorna to rescue their son.  At least those two show some semblance of brain power and realize they'll need help, so under false pretenses they lure Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) and one of his students, Billy (Alessandro Nivola), away from yet another under-funded dig in Montana, to help them in their search.  The Kirby's also hire some extraneous folks from Rent-a-Mercenary.com, because the dinosaurs have to eat someone. If you can sit through the boring first half hour of this movie you're golden. Once everyone gets to the island things start to heat up and at least there are some pretty-looking CG animals to keep you occupied. Another thing that may help ease the pain leave your sense of logic at home. At no time did I ever believe the public at large would allow an island like this to exist, especially since there are dinosaurs living there that can FLY AWAY if they want to.  Anyway, back to the effects.  Since that T-Rex is just *SO* '93, we now have a Spinosaurus, which resembles a giant duck.  However, the Tyrannasaurus does end up making an appearance, during which it has a pretty intense fight with Dino-Mallard.  Also making another go at stardom are those super-brained Raptors, now enabled with the gift of squawk-speak (oh, right, that whole bird theory again).  In addition, for those disappointed with their absence in the first movie, there are plenty of winged Pteranodons, a glimpse of what happens when good pelicans go bad.  Actually, most of this movie  *looks* good, that is if it relates to the dinosaurs. Industrial Light & Magic couldn't be bothered with the other effects, so they were probably done by the new kid, who worked on them at home using his Macintosh G4 and a flatbed scanner.The weak side of this movie (well, one of the weak sides) lies in the lack of real story  Kid crashes on island, parents crash on island, parents try to find kid on island.  Chaos ensues.  Wasn't that kind of like the first two movies?  Dr. Grant is too busy lecturing everyone on the evils of making giant ducks to leave any breath for constructive thinking, and Billy is too preoccupied with the wow factor that made the first JP so magical.  The others in the group are just a little too dumb to do much of anything at all.  So the film rambles along its little road of action sequences followed by more action sequences (but they're at least good sequences), until it ends up running on vapors for the last 15 minutes.  At this point, all the effects have outstayed their welcome, and we all just want to go home.  My grades for Jurassic Park 3 (New grading system!  So exciting!)action A- plot C- acting C special effects B average overall grade C+ "},{"Title":"Ellie Sattler needed to dominate...","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ugh.  Jurassic Park 3.  Ugh.  UGH!I saw this with my boyfriend, and he kept asking me No, seriously, have you already seen this movie?  It was so predictable, and throughout the movie I kept shouting quips at him Do you think they're the parents of that missing kid?  One phone call... do you think it'll be Grant's best friend Ellie? Do you think that guy took the Raptor eggs and that's why they're being followed?I'm not nearly as annoying in movies as I was during JP3.  Let's face it, even Sam Neill didn't save this movie.  Besides, Sam Neill wasn't even THAT great in JP1.If you ask me, this whole movie would have been better if Laura Dern was the protagonist, and she kept bitchslapping the whiny Tea Leoni every time she ran off screaming.  THAT would have been entertainment.JP3 was simply boring.  The spinosaurus was so non-threatening it wasn't funny, and the raptors?  They were portrayed more as good guys than the evil carnivorous beings were were made out to believe they were in the first two films.  With no calm herbivore moments, JP3 looses all of its majesty and it doesn't portray terror well, if at all.The rich couple annoying.  Who cares about their melodramatic No, I love YOU crap.  And they aren't even RICH!  Tea Leoni runs around screaming and crying and acting womanly.  I swear, they NEEDED another woman... badly. Ellie Sattler, anyone?The kid ANNOYING.  For one, I haaaate Trevor Morgan (better known to me as that ANNOYING child in the Disney flick, Genius) and he does not make me like this movie any more.Grant Cheesy.  I mean, this is corny as Kansas.  No, this is how you PLAY GOD.  Puh-LEASE.  He had no chemistry, his dino knowledge had no influence, and honestly, he added nothing more to this movie than a name. Blah!Billy Pointless.Ellie Sattler I LOVE YOU, LAURA DERN!  Seriously, her 10 minutes in the film make up for about a good 30 minutes of this movie.  You really want her here.As for memorable scenes, the Aviary scene was awesome, but if you've read the original Jurassic Park novel by Crichton, you would realize that this scene is devoid of originality, and it was far more interesting with Tim and Lex.All in all, this movie was boring tripe.  Not even entertaining, and hey, I liked Tomb Raider.  It's not like I'm against mindless entertainment, but this wasn't even entertaining, it was just mindless. "},{"Title":"Better than a lot this summer.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is better than a lot that I have seen this summer. That isn't to say a lot with dissapointments like Tomb Raider, Pearl Harbor and the Fast and the Furious. This movie certainly isn't up to the potential of the orgional Jurassic Park but it certainly is more fun and exciting that the Lost World. I liked the flow of this movie, it was short but it moved well dedicating different times for different dinosaurs. The Spinosaurus and the Raptors were effective but my favorite were the Terenadons (flying dinosaurs). The minuses in this movie can be described in one word, stupidity. Yeah the dinosaurs are smarter now, apparently even smarter than the humans, at least in this movie. I probably won't watch this movie again but it works at an alright level as a fun summer movie. I give it a 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Ridiculous dinosaurs movie","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film make me laugh which was not, i suppose, the purpose of the director. The script is stupid, totla lack of imagination. The best scene for me is at the end, when the marines come to rescue the heroes, i guess, the scene is to be seen at the second degree. Nevertheless the very best moment of the movie is when the words the end appears on the screen.  "},{"Title":"NO PLOT","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lets make this short no plot, no character development, cool dino-effects, more action, more money in mr.Spielbergs wallet...Leave your brains home or watch couple episodes of Walking with dinosaurs. Like the other reviewers have said,this might be a great roller-coaster ride, but only if you are 12 years old. "},{"Title":"A pointless addition to the series","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the time honored tradition of making sequels to make a quick bundle of cash we have the summer blockbuster Jurassic Park 3. After viewing this movie it is easy to see that Spielberg never intended another sequel but since it was obvious that one would make a ton of money he put his name on it anyway. It was as if director Joe Johnston asked him if it would be okay if he borrowed a location or set, a few computers and graphics program to make dinosaurs and throw together a 90 minute movie with the Jurassic park name on it in return for royalties.This movie in a nutshell adds nothing to the previous two movies. The second movie was inferior to the first also but it at least entertained the idea these dinosaurs could be accidently or intentionally brought to the mainland( San Diego since every other city has been decimated by giant monsters)but all this movie offers is the idea that Raptors talk back and forth(big deal, we saw that in the first two) and a Spinosaurus which I had to read the previews to find out what it was since they don't mention its name in the movie.Character development is virtually non existant. Kid gets lost in an area that apparently everyone knows by now is inhabited by dinosaurs but goes para-sailing with a friend anyway. Parents dupe Sam Neill into helping them rescue him. Thats it. No trying to develop a plan to get rid of these animals to right the wrong of creating them in the first place or even destroying the island itself in an explosive finale.If this had any name other then Jurassic Park on it I would have probably enjoyed it more. And Sam Neill does make a valiant attempt at continuing his role from the first one(and shame on him for doing it). But as far as the Jurassic Park franchise goes this barely ranks above a b movie in my book. The first one made you think WOW! this could happen, the second made you think this could happen as a result of the first, the third didn't make you think at all. Any more of these and you'll probably see raptors running in the streets with hockey masks and chainsaws. You have been warned. "},{"Title":"Make It The Last","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have nothing against the movie. It wasn't great, but it wasn't bad. I did like it over JP2 but after the third time and not jumping in scare once, I have realized that I had enough of the JP series.Perhaps Spielberg realized that too. New creatures were a treat but the raptor thing has been done to death. Sam Neill and Jeff Goldblum chemistry was the best (neither appeared together after the 1st and both looked lost without the other).Overall, the first was the best because it was a new experience. The experience has come to an end but with a huge take at the box office, I suppose I will find myself watching JP4 in 3 years.6/10 "},{"Title":"Dinosaurs Ate the Wrong Guys (tiny spoiler)","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After a couple of hundred 'reviews' I won't even try to be very original. But I have to say that I'm rather offended by this movie's callous treatment of death.I don't mind a lot of dinosaurs trying to eat as many Happy Meals on legs, because that's their nature. I won't even try to comprehend the clumsy scene at the end where raptors and Sam Neil are 'communicating' with each other - at that time I was already rolling over the floor laughing.I did mind, however, the extremely callous way in which the 'team' of writers treated a single death. The boy and his mother's new friend got stuck on the island. The boy survives, the man does not. And not once, NOT ONCE in the whole movie does anybody enquire about the whereabouts of him. This is gross, really. And marks, as far as I'm concerned, how far Hollywood is gone over the cliff.It is clear that those dinosaurs ate the wrong guys. They really should have gone after that abominable lot the Hollywood writers. "},{"Title":"bbbbrick!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *spoilers*  (in fact, i can smell this movie from about three blocks away).bad, bad, movie.  bad movie!  go outside!  (sound of door slamming shut).why are we all attracted to computer generated dinosaurs?  because the illustrations in our kindergarten books really sucked.  and hey, we get to see them running around, chasing humans!  wow, that's like, incongruous! and if that's all this movie were, i'd have been happy, content, and might even see it again.  because it's okay to set your sights low, but to meet your mark.what's not okay is to set your sights low, and miss.with the budget that this movie had, why did they have to use a $3 bluescreen?  did mr. spielberg take that back before he handed the reins over?also, why did dr. grant posess some kind of magic immunity to being touched by dinosaurs?  everyone else got bitten, snatched up, maimed, or killed.  even when hiding in trees.  several times, he was on the ground, sitting by himself, completely untouched.  and how does a cellphone survive dino gastric acid, anyway?maybe i got jaded by JP #1.  that movie had clever scenes (remember when the velociraptor had broken into the computer room, and his skin was briefly covered with A's, C's, T's and G's?).  or the rearview mirror on the jeep, objects may be closer than they appear, partially occluded by the T-rex in the background?it's unfortunate when a movie can't laugh at itself, poke a few of its own ribs, and make the experience more pleasant for the viewer.  JP #3 did none of these things.  instead, it was like an off-off-off-broadway production of a memorable 1980's movie.  or maybe like, Ferris Bueller's Day Off -- On Ice!.  it was cheaply done, badly directed, badly shot, badly acted, and poorly executed in every possible way.if you're going to pay good money to get tea leoni in a movie, put her in a tank top!  (it was good enough for laura dern).  and get her to say something funny, because she's really damn funny!  if you've got sam neill, make him get angry, really angry!  do something, anything, to add some depth to the acting in the movie.  because otherwise the viewer is going to get very, very upset about his or her missing $8 while he isn't watching actual computer-generated dinosaurs.  far too often, we were left holding the (popcorn) bag, while the movie wasted our time pretending to set up plot or scene.now, there were some good computer generated dinosaurs.  and they made some pretty good yelling sounds.  but are humans such a desirable snack that all of the carnivorous dinosaurs on the island would at one point or another be chasing after them?  i mean, really!  those big herbivores down by the river seem like much easier, and much more satisfying pickings.  is the largest carnivore on the island really going to waste tens of thousands of calories of energy for the chance at a 150lb human? i don't think so.but these are nits.  they have to do with moviemaking, not action bricks.&#15;&#15;but as an action brick, it still sucked.  not enough action.one of the oddest unanswered questions i have -- how could they possibly _not_ get an endorsement for the mobile phone?  that thing survived better than the humans did!for more thrills, do almost anything, anything at all.  please.  the world doesn't deserve a JP #4. "}{"Title":"Is Jurassic Park extinct?","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is a genuine question. As a fan of the genre I wanted to really enjoy this movie. I wanted to walk out of the cinema truly believing in dinosaurs and positively scared (which I am not ashamed to admit was how I felt after watching the original).I was disappointed. Yes, there were scenes that made me jump and the odd squirm in the seat but it was fairly predictable. I desperately wanted to jump out of my seat so I pretended not to notice the danger at the appropriate moment.Johnston's Jumanji was far more scary for me and I think Mr Spielberg has finally sold out.If there is to be a Part Four, please make it with heart, please terrify us, please put the 'Terrible Lizards' back where they belong - In our nightmares! "},{"Title":"Better than the Second, But Doesn't Exceed The First","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, I'd Like to say that I've had amazingly high expectations for this movie ever since The Lost World came out. I'm greatful to say that I wasn't disappointed. Unlike Lost World, this movie isn't just a 'more is better' version of Jurassic Park; it features whole new perils and whole new species of dinosaurs. Even the raptors, which may not be a new species, look different from the last movies.This movie is as simple as a sci fi movie can get People get stuck on island of dinosaurs and run to get off island of dinosaurs. Somehow this formula works, but is also the movies downfall. Halfway through the film, it is mentioned that the dinosaurs had been engineered with and that someone has been playing God. There's nothing wrong with this statement, except of course, that it is NEVER EXPLAINED WITHIN THE MOVIE. A whole subplot could have been added to explain this, and the movie's running time (which is a meager 88 mins.) would have been filled out. This angered me greatly by the time the ending came. And when the ending did come, I was so amazed how unsubtle and out of place it was I couldn't help but laugh.Fortunately those are the only problems I have with this film. It's different from the original, and is overall a good popcorn movie. Definately worth seeing in theatres. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Worst ending ever.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was a fair bit of work.  For the duration of the film's beginning and middle, I thought, It doesn't quite have the flair of the first two, and they need to explain the two parents' all of a sudden liking/disliking each other again, and Tea Leoni is irritating, but it is keeping my interest.  Then came the last ten minutes.Oh my lord.  In all of my years watching movies, I have NEVER seen a worse ending than this one.  Even Anaconda had a better ending.  Unresolved plot lines (pterodactyls, parents uniting/not, Grant's funding, why the marines made it so fast, etc.) abound.  In fact, really nothing was resolved. What did they do about the deadly Site B?  Nothing?  Foolish.  Overall, though the movie was decent up until the final ten minutes, they were so bad, I recommend to my friends, and to you viewers, do not see it. "},{"Title":"Ok...","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Interestingly enough, I have read many reviews of this movie that showed surprised, either that the movie was higher than their expectations or lower. Well I thought this movie was just what i thought it would be...a mindless 1 1/2 hour long chase sequence with good special effects. What I saw was just that, with the addition of Tea Leoni. I thought this was similar to The Mummy Returns. I actually thought the special effects of the first film were better, but as for plot and story, there was no character development and no plot, just people being chased by dinos. It's like The original Jurassic Park was put in a filter, and all the good stuff was slowley being taken out through the proceeding two sequels. Don't get me wrong, I did enjoy this as a movie, but as part of the Jurassic Park franchise it was dissapointing. I hear they are thinking of making JP4 (woop-de-doo) I just hope there is a new directer, and Tea Leoni gets eatten.  "},{"Title":"No credibility at all for either the humans or the dinosaurs!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most certainly a far cry from the initial production in the series. The beginning was great...with good character introductions...but it quickly deteriorated. The first incredulity was that there were several survivors of a non-survivable airplane crash. It's kind of tough to walk (let alone run) away from a 200 mph collision with a tree or two...followed by an incredible fall to the ground from the tops of those trees!Then the real fun began. Watching the special effects was nauseating! The credible dinosaur motion imparted during Jurassic Park I was nowhere to be found. Instead, these dinosaurs were jerky and some of their movements totally unbelievable. I found it truly amazing that the human stars of the film were continuously able to outrun huge dinosaurs which should have been able to pluck them from the ground after one or two steps!The quality of the scenes was poor, too. Most of the film was shot with very poor lighting and imparted a gray haze.And to top it all off, EVERYTHING was so predictable. The weak plot has been worn to death. And the ending...oh, my...what a surprise!Please DON'T make Jurassic Park IV! "},{"Title":"Dumb, dumb da dumb dumb","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Possible Spoilers!!Okay, on the one hand it is a passable action adventure, provided you only pay matinee prices.  That leaves the other hand, which has the burden of holding all that is wrong with the movie story-wise.  There are so many points where you, the audience member will want to shake your head and say What? or possibly Why? and most definitely Huh???  The characters are annoying (the ones who live, which are easy to pick out...the names above the title and of course the kid.)  The rest are quickly dispatched Star Trek Style. The remaining ones, plunging through the dino-laden jungle like an especially loud herd of elephants, made me want to yell SHUT UP! if only they could have heard me.  Unfortunately, no helpful dinosaur showed up to eat them as I wished. Which is surprising considering the never-ending supply of dinosaurs on the island.Many things do not make sense in this film, from the relative durability of structures (the dinosaur retaining fences do not hold, but the Spinosaurus is put off by a half-demolished hut...) to the raptors so intelligent they can count their eggs, figure out some are missing and pinpoint the location of the thief, but never quite manage to outwit the supposedly smarter humans (except for the aforementioned appetizer people.)  And the ending was soooooo lame.  I don't need to reveal it but boy was it unbelievable.  Too easy, like they just gave up on the story and decided to end the movie.  I could never tell what the time of day was, it seemed to switch from morning to afternoon, to morning and then to night all in about 15 minutes of screen time. Many more items could be mentioned, but they can be summed up as lazy screenwriting.For the record, I liked Jurassic Park (the original) very much and this doesn't hold a candle to that flick.  I liked the dinosaur effects in all three movies, but although they should have been better in this film they weren't.  Maybe more dinosaur sequences would have improved the story.  My three year old son was unfazed by the dino fight scenes, they weren't that scary.  I was startled many times by the exceptionally loud noises, but not the menacing dinosaurs.  I wish it would have been a better story, but have pretty much come to expect this state of affairs in Hollywood today.  Too bad for us.  "},{"Title":"Middle Grade","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I felt that the third Jurrasic Park was better than the second but not near as good as the third.  Had plenty of action.  Wasn't as corny as the second one.  Still had that sense of humor that the first and the second had. Wasn't a movie I would see more than once in the theater.  Would definately buy once it comes out on DVD.  Mainly to complete the set.  I wouldn't say it was excellent and I wouldn't say it was bad.  In a word I would tag it as good.  Which to me that is just right in between the middle and the top. "},{"Title":"Whos stupid!!!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, aint got much to say, I think something is wrong with some of you, every single film cant be unique, u cant expect the third had to be that. Dont expect Terminator 3 to be unique either... Its suppose to be entertaining not filled with brilliant and complicated stories and huge acting parts. This film is a good piece of entertainment.I dont know whos more stupid, the crew who made the movie or the people who has nothing better to do then complaining. "},{"Title":"Little Plot + Lots of Action= Just Another Mindless Popcorn Flick","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The commercials looked exciting, and managed to highlight most of the action displayed in Jurassic Park III, making the final viewing of the film more a checklist of scenes than anything else. Have I seen any part of this scene yet? No, no, great, it'll get good again.I have to admit, that's what kept going through my head while watching this movie. The exciting action pieces were all that carried this fairly flimsy movie through its meager 95 minutes. The plot isn't really thought through, at least compared to the original, which went out of its way to be logical and set up the story. And it still offered some excellent action (my favorite being Ellie vs. the raptor when she was turning on the power). I also liked The Lost World, though I haven't seen it in a long time. As far as this sequel goes, it seems to be in a mad rush to cart everyone off to the island, for a fairly transparent reason, just so we can see a handful of characters run around and spout bad lines. The plot has been turned over a hundred times, so I don't need to waste time explaining. It isn't the most intelligable scenario I've ever heard of, and Dr. Grant (Sam Neill) seemed a little too willing to be a part of it all, after mentioning earlier on that nothing could bring him back to those dinosaurs. And I would have expected him to be only a little more upset by the fact that he was ONCE AGAIN stuck on an island with the man-eating prehistoric beings, running for his life. A little too calm for my tastes.Amanda and Paul Kirby's (Tea Leoni and William H. Macy, respectively) rekindled admiration and love for one another once stuck in this nightmare seemed terribly inplausible. I can see people working together to survive, but falling in love again? I don't know, running for my life with my ex probably wouldn't turn me on to them again. And their wayward son Eric (Trevor Morgan) is so terrible a character, you wonder why we couldn't have likable JP kids again, like in the original, and even the sequel. (Okay, so the girl sneaking along on the trip in The Lost World was sort of a annoying, but I still liked her character.) Eric is way too resilient, and to have survived for 8 weeks, when in a matter of minutes, two very tough adults, armed with weapons, were killed once they arrived on the island, just doesn't make sense. When he's finally found, looking like some Lord of the Flies reject, smirking about how he survived for so long, you sort of wish he wasn't found at all, or ended up being the sound heard in the dinosaur's stomach in the distance (and not the phone--God, that was weak.)And for further complaints, Billy's (Alessandro Nivola) decision to bring along the raptor eggs made no sense, since he should have known better. It seems the only reason that happened was to give an excuse for why the characters were being hunted down, other than, The dinosaurs are hungry, and then, so later on, when he rescues Billy from the pterodactyls or whatever the hell they're called, or however it's spelt, he can redeem himself and be a hero. Sort of a tired idea. And last, but not least, Ellie (Laura Dern) is so terribly wasted! Why couldn't she come along. She and Alan have such amazing chemistry together, I would have loved to see them back together. The characters that ended up on the island had zippo chemistry, and no one seemed to really fit with anyone else.Anyway, the movie does have its merits. The action pieces are fairly exciting, though lacking some suspense. Still, they were carried out fairly well, and went on for some time. Made the movie almost seem to be a non-stop adventure, had it not paused for Amanda and Paul to make up, or for Alan to spout some wisdom, and Eric to be precocious.As for the acting, it's minimal at best. Sam Neill gives a good show, and I like his accent. He brings some depth to the characters in the movie. William H. Macy is a great actor, but gives a fairly weak performance here. Action movies are not his forte. I think he's better in good comedies and dramas. He belongs in a better movie than this. Tea Leoni, actually, isn't too bad here. She has a good delivery of most of her lines, and I loved her big freak-out scene, with the body in the parachute. She executed that one brilliantly. Would have liked some more of that type of panic and frenzy from her, she did it well. Alessandro Nivola is also fairly good, and I thought he gave a likable show, at least before we found out about the eggs he stole. Trevor Morgan is annoying as the requisite kid, and I could have done without him in the entire movie. Michael Jeter has a limited screen time as Udarsky, and I didn't like him. His voice got on my nerves, and he even got a chance to scream like a blubbering idiot, which only made me happier to see him go. And Laura Dern, reprising her role as Ellie, is terribly underused, and I really liked her limited performance. It's too bad she didn't show up more often.Overall, Jurassic Park III is not a great movie. As a whole, it's a disappointment. But there is some great action, and for fans of the original score (sorry, that doesn't include me, it sort of got on my nerves after a while), it's here again. The production standards are a little lower (check out the terrible backdrop scenes in the close-ups of the earlier hang-gliding scenes) and the setting is a slightly smaller scale, and sort of feels like it's an adventure through the junkyard of the previous two films. The acting and story are so-so, but at least it's sort of fun. In the end, I recommend it for some mindless fun, but don't waste nine dollars on a ticket, and wait for it to come out on video.  "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw this movie with a couple friends.  One of whom happened to have seen the movie already. It was one of the most predictable movies i have ever seen, and fits into a template along with many other movies of this type. Everything i was predicting was actually true.  Save yourself the money and do not go to see this movie. Check out fast and the furious instead.   "}{"Title":"Classic Adventure","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With a year of disappointing movies, director Joe Johnston gives us one of the better action-adventure movies of the past few years.  While it may not be as exciting as the revolutionary film that started it all, it's still a breath-taking ride that leaves us begging for more.  There is very little to the story but it's enough to keep the movie interesting in terms of plot.  That was pretty much how the first 2 were, but it was never the story that kept the movies exciting.  It was the dinosaurs, and there are plenty of them in this one.  There's even a fantastic showdown between the mighty T-Rex and the all new Spinosaurus.  Although it was very entertaining to watch, the dino battle should have been left for the end, instead of near the beginning, but that is only a minor complaint.  Then there is the length of the film, WAY TOO SHORT.  Some of the action scenes could have been more drawn out, and there could have been more room for character development, but, once again, another minor complaint.  The movie is everything it promises to be, and it never wears out its welcome.  For my money, Jurassic Park III is one of the best movies of this summer, bested only by Planet of the Apes. "},{"Title":"First half beautiful. Second half pathetic.","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I will begin by mentioning the good thing about the movie The opening is the most spectacular thing I have EVER seen in a movie. Honest to God, I felt tears coming to my eyes seeing (and hearing) it. This opening is enough of a reason for watching the film in the movie-theater instead of waiting for it to come out on video. It was great!The first half of the movie has a very interesting plot showing how Alan Grant has figured out more about the Raptors' way of communicating. At the same time he is scared to death only thinking about returning to the island in order to find out more about the dinosaurs, until a rich couple pays him to be their guide in an airplane guide over Isla Sorna. Of course the plane crashes.The director has added one creepy nightmare scene and some great action scenes throughout the film. The music and sound is loud and clear, and especially in the first half you get everything you expect from a good action-movie. However, when the plane crashes, everything changes.To show what Alan Grant meant about how the Raptors communicated, they have made the Raptors sort of Disney-like in their way of responding. In stead of being scary, they look cute. In addition, the entire rest of the movie is actually about how the dinosaurs can be very scary, but at the same time very fascinating. Hollywood can't leave a film without morals either, so the parents of the boy the crew is looking for are divorced, but I'll leave it to the reader to figure out for himself how the ending turns out. There's plenty of family values to learn from in JP3.However, what disappointed me the most, was the music. John Williams, the master composer of almost all the Stephen Spielberg films, made the music to JP1 and JP2, but this time they hired someone called Don Davis who made a wreck out of the whole Jurassic Park score, and almost made no original music of his own. There might have been some good arrangements of the beautiful John Williams theme, but they were not many.But, as I said in the beginning, I recommend that you see the movie, because it's one hell of an intro! "},{"Title":"been there, done that, got the shirt eaten off my back","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lame plot, lame acting, outstanding special effects.Wait a minute - am I talking about JP 1, 2, or 3?  Who cares, actually?  We don't go for high drama, we go to see lizards chowing down on folks and get that shiver up our spines.JP 3 is more of the same.  Incredibly lame and contrived plot, incredibly stupid things being done by incredibly stupid people, most of whom should be wearing signs around their necks that read, I go good with mustard!  And special effects out the wazoo.  They really do keep getting better and better.I gotta admit that I like the new dino bad guy.  Anything that can eat a T-Rex is definitely gonna be gnashing some serious teeth. "},{"Title":"The Dictionary Definition of Unnecessary Sequel","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I suppose Jurassic Park III is useful for one thing it demonstrates that Steven Spielberg phoning it in is still better than Joe Johnston giving it his all.  Even the mediocre-at-best The Lost World is better than this thing.Sure, the dinosaurs look great - one might go so far as to say that they look better than ever.  And some of the action set pieces are pretty fun, though none of them come even close to the first T-Rex attack or the climactic Raptor chase in the original Jurassic Park.But the film cannot overcome its own flaws.  I'll be the first to tell you that the Spinosaurus is a wicked-cool dinosaur.  But there's not even the slightest attempt to explain why this beast, apparently bigger and badder than T-Rex, pops up in the third installment without having appeared or even so much as having been mentioned in either of the first two.That sort of sums up the fatal flaw of the entire film it's pointless. Nothing is ever adequately explained.  None of the characters, even the venerable Dr. Grant, is given anything interesting to say or do.A note for the writers and director Johnston Pay attention, as you seem to have missed some important lessons in drama class.  A standard story structure for a film such as this would be Rising action, climax, falling action, roll end credits.  The path you've chosen instead rising action, roll end credits.  Additionally (MINOR MAYBE SPOILER UPCOMING), well...let's just say that the deus ex machina plot resolution is weak at best.  I'd really like to learn more about the digestive system of a spinosaurus, though, since apparently a sattelite phone can pass through it unharmed. (END SPOILER, THANKS)So...my reccomendation?  Dust off your VHS or DVD of the original Jurassic Park to get a dinosaur fix.  If you're headed to the the theater, go for Planet of the Apes instead. "},{"Title":"Big, fun popcorn thrill-ride (SPOILERS)","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw the movie last night and it was better then one should expect from a third part of sequel. It has its thrills and fun and is probably one of the best examples this year of mindless fun.Jurassic Park 3 starts of with a young boy who's paragliding near Isla Sorna (Site B from JP2 The Lost World). He crashes down and his parents start looking for him. They hire Alan Grant who knows the dino's best to guide them through the island. Billy, Alan's proteg, and three mercenaries come along with them. Of course, the plane crashes and we're back in the good old world of 'Oh and ah, but soon it'll be running and screaming.'What can I say? I liked the film very much. Of course there werre flaws, but I'll get to them soon.What was great? The actors were fantastic in their roles. Sam Neill and Laura Dern act like they never and the new people (William H. Macy, Ta Leoni, Alessandro Nivola) are perfect added in the JP-franchise. The script was good enough, not pretending to be more than it is a big popcorn flick. The dino's... The dino's were (as always) awesome!!! The Spinosaurus who kills the T-Rex in the first half hour, the raptors with their 'new' intelligence and the pterodactycles (is this written right?) are just breath-taking CGI. The pacing of the film was perfect. Johnston introduces us to the characters in the first 20 minutes and then... WHAM! We're in the middle of the action and we never get out until the end credits. Joe Johnston is a perfect replacement for Spielberg (who disappointed us all with JP2 The Lost World a bit). Another cool thing was bringing in the birdcage, which also featured in the original Jurassic Park-novel by Michael Crichton. Remember they did the same thing with the waterfall in The Lost World.Now then what was not so great? First of all the length of the film 88 minutes. All those screenwriters (most of them uncredited) couldn't come up with something more? One big final battle? Which leads us directly to the ending, which is too quick. Another thing the three mercenaries die too quickly. If they lived a little longer, we could know them better and decide to care or not care if they died, but now they die so quickly that we don't.Then there were three things I liked to see in the movie, but which weren't in it - Paul and Amanda Kirby visiting Ian Malcolm who refuses to go back with them (since he was the one who actually was on Isla Nublar, Alan wasn't) - The film should've take place on Isla Sorna, the original Island. It would make it more believable that they actually hired Grant for the mission and it could provide some cool scenes with Alan revisiting some good old places like the Tyrannosaur-paddock. - The ending. When Alan calls Ellie, it would've been cool if Ellie called John Hammond immediately. He has far more influence than she has and it would make it even more believable when all those marines show up.Despite these flaws, I really enjoyed the movie and rate it a 8/10. "},{"Title":"An average sequel to the superior original","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was pretty excited about seeing this 3rd installment in Universal's series about dinosaurs on an island. Sadly, I didn't enjoy myself as much as I thought I would. Also, until I see Lost World, this is the weakest installment in a series that started out very promisingly.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!A few years have past since the events in The Lost World Jurassic Park II and Dr. Grant is asked to guide a couple through an island that is a neighbor of the island from the first film. He soon learns that the real reason they are there is that he must help the couple find their son who got trapped their a few days before. However, the island where Jurassic Park is located isn't the only island taken over by prehistoric creatures.A fast-paced 2nd half, great effects, and good acting, but an extremely slow first half, and a mediocre plot. **1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Mediocresorous!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I `dino' know that there were releasing a third installment of Jurassic Park until early this year. So I thought two questions 1) Why another feature on these gerontological creatures? 2) why didn't Steven Spielberg direct it? I guess I was being closed minded and was using my artificial intelligence as I asked myself those questions. The answers are clear-cut answer to the first question would be- to make the same `millianrious' money that the first two installments made at the box office. Answer to the second question would be because Sir Steven Spielberg was directing another film at the time -`A. I.' (Artificial Intelligence). Jurassic Park 3 bring back stars Sam Neil and Laura Dern from the first Jurassic Park. The plot is very much the same old story stuck with the same old creatures scientists and civilians curious about these dinosaurs who then find themselves entrapped on an island later to discover that these humongous animals are not planning to get on a Jenny Craig diet in the near future. One aspect of the film that ate me up was the tremendous visual & sound effects; which is good enough for me to recommend to you to park your ass in a theatre seat and watch `Jurassic Park 3.' *** Average     "},{"Title":"The pain of it!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before watching Jurassic Park III, I had another look at the first in the trilogy. It was interesting, entertaining and scary. 'Jurassic Park III' had none of these qualities. The actual storyline was OK. A couple persuade Alan Grant to revisit Jurassic Park as a guide, by promising to fund his research for a number of years (didn't John Hammond do the same in the first one?)There were a number of problems with the film. Tea Leoni was incredibly annoying (was it only me who noticed her disregard for her partner's death?) The Spinosaurus was too powerful- almost like Godzilla. At least the T-Rex could be beaten. The Spinosaurus could swim, run fast, break fences. I bet he could send viruses out through the Internet as well. The T-Rex barely featured. The mobile phone idea was out of 'Peter Pan'. It was obvious who would die, and the ending was like something out of Monty Python. It was too ridiculous to take seriously. They're thinking of making a fourth- who'll return this time? "},{"Title":"A slap on the hands!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The problem with sequels today is they don't get the job done.  Take the Jurassic Park series for example.  The first was a memorable experience, no questions asked.  Number two was slightly below the first, but still farther and greater than most sequels.  And then a third comes.  And here is where my review comes into place.The summer of 2001 has greatly dissapointed me, there has been not one decent movie that has captured audiences everywhere and broken Box Office records.  It seems to me JP3 was a huge dissapointment.I will start with the upper end of the movie.  The graphics, the sound, good thrills, and new monsters make this movie an average sequel.  It was good to have Sam Neil back in the driver seat.  He is great in this role, and in my opinion is what really kept me from hating this movie.Now the black part.  For one I really don't know why the twelve people that wrote this movie couldn't put together a better script.  The beginning was okay, the body of the film was slightly below average, and the ending of the movie, made me darn right angry.The beginning sets off good in reuniting the characters, and telling why they need to go back.The body was below what I expected in the fact that 3 or 4 people died right when they got there and the worse part of that, was I didn't even see who died or when and where!  That whole scene with the airplane left me dazed and confused at who was even alive and how they died.  Too many people died at the beginning and you knew who was going to live and who would die before you land on the island its too simplistic.  The script had no imagination at all in the chase scenes and no new approach to the way the dinosaurs were. In fact the whole movie seems more cartoon fiction than science-fiction adventure.The ending was such a joke because of what made the first and second movies so great, the raptors and the thrill of them hunting the characters.  You will be as stunned as me when you see how they survive when surrounded by a herd of raptors.I think this movie had potential, but was greatly deminished by the lack of effort by the writters, and the director.  I think Speilberg is the only man who can man handle JP series, and better be in for the next one or the whole Jurassic Park name will be greatly ruined.  They better not end on this note or it will be a real shame.More than likely you'll walk away felling very dissapointed.5 of 10 "},{"Title":"Good Sequel to the disappointing Lost World","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was, believe it or not, better than The Lost World. I thought that it would be another stupid sequel, but it actually had an ok story, cheesy at some points but good. Sam Neil is doing a good job as in Jurassic Park and the special effects are a pure pleasure to watch. The story might be very similar to the original JP but that's fine with me, since JP was entertaining and it had some of the same atmosphere, it was here The Lost World failed, it lost the atmosphere of JP and got boring. In overall a good sequel and worth a peep if you like Jurassic Park.7 out of 10   "}{"Title":"Honestly the best out of the trilogy","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I heard that Steven Speilberg was not directing I thought that this was just some cheap sequel but I was wrong, JP3 has to be the best out of the trilogy although I was disappointed by how long the movie lasts the director Joe Johnston has put a lot of time and effort in to this movie, and what made this movie the best has to be the Action factor the Dino fight scenes were done amazingly along with the combination of live action and computer imagery.If Jeff Goldblum or Richard Attenborough had starred could they have made the movie any better? The answer is no there is only one way this film could have been better is if it had lasted longer. And finally a new more deadly foe, hopefully JP4 will have more info on this totally amazing and deadly creature. Hopefully when the DVD/VHS version is released they will release an extended version if so the movie will probably be better than the cinema.Hopefully Jurassic Park 4 isn't too far away. "},{"Title":"A disappointment to the entire series.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a total disappointment to the entire Jurassic Park seires. A faulty screenplay ruined the movie, lacking a definite climax and any intelligence behind any of the events. None of the people that created the magic behind the first movie were responsible for the thrid one. Even Steven Spielberg was not directing the movie, although it wouldn't make much of a difference with the horrible screenplay. Please do not watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"More of the same - more expensive CGIs","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm afraid this movie didn't keep me awake so I can only comment on the first two thirds of it. Basically, some humans are on an island inhabited by prehistoric monsters. To spice it up, the monsters are supposed to be super intelligent and able to talk to each other. Not clever enough to beat the humans unfortunately, who will live to make another monster movie probably. The special effects seem better than the first two efforts (JP and JPII) though the plot is so transparent it has to be enlivened with devices like a monster swallowing a mobile phone that then rings and can be heard from outside its body (duh!). The most familiar scene is some human(s) get wedged into a small space (eg car, hollow tree, whatever) and the monsters head is just slightly too big to get in and eat them, leaving them to play the scene again in a different corner. After seeing this numerous times I reckoned I'd got the idea and had a doze. Nice afternoon's big screen junk food - don't go and see it alone though - you'll need someone to talk to afterwards so you don't feel you've entirely wasted the evening. "},{"Title":"Good, but not going to knock your socks off","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The dinosaurs were awesome.  They looked so real you could really believe it was happening.  Of course, the concept is no longer new, and there's no Jeff Goldblum and Samuel L. Jackson, and only a cameo by Laura Dern, so it lacked the punch of JP1, which was a great movie.  JP3 is so much better than the Lost World, which was a total turkey.  All in all, a good movie, worth going just to see the dinosaurs, but not going to knock your socks off. "},{"Title":"Slightly lesser sequel, but it still works","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JURASSIC PARK 3 brings back Sam Neill as Alan Grant (with Laura Dern in a cameo as Ellie Sattler) in this third dinosaur installment.  This time, Neill is virtually bribed by a divorced couple (Tea Leoni, William H. Macy) to go with them to Isla Sorna (Site 'B') to find their son, who was stranded there eight weeks before on a parasailing excursion.  Naturally, of course, this means setting foot amongst the dinosaurs once again--and this time, something new has been added a spineosaurus!The special effects are still as good as ever (thanks to Stan Winston and ILM).  I wasn't as convinced by the actors this time around, however.  Leoni and Macy, although good, are not what Neill, Dern, and Jeff Goldblum had been in the first two movies.  The reason may be that the director here is Joe Johnston (JUMANJI) and not Steven Spielberg.  This isn't to say that Johnston isn't a good director, however (he was Spielberg's aerial sequence designer on ALWAYS).  It's just that his specialty is creatures more so than people.  Contrary to what some may think, Spielberg is as much a director of ACTORS as he is of THINGS (UFOs, dinosaurs, sharks, etc.).This is still, however, a very good film (and at 95 minutes unusually short), which is why I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"It's Ok","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you leave your brain at home and enjoy the dinos you'll feel good about this movie.  If you think at all, you'll wonder why they made it and why they made it the way they made it.  Some of it was absurd.I was happy to see Sam Neill again.  I guess that's worth $5.00.Denise "},{"Title":"Better than the Lost World","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was a great film. Not as scary as the first but much more humor. Overall it was a fun movie to watch. Worth seeing more than once. It was much better than the second film. Once again the dinosaurs were the real stars, with new and different dinosaurs. Sam Neill delivers an excellent performance as well. "},{"Title":"Too many toys...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing A.I. and JP3 I'm starting to wonder if Steven Spielberg (only on-board as executive producer this time) hasn't gotten so enamored of the toys of movie-making that he's forgetting to make movies.  A.I. was visually spectacular, but none of the characters were very likeable or interesting.  JP3 is one cool effects sequence after another -- the characters just marching from set-up to setup.Other than Sam Neill and maybe the kid none of the other characters in this movie really brought much to the screen.  William H. Macy is a terrific actor but he seems sadly out of place.  Tea Leoni is a good actress and a lovely lady, but she manages to be as asexual as possible in the role and the script didn't really give her much depth.That said, the movie is entertaining and aptly short -- it only runs about 90 minutes.  The directors thankfully resisted the temptation Spielberg gave into with A.I.; the temptation to keep going and going until the Special Effects guys got tired.  There are a few new dinos in this movie, the pterodactyl sequence is especially well done.The credits, ironically, state that the movie is based upon characters created by Michael Crighton -- but that's not true.  Clearly the movie is based upon characters created by evolution.  The humans in the movie are merely chum for the real stars to chase and eat. "},{"Title":"Great fun but...where's the end?","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP3 made a wise decision, script-wise, in abandoning a Spielberg type angle and, instead, making itself a B-movie, but on the same token.....where was the boom?  Where was the final act?  I mean..I'm sorry, but the final dino attack and the few crumbs that followed were NOT an ending.  There was no big bang or bold, explosive action sequence!  Considering how well the movie chugged along, I expected a monster conclusion..something to rival the finale's of the first 2 films.  Instead we get a fairly mediocre Oh, we're running out of budget close-up.  JP3 was at least B+ entertainment all the way through, but that stinker of a final 15-20 minutes (everything after the pterodactyls) brings it down to more like a C. "},{"Title":"Better than #2, but that wasn't too hard to accomplish.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let's make a movie that involves idiots running around an island while dinosaurs chase them...what a new idea!  Okay, so it was better than #2, but that wasn't too hard to accomplish.  But the ending on this one was so odd, and abrupt...it's almost like they didn't finish the script.  Result Wait for rental. "}{"Title":"I could almost say it was a disaster.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3.....Long awaited,and get prepared for something BIG....Something VERY BIG, no not the biggest dinosaurs, but the biggest dissapointment in your lives. Not one can understand why this movie was made, i mean the cast is great, but the acting is horrible....Umm Tea Leoni?? Something that you really notice with this flick is well.....It was written with their eyes closed, they obviously had no sense of direction with where they were going with this film......Dinosaurs,Dinosaurs,Dinosaurs....BUT!! The Dinosaurs do look pretty good.The characters were so 1-dimensional and lame, you felt like phsyically hurting them, the only thing that saved this film were some pretty good dinosaurs, well...they didnt SAVE the film, it just provided it with a lifeboat.Actors-> There were some really good actors in this movie, though id think the Dinosaurs had better I.Q than the people.Acting-> Miserable, they coudlnt act, it was simply utter garbage, definantley one of the many lows of the movie.Script-> Again, a low blow to the movie, absolutely lamely written, DINOSAURS TALK??? its like they didnt even care what they were writing, it was the shortest installment of the famed trilogy, and it would have been better if the film lasted 0hours 0mins 0secs.Cinema-> The atmosphere and images were pretty good, seeing all the dinosaurs were itneresting, and the island was very nice, they did a few good camera shots in the film, but nothing overhwelming.Thrills-> Well, the least thrill striken of the trilogy, the thrills come at the wrong moments...And...You can see them coming, so dont expect any thrills really.Music/Sound-> Very average, the music was used at the right moments, but the music itself wasnt too good, the sound was fair, the dinosaurs werent really loud, and atmosphere sounds were bleak.Overall-> I dont think this movie should be seen by anybody, all you would get is sheer dissapointment, when you think of it...you know with the talking dinosaurs, stupid characters, badly written script....you'd say that well...It was so close to total disaster.*1/2 Stars (one and a half)  "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Third Jurassic Park movie is better than the second, not quite as good as the first. Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) returns to the series, hired by a couple (William Macy, Ta Leoni) who want to overfly the island... but they have ulterior motives. Predictably, the plane crashes, and they have to get off. The plot is a bit more complex than that, but not much. The dinosaur sequences are spectacularly rendered, and the performances -- particularly Macy and Leoni as the clueless couple -- are well done. Overall, definitely a worthy summer matine type of film. "},{"Title":"Great CGI & Makeup Effects don't = a great story!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   I am not sure how you folks feel about the recent crop of so called summer blockbusters, but I really wish the awesome renderings of effects could match a coherent and viable storyline. What happened to character development, plotlines, and soforth? JP3 is technically great- an astonishing achievement. However the characters are shallow , the plot trite, and on the whole feels akin to an amusement park ride. The merchandising of these films is also nauseous-think Spinosaurus action figures, raptor lunch boxes, videogames etc. When the story is molded around special effects the result is a disjointed & shallow mess. For all the advances Hollywood has made the complete lack of attention to plot has left it soul-less. I won't even mention here the mish mash of Planet of the Apes-a total disaster! Too many sequels, too few  original ideas.  "},{"Title":"Because two Jurassic Park movies just weren't enough...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let's not pretend that anyone going into Jurassic Park III has any high expectations for the film. Not only is it a sequel with no grounding in the popular Micheal Crichton novels, but Steven Spielberg wasn't interested in having anything to do with it either. Still, the show must go on, as long as there is money to be made. What results is a film that performs well below any low expectations that a movie-goer may of had. For example, not only does the picture do away with such novelties as plot, it goes so far as to abandon the fundamentals of plot structure. The premise of the plot contains gaping holes, the suspense and action sequences are not built properly, there is no development of characters, no climax to the film. Things just sort of happen, and usually these things are quite stupid. The acting itself is quite hard to judge, because the script doesn't seem to call for any true acting to be done. The cast does what it can... Most seem to be going through the motions until it is their time to be eaten. William H. Macy seems to be doing this movie only for his own personal amusement of doing an action film; he plays his part with a certain light-heartedness that mocks the absurdity of it all. Macy knows this movie for what it is. Sam Neill, on the other hand, takes his role far to seriously, as if he is making a desperate attempt to be once again recognized as a serious actor. Sadly, this movie is not the vehicle for Neill to bring his career back out of obscurity. Even Laura Dern embarasses herself by making a few short cameos; both her and Neill appear to be confused that they are there for original Jurassic Park nostalgia only.Much is to be said for the complete lack of plot. I personally believe that it was completely improvised; the cast might have been instructed to do whatever they wanted, as long as every 5 minutes they ran around and screamed a lot. The digital dinos were added later wherever they seemed to fit. Events are so random that one wonders if the screenplay was a Mad Lib that the writers filled in as the shooting of the film progressed. It is baffling that people could be paid so much and come up with so little. The only positive thing about this movie is that it does attempt to throw in a few omitted scenes from the first two Jurrasic Park novels, namely the aviary. However, considering the context in the rest of the movie, even fans of the books will find it hard to enjoy even these small pleasures. The special effects are quite impressive in some scenes, but in others it is almost like their budget came up short. In the end, there is an odd mix of near-perfect special effects and what appears to be rubber dino heads on sticks being waved vigorously in front of the camera. Even the good special effects are wasted, however, because the dinosaurs are constructed to look cartoonishly evil with longer snouts, pointier teeth, longer claws, longer tails... these are not the believable dinos of the original but, rather, computer-generated reptiles that have obviously been altered to look much more vicious. The raptors are made so intelligent in this movie that at times you are wondering if the characters will accidentally stumble onto raptors doing advanced calculus theories. Oh, and they talk to each other in silly squealing raptor-speak. The ending of this movie is utterly ridiculous, and, even worse, this completely inane finale is completely predictable. In conclusion, if you want nothing more but to see people get eaten by dinosaurs, go ahead and shell out the money. That's all you're getting. Thankfully, the movie is short enough that the pain is minimized for everyone else.  "},{"Title":"thanks for no plot","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't say I expected much.. to some degree because I forgot that Joe Johnson was the director, and with Rocketeer and to some degree Jumanji a favorite director. Maybe because I didn't had any big hopes for the movie.. I mean.. after having seen the second !!!! But, it surprised me and I really enjoyed the movie.Joe Johnson is a specialist when it comes to making action that has Go! in them, and in this movie it works perfectly.The main reason this movie works as well as it does, is that it doesn't bother with a story.. Get the people to the island, then have them run.. that's it.. That way.. it's really easy to create a certain rhythm to the movie.. you can pace it properly.. making it a perfect thrill ride.. As for the CGI... It's totally amazing.. With the first two, you kinda looked at the CGI.. In the first it was really easy to spot.. The same in the second, even if it was kinda amazing what they were able to do.. but with the 3rd.. the dinosaurs blend in perfectly in the action.. they blend in so well you never even think about it as CGI, as you would have done if you had spotted something wrong with it..Actually, I would say I've never ever seen better CGI ever..If you want to go in, sit down and taken on a real roller coaster ride.. JP III is the movie..  "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The ads for this movie made me think Uh oh, but I went and saw it anyway.  Cuz, you know, dinosaurs.  The cast was the best of the three movies so far; the chemistry just felt right.The plot was still standard fare, but was better than The Lost World's, or at least more straight forward.  It still doesn't compare to the original, but was a fun ride nonetheless.  It wasn't long, which was a good thing in this case -- many more Oh no, another surprise attack! scenes would have bogged it down too much.The most satisfying summer blockbuster I've experienced so far.  I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"The Horror","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (Spoiler Inside) This was a movie that I had been waiting for for quite some time. Everything Spielberg had worked so hard got pooped on in this version of Jurrasic Park.From the beginning everything that made the  first movie so terrifying was thrown out of the window. Beginning with the Spinosaurus attack, which was the worst monster movie crap. What happened to the basic, animalistic curiosity that made the T-Rex attack in the original so frightening? Where was the feeling that the animals were acting on instinct rather than the directors whim? I won't even go into depth regarding the CGI Brachiosaurs that looked like their skin had been painted by taggers. Everything shot in this movie that concerned the animals seemed to have a 'look at me, I'm a Dinosaur, ain't I neat?' quality about it. The worst was the This is a new Jurassic Park Movie moment when the T-Rex was killed to make way for the bigger, more threatening Monster.Sam Neil and cast were wonderful and blievable, despite the story that was predictable , and the sudden and unexplained evolution of animals (Can anyone 'splain to me where the Spino came from).I really wonder if those putting this movie together saw the two previous movies, and what focus group made them decide to ignore the  detail and research that went into them (For instance how come the Pteradactyls are just NOW leaving the island, when at the end of the Lost World, they were clearly seen roaming free).This was just painful, angering and a waste of money. It lacked any of the intelligence or thought process that was in the first two, and was just a stupid reason to look at Dinosaurs, that were not even done as well as the first two movies (except for the Sam Winston Animatronic ones, and YES you could tell the difference this time).Universal Pictures usually only has good movies when Spielberg puts one out (probably bailing them out of the debt they get in for shuffling out the other crap they put out all year) and they always have to push the envelope by plodding out half baked sequels to his good work (Can anyone say JAWS?) Save your money on this one folks, it's better off being spent on something in an infomercial. "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 could have been more.  It raises more questions than it has answers for, such as why did InGen create certain dinosaurs but not document them; or why doesn't the American Embassy help the Kirby's find their son; or how do the characters get so close to the island without getting in trouble with the Costa Rican government?  The answer is simple - If they were answered, there would be no movie.  This picture is as simple as they come, and considering it's so much fun, it makes up for its shortcomings.JP3 is much more visually imaginative than The Lost World Jurassic Park.  Its action scenes are more involving and pleasing.  I'm not going to say the special effects are improved, because, in my opinion, they're on the exact same level as the first two, including one scene (special effect) straight out of 1998's Godzilla, but the movie does make better use of them, including a fantastic scene of a pteranodon carrying a boy across canyons.  I still can't tell if the boy was CG or the real actor in front of a green screen.  Also, another imaginative scene involves the boy jumping from one rocky pillar to another.  I imagined this stuff while reading the first Jurassic Park, but never saw anything close to it until now.  JP3 is what JP2 - and in some respects, JP1 - should have been.I also have to comment on the fantastic cinematography.  It's the best in the series.  If only it had elaborated on the many questions it asked itself, such as InGen's experiments with the dinos.  I mean, why bring it up anyhow? Maybe to set up for the next installment? "},{"Title":"Teeth, flesh, special effects","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thanks everybody. I always read your objective critics before going to theater. The producers cannot buy every single one of us, Hein ?Story simple. There is nothing scientific in this movie but the idea that dinosaurs could team up and speak adds to the action. It is scary, Oh yeah, very scary to the point you might sink your claws into your girlfriend's arms if she had not yet done so. It is a successful action fiction movie. My 6 years daughter was using my hand as a blindfold during some scene. She does not like blood, she just love gentle monster like Shreik.It is the best of all 3 JP. Well played and with intensity. Best special effects. If it had been filmed in 3D, somebody would have been eaten in he audience. The ending is a joke, Rambo style. Not that Rambo was bad, it is just it does not match the film. The best scene is in the jungle when the professor is about to be eaten alive by the dinosaur and place a call for help to his little daughter who has nothing better to do than watch Barnie.Overall, short but is worth the bucks. "},{"Title":"Better than either of the first two.","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Too often the third time around for a series of films isn't the charm.This movie is a pleasant surprise because it works better than either of the first two in the series.Even though there's not the sense of wonder the first one had, or the sense of silly fun of the second one (once the story finally got to San Diego), III has one distinct advantage.It's a good thirty minutes shorter than either of the other films.The second film especially felt bloated because there were so many segments that ran so long that time seemed to flow backwards.  The scene in the trailer about to go over a cliff seemed to run over an hour.Here there's no such problem.  This movie moves like a rocket.  There's a brief first act introducing the characters and setting up the situation, then it's like a cannonball going over a cliff.Mel Brooks made a very true statement, that no movie should ever run more than ninety minutes because that's as long as any human can stretch out a box of Raisinets.The makers of III have followed this, and wisely so.There's a setup at the end that does everything but announce that Number Four will be coming to us soon.  If the same creative wisdom is used in it, I'll be first in line. "}{"Title":"fast times at dino-myte high...","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i'll be quick. this movie was way too short, and the plot was terrible even though i was just looking for a good time. even some of the F/X looked incredibly fake. And i cannot believe they killed off the main character of the first two movies. the character that gave the franchise so much success was killed off and replaced by a stupid-looking bozo that doesn't now its hand from its as-... errr, tail. yes they killed off the t-rex, and that was the last straw for me.   "},{"Title":"One Word.........Fun","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No, it may not have the class and brains as the first one did, but you've got to admit. It was fun. I had a blast. At times the Spinosaures looked like a puppet. But i'm not mad. I liked this one more than Lost World, but not as much as the first. i highly recommend that you see it. "},{"Title":"Better than Lost World, Not as good as JP, but worthy of the name . . . .","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was surprisingly an enjoyable movie.  I expected to walk away thinking I just saw a slaughter fest for fun.  This movie was much better than the second installment to the Dino Series but it cannot touch the first.  It is definately worth the 8 dollars to see just for the special effects and the thrill.  My only two complaints about the movie are that too many characters do dumb things.  You spend a good bit of the movie going, Oh my god, why did he do that . . .idiot!  And number 2, the Leoni character, (as much as I love the actress) she needed to be lunch meat.  She annoyed me to no end and I spent a good bit of the movie telling my significant other that the Raptors should use her as an appetizer.  Other than that this movie is a good one to see. "},{"Title":"A little short, but great nonetheless","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While only an hour and a half, and lacking the big blow-out ending of it's predecessors, this movie was great fun. William H. Macy truly shined in his role, and while Tea Leoni's primary job seemed to look and act frightened, she worked well with what she was given. And those of us who missed Sam Neill as Dr. Grant in JP3 are glad to have him back. "},{"Title":"Better than The Lost World, but not as good as the original Jurassic Park","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I knew that after the success of the second Jurassic Park film that the big, bad dinosaurs would come back for thirds. The only thing that might have kept me away from this one is that Steven Spielberg, who directed the first two Jurassic Parks, wouldn't be behind the camera for this one, but instead take the role of the executive producer. Then I found out that the director would be Joe Johnston. I had seen two of his films (Jumanji and October Sky) and had enjoyed both of them. So I figured that the movie couldn't be very bad, especially since they brought back the main character from the first film, Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill). I didn't think that JP3 would be as good as the first film, but I thought that it would be better than the second. I was right.Jurassic Park 3 takes place after Jurassic Park and The Lost World. When a wealthy adventurer named Paul Kirby (William H. Macy) gives Grant an offer he can't refuse, Grant reluctantly agrees to give Kirby and his wife (Tea Leoni) an aerial tour of Isla Sorna (the island where The Lost World took place on). But when they get there, the plane crashes and Grant, the Kirbys and the rest of the people on the plane are suddenly stranded on an island full of dinosaurs. And if you've seen the first two films, you'll know that that's not a good thing.Sam Neill returns as Alan Grant, and gives a fairly good performance. Other performances include William H. Macy, Tea Leoni, Alessandra Nivola, Michael Jeter, Laura Dern (Who makes a small appearance in the film, reprising her role from the first film), and Trevor Morgan as the Kirby's son Eric. I thought that some of the best performances were Alessandra Nivola as Alan Grant's assistant, Billy Brennan, and Trevor Morgan as Eric. Laura Dern was good too, but see wasn't in much of the movie. There is also some humor in the film, but I won't give away any of the jokes if you haven't seen the movie.Jurassic Park 3 does not have a great plot or a great script, but overall it's just a kick-back-and-enjoy-the-ride kind of popcorn flick. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"It must be sad to be a movie critic!!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was near the top of my list of must-see summer movies. When all the critics came out and tore it to pieces, then I put it right at the top. It must be sad to sit at movie after movie and not enjoy it at all. Poor, pathetic critics - the characters were weak, the story was ridiculous, the dialogue was ludicrous, blah, blah, blah!! Who cares!!! Trust me, you will enjoy the movie. It is a smorgasbord of great dinosaurs and tremendous special effects. A huge pile of fun!! Unless of course you are a movie critic. "},{"Title":"What's this...?","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't believe that Jurassic Park 3 has the same name of the original Spielberg's film. This is nothing but a series of CGI effects (not the best ones you will see these days by the way) and several actors doing what they told them to do but with no spirit at all. The feeling is the same as the one you would get if they had had troubles during filming and had had to finish the film because they were paid to do so. And what about the script...? It's simply a collection of nonsense. Almost every scene is a carbon copy of Jurassic Park's. I couldn't give credit to my eyes when Alan accepted (again) to go to the island for money. Incredible but true. The music is like they had the Jurassic Park sountrack CD and used it. There's nothing new, just the same themes for each scene. And what's the relationship between Alan Grant and Ellie Satler? Are they married? Are the kids his sons? It seems like they aren't married, but, where is her husband? They don't say a single word about that in the whole film. It seems like they don't know what will be best in Jurassic Park 4. Yes, that's something really evident in many scenes. And it's also evident that Jeff Goldblum didn't accept to do this horrible film (or perhaps asked for a lot of money) and thus he wasn't here. That explains that scene where Eric Kirby tells Alan Grant that he also read Ian Malcolm's book, and that he thinks he's too clever by half. That line (those aren't the exact words anyway) doesn't make sense at all with what we saw in JP and JP2, and it sounds like a sentence for Goldblum's future in JP4.My only hope is not to see more Jurassic Parks... at least in this horrible line. But I'm afraid my expectations will be in vain. Jurassic + Park are a couple of words which are as attractive as, let's say, Coca + Cola, and they don't need a good film anymore, just those two words in the title.Please don't go to see this film, don't give them more money to do such horrible things. It's the only way to make them understand.4-5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Straight To The Point","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film was good and very entertaining it gives the audience exactly what they want to see. It is entertaining and it is fun but, they could have introduced the new dinosaurs a little better like in the The Lost World. The time period that the boy was on the Island could have been a little more realistic. I mean if somebody that has not even been on the Island for five minutes can't survive how is it that a young boy can survive for eight weeks.The thing about the velociraptor is that if you are going to make a sequel do not change anything about them. It does not make the story better to me it makes it even worse. One thing I liked is that the story is straight too the story it does not go off its track like in The lost World.There is very little suspense in this movie because of the poor directing In fact I think I could have even done a better job. What suspense am I talking about suspense like the tyrannosaurus rex scene in Jurassic Park 1 or the velociraptor scene and the tyrannosaurus rex scenes in Jurassic Park The Lost World. There was alot of bad things about this movie, like the ending and I mean the ending! Even with all of these things I am giving the movie three stars out of four because of its very well entertainment and the fact that it is straight to the point to find a lost boy.If you want to see special effects to its best than Jurassic Park 3 is for you.                By Carlos D. Montemayor "},{"Title":"Not near as good as JP 1 or 2","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie looked to me like it was thrown together at the last minute, yes the graphics were great, but not near enough action nor hand made dinos'. I was expecting to be scared from the previews, but only once did my girlfriend jump in the theatre. Over all I would not pay for it again even to rent, I like to remember JP 1 and possibly 2!  "},{"Title":"great special effects but....","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Story is Stupid, it makes no sense by trying to make this a touching love movie between ex husband and wife trying to find their lost 12 yr old son who was aloud to go gliding over the deepest parts of the ocean (YEAH RIGHT)!!!!!!   And the ending just came out of no where and left me hanging, the ending baffled me and left me hanging waaaaayyyy  too much. "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Spoiler Warning If you haven't seen JP3 yet and want to be surprised, don't continue reading!This movie had several major flaws right from the start.  Throughout the entire movie, the characters were being chased by one dinosaur or another, with little else.  Dinosaur attacks are good and all, but a good movie needs some breaks in between for characters to develop, etc. You could tell that several characters were expendable from the start (i.e. the parasail operators and the mercenaries), which eliminated any surprise. In contrast, no main character died, even though two came close. The Spinosaurus, which was the main dino in the film, was poorly done, because it looked rather robotic.  It also seemed to go after the people relentlessly, which is cool if it's a smart dinosaur like the raptors, but the spino was big and dumb, and it could've gone after any other dinosaurs. There certainly wasn't any shortage of them.  Why is this dinosaur featured so prominantly in this film if it never appeared in The Lost World? The raptors got worse also.  They got smart and could make sophisticated noises though an air chamber of some sort.  At one scene, they appear to be carrying on a conversation as if they were cartoons.  They never had any really cool raptor surprises.  Twice, Grant was surrounded and twice he got away, the second time by blowing on a horn. On the brighter side, Grant got friendlier, while still giving the impression of a tough guy.  He even had a few funny lines in the movie. The Pteradactyl scene was awesome; it was great how the one was walking down the catwalk towards the kid in the mist.  They alone made the movie worth seeing on the big screen. See the movie in the theaters, but don't go shell out $20 for it when it comes out on tape/DVD.  "},{"Title":"Majestic... not really.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Jurassic Park III on opening day. I loved the first two movies and was excited to see what the plot would be for the third. Trust me, the plot was not disappointing. The plot of the movie was very clever! I think it was a terrific idea. But there was one problem with the movie, though. In the first movie there was a lot of plot build up. I thought that helped make the movie more majestic.  In the third movie there wasn't as much, but there was a lot. I thought that Steven Speilburgh should have shown the kind or herbivore dinosaurs for a longer period of time. It made the dinosaurs seem like a very majestic animal. In the third movie they seemed like dangerous man-eating monsters. But that's ok because that is the theme of all three movies. Other than that minor issue, I would give this action packed film a 10!P.S. if you don't agree with me please send me an email stating your opinion, thank you.  "},{"Title":"Boring!!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie consists mostly of incredibly stupid people running around yelling until they get eaten.  Even my nine-year-old son was bored!  In his words, Growl growl, help help, big whoop! Mostly a case of Darwinism in reverse. "},{"Title":"Are You Kidding ME?","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The major problem with this movie is the ridiculous , paper thin plot.There is virtually no story, just a bunch random of sloppily edited dinosaur attacks.All the Characters are straight from Hollywood and bare no resemblance to any real person. The best thing about the first 2 was that they connected to each other.They had intelligent storylines. This does not even deserve to have the title Jurassic Park.I do have one question for Sam Neil, WHAT WERE YOU THINKING??? "},{"Title":"It's Dino-mite !!!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No spoilers. Why ? Because we love you....Well, it may not be the next Star Wars but I was reminded of a certain early 80s adventure movie with Harry Ford. JP3 is a great summer thrill ride, with no real turn-offs both in acting and wrting. Joe Johnstone and the Dinos do a splendid job keeping the pace and keeping you interested, in fact, I'd say Sam Niel was better in 3 than he was in 1.Maybe it was the fact that their is only one child in this movie, but he acts like an adult so there is no real this-is-a-kiddie-movie backlash.There was also a lack of the hokey-ness that plagued the previous two movies, more so on #2 than on #1. All in all, I'd say this was a very well done summer action flick, perfect for a little escapism. If I had any qualms about JP3, I'd say it was probably a little short, and others have agreed. You don't hear that said about many movies these days with the trend towards overblown affairs (Pearl Harbore). It could be construed as a compliment.The ending of the movie definitely leaves it open for sequels just as the previous versions have done, and can you blame Universal ? They know a good money maker when they see it. With technology progressing the way it does so rapidly, by the time JP4 comes out, we'll all be able to render a T-Rex on our Dell powerbooks !  "},{"Title":"Just go see it, already.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's hilarious to me that the guy from Canada is perfectly willing to accept cloned dinosaurs, etc. but talking Raptors?, well that's just too much.  Attention pseudo-intellectual, anal retentive nerds stay home.  For all the rest of us who just like fun, entertaining movies, this is the one to see.  Do yourselves a favor, just go see this film.  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Since its release, Jurassic Park III has received quite a bit of criticism from both film critics and Jurassic Park fans for being what many see as an inferior sequel. While the first two Spielberg directed entries in the trilogy were widely well received, Jurassic Park III has not gained the same kind of respect. While it's certainly not the best film ever made, it certainly is far better than its reputation. It's hard to disagree that the series was pure formula at this point, but I guess that is why I find it so hard to hate it delivers exactly what one would expect from a crazy dinosaur flick great special effects, well shot chaotic action, and plenty of mildly creepy moments. Director Joe Johnston knows how to direct both action and horror without going too over-the-top and in that regard, he did a solid job here. Granted, there is not a whole lot of depth to the whole story (the fact that there were multiple screenwriters is somewhat evident). However, minor story problems aside, it's 90 minutes of pure spectacle that holds up with repeated viewings and is definitely competently edited and put together (something that can't be said for many big-budget studio pictures these days). Bring on Jurassic Park 4! 7/10 "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw this movie yesterday and I was not as impressed as I thought I would be.  It was a good thing the movie was only 90 minutes and not 2 hours - that would have been overkill.  Fortunately, Sam Neill returned as Dr. Alan Grant and did a great job.  The story wasn't something that I haven't seen before but it was allright.  At any rate check it out but don't watch this movie expecting to see the first one again like so many other people have said.   "},{"Title":"Elegance in simplicity","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just came back from the theater to see this film.  I couldn't have been more happily surprised by it.  I'm pretty impressed that Joe Johnston was able to work with a very simple plot and really make something really good out of it.  I'll be very honest.  I have been hyped for this movie for the last 3 years since it was announced.  Just a few weeks before it was released, I was getting a bit worried that it might not be as good as I imagined.  I was proven wrong.  The formula running in this really works.  The characters may not be the best in the world, but they are developed really well for the kind of movie that this is.  I saw a nice growth of Grant's character.  Action-wise, you couldn't ask for better.  This movie has more dinosaurs and a lot more action than the first two combined.  It's easily one of the best popcorn movies of 2001.  If you're interested in story, it's there, but not exactly the most delving plot for a film.  It's a simple story that just works, and very well in my opinion.  I personally liked it better than The Lost World because it goes back to the essence of Jurassic Park in that it is a story of survival against the dinosaurs.  So in closing, I liked this movie a lot.  It continues the saga with a fresh new approach to it while still remaining faithful to its roots.  If you like a good edge-of-your-seat adrenaline ride with some nicely rounded characters, go see this movie.  If story is more your thing, steer clear because this one is not going to challenge your intellect.  So sit back, buckle your seatbelt and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"A Decent Flick","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" To tell you the truth I enjoyed this film, I had a fun time when I was watching it rather. Now this film doesn't hold a candle to some of my other favorites. I am a biggie on depth and I like a film that after I watch it my entire world has been changed. This film fell short of those standards. And when I think of about it, the flick falls short of most standards. Now in my mind Macy is one of the best actors. Look no farther then magnolia and my point will be proven. However I feel he wasn't at his best in the film. Why you ask? he wasn't acting badly my problem is he didn't grab me in anyway. Sam Neil was kind of dry, but remember, he plays a guy who digs wholes for a living, Don't anticipate anything out of him. Now the big question, is it as good as the first one? No, but if you thought it would be you have problems. Let me put it this way, I am not saying don't believe the hype, just don't listen to it. It wrecked, what is honestly not a bad movie in Episode One, which has become a joke. If you understand this movie is just a fun movie to see you will like it. If you want Schindler's List with CG (as it seems some people did) you will hate it. Just have a good time!  "}{"Title":"Fantasico!!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see this film after being dazzlled by the 1st film, quite satisfied with the sequel and entertained with the books. So i thought, i'll go and see it cos i have to and i left the cinema pretty satifised as JP3 has brought back the dinosaur magic evident in JP but not in da Lost World.We start off , in my opiion quite slowly BUT it goes on and your almost running to catch up, which in my opoin is good as you don't get held back by the story.In my opinion the cast do a good job, it was nice to see Alan Grant back again as he (Sam Neil) was brilliant in JP he brought geniune fear, something which I think jeff goldblum (or Ian Malcom) lacked in Lost World as he played a laid back scientist.Anyway, back to JP3, and as expected the graphics were superb! The raptors didnt look all the same as they did in the other 2 films but this time they are like Michael Crichton described them in the books. With the tiger-like strips on the back.Overall i think JP3 will surprise a few movie-goers and if u enjoyed the other 2 you will love this!!! This gets a CourtSta rating of 9 out of 10!!!  "},{"Title":"different(may contain spoilers)","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was fun. Me and my cousins made fun of it from beginning to end.I though it should've been longer.Both scenes where Sam Neill escapes (or gets rescued from Tarzan) from the raptors were incredibly stupid. I think the flaw of this movie was that the makers made the raptors a little too smart.But other than that it was worth cheap night. "},{"Title":"All thriller, no filler","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to this movie expecting a bad, unbelievable story with a lot of cool dinosaur action.  I got exactly what I expected, and ended up liking the movie.The people I went with were expecting some piece of grand cinema that they deep down knew wasn't going to happen.  They didn't get what they expected, and they hated it.So if you're just up for seeing cool dinosaur action (including dinosaur versus dinosaur) go see this movie.  If you want a good story, go see something else. "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really liked this one. I've read the first two Micheal Chriton books, and for some reason, this movie reminded me of The Lost World. But, I really liked this one, maybe it was because Sam Neil (Alan Grant) was in it, and I liked him from the first movie. The way the dinosaurs lived all natural, and the Spinosaurus was really cool. "},{"Title":"Once again, not just a walk through the park, but still fun","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not Gone With the Wind, Citizen Kane nor Birth of a Nation; however, what Jurassic Park III lacks in story, it more than survives with fun, frightening special effects.  By the second sequel, most series of films have lost either their inventive nature or their ability to remain interesting.  J-III falls victim to the former following a simple overused plot  kid gets lost, separated parents join together to find son, they all encounter dangerous situation and bond in a newfound family in their attempt to survive.  Of course, in this film, the dinosaurs provide the catalyst for the danger.  These creatures are fun to watch and give us a delightful fright every few minutes. They are certainly worth the price of admission.  Sam Neill, William H. Macy and Tea Leoni give adequate performances as the scientist and parental duo;  although, all three have been much stronger in previous films.  Only Trevor Morgan as the young, lost son excels in an emotional portrayal equal to his role in The Patriot. Bottom line  if you want a creative and innovative science fiction trilogy, stick with Back to the Future.  However, if you want all the fun and don't care about intellectual storylines to work the brain, Jurassic Park III will certainly suffice.  Watch it with your pet lizard;  he'll like it too. "},{"Title":"yet another plotless novelty (contains spoilers)","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  hollywood, it seems, has a severe aversion to films that actually have a viable point, and this film is no different.although i give JP3 props for being MUCH better than the monstrocity (aka the lost world), it still falls miles short of the original.  This, however comes as no surprise to anyone.On the surface, JP3 has some enticing perks effects-wise.  I heard rumors of a Spinosaurus/T-Rex rumble and was instantly intrigued.  The movie even seemed to be coherent plotwise at first....... Then i went and saw it the day it came out.From a truly entertaining perspective, the movie was appreciable. Dinosaurs, attacks, and action scenes were quite impressive as expected. The Pterodactyl segments were my personal favorites, both because they were amusing and flowed well.  Unfortunately, the aforementioned rumble was rather disappointing in my opinion due to brevity and simplicity.  I mean, T-Rex, king of the dinos, getting usurped by a new, bigger, badder beast, should last more than the 25 seconds and 2-3 charges that it was composed of.  It's a freakin' clash of the titans moment.Overall, the technical aspects of the movie were amazing,and although some of the editing was a little jumpy, it fit into the frenzied atmosphere of Isla Sorna.The major downfall had to be the *ahem* plot (or lack thereof). Convaluted attempts to connect it to its predecessors (e.g. Elie & co.)  lead to dead ends.  The post-marriage conflicts and resolutions of William H. Macy and Tea Leoni (what are THEY doing in this movie, anyway?) in the middle of intermittent Spinosaurus and Raptor assaults are basically space-fillers. It made me miss events that happen for a REASON (e.g. having to reboot power systems, electric fences, phones).  It was sad that Laura Dern became a little spot part in a scattered plot that revolved around a little family spat that i would expect from a generic Julia Roberts-esque flick.  It's really a shame that none of the characters ever gets much depth...But at least a few people die, right?  Watching this movie was fun, but painful at the same time.  Spielberg could have at least directed it and put it off til after A.I.  That way he could have atoned for The Lost World . I just wish sequels these days had a purpose other than to pull revenue on the drawing power of a previous work.  I guess that's just wishful thinking.At least the big Marine/Army invasion thing at the end was unexpected. Too bad they didn't get a chance to rip into the renegade 'saurs (a la Aliens).JP3 might have been cool if it wasn't driven by bloodlust and carnage that never really put up (see low death count).I gave it a 6 out of 10 for its excellent effects, pure entertainment value and decent camera-work, and its superiority to the other forgettable sequel. "},{"Title":"Joe Johnston rescues the franchise","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is successful largely because the filmmakers realize the limitations of the kind of film they're making.  This is a film in which the plot exists only as a thinly-veiled device to set up scenes of dinosaurs attempting to consume people.  Spielberg's mistake with The Lost World was that he seemed to think he was doing something bigger and more glamorous, and he fell short.This is a movie out to have a good time; it's a Saturday matinee Ray Harryhausen monster spectacular, and it has it all.  The effects, as expected, are incredible.  The dinosaurs are more real than ever before, including a few choice cosmetic touches such as more interesting skin colorations, and little dorsal spikes.  The raptors benefit the most from this, since we have earlier comparisons, but the work is excellent all around.Does it make a lot of sense?  Not particularly.  Would a predator really single-mindedly pursue a meal across the island when it could just as easily return to its own territory?  Would a pteradon pick up a human being without spearing him with its talons, then present it to its young still alive and kicking?  Clearly, the answers to these and many other questions is no, but does it really matter?  This is a monster movie, not a Discovery channel special.The biggest problem is with the appearance yet again of the velociraptors. This is their third bow as the villains, and they're getting a bit old. With some two hundred species catalogued, was it really necessary to keep going back to the well on these?  Fortunately, the new species that are featured are well-used, particularly the pteradons, whom I personally have been waiting for all along.It also touches (briefly) on the effect that an island of living dinosaurs would have on the world.  How interested would paleantologists be in digging up fossils if they could just fly out to Isla Sorna and watch live specimens?  Would rich, risk-taking tourists buzz the island looking for thrills?This is a solid adventure/monster film in the tradition of the 60's and 70's classics.  It has little to say about man's place in the natural order, or the nature of extinction, but it does have a lot of very cool chases, and that's it's job. "},{"Title":"Nobody move a muscle!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We all know about sequels, never as good as the original etc., and of course JP-3 is no different.  One of the main reasons for this is that the sense of wonder and excitement has gone from the original's ground-breaking CG effects.  Heck, you get these sort of effects on TV adverts these days.So there really has to be something going for a film, other than great effects, to enthrall an audience.  So here is the plot.  Stupid step-father takes step-son para-gliding next to off-limits dino-island (Isla Sorna) to do some dino-spotting.  Towing boat unexpectedly loses crew, hits rock and pair have to para-glide onto dino-island. ooops!Estranged Dad and Mum con famous - though hard up for cash - research palaeontologist into accompanying them to island for a fly-by with a hidden agenda; rescuing son. Mixing all this together is a Director whose credits include Jumanji and Honey, I Shrunk the Kids and its, cue lots of running around screaming stuff.  There is one good thing going for JP-3 though.  You really do want the Dinos to chomp nearly everyone because they are bone-stupid and not very nice people to boot.Any film whose basic plot is derived from an act of gross stupidity, really is going to struggle.  Dead Calm is another good example (and er... wasn't Sam Neill in that one as well).There are some notable moments; the Terradactyl on the bridge and the Spinosaraus v T-Rex fight spring to mind and one real comedy touch, nobody move a muscle. The only new addition to the franchise is that the Velocaraptors have a language (really), there is a new dino-kid (Spinosauras?) on the block capable of stiffing a T-Rex (now that IS impressive) and we are introduced to some Terradactyls, but that's about it folks.  Sam Neill is watchable and has a bit more of an aggressive, or maybe that's just p***ed-off, attitude, and there is about 5 minutes of Laura Dern to brighten the day.So JP-3 doesn't really make it, but if you enjoy creature features, you will enjoy this one.  If you don't, well, stay at home and trim your nails.Tip of the week  If a dino eats your mobile phone, wait a while and it will work it's way through, still ringing!  Handy! "},{"Title":"Exciting rollercoaster of thrills and visual fun","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a great movie.  I was expecting a debacle like Jaws 4 (eww).  I really was impressed.  It really is a totally different take on the original JP franchise.  Instead of the hour of mystical oohs and ahhs and theories on nature and chaos, this film goes straight for the thrills.Sure there's a few cheezy parts...The 12 year old boy who knows how to fend off raptors with smoke bombs and TRex urine after an astonishing two months alone on the island...anyone?And don't get me started on the Grant speaking with the raptors via a magical 'kazoo'...But, the Spinosaurus action was great.  And the pteridactyls were surprisingly thrilling!I'll definitely buy this one on DVD when it comes out to add to my shelf with the other JP's.  Definitely worth the 7 bucks. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Working on the old premise that bigger is better, this should be an excellent film.  And the original actors - Sam Neil and an underused Laura Dern - are here too.  Of course, the plot's not up to much but the classy actors brought in take it up a notch.  But then, fine actors do not a film make and Julianne Moore is testament to this in The Lost World.  Unlike the first two JP movies, there's little here to make the audience jump although it would probably be impossible to replicate the terrific scene in the original JP with the raptors in the kitchen.  Humour-wise, there's a dinosaur with a ringtone and that's about it.  This only leaves the special effects and, wonderful though they may be, we've seen it twice before. Technically this movie should be good but it doesn't get the blood pumping like the first in the trilogy.  That said, at least the ending doesn't involve a T-Rex tromping around a model village. "}{"Title":"Jurassic Park III, or  The Island with Really Scary Dinosaurs that Eat People","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (Spoiler Alert!) Were it not for a dose of slightly twisted humor, Jurassic Park III would be a completely predictable, boringly linear, typical threequel. However, there are just enough cute little jokes that you are distracted from the tissue-thin plot, cardboard characters, and logical inconsistencies. Basically, the movie goes like this Young city boy gets lost on island - Group of adults goes to island to look for boy - Eeeeek! A dinosaur eats someone - They find the young city boy's belongings - Eeeeek! A dinosaur eats someone - They find the young city boy -; Eeeeek! A dinosaur eats someone - They make for the shore to get off the island - Eeeeek! A dinosaur eats someone -They get off the island - Happy pterodactyls (or however you spell it) flying off into the sunset in search of greener pastures and lucrative sequels.  Very linear, undercooked story, but not a bad start. Unfortunately, that's as far as they take it.I also found that some distracting demands were put on my suspension of disbelief. For example, when they find the young city boy, he's been on the island alone for two months. Somehow, in this time, he has become a Dinosaur Commando - not only evading the purple people eaters, but surviving by his wits. But okay, I'll deal with it. It's no worse than the unbelivably thin characters inhabited by Sam Niel, William H. Macy (a personal favorite of mine, but again not given much to work with here) and Tea Leoni.  The people are in the movie just to give the dinosaurs something to chase and eat. Which is fine, actually.As I said earlier, the saving grace of the movie is the cockeyed humor. There's a great gag involving a cel phone, and an even funnier juxtaposition of raptors terrorizing humans intercut with Barney the Dinosaur. Beyiond that, I'd say that some of the film's strengths lie in things NOT salvaged from JP1 and JP2 - mostly, the absence of truly irritating children and Laura Dern, who is a lovely woman but completely unbelievable playing a paleo-botanist....especially with the sound of the wind whistling through her empty head.There's some nice blood and guts for the 13-year-olds and the dinosaurs look neat, if a bit too colorful. But please don't be an idiot like the couple in front of me at the theatre who brought thier 5-year-old to see the movie. JP3 lacks the suspense and sheer horror of the original, but it could still be pretty disturbing to little kids to watch people get thier heads ripped off by what are basically monsters. Otherwise, Jurassic Park III is a okay diversion. Given the oddly short running length (about 90 minutes) and watery story and characters, you might want to wait for the bargain matinee. "},{"Title":"No More Trilogies PLEASE!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Somehow, the impossible has been done.  After the debacle that was called The Lost World Jurassic Park 2, another sequel has been made.  What's really amazing to me is that Jurassic Park III was worse than the second installment.  OK, maybe I'm being a little unfair, being as how the original JP was one of the greatest movies of all time.  But while the second couldn't hold a candle to the first, this most recent can't get the candle lit.I can understand that JP3 is a fantasy, and a certain extent of imagination is needed to appreciate this type of movie.  But one can only suspend so much disbelief.  If you want to be one who truly believes dinosaurs can be brought back to life, fine.  But when a group of people venture off to an abandoned island on a journey no one else knows about to a place where dinosaurs run wild, it is absurd to think that anyone will survive. People in real life who are trapped in situations similar to this--like falling into a gorilla pit at the zoo--rarely survive, and when they do, it is proclaimed as a miracle.  JP3 was too much of a miracle movie for me.In general, the movie looked to have promise, but, without giving anything away, the ending was too anticlimactic, the body count was too low, and there was too much comedy from William H. Macy.  To conclude, I think a word of warning should be given out to all film makers.  Unless your movie is titled Star Wars, Rocky, The Godfather, or Indiana Jones, don't turn your film into a trilogy. "},{"Title":"Definitely Edges Out The Lost World","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see the latest installment twice.  It is much, much more enjoyable and much, much better than The Lost World.  I would have liked to see it a little longer, possibly developing Billy and the 2 mercenaries some more, but overall, it was good enough to make me spend the admission cost twice.  I definitely wanted more of Laura Dern, but such is life.The Spinosaurus was done in an excellent mix of fearsomeness, intelligence and comedy. The part when they hear the sat phone ringing and turn to see the Spinosaurus (who ate the person who had it last) just standing there looking at them got me hysterical.  Also, many of you along with myself, have seen Pteradactlys in so many movies about prehistoric worlds, but it was so cool being this up close and personal to them.  The digital effects geniuses did a great job with them.As far as I'm concerned, the acting, the story and all the effects make for an enjoyable experience that should happen in the theater at least once.  Now I'll have to sit and wait for the DVD.  Oh, by the way, one of the highlights of seeing this film, and hopefully one that you'll experience when you see it, is seeing the teaser for Spiderman due out next May.  WOW!!! "},{"Title":"Plot holes and predictability but Dinosaurs","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just want to know why they didn't explain how there were new dinos, how could there be a Spinosaurus in 3 but not 2? It was pretty cool tho. And the movie was rediculously predictable. But I had to see what they did with this one. I don't think a JP4 would work so it's time to put the dinos to rest for good unless Crichton and Spielberg make another.  "},{"Title":"lazy story writing","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie just had too many holes to be given a passing grade.  One can dismiss unrealistic arm-twisting plot lines for only so long.  Sure, they have to get on the island (once again) and sure they have to find some way out-that incredulous stuff aside, the thing that bugged me was that none of the stuff in between was very interesting either.  For one, you never got the impression that they were on a real island.  Drawn out moments of aimless dialogue were punctuated by noisy chase sequences which just came on arbitrarily simply on account of there being enough time elapsed since the last one.  Even with the chase sequences, they seemed to be done (even fictionally) 'in the lab' because as our human characters are being chased through the forest, very little wildlife is seen to scamper about-the cast quite conveniently (from an animators' point of view) only encounter one monster at a time.  The movie itself is a sterile Petri dish that simply emphasizes its artificialness and fails to give even an inkling of the grand imaginative worlds of JP1 and 2. "},{"Title":"Oh why was this film made????","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** 'This time its not just a walk in the park', well thats true, it definitly isn't. The tagline is merely stating the audiences torture that they had to be subdued to for the length of this film. Thankfully this chapter of the trilogy is the shortest, but its still an hour and a half of my life that I would like back.This film is aimed squarely for kids, with a lot more dinosaur moments than the first two films, but the plot and the script are wafer thin. Now don't get me wrong I loved 'Jurassic Park' and 'The Lost World' but at least they had decent plots and Steven Spielberg at the helm. JPIII however is directed by Joe Johnston (who also directed such classics as 'The Rocketeer' and 'Honey,I Shrank the Kids') so the magic is completely lost.The main outline of the story is as follows a rich family is upset by the loss of their son Eric. He crash landed on Site B (the island from JPII) after a paragliding accident.His parents desperate to find him employ Dr Grant (Sam Neill) to give them a sort of tour of the island, (as he is the only one with the experience,even though he states he would never go back to the island for 'anything on earth or heaven', its amazing how money changes this and how characters personalities change in sequels) but with the hidden agenda of trying to find their son.Obviously, things go wrong. The plane crashes after a dinosaur attack, so they are left to fend for themselves. Some of the characters get eaten by the dinosaurs, some don't (we've seen it twice before). Eventually they do find Ben (yay!!), as if we thought otherwise and escape the island via the help of Dr. Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern).The plot is poor, the script is weak, most of the acting is dire and the direction is laughable. However the effects are top notch, but when are people going to learn that special effects merely improve the film and not ARE the film.If you do really want to see it wait till it comes to video or better yet wait till they show it on telly. Marks out of 10, its gets a 3, no pun intended. "},{"Title":"Intertesting movie but no walk in the park.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***   SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I must admit when I first heard about the ever rising third movie in the Jurassic Park series I was excited and curious as to see how they would expand the storyline and keep us on the edge of our seats.I must say after vewing this movie I was disappointed. The storyline was more original and noble than I had antispaited but afterwards felt it was only an excuse to make another film. The only thing that saved this movie was Sam Neil. It was great to see his character devolop more and yet he was overshadowed by continully being the voice of reason but yet never listened too. William H. Macy was blatantly misused for this film. I mean it was a medicore performance by a superberb actor not his best work. As for Tea Leoni any no name and or actress with half a brain could have played Amanda. Waht saved this movie from being a total waste of money was the kid Eric. The fact that he was able to survive and stay alive for that amount of time is well to say the least hard to swallow but also you understand why he was made to be that resourceful.If you are looking for more bloodshed than you best see another movie. The movie was advertised as No Walk in The Park. As far as I could see if you were a character who had more than 4 lines you were going to live. I mean how many people died maybe 5 and of those we actually only got to see 3 of them get eaten and or torn apart.The fast action pace of the movie left well something more to be desired. The 90 minutes you sat at the movie theatre to watch this film could have been spent better else where. The introduction of a new dinosaur was a gamble and I would say not one that paid off. I mean come on a Spinasours or however you spell it. No one wants to see they're favorite T-Rex get beaten by some idiot with a spine on its back.(it really just looked like a T-Rex with a spine on its back). The action sequence between the 2 dinosaours was amazing but could have been longer. It was nice to see the new addtion from an old dinosaour in the Terdactyl, but also the parachute save was rather well one might say unrealistic. You can easily see why Speilberg refused to do this film. The plot and or storyline was used up and there was no new spin on it at all. It was an original attempt to get to the Island but after that it was run for your life theres a dinosaour chasing you. The fact that Raptors evolved and had intelligence is rather insulting yet cool at the same time. The fact that they were not hostile and only technically got one kill but left the others alone kind of defeats the purpose of having them in the film.This film would have made more sense by being the 2nd in the series rather than the 3rd. The special effects are just that and nothing more but are kinda old considering they are almost a given now in almost any film. Dispite an attempt to make a superb and memorable film this movie is nothing more than a good action film soon forgotton after it comes out on video. If you're looking for a good action movie than go see it. If you're looking for a new twist on an cool idea than see another film. All in all if you're bored go see it if not don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Works well in its intended role; an overall good time","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III, viewed as it was intended (an action/thriller movie), is really not so bad as to deserve the harsh criticism many have heaped upon it.  Granted, it's not a likely contender for the position of most philosophical film of the year, however it was never presented as being so.  The dialogue may be strained at times, but neither is it the focal point of this film; it does work well in supporting and advancing the storyline (almost to the point of being utilitarian).  The action sequences, although lacking the suspense of, say, the shockwave/water glass sequence of the first movie, do not disappoint in terms of pure, visceral excitement.  The characters, although not presented in great depth, are (Mrs. Kirby's annoying bullhorn stupidity aside) above all else *believable* - it is in this that Neill's true genius as an actor lies, and it is for this reason that I personally would like to see him cast more in movies with more developed scripts.  The dinosaurs in this movie take on much more distinct personalities than in either of the two previous entries, to the benefit of the overall feel of the film.  The greater variety of them in this movie was a pleasant surprise (the ankylosaurs were worth the price of admission for me), most particularly the very well done addition of the Pteradons.  I particularly enjoyed seeing the further development of raptor intelligence (making them all the more terrifying, while removing some of their monster taint).  I also got a kick out of various throwbacks to the first two movies, such as the Grant vs. technology bit, the deja vu all over again open-checkbook advances of Mr. Kirby, the kid's references to Grant's and Malcolm's books, the T-Rex as an occasionally heroic figure, and the closing fade-to-credits parallel of the first movie's flock of birds.Aside from the disturbingly abrupt and overscaled ending, this movie was an enjoyable thrill-packed theatergoing experience; I give it a 7 out of 10.  (Lost World  4, Jurassic Park  9)  "},{"Title":"Saw the previews? Seen the movie!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is true, all the thrilling scenes of the movie are all given away in the previews. It lacks all the special effects which made its first two parts thrilling and great experience to watch. it's about time they close the chapter of Jurassic Park before it gets sadly out of hand.The build up of thrills is nearly not as good as it used to be. the dinosaurs just show up without building up a thrill for them. and before you even realize, the SHORT movie is over.  I guess it could still give some thrills to young children. But not a real recommendation to watch it.  "},{"Title":"The feel-stupid movie of the year.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I recently went to see the dinosaur flick Jurassic Park III and was deeply disappointed.Although it did a good job to make me jump sometimes, but I was surprised how little thought was put into logic and charcter intelligence. The story focuses on the character of Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Niel) who, after visiting Jurassic Park has never been quite the same. All is going well for the good doctor, until he is tricked into flying over the island of Isla Snora by Paul and Amanda Kirby(William H. Macy and Tea Leoni). Once they fly over the island for awhile, Dr. Grant picks up on the fact that the Kirby's are planning to do more than just fly. Their son was lost parisailing off the coast of the island. Why he would agree to go in the first place is beyond me. Eventually, they do land and by doing so, hit all sorts of obstacles (The new Dinosaur Spinosaurus).They are thrown like marbles in a jar for awhile but soon escape in one piece and are given time to sort out their priorities. At one point in the movie Dr. Grant's assistant Comments that Ingen must have missed the Spinosaurus. How could they have missed something like that?! It sure wasn't biding it's time! In another plot hole, Dr. Grant was saved by the Kirby's son who was trapped on the island for eight weeks without a scratch on him. The people who came to rescue him, however have gotten more scratches in 30 minutes than humanly possible. This movie has too many mistakes to list. I give it credit for providing some good scares and visual effects, but otherwise, this movie is barely worth reviewing and doesn't need to last a second longer.  "}{"Title":"Great fast-paced action","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although this may not be the best of the Jurassic Park series, it is still a very respectful flick, and considering it lasts for only 90 minutes it manages to pack more dino action than a Velociraptor could shake it's claw at. The tense moments are timed to perfection and it is great to see a host of interesting characters. However the film does have its sour moments, the storyline is quite poor compared to the others and the humour just doesn't fit in that well, yet it still gets a thumbs up from me, I would recommend you seeing this if you liked the first two a lot, but if you thought the Lost World was bad, then you probably wouldn't want to see this. "},{"Title":"No Suprises, No Suspense - Big Dinosaurs","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is no better than all the previous summer blockbusters. Infact there are absoloutely no surprises in the film, everything is predictable. No suspense. Just shouts of Yelp, its a flying dinosaur - oh they have suvived, oh its a dinosaur in a disused building - okay they have survived again. Yawn.Sam Neill plays the only character with any depth or charisma and thats only because weve seen him in previous JP films.Of course the dinosaurs look great and sound great. Better than ever.And thats it Im afraid, as much as I was looking forward to this film, I have to admit that there surely are better PG films to watch this summer. "},{"Title":"OMG, is it JP1, JP2 or JP3 that i just watched???","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There're some nice dinosaurs to look at, which have already bored me since i've seen so much computer graphics work from other movies.  Other then that, i don't find anything else worth watching.  The movie focused alot on the developing raptors at the beginning which at first interested me, but it end up showing very little of it.  The rest of the movie is simply the old survival story similar JP1&2.     "},{"Title":"Better than the last...","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III was better than the last one (The Lost World Jurassic Park), but still not comparable to the first one. I just hope this will be the last of the series. However, I can say the dinosaurs are well done once again. "},{"Title":"Contains *minor* spoilers, but who cares?  No one's gonna watch it anyway!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, let me think for a moment here.  What could possibly be bad about this movie?  My, my, so many CHOICES!  Alright, when I went to see this movie I knew what to expect.  Just knowing that Spielberg wasn't directing and Koepp wasn't writing was enough to tell me that this movie was going to suck royally.  But, hey, there's always a possibility that Johnston just might direct something good and then we could all forget about Jumanji.  Guess what?  It ain't gonna happen.This film (if you even have the nerve to call it that) was more predictable than a day-time soap.  In fact, this movie is so predictable that I was actually able to tell exactly how the movie was going to start off.  The words 'Jurassic Park' on black.  And then three claw-marks are scratched through it.  That's what I told my friends, and guess what?  That's what happened.There were a lot of things wrong with this movie.  First of all, the Spinosaurus somehow finds its way onto Isla Sorna, even though in the Lost World (although not as good as the first is a hell of a lot better than this piece of crap) it's nowhere to be found.  One thing I liked about the movie, though, were the raptors.  Well, just their appearance.  I thought it was pretty cool to see colorful raptors, even though the whole thing conflicted with the first two films.In the previews when Tea Leoni says So this is where you make dinosaurs and then Grant answers in his quiet all-knowing sort of way No, this is where you play God you figure the naughty InGen scientists must've screwed with the dino DNA or something to make 'em super-smart.  Instead it turns out that they're like that naturally, even though they are nothing like the ones in the first two films!  In fact, these dinosaurs are so smart that they are capable of setting a trap.  But the thing is, these animals don't even ACT like animals.  They act like human beings would, plotting and acting really smart and stuff.  In one scene, a raptor casually bends down and breaks a guy's neck (he must think he's Steven Seagal, or something)... and then leaves his body!  They don't even EAT him!  No animal would EVER act like that.  And I cannot stress that enough.And then everything happens really fast.  The T-Rex (practically the star of the first two films) makes his appearance abruptly, and within a minute and a half exits in a very demeaning manner.  Who knew a fish-eating reptile could snap a Tyrannosaur's neck?  Well, until I saw this movie, I didn't! I also felt that you really didn't get to know the characters all that well. Who the hell cares if they're killed?  I sure didn't.  And the inaccuracies and plot holes (My GOD, the PLOT HOLES!) go on, and on, and ON.  Then, by the time the movie is over, I turn to my best friend and ask him what time it is.  He says  317.  I couldn't BELIEVE IT!  The movie had started at 140 and the first ten minutes or so was all previews (in fact, the previews were the best part of the whole mess.  It's cool to see a teaser for 'Spiderman', and 'The Musketeer' looks pretty groovy)!My God, the movie was only ninety-one minutes long!  The first two films (and they were brilliant films, I tell you) were both over two hours each. With this movie you could have used that extra fourty minutes or so to throw a little plot in there!  Hell, even some CHARACTER DEVELOPEMENT couldn't hurt!  Also, the music was not in any way suspenseful. The only time I came even close to jumping was when poor Doctor Grant nearly fell to his death after placing his foot on a faulty step.  Please, just give us John Williams!Bottom Line  This movie is one of the worst I have ever seen.  At first I tried making up reasons why it wasn't so bad.  Well, the special effects were okay or That scene with the pterosaurs was pretty cool and Hey, Grant is in this movie! but in the end I really must admit it.  And the worst thing about it is the crude attempt at humor.  My God, if you're desperate enough to have Grant dream that a raptor is talking to him then throw Malcolm in there!  Malcolm could have made EVERYTHING better!  But then again, even Jeff Goldblum knows a bad script when he reads one.  Who were the three or four geniuses who thought this trash up, anyway?  On the plus side, I really DID think the scene with the pteranodons kicked ass. Rating  ** out of A Helluva Lotta Stars.  "},{"Title":"A good thrill, but completely useless plots","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***CONTAINS EXTREME SPOILERS***There were several problems with Jurassic Park III, but there were also several good things. They did not balance out.First, it tried to have characters. The divorced couple were very obviously brought together by the experience and the love for their son. They get along now.The famous paleontologist, Grey, now appreciates the young, nave Billy for who he is. Some people want to be astronomers, and some people want to be astronauts, preaches Grey. The astronomers get to study and love beautiful things from safety-- But they never get to touch them, says Eric, the lost son. Right, Sonnie. And astronomers get right up there to mess around with things, but they don't really appreciate them. Billy wasan astronaut. You know what the last thing I said to him was--Sorry, Grey, but I have to cut you short here. On to the second thing; it tried to have a plot. What? It did? you say. Yeah, the raptors. In the beginning, Grey gave a speech about raptor intelligence, saying they could communicate. Then Billy made a raptor larynx and blew on it to make raptor speech noises. Then they were in the old base on the island and a they trapped a raptor and heard it make a noise. Close up to Grey's face. He's calling for help. And finally Grey talks to the raptors himself to save his life. It's a strong plot because people didn't believe him when he lectured.However, this plot is lame, and it seems like a good plot when I say it, but in the movie it's not obvious at all. It's poorly dealt with, as is the character development. You would totally miss it if you just came for thrills and dynonici plunging their claws into people's backs. Of course, if you came for that, you'd have left happy and wouldn't have been complaining.So, I liked it because it WAS thrilling, and when they wanted you to be grossed out, you were grossed out, and when they wanted you to be scared, you were scared, and when they wanted you to be happy, you were happy. It had funny moments, like Grey's dream of turning and seeing Billy as a raptor who says Alan.... That was outrageous. I thought it was hilarious when Eric was being pecked and prodded by the baby pteredactyls. That was HILARIOUS.But the main reason it was absurd was because the whole reason Jurassic Park I and even II were worthy of any attention was because of the neat-o, brand spanking new, collosal, amazing animatronic life-size dinosaurs that were built and operated. Now it's just a computer. You know, computers, like in Tomb Raider, The Mummy I & II, Final Fantasy, Cats and Dogs, Paulie, Toy Story, Atlantis, 75% of kid's television, 100% of all D*sney movies in the last five years, &c &c &c. Wow. Computers. Maybe it was a big deal in Money For Nothing, but computer dinosaurs have been done, are old, and, besides still being adorable, do not do it like animatronic dinosaurs.Of course, animatronic dinosaurs probably could not have done it either. You need something new. So instead of writing a script we could do without just to spend years animating dinosaurs biting people's heads off, come up with new, interesting dinosaurs to grab our attention.Despite how negative this all may have seemed, I think you should go see the movie. If you don't, you will have to be tortured by guilt. See it. I mean it. It's a laugh, it's a thrill, but it's no Money For Nothing. I spent five dollars for it, but I also spent five dollars on an Arlo Guthrie record. It was well worth the five bucks I spent on it, though Alice's Restaurant was much more worth it. "},{"Title":"A sequel of sorts","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found Jurassic Park 3 to be surprisingly entertaining.  It is by no means a real sequel - there is not the same characterisation or plot depth as the two originals - but it is an enjoyable experience in its own right.Sam Neill returns as Dr Grant, promising never to return to the islands inhabited by dinosaurs, but lured back by William H. Macy and Tia Leone as a couple seeking a guide on a fly-over.  All is not as it seems however, and, of course, things start to go wrong and people start to get eaten soon thereafter.There are some genuine comic moments, including a few references back to the first two films, and some reasonably scary moments.The problems - in typical mainstream style you know who's going to get gobbled and who's going to make it, and, although the effects are good, the 'magic' of the first film is gone in that we've seen it all before.  Twice.The film doesn't overstay its welcome at under 100 minutes.  Good fun. "},{"Title":"Like going on vacation to the same place 3 times","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Jurassic Park 3' is pretty much what you would expect from what the rapidly expanding franchise, more of the same.  The movie has more Dinosaurs, and more characters running for their lives.  But no matter how fast the producer's have them run, they can't escape the fact that `Jurassic Park 3' has nothing new to offer us.  The storyline is just as pre-historic as the dinosaurs are.Now this isn't to say that the film has absolutely nothing to offer.  It is a `Jurassic Park' movie after all.  It is still a thrill to see Dinosaurs come alive on the big screen.  More importantly, director Joe Johnson wisely keeps the action coming at a frantic pace.  And even if we're not sitting on the edge's of our seats -- we're still entertained.  Just not as much as the first time around.  3 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"dud-o-saur","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A step up from the ridiculous second installment but not a very good movie. Here's the whole plot Arrive at island... run from creatures. The camera is too close to the action, it shakes too much. Dinos appearing in dark scenes are obscured and hard to see. Daylight dinos look fake fake fake. The digital dinos (apparently) are incredibly fake looking. The para-sailing sequence is incredibly phony. The first movies dinos still look the realest. Again this movie is populated by people you want eaten, preferably immediately. >  "},{"Title":"NO suspense!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first Jurassic Park showed all the suspense of Jaws. The dark night the glass and water vibrating with each step of T-rex. This movie was more like... land on the island, get chased for enough time to fill 90 minutes and then get off!! Too bad they just didn't fly over to begin with.  The characters, other than Allan Grant, were very one dimensional. Rather than making me scared when the skeleton hit Tea Leoni I wanted to slap her...the scream scene went on way too long.  The young boy was pretty good, but his character was not well developed.  The chemistry between Leoni and Macy was non-existent and the script was way too predictable! I liked the Raptors...wish they could have escaped! "}{"Title":"Okay, who made the mess?","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's a week before the premiere of Jurassic Park III and executives at Universal just watched the finished film. The sentiment is nearly unanimous 'we brought the film in on time and it looks great! It's a crowd-pleasing hit!' But waaaay in back of the screening room some over-eager intern has her hand raised. Excuse me...but like, who is the main character? The producer's quick answer would of course be, who cares? We brought the film in ON TIME AND IT LOOKS GREAT. Oh and who are you? Oh who cares, you're fired. This ill-fated intern has a valid concern. Who the heck is the main character in this thing? The closest thing it has to one is Alan Grant (Sam Neill), touted as the only returning character from either of the first two films, even though Laura Dern does make a cameo. But his character is still very under-written. He doesn't drive the plot the way he did the first film. So it's not Grant. Who then? Nobody. Hmmmm, a true ensemble. Well, Traffic this ain't. Even an action/adventure movie needs a main character and JP3 has none. Having no true protagonist, you wouldn't need an antagonist either. JP3 has several to choose from, but none of them is any more a villain to Dr. Grant and company than the Storm of 1900 was to Galveston. Spinosaurus is hungry and very protective of its territory, likewise with the teradactyls, and the raptors just want their eggs back. I wanted to give Dr. Grant and those mercenaries some advice The next time you take money to fly to an island full of carnivorous dinosaurs, at least wait for the check to clear! Anyone that money-hungry and naive deserves to die (but not by dinosaur, which would be almost an honorable death). There are probably five people in the world this stupid, but not possibly in the same place.If there were an Academy Award for 'Use of Fog in a Motion Picture', director Joe Johnston would surely win. He uses it magnificently on more than one occasion here. There is no doubt he was tapped by Spielberg to direct this because of his reputation in the field of CG and special effects, which goes back to Star Wars. That's one area JP3 most definitely delivers on. The creators of these dinosaur movies know that's what people are coming to see. In this third film, the effects aren't necessarily better, there's just a whole lot more of them. I still think the dinosaurs looked better in the first two. Spielberg's name is on 3, but his touch is most definitely gone. Johnston is more than just an effects guy, he proved that with October Sky, but he'll need more practice before he has a handle on horror. His own style has its merits and it works for its purposes here, but it's just much different. In a way, these films are thinking persons' horror films, new age monster movies. Spielberg took horror to a new level with Jaws, then employed some of the same tricks on the original Jurassic Park. The series has changed quite a bit over the years, even changing genres The original was a horror/sci-fi/adventure story, whereas JP3 is pure action/adventure. There's nothing really profound about it other than residual ethical questions from the first two films. What's really missing is the element of horror that the original, especially, had. Spielberg took a long time with his set-up. The park, the storm, Dennis Nedry, the grandchildren he twists the rope tighter and tighter--textbook horror--then, when we first get a look at that T-Rex, he releases it. No one was disappointed. Then the raptors! The whole thing was executed with surgical precision and there will never be anything like it. JP3 can't boast of anything like that kind of structure. Like the original, it hits you with new species in waves, only to revisit them over and over. The script doesn't know exactly what it wants to say, nor is it sure what story it's telling (nor who's). The story is troubled in many areas, the result of this being a combination of the best parts of at least three writers' script drafts. A film like this goes through so many changes during production, the script disappears. You just look at the footage you have and do the best you can. I'm guessing JP3 was really written in the editing room. Holes in the script? That would be easy to say if there actually were one. How do you point the finger at the writer when one person didn't write it? I feel sorry for the WGA people who had to decide who would end up getting credit for it (but more sorry for the writers themselves, whos work is only evident in pieces strewn here and there in the film). Blame the editor? Well, no, Robert Dalva (the guy credited with the editing) did the best he could.The actors? They too are just doing their jobs. So now everyone's head is turned to Mr. Johnston. Well, like Billy, Alessandro Nivola's character, he had only the best intentions at heart (and look at what happened to Billy). JP3 ended up being this big, beautiful mess of a movie with no one to point the finger of blame at for its defects, and no one to really take credit for its merits. To give it a grade, I fall back on the one true barometer there is for a film like this did I have a good time at it or not? Yes, I did. But who do I thank?Grade C+            "},{"Title":"It's short. It has dinosaurs. What did you expect?","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JPIII is, well, more dinosaur chomping. The people are cardboard cutouts and the story is shallow. Even the chomping is mostly the dinosaur-leaps-out-from-the-side type, vs. the dinosaurs-are-stalking-humans technique (the latter I find more suspenseful).But hey, you want to see what real, live dinosaurs might have looked like and moved like? JPIII is your ticket. And thankfully, it does NOT do the stupidest thing JPThe Lost World did by bring a dinosaur to civilization.This movie could have been improved if it had used more of the kid in the jungle story. It might have been better, too, if there were more new dinos (OK, the petrodactyls were interesting, but the spinosaurus was more of the same). I think it blew a chance to really give a sense of awe to the audience in a scene where giant aptosaurs come to a river where humans are on a boat and peer down. Just when you get to the point where the sheer size of the dinos would have been stunning, the scene cuts away (because, after all, these are herbivors, and don't eat people). And is it just me, or did the feared 'raptors get smaller?Anyway, we gave JPIII a 6. I'm sure there will be a JPIV. We'll probably see that one, too, because, darn it, dinosaurs are cool. "},{"Title":"A Prehistoric Mess","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me first go on the record as saying that, in general, this was a pretty good movie. Better than the Lost World, but not quite up there with the original Jurassic Park. Ok, now that the polite thing is through, let's begin. I felt that this movie was a bit of a disappointment. It came off to me as a jumbled-up mess that borrowed parts from Michael Crichton's books that the first two movies didn't use. Ok, remember Mad Libs? The game where each person took a turn adding another crazy twist to a story? I think that's what happened here. Hmmm... Story's getting slow... Hey, I know! Throw another one of those raptor attacks in! Those are fun! Mr. Spielberg, when production starts on JP4, PLEASE make sure you're at the helm! "},{"Title":"Great actors, decent plot, new dinosaurs. Translation `Yay!'","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'd heard they were making this a little over a year ago. My reaction? A resounding groan. `Nooo! Make it stop! You're butchering it!' I saw the billboards months later and I was in much the same state of mind. Then I heard whom they had hired and I began waffle. Sam Neill... William H. Macy! I was pretty sure they wouldn't participate if it was crap and the original *was* pretty great... *sigh*When the film started, I was a little wary. I'd ventured to attend the Wednesday opening and, being a fan of the 1st (and not so much of the 2nd), I was dreading disappointment. There were a few awkward moments as the film got itself off the ground, but once it kicked off it soared. Probably not above the original, but way above The Lost World certainly, and several other summer flicks I've seen.Neill, Macy, Ta Leoni and others did great work with what was given them and the dinosaurs (old and new) were (thankfully) impressive. I had fun and surprisingly (to me, at least), I might just have to see it again. `Jurassic Park III' is *far* more on par with the original than the second (which, IMHO, leaned more towards the overall quality of `Godzilla' '98). Personally, I'm rooting for the Spinosaurus to devour `Shrek' at the box office this summer. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The overriding question is why they made this.One was good, great effects, great plot and scientifically stimulating. OK, 2 was a let-down but was worth seeing anyway. This was dreadful from beginning to end. The plot is too artificial (stupid boy hang-glides into Jurassic Park island, ignoring all the warnings and his idiot mother decides to mount a rescue, oblivious of all the people who die, kidnapping Sam Neill and basically prancing around like a trip to the park).The ending is the worst I've seen in a long time - if you've seen Lord of the Flies, you'll know what I mean. It was as if they just got tired of making this turkey.The only good thing about this film is Sam Neil, who's looking and acting better as he gets older - ala Harrison Ford. Also, notice how his hat has changed from the first film and is now the standard Indiana Jones issue. Cool, but not cool enough to save this mess. Do yourself a favour and watch Evolution instead. "},{"Title":"Thank heavens it was only 90 minutes long!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To me the first Jurassic Park was magical. I saw a fully imagined world with seamless (for that time) computer-generated dinosaurs.By the second movie much of the magic was gone to be replaced with Saturday-afternoon-matinee action. And by the third, I simply couldn't get involved with any of the characters.CGI can enhance a movie if there's a story. But if you can't identify with the story you can't identify with the CGI, except to notice its professionalism. The actors for the most part did a good, professional job. But they couldn't act past the limitations of the script or the limitations of the story.Unfortunately, JP III is one of the movies where I kept glancing at my watch and waiting for 90 minutes to pass. I suspect it might be better suited to video than to a theater, since part of the theater experience is audience participation, and audience participation was painfully lacking during this movie. "},{"Title":"entertaining.... but not much more.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am one of those people who thought the first Jarassic Park was one of the best movies I have ever seen when it came out, and the special effects were not just iceing on the cake. That formula just can't work over and over again.JP 2 was so bad, I was angery. So I am not getting into it.Really, when I went to see Jarassic Park 3, all I wanted to see was a film that was better than JP 2. That is what I got. In the end though, it just feels empty. You don't care about any of the characters except for Dr. Green, because they are so stupid. Not sure what else to say... many of the summer movies are lacking like this one. I guess we have all seen this movie before. Lets run away from monsters again.If you Liked JP1, you'll have fun with this, but I think in the end... You will just want to watch JP1 again. "},{"Title":"The Raptors get smarter, the Movies get dumber.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They are missing the point.While I was leaving the theater after viewing this film a friend turned and asked me what I thought of the movie? I answered without hesitation that was the worst movie I've ever seen.What a quick and painful slide down the road of movie purgatory has this film taken the Jurassic Park series. The very fact that it is now being called a series is false. The Jurassic Park blood sucking money making machine is more appropriate. Why was this movie made?-to make money, and lots of it. What was not accomplished in the first movie, let alone the first sequel(which was bad, but not to this extent). What story line or idea did they feel they could further devellope? The movie is only 90 mins long(which could be regarded as it's best quality) showing that the makers knew they had no real substance to make the movie any longer. The entire movie consits of stupid characters running away from the big bad dinos.Of course these dinosaurs are the main attraction of the film. Yet I seriously thought that they looked LESS real then they did in the first movie. It was almost like the computer graphics have become to good, and to smooth. It was like the dinosours were to smooth to look like they were really walking on our earth. The most convincing dino in the film was Barney( who makes a brief cameo).There is so much wrong with this movie it would take years to write it all. The characters for example. Dear Lord....was I supposed to care about these people? I could not of cared less if they were all eaten in the first five seconds(except for Alan Grant from the first movie). What sort of effort was there to develope these characters and make us care about them? Many people woudl now say that they were cardboard cutouts, yet I feel that that would be an insult to some of the finer brands of cardboard on the market today.There are several scenes in the movie that come to mind that were laughable. Maybe some people were horrified by the thought of a cell phone ringing inside the stomach of a dinosaur, but I wasn't one of them...stupid. The scene with the ALAN raptor, disgusting. The part when the people first get on the island, and literally two seconds later they are running back to the plane horrified because they saw a big dino...WHAT DID THEY EXPECT TO SEE???. The scene where the young heroic Billy swoopes down to save the kid in his parachute...laughable(me and my friend actually cracked up). There are many, many more.However, despite all of this, the thing that makes me hate this movie so much is that it will be associated with the first movie, of which it has nothing in common. The first movie was great, yet now it has being marred by two horrible sequels, the worst of which being this one. The point of the first one was to show a theme park gone wrong, to show that sometimes we can get to involved in our own power and forget about the consequences. What was the point of the third one? Dem dinos are a getting bigger? What made the first one good was it's excellent pace, it was never in a rush, yet it was never boring; JP3 was both. In the first movie we actually cared what happened to the characters, we just didn't in the third movie. The point or goal of the first movie was to scare, entertain, and actually give us some scientific background upon how this creating dinosaurs could actually be done. What did the third one do? show stupid, faceless characters running away from big dinos, that was there point. Oh, but wait, maybe I'm wrong there, that wasn't the point of the third one, there point was something much more easy, something that had nothing to do with quality and all to do with money.They missed the point. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Failure","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The whole concept of Jurassic park is so amazing. The thought that dinosaur DNA could be trapped in bugs, then extracted and an actual dinosaur could be re-created is amazing. The first film was a classic. Another brilliant film from the master film maker Steven Speilberg (A.I, Jaws).The original was such a scary and intense film. The second film, and you knew there would be a second, was not as good, but good in its own way. It can't really compare to the first one, but it had its points of great suspense and amazing action. Now, the third film (is this a trilogy??) is a Jurassic failure. It's so short the whole film feels like a dumb Fox action show.It has no emotion, terrible acting, and a plot that has been done with the first two, only the first two did it better. Here is the plot people get stuck on the island and must get off before they are eaten by the dinosaurs. They throw in a whole bunch of crap about a kid being stranded, and a divorced couple, that is pitiful. When watching the movie, ask yourself...Do these people really seem scared?. No! They don't seem scared at all, and they just keep running and making the wrong mistakes.When you watch a good action movie, your heart should race and your blood should flow. This movie made my heart crawl up and die, and my blood freeze over. The only good action scene was when the T-rex&spinosaurus were fighting, which was WAY to short anyway. In the end, the film is sad and dissapointing. The idea of Jurassic Park is so great, and the first one was a true masterpiece...it's sad that this trash should even have the same name.I hear they are making a fourth, and they will probably make a fifth. That's what happens when a great movie comes out...they run it into the ground so by the end, its just trash. The same thing happened to Jaws, another brilliant Steven Speilberg movie. To close up my review, Jurassic park is a masterpiece, one of a kind film. The second was good action, not great and nothing like the first. The third, is a Jurassic failure. At least Steven and Michael could see that. "},{"Title":"more dinos that JP, but the Lost World was still more dino-namic","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" None of the Jurassic Park movies were great. The first had breakthrough effects but the characters were dumb, the dialogue was mostly about chaos theory, and rebooting computers, or jokes about blind dinosaurs and their dogs.There werent as many dinosaurs as one might expect from the title.The Lost World tried to rectify this situation--there were about twice as many dinosaur scenes(although even it used them sparingly),the story had more conflict(hunters vs gatherers) and the characters had a motivation that was more sketched out than in JP 1. And--the dinosaurs were real characters in the story! This time--the exploitation aspect of genetic engineering was addressed. We saw how the dinosaurs, despite their immense size and power, were the victims.JP 3 brings back Sam Neill, who tended to be overshadowed in the first movie by Jeff Golblum's character. Goldblum got the better lines and poor Mr. Neill(who I will always remember as the grown up Damien) was left babysitting the two annoying children for much of the film. Here, Neill gets to do more as Dr. Grant, interact with the dinos of Isla Sorna and come out with more appreciation for the genetically engineered dinos than he had after part 1.Story wise--its pretty standard bubblegum fare--though they tried to give it a few twists. In some ways the characters were more developed than in either Jp or the Lost World, but somehow they were still far less interesting than the dinosaurs. At least in LW most of the character decisions  were directed at issues involving them. The child in the movie wasnt as annoying as in the other two films, although the recovery of lost offspring had already been explored before.As for the dinos themselves--they had a little more personality than they had in part 1, but were not as well depicted as they were in the Lost World. In that film we saw dinosaurs acting like dinosaurs(as opposed to monsters). They were shown defending themselves, fighting off pesky humans with cameras, drinking water, slipping on the ground, scratching themselves, creeping over shyly with the encouragement of a parent to give the villain his comeuppance--much more in keeping with the spirit of a Ray Harryhausen or Willis O'Brien film. JP3 returns us to the monster depiction for the carnosaurs(exception for the velociraptors, who for a change arent quite the one dimensional baddies they were in the other two films).There are a couple of good scenes, namely the Spinosaurus and the Aviary sequences. But the fight with the T-rex and the Spinosaurus was a BIG letdown. It must have lasted all of 30 seconds. Compare that with the Ymir-elephant fight in 20 Millions Miles to Earth, or a similar confrontation in Valley of Gwangi--or better yet the original King Kong.  All three JP films seemed to take every opportunity to cut away from the dinosaurs. It is most infuriating!The T-rex fight really should have been moved to the end and expanded.It would have been spectacular.The ending of the movie is rather rushed--but the final sequence from the plane is really what should have been seen at the end of the first movie.As it stands the three Jurassic Park films have their pluses and minuses,  but for my money, the Lost World was still the most impressive in a film series that had so much more potential than it realized. "}{"Title":"Entertaining, but if they don't get off that island soon, the series will be extinct.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sixty-five million years ago, evolution wasn't too kind to the dinosaurs. Nature made them extinct. Today, their computer generated counterparts may soon suffer the same fate if Hollywood can't come up with a sequel more exciting than Jurassic Park III. Don't get me wrong -- the movie is entertaining and has some funny moments. But when compared with the fierce, heart pounding awe we felt when the original Jurassic Park roared into theaters eight years ago, the latest incarnation is pretty flat. The director of the first two installments, Steven Spielberg, relinquishes the reins this time (he stays on as Executive Producer). His seemingly logical fill-in is Joe Johnston, a man who's studied under Spielberg and who's spent his career making Spielberg-esque family adventure films like Jumanji and Honey, I Shrunk the Kids. But as hard as he tries, Johnston is no Spielberg. The action sequences are fine, but they lack the tension and sly choreography that only the master can supply. Spielberg can create more dread with two rattling cups of water (remember those ominous ripples from the first film?) than Johnston can with a whole species of ILM-created dinos. The new guy also has trouble giving the dinosaurs quite as much personality as the ones in the previous films. He's not helped by the effects department, which seems to be slipping. The new Big Man on Campus, Spinosaurus -- think T-Rex, only with a big fin on his back -- is a little too rubbery to be believed. That said, Johnston is to be applauded considering the thankless task he had presented to him -- make yet another fun summer blockbuster about dinosaurs run amok on a tropical island. We haven't just seen this before -- we've seen it twice before. The results are all the more impressive considering the script was reportedly thrown completely out the window just prior to shooting (the final screenplay is partially credited to Jim Taylor and Alexander Payne, the duo who wrote the ingenious comedy, Election). The lack of a complete script may explain why this installment is the shortest (barely more than 90 minutes) and has the simplest plot.Two of the movie's key action sequences (a river encounter with a big dino and a terrifying journey through a giant bird cage housing pterodactyls) are wisely lifted from passages of Michael Crichton's original novel that never made it into the first film. Not surprisingly, this is when the movie is at its best. The sequel also advances the evolution of the raptors -- in this film, the raptors have gained the ability to talk to each other. They're also getting smarter -- they're now able to set traps for their human prey. It's a nice new twist, but if this film series wants to avoid extinction, it needs to get off the island once and for all. The last 20 minutes of The Lost World teased us with the intriguing premise of a T-Rex romping through suburbia. Why not a whole movie of that? (Suggested title It Came From Jurassic Park!) There's room for this franchise to grow if the writers have enough imagination. In this film, the dinosaurs seem to be evolving at an accelerated pace. What if they continue to get smarter and smarter as they reach land? By the time Jurassic Park VII rolls around, they should be smarter than humans. They would start to take over the world and by the end of the series, people would be the ones becoming extinct. I can't think of a more fitting ending for a sci-fi saga that is essentially a cautionary tale about the foolishness of mankind messing with nature.   "},{"Title":"Yes, not only can they talk, those big ones can tip toe too...","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Jurrasic Park franchise is worn. It seems that the shocks that were in the first movie (that cute dinosaur that seemed so friendly) have subdued the later ones in JP3. The movie does get down to business quickly. It doesn't take itself too seriously extras are devoured as soon as possible and there always seems to be an element of comedy in the tense moments. There are some good funny lines as well. Eric I like your earlier books, you used to like dinosaurs then. Dr. Alan Well, that was before they tried to eat me. I can only guess that the movie is aimed at kids who would like a shock or two from this movie while the accompanying adults chuckle at the comedic elements of the movie. There is nothing much new that hasn't been done in the earlier movies, just new dinosaurs and locales. The big spinosaurus seem to be able to tiptoe. How one manage to sneak towards Dr. Alan and co. without the trademark ground shaking will remain a mystery. For me, the movie was a dissapointment. I was really hoping for more shocks and surprises ala JP1 but this one seems more of a rehash than a breath of fresh air. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Yes, not only can they talk, those big ones can tip toe too...","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Jurrasic Park franchise is worn. It seems that the shocks that were in the first movie (that cute dinosaur that seemed so friendly) have subdued the later ones in JP3. The movie does get down to business quickly. It doesn't take itself too seriously extras are devoured as soon as possible and there always seems to be an element of comedy in the tense moments. There are some good funny lines as well. Eric I like your earlier books, you used to like dinosaurs then. Dr. Alan Well, that was before they tried to eat me. I can only guess that the movie is aimed at kids who would like a shock or two from this movie while the accompanying adults chuckle at the comedic elements of the movie. There is nothing much new that hasn't been done in the earlier movies, just new dinosaurs and locales. The big spinosaurus seem to be able to tiptoe. How one manage to sneak towards Dr. Alan and co. without the trademark ground shaking will remain a mystery. For me, the movie was a dissapointment. I was really hoping for more shocks and surprises ala JP1 but this one seems more of a rehash than a breath of fresh air. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Please be the last one","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just like there were three dinosaur ages, this should be the last of them. Anyone ever notice a theme to these JPs other than dinosaurs?  There's always an annoying little kid...  you just want to vote them off the island. I thought JP2 was a lot better.  JP3 lacked character development, lacked a number of characters (to die), and lacked special effects.  The panoramic scenes that had dinosaurs were out of focus, without detail.  We never saw a good closeup.  I came here to see dinosaurs!  JP1 and JP2 had much better CG footage.  On the brighter side, there were several scenes with chuckles. And if you remember the opening scene?  What the heck happened?  If you plan on seeing JP3, don't bring your cell phone. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies in memory","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh my gosh, where do I begin with this movie, if one can call it that. I've seen a lot of bad movies in my time, but never before did the girlfriend and I *want* to leave a movie; wished it to be over; felt so *embarrassed* for being there, squirming in my seats as our senses were bombarded with the worst acting, special effects, script and, worst of all, movie chiches, seen on the silver screen in along time.OK, to sum up this movie... Ok, there's this island, right? Near Costa Rica. And it's got dinosaurs on it, right? Lots and lots of 'em. And the movie starts out with two people para-sailing near the island, and they get stranded on the island. Next, the parents of this child lie and scheme the scientist from the original movie to fly with them on the plane as a honeymoon present. Again, the only reason the couple is able to prod Dr. Grant onto the plane is the same way he was prodded onto the chopper in the original movie - his excavation sites are facing a big For Closed sign and if he takes part in this adventure we'll fund your projects for another 2 years, blah blah, big dino yawn! Well, the plane lands, several people get eaten, the plane takes off, but a dino blast of its super long tail sends the plane crashing. More people get offed. There's a chase via raptors. There's another big fence. More people die and then... the Marines. Yep, the Marines - one of the most idiotic and contrived, hurried endings ever to a movie.And that's about it, folks. Lot's of dinosaurs and lots of people dying. Oh yeah, and Williams' great musical score.What doomed this movie right off the bat was that it didn't come from a Crighton novelization, as the two previous movies had, so one right there should take this movie with a grain of salt. Other factors that doomed it, of course, was the utter lack of characters in this movie and outrageously stupid dialogue, whispered by all the actors and actresses to keep up the Jurassic Park tradition, of course.Each movie is sparked by a new discovery - in this case they wanted to introduce the new big daddy on the block, one that puts poor old T-Rex to shame. The other, of course, was a silly notion that Raptors could communicate to one another. Boom, with those two plot points in hand, the movie was made.The dinos in the movie are by far the worst in the series, as more effects are relied on CG and less on animotronics. The rapots in the end sequence where they talk to the humans was utterly disgraceful. And another scene, where the tall plant eaters walk over to the boat the protagonists are riding on, swooping down toward the camera, was so much worse than the scenes from the original movie. As Phantom Menace clearly showed, CG graphics a great movie does NOT make.The movie carried about itself a blanket of confusion. Why were the boy and his dad (step-dad, mom's boyfriend, gay male lover?) were para-sailing in the first place? How did Dr. Grant's sidekick recreate through rubber foam the vocalics of the Raptors? Who was the man in glasses who sat behind Dr. Grant in the airplane and knocked him unconscious when he began to protest the plane landing on the island - and, was he the same man, moments later, who was torn in half by Godzill- er, the finned dinosaur? How can a man decay in just a matter of weeks in the parachute? How can Raptors on an island evolve communication in just 2 years when it took Humans more than a million years to do so? How and why wasn't it explained better how the boy got T-Rex's pee sample? Why did the dinosaur not attack the heroes when they were shoving hands into big piles of manure (wow, how original, yet another scene borrowed from the original movie? Why did Godzilla (for lack of a better word) chase the heroe's halfway across the island, following their boat for miles submerged underwater when the thing had the brain capacity of a male tiger? What the hell was going on at the movie's climax when the raptor wanted her eggs back from Dr. Grant. Grant tooted on his buddy's Raptor throat whistle, and the two species exchanged a spirited discussion before the raptors took the eggs and ran off. HUH? And finally, how the hell did some yells through a satellite phone alert Larua Dunn to the fact that her ex-boyfriend Grant was getting attacked by Godzilla on an island half a world away and, on top of that, how the hell did she convince the U.S. government to divert two aircraft carrier groups and two platoons of M-16 totin' Marines to storm the beaches to rescue four insignificant people? Ay-yi-yi!!!!Finally, the movie was basically Aliens. Remember Cameron's great sequel to the original? Little girl lives and survives among the aliens, gets rescued by men and women with guns, most of those men and women get slaugheted, Alien queen backs away from killing due to the human's threatening her eggs? Replace the little girl with a teen-age boy, and Raptor's with acid-veined aliens, and you basically have Jurassic Park 3.This movie... terrible, terrible, terrible. "},{"Title":"A bad book report by a high school student on a classic piece of literature.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I definitely want to write the screenplay for Jurassic Park 4. It's easy money! Contrive some ridiculous reason to toss the old cast into the old meat grinder, add some disposable characters as dino-fodder and let them run around and scream a while till they get off the island. (Here's the formula. Don't go to the island, don't go to the island. Oh CRAP, we're on the island. Run around Die. Run around Die. Oh good, they're here to rescue us. Please send offers to my e-mail address.)(And for the record, if I did write the screenplay, it would be Jurassic Park 4 - Survival of the Fittest in which the dinosaurs get off the island and trash the world until we find out the mysterious reason they reached an evolutionary dead end.)In a nutshell, a cute couple tricks Dr. Grant into going to dino-island to rescue their son who was lost parasailing. Don't ask me to defend it, please see above. And there's a new monster or two, nicely done of course. There's even a heavyweight match that we've been waiting to see since the first installment.Anyway, Sam Neill is great, and lends an air of legitimacy to this non-Spielberg, non-Chrichton knock-off. I am grateful this film didn't take the usual routes of kids and their easy rapport with monsters, or cuddly varieties of dinosaurs to make it seem like a Disney feature from some Sunday night long ago when Rex Allen narrated positively everything. Tea Leoni is uncannily beautiful and will fill very nicely the roles which Meg Ryan is too old or too serious or too expensive to cast. William H. Macy is as solid as the Rock of Gibraltar, and I'd cast him in any film even if I had to write him in after the factJurassic Park was a brilliant story that created its own reality and we believed it because it was more fun than a roller coaster. The sequels are parasitic, feeding off the same notion like a bad book report by a high school student on a classic piece of literature. But it's still fun and I recommend it for the pure entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Entertaining? Yes. Satisfying? Well...Almost.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Definitely better than The Lost World, this attempt was pretty sharp, although lacking in minor ways. I think if the studios keep the writing good and break into new and different territory each time (like this one did), they can probably guarantee themselves two more successful (and possibly entertaining) movies. The dinosaurs looked excellent as ever, a great variety of different species making an appearance here and there. Wonderful directing by Joe Johnston who captures the suspense and the realism of the dinosaurs flawlessly. William H. Macy and Tea Leoni's characters are also a pleasant addition to this film as well (even if you want to see them munched on for disregarding sound advice). With all those things aside, the plot was pretty simple and acceptable, leaving the dinosaurs plenty of screen time.I felt the film maintained a comparative realism throughout also. Although, for such a hostile environment, the characters that should have suffered a grisly fate of the dinosaurs seem to always survive extravagantly. The survival should have been more chaotic and less predictable, with one supporting character living through with a story to tell, or maybe even no one surviving the uneventful jaunt to the island. That's my only gripe against the film.Expect no surprises like that though, just your standard summer thrill ride (within it's limitations). I'm sure the studios wouldnt want to plaster an apocalyptic ending on a big Summer Blockbuster anyways, or gore their big named Hollywood stars halfway through the film. They did their job though and got me to pay the admission and enjoy most of the ride. Its worth seeing, at least the first time around. I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park 3 was a pleasant surprise.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the large disappointment that was The Lost World Jurassic Park, I wasn't expecting too much from this film; I was, however, pleasantly surprised. While this film does not invoke the sense of awe and sheer power of the first film, it's still one heck of a thrill ride.Director Joe Johnston does a fine job at filling Steven Spielberg's rather large shoes. His style of direction is quite reminiscent of the previous two films. The cast is fairly good, especially for a summer blockbuster. Sam Neill reprises his role from the first film and does a good job at doing so. William H. Macy is a welcome addition to the cast. Ta Leoni does come off as being somewhat annoying, though.The story is, by no means, groundbreaking. The screenwriters borrow many elements from the first two films but add some of their own ideas. A new cast and new dinosaurs also help in making the film appear to be more original and fresh.While Don Davis's musical score isn't as majestic and powerful as John Williams's score for the previous films, it does serve its purpose of heightening the action.The special effects are very good but not quite up to par with those of the first film. The CGI dinosaurs have a `computer tint' to them. The animatronic dinosaurs are quite effective, however.In fact, I only have two real complaints with this film. Where the first film was perhaps too slow in its pacing, this one feels very rushed; some scenes fly by and don't give you an opportunity to catch your breath. With a running time of only 90 minutes, one would think the film could have been lengthened to draw the story out. The finale is also a little too `audience friendly.' I doubt we'll see many summer blockbusters, this year, that will be better than this. "},{"Title":"Is the third time always a charm?","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was almost worth watching.  Sequels are great but why trilogys. If a movie is great make a sequel, but it can only go down hill from there. How many times are people going to want to see the same movie with a different name.  William H. Macy gives a great performance with his off beat humor.  He is one of the few things i liked about this film.  The movie starts off good but keeps going and going and then the worst ending ever. i can't go into detail but you will see for yourself.  i do not recommend this film. "},{"Title":"More fun that the first, but not as satisfying as Lost World","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  None of the Jurassic park movies were particularly well made. The first had breakthrough effects but the characters were dumb, the dialogue was mostly about chaos theory, dinosaur manure, rebooting computers, or jokes about blind dinosaurs and their dogs----not to mention it featured  two of the most annoying children who seem to have been rejects from Hook. Plus Laura Dern always seemed like she was about to cry.Lost World was so much more complete as a movie-despite a few stupid scenes and character decisions. I will never fathom why a movie that was actual ABOUT the dinosaurs would rate lower than the original--which featured far less. Even the dialogue was more alive--not just technobabble or moralizing about the importance of children and family, and the ending was a real ending--no magical appearance by a T-rex out of thin air like in JP 1.JP3 was made to finish off the scenes left out of the others--this time the highlight was pteradactyls. Sam Neill was given much more to do than in the first JP. I didnt buy the kid surviving for 8 weeks in the wilds--but at least he wasnt annoying. As a dumb action movie it was okay--but there still was far too little dino scenes. The T-rex vs Spinosaurus fight should have been movied to the end-and expanded a bit longer...anything would have been better than the actual ending(but it still wasnt as weak  as JP 1). The shots of the pteradactyls flying alongside the plane was what should have been seen at the end of the first movie.As for the awe factor that people keep mentioning--you cant expect to be wowed by the fx like in the first movie. For one thing--too many other films borrowed the fx technology--people were used to it. For another--Spielberg was and is a cheapskate. He wouldnt show more of the dinos than he had to in order to tell the story. Few lingering panoramic shots of the dinos, etc.Thirdly--there is a conflict. On one hand, they want to tell a Frankenstein like story about genetic engineering, but they also want to wow you with the products of that--namely the dinosaurs. Its hard to balance the two.I just hope they stop it now. They have really milked this movie series to the fossilized bone. "}{"Title":"JPIII is fluffy, but it opens the door for JPIV","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While entertaining, the third installment is, in the end, fluffier than either of the first two. The original is a classic; the second has debatable value, but I personally enjoyed it quite a bit; the third combines elements of the first two with a rather thin plot to create a lighter, somehow comical version of the first film. Yes, they get stuck on the island. Again. Yes, Dinosaurs eat people. In fact, they attack almost at once. The new baddie, Spinosaurus, chomps T-Rex some fifteen or twenty minutes in just so you know the new guy is tough. Then it's run to coast, call for help, fight a few raptors, get attacked by Spinosaurus a few times, play with Pteranodons, etc. Is it enjoyable? Yes, yes it is. Is it entertaining? Yup. Is it intelligent? Well, unlike the first film, this one has no debates over the morality of what was going on, no discussions about what should and shouldn't be done, and no real moral center. So, no, it isn't particularly intelligent. The ending is pretty satisfying, though, and leaves things open for part four, which has potential to be as solid as the first one&#133; IF it's done right. There are lines in this film and in the others and in both books that, if used correctly, could build into a well-though-out plot. Let me give you an example there's a conversation in JPIII that runs something like this `Spinosaurus? I don't remember that being in InGen's catalogue.' `It wasn't, which makes me wonder what else they were up to.' In the Raptor Room, they find small tanks with baby raptors in them. Long dead, but with wires and electrodes attached to them, as if some strange experiments were being done. So what does this bode for part four? We've got smart raptors, free Pteranodons, odd InGen experiments, and an international incident because the dinos aren't all on the island any more. Plus, Spinosaurus can swim, and I'd say raptors probably could, too. And then, of course, there's Biosyn and Isla Nublar, both ripe with possibilities. There's room for more, BUT please, don't get them stuck on the island again! It's getting old! "},{"Title":"A case of raptor rapture or maybe it should be FX fixation.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Talk about a Phantom edit--how about the Jurassic Park Juxtaposition?  I don't buy it--the main character, Dr. Grant (Sam Elliott) is portrayed as anti-park.  He loves his dinosaurs the old-fashioned way--digging them out of stone.Now, mind you, he's seen the past come alive in a previous encounter where he was thrashed by a T-rex and ravaged by raptors.  Nevertheless, he got a closer look at the beasties than anyone else.But now, with dino activity rumored on a nearby island, we are to believe that the old fossil hound doesn't want to get a peek at the real thing. Especially in light of his raptor theory--they could have become the dominant species on Earth if not for that pesky asteroid that brought the curtain down on the dino era 65 million years ago.Here's the revised version for JPIII  Grant's in a funk, bolting out of dino dreams, getting all hot and sweaty about it.  He realizes his worst fear he has to go back--to test his theories, to see what makes a pterasaur sore.So he recruits some old friends(like Laura Dern who could have phoned in her part this time around) and gets dropped on the island.  Bad things happen right away and he gets that old feeling again--that while dinosaurs may be cool, they aren't very nice.But this time, old Grantie has to rescue Laura who's been snagged by a band of female-loving raptors--that aspect is touched on towards the end of JP3 with the main raptor giving a nudge to Tea Leoni(rather than taking her head off).Now this would have used the same basic components of III--dino effects, cell phone in the crap scene, etc.  But no kids, no dumb husband-and-wife stuff, no preaching.As for the actual movie--some good scenes but you're never really transported to the island to shake in terror as these computer-enhanced monsters. "},{"Title":"In some ways superior to JP, but I'll take the Lost World instead","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP 3 brings back Sam Neill, who tended to be overshadowed in the first movie by Jeff Golblum's character. Goldblum got the better lines and poor Mr. Neill(who I will always remember as the grown up Damien) was left babysitting the two annoying children for much of the film. Here, Neill gets to do more as Dr. Grant, interact with the dinos of Isla Sorna and come outwith more appreciation for the genetically engineered dinos than he had after part 1.Story wise--its pretty standard bubblegum fare--though they tried to give it a few twists. In some ways the characters were more developed than in either Jp or the Lost World, but somehow they were still far less interesting than the dinosaurs. At least in LW most of the character decisions  were directed at issues involving them. The child in the movie wasnt as annoying as in the other two films, although the recovery of lost offspring was already explored twice before.As for the dinos themselves--they had a little more personality than they had in part 1, but were not as well depicted as they were in the Lost World. In that film we saw dinosaurs acting like dinosaurs(as opposed to monsters). They were shown defending themselves, fighting off pesky humans with cameras, drinking water, slipping on the ground, scratching themselves, creeping over shyly with the encouragement of a parent to give the villian his comeuppance--much more in keeping with the spirit of a Ray Harryhausen or Willis O'Brien film. JP3 returns us to the monster depiction for the carnosaurs(exception for the velociraptors, who for a change arent quite the one dimensional baddies they were in the other two films).There are a couple of good scenes, namely the Spinosaurus and the Aviary sequences. But the fight with the T-rex and the Spinosaurus was a BIG letdown. It must have lasted all of 30 seconds. Compare that with the Ymir-elephant fight in 20 Millions Miles to Earth, or a smilar confrontation in Valley of Gwangi--or better yet the original King Kong.All three JP films seemed to take every opportunity to cut away from the dinosaurs. It is most infuriating!The T-rex fight really should have been moved to the end and expanded.It would have been spectacular.The ending of the movie is rather rushed--but the final sequence from the plane is really what should have bene seen at the end of the first movie.As it stands the three Jurassic Park films have their pluses and minuses, but for my money, the Lost World was still the most impressive in a film series that had so much more potential than it realized. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw JP3 the first day it was released, and I will admit I wasn't expecting much!  It was better than I thought it would be, but it could have been better.  If Spielberg had directed it, it would have been better.  Movies rely on good direction to be able to do well...and Spielberg is the best! "},{"Title":"Classic Park III","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well what is there to say about the next edition of the massive Jurassic Park franchise, well its one of the finest movies to be released this year for a start.Some said that The Lost World (jurassic park II) was Speilberg's worst film, and was not a patch on the first and best film.When Jurassic Park III was announced, fans grew weary of another movie, but hype grew over time and as more and more information came out of the works...the fans became more acquainted with this next instalment.So here we are...the movie has been released but is it good?Answer VERY!In fact Jurassic Park III is possibly the finest movie released thus far in 2001, finally fans can rejoice in glory as the Park is back...and 10 times bigger and better than ever before.If you are after the most superb and well rendered visuals, or a deep and involving story or maybe an element of romance involved then JP3 is your answer to an almost perfect summer blockbuster.High budget movies these days are often considered to be of lower quality than a lower budget movie...the reason? Well higher budget movies especially summer efforts are consisted of expensive special effects...which is no bad element but offers movie goers a fast action adrenaline pumping movie.There are however one or two movies per summer, with a high budget that will get the must see value...Jurassic Park III is one of them.So what about those special effects then? Well only one word can fully illustrate them and that word is AMAZING.ILM and Digital Domain deliver some of and if not the finest special effects since Buena Vista's Pearl Harbor, who's visuals were also provided by ILM.Speilberg's absence from the directors chair for JP3 was a huge disappointment to fans of the series...however Joe Johnston has done more than a fine job, but rather a near perfect job.He, like Speilberg recognises a unique style and structure that make the whole film flow from danger to happiness to laughter and to fear.If Johnston is not at least nominated for best director at the next Academy Awards then there is something seriously wrong.The musical score for Jurassic Park back in 1993 was one of the finest score ever heard...by John Williams of course.John Williams was reasonably missing from the crew line-up for JP3, he did provide the main theme tunes and extra themes but the new musical composers have done a more than average effort.I would go as far to even say that the music for JP3 is amazing and tremendously satisfying than the first and original movie.The cast line-up for JP3 is also perfect, and the return of Sam Neill and Lara Dern was the missing element from The Lost World.As they say 'the originals are always the best' and the cast for JP3 is the perfect suit for a movie so satisfying and groundbreaking as this.To sum up, Jurassic Park III will definitely go down in the history books in one way or another, it will also be nominated for more than one Academy Award.Putting it bluntly The Lost World is blown away and fans of the original 1993 movie will take to JP3 like no other.The big question that fans are asking is is it better than the first? My answer to this in all fields is YES.Go see it now, as it is best viewed on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"I want my 9 bucks back!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I mean, cmon!  I went into the theater knowing it was gonna be a cheesy plot, but my god!!  The best parts of the movie are shown in the trailer. And not to mention the movie was barely 1.5 hours!  WTF?  Now before all you guys who have been praising this movie say anything, let me get one thing straight.  The movie DID have great effects... but guess what? GREAT SPECIAL EFFECTS MEAN BUPKIS IF THERE IS NO PLOT, OR SUSPENSE.  The non-action scenes was just filler to get to the next one.  Huge gaps were left, such as how the hell did that Giant Dino get there? Grant merely theorizes that Ingen must have just made it...  Which doesnt explain much at all, because if the Behemoth was put there by INgen, why didnt we see it before hand?Oh for the love of God, Raptors communicating???  I admit there is the possiblity that they had the ability to make sounds and so forth however, language is not innate, it must be learned.  And since it takes millenia for species to develop any useful communication amounmgst each other, it is completey infesiable that thse dinos made at most a decade ago could have such complex communication pattterns.  That movie was a huge GIP! You saw only two people DIE!, and one guy's skelton was found... PONDEROUS!! "},{"Title":"I don't see what's so wrong with it...","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand why people think that this movie is so bad...I mean I saw a plot, and found some humor in the movie.  It was much better than the second movie.  I see why most people wanted to go see this movie to start out with, oh wow, they brought back sam neill and laura dern.  and i too was caught by this amazement after the terribleness of the second movie, hoping for a new something that the other 2 didn't have. I wasn't let down.  I went to the movie thinking people think this sucks...and didn't have high expectations after reading reviews. But after seeing it, i changed my mind and definitely tell people to go see it. "},{"Title":"What's the problem??","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw it after reading all the hostile publicity. My reaction what was everyone expecting? The movie was fine in a sort of harmless, unsurprising way. It had a plot, sort of, that was intelligible. The characters were thin, but not entirely unappealing. After the horrid Cats and Dogs and the catastrophic Final Fantasy, JP III was a welcome return to mediocrity -- comfortable, entertaining, competent mediocrity. What's so bad about that?? "},{"Title":"Impressive for a threequel","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Threequels are not famous for their originality or even quality but with Jurassic Park 3, the creators have managed to produce an ideal summer blockbuster light-weight plot, engaging characters (despite their shallowness) and plenty of action.  While it's doubtful that it's going to be anyone's favourite in the series, it should please fans of both previous films.The wonder element from the first film is still there as we see herds of 'nice' dinosaurs but given that it's all been done before, director Joe Johnston wisely gives us more of the humans versus dangerous dinosaurs scenarios that made the Lost World so much fun.The script could have so easily descended into humourless cliches, but there is a pleasant tongue-in-cheek sense of fun present the whole time which is significantly aided by such a strong cast.The one main advantage the film has over the first two is a likeable child character.  This kid is not just there to scream - he's survived on the island for 8 weeks, knows his stuff and is generally more composed than his parents.The main problem with the film was the ending.  It finished just when I was expecting one more climactic dinosaur encounter.  To top it off, someone turns up alive who clearly should be dead, which had the distinct smell of test screening re-shoot about it.Aside from these two quibbles, the film was exactly what I'd hoped for - a rollercoaster ride which is immensely fun while it's happening, but leaves little impression afterwards. "},{"Title":"Not the Suckosaurus you expected....","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thrill as we see a 12 year old boy survive for weeks using only mud, branches and crunch bars!Chill as we see 3 grown adults stick their hands in Dino poop!Spill as we watch the characters fall into water countless times!It has its problems, but it's a good B-movie that entertains.... some really stupid dialogue (that it's our son out there versus the fact that a spouse was just found dead) and overall cheese but decent.I'm torn between giving this a C+ or a B- -- but the fact that I laughed about 5 times more than either of the earlier two Jurassoles, it's worth an 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Jurassic Park is back and it's great.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To me, the first Jurassic Park will always be the best. I wasn't too keen on the second one though. It was really good, just not as good as the first one. Anyway, the third installment of Jurassic Park is great. You have all your usual excitement and of course the great special effects. If you enjoyed the first two, or even if you didn't, I'm sure you will enjoy this one. Let's hope they'll make a fourth one soon. I give this film an 8/10.   "},{"Title":"Good Family Fun","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one of those action films that you can't quite love but you can't hate either.  The special effects are top notch, there are some good one-liners, the characters are mainly familar to anyone who has seen the other movies, the problem I have with this film is that it is a little too short.  It rare that you can say this about a movie but another 10-mins would of allowed the story to develop a little bit more and make the story a little less throw away.  That said I still enjoyed the movie and I am sure I will watch again sometime in the future. "},{"Title":"Ignore Lost World this is a worthy sequel","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a well crafted piece of action-entertainment. It's not Lawrence of Arabia but if you went to the movie with expectations that high you need to have your head examined. The dinosaurs were seamless and the picture moved along at just the right pace, it told it's story without turning into a theme-park ride. I particularly liked the battle between the Tyrannosaurus Rex and the Spinosaurus (I'm not sure that is the correct spelling) it reminded me of King Kong where Kong battles the T-Rex.  "},{"Title":"ZZzzZZzzZZzzZZzz!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  even with the obvious plot flaws of the lost world. It still had a resonably intresting plot.This movie seems to have a silly little plot that just sort of conforms to whatever dinosaur they want to jump out at you next. There were so many things they could have exsplored but didn't. So many times when a characters could have been more. so many things that just went totally unexsplained. and at the end, it was just like oh, its over, ok, whatever boring boring boring. I hope if they make a new one, which is what they seemed to be hinting to, they write a story that is more than just dinosaur jumps out here and something should happen here, we'll figure it out later (but they don't) save your money for planet of the apes! "},{"Title":"worth seeing, but not like the first","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie, but it did suck some of the time.  The plot was about as thin as paper, and the acting wasn't perfect, but I still enjoyed it.  I didn't like what they did with the T-rex, though.  He was the perfect source of fear in the first two, so why change it?  Don't fix what isn't broken, or something like that.  Most of the new dinosaurs were OK, but the plot sucked.  I mean, a 14-year old surviving by himself for two months on an island populated by all these killer dinosaurs.  Yeah right.  But I didn't care...I had fun. "},{"Title":"SOMETHING HAS SURVIVED, UNFORTUNATELY NOT A PLOT","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steven Spielberg finally figured out how to make a movie that is critic-proof and if anyone was going to do it, the former summer box office champ with a career long love-hate relationship with the nation's film reviewers is the man. He has reached back into the pages of history that saw his rise and done what all good modern filmmakers do - taken something familiar and given it a new twist. Apparently boning up on his Watergate trivia, Spielberg has taken that favorite of Nixon mouthpieces the non-denial denial, and given it a new, cinematic twist. He has made a non-movie movie.Most cleverly, he passed on the director's duties to Joe Johnston so moviegoers will not be tempted to state It must be a movie! See, Spielberg's name is on it.  Looking at the progression of Johnston's work from Honey, I Shrank the Kids to The Rocketeer to Jumanji it seems he too has been doing his share to get to the non movie movie as well. October Sky is looking more like the exception than the rule. Spielberg has also gotten writers Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor III to get on board this non movie movie idea as well. Hopefully they will escape back to greener pastures that produced Election and Citizen Ruth. So what is Jurassic Park III? Luckily, I spent the day Monday at Six Flags Magic Mountain in Valencia, California and not dying from a brain aneurysm on Goliath I am here to tell you that without a doubt what this 95 minute series of images most resembles is a trip to the theme park of your choice. All you are supposed to remember are the thrills, not shuffling along for 20 minutes to get there. Just like in the movie, I saw and met other people (we can call them characters if it helps) as we filed up to the attraction. In the case of Monday, there was the nice trio from Orlando who I rode Riddler's Revenge with just like there's this trio headed by William H. Macy and Tea Leoni in Park who we get to know just as well.In fact, Leoni is that hyper affected woman you get stuck next to who screams shrilly from start to finish. Only in her case it was acting in way so unbelievably life threatening to the other characters that their inaction had me wanting to belt this woman so badly Ike Turner would blush. If a films success should be judged by the emotional reaction it elicits, then congrats, Steven, I have never wanted to hit a woman so bad in all my life. Sure NOW really appreciates that. So what are the big attractions? Well, we have the Overhead View Ride,  the Crash The Plane Ride and about half a dozen Run Like Hell Rides. There are parts that were lots of fun and parts that just weren't worth the wait in line. My least favorite was seeing how much Taylor Nichols has aged since first breaking out in Metropolitan and Barcelona, the Good Lord, Have I Aged  ride. Don't get me wrong, I had a great time Monday helping Time Warner AOL pad their bottom line by going on Viper and Batman, so too parts of  Jurassic III - The Ride, Not The Movie.  There were some great visuals, nifty new creatures and a few sequences that were very effective. Just don't call it a movie because then we have to get into things like story and character, something you just don't find in theme parks unless you provide them through your own imagination. Which, it seems, all the otherwise talented people behind JP3 expect you to do with their ride as well. "},{"Title":"Summer action at its best...","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park was great.  The Lost World was mediocre.  Jurassic Park III is a surprisingly enjoyable blend of its two predecessors.  It combines everything that made the first film great with everything that made the second film stupidly entertaining.  You get amazing atmosphere and subtle, eerie effects, while at the same time, being blown away by very blunt and in-your-face shock-horror.  They mix to make for a very suspensful and scary summer thrill ride.I think the best thing about it is the variety is offers.  Unlike The Lost World, whose action was practically identical to the original film, it offers new and exciting hazards for the cast to overcome.  In the first two films, there were only two main threats, the Tyrannasaurus Rex and the Velociraptors.  However, in JP3, the T-Rex is almost completely absent (he makes a pleasing cameo early in the movie), and a great twist is added to the Raptors.  Also, two new dinosaurs are thrown into the characters' faces, the Spinosaurus (who even the T-Rex fears) and the Pteradon, a flying dinosaur.However, like all films, JP3 has its flaws.  These flaws include an almost entirely unbelievable ending, which in my opinion, came too soon, the movie ended before things had a chance to wrap up.  It probably won't win the Oscar for best picture, but when you get down to it, good acting, great special effects, a pretty good script, and amazing action make this one of the best summer popcorn movies in years. "},{"Title":"A high budget B movie","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie seems like a B movie that got a big special effects budget. I dont mean that as a bad thing though. Just dont overanalyze the plot. It's just there to take you to the dinosaurs. Its a showcase of special effects, that needed a plot so they could call it a movie. Its a bit silly, a lot more so than the other two. If you can enjoy a good special effects show, you'll like it. If it wasnt for the effects, it probably would have been straight to video, but is worth seeing on the big screen to see what the effects artists could do. I'll watch it again! "},{"Title":"A 'Park' Without Spielberg","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Joe Johnston does the most of what he can with the little that he has.  The most pertaining to the visual effects and little pertaining to the script.  I, for one, did not buy the premise nor was I enthralled by the majority of the film's action scenes. I, however, did enjoy the film's characters and production design.  The duration, also, could've been extended to incorporate other seemingly missing scenes that may have possibly made the film complete in other words, 'JP3' is too short to have any real weight against the previous two.  In comparison to the other two, 'JP3' lacks the miraculousness of the first, and the sheer energy of the second.  I sure miss Spielberg!  Grade C+       "},{"Title":"This time it IS just a walk in the park.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay it is a sequel, but with the cast and the dollar amount of special effects thrown at this picture it should have been better. Plot rescue and escape. What should have been one of the most violent and intense scenes happens off screen; and we are left to imagine our own special effects to accompany the sound effects. I thought this was a summer block buster, if I wanted to imagine my own visuals I would read a book or listen to NPR. Some of the acting was phoned in, no really it was phoned in. As was the plot, it must have been pitched over a conference call and written from the transcript. The only good thing was I did not waste a lot of time, it is only 92 minutes long. "}{"Title":"A FAILURE DIDN'T STOP THESE GUYS","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the lost world, which btw was the worst movie I have seen, they decided to create one of the most stunning of works I have witnessed to date.  This movie continued the plot of the previous films and added in the best special effects to create a stunning movie.I would say this movie is the best action-filled movie which keeps you in suspense wanting to know what is next.  Keep your nerves handy, cause when you leave your nerves certainly won't be normal!This movie is the best with great actors and writers with talent and editors that know their stuff!  Don't stop now when you have opened yourself to a fourth one with the ending you gave!Keep up the good work!!-Osiris (Daniel Hawton) "},{"Title":"Leave your Brain and Enjoy.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this film was just what you need for a summer blockbuster; scares, laughs, good action and the best nerdy action hero there has ever been. Sure you can rip the film to shreds every five minutes with an as if and a yeah right there but that kind of defeats the object of the film.  My advice is leave your brain at the door and enjoy, I did. "},{"Title":"Great fun but had potential to be more......","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was expecting the worst going into Jurassic Park III.  After the abomination that was The Lost World, all my expectations for any sequels were pretty low.  Being a huge fan of the first one, I was already prepared to have the series plummet into mediocrity, destroying the integrity of the first film.  Despite my low expectations, or maybe because of them, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  As the movie opened, and I heard the familiar JP theme music, I knew it was already a step in the right direction, seeing as The Lost World was practically void of  the great compositions John Williams established in the first movie, this was a refreshing surprise.  Of course as is the case with many summer `blockbusters', anyone looking for a deep story and complex characters need not apply.  This movie solely relies on it CG dinos to deliver the goods; and that they do.  It cuts right to the chase and gets the human prey...uh, I mean characters, straight to the island without delay.  And that's when the fun starts.  While the first movie set up it's action sequences with building suspense and tension, this movie mostly just throws them at you in large quantities.  The sequences are fast and exciting, with some truly amazing special effects and sound assaulting on you senses.  While the action is great, a lot of about the movie is a little hard to swallow.  A little more realism would have been much appreciated and would have been a nice change of pace from the usual predictable Hollywood formula.  I'm sick of the `separated couple get thrown together under extreme circumstances and rekindle their love' angle.  It's been done to death.  Speaking of death, there should have been a lot more of it.  Ok, so the movie is PG-13, but I don't mean it had to be a blood bath, but I have to figure that if you get all these humans stranded on an island overrun with dinosaurs, they have no weapons or shelter and are supposed to be facing these `super intelligent' velociraptors, you'd think at least half of them would become dino-food right?  And I don't buy the kid surviving on the island by himself for 8 weeks.  The ending also leaves much to be desired.  It seemed very anti-climactic and leaves you expecting more, some sort of grand finale that never comes.  Ok, so far it seems like I didn't enjoy myself at all watching this movie, which isn't true, I actually had a great time.  But being such a huge fan of the first one, after watching this movie it made me realize that this movie had the potential to be so much more.  It seems like the studio has become complacent and isn't trying very hard.  The ending also hints that a sequel might be in store for us in the future.  I'm not too sure if one should be made.  While part of me can't get enough of seeing these CG dinos battle it out on screen, unless this series takes a drastic turn in the right direction, it might end up being nothing more than another Friday the 13th.  I really hope that doesn't happen. This movie is sort of a catch 22 for me; I had a great time watching it, but since I actually enjoyed myself as much as I did,  made me wonder how much better it could have been if it's flaws were fixed.  After all is said and done, the next day at work I recommended it to everyone I spoke to.  So while nowhere near the caliber of the first movie, it runs circles around the second.  Should make a really nice DVD. "},{"Title":"Come on.....A talking raptor","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was hyped up way too much. I thought it was going to be awesome until the spinosaraus came on, then it sucked. I mean come on, the raptor said Allen and I laughed. This movie was a romance and a comedy, it wasn't scary. The dinosaurs are hardly in the movie either. If you liked the first and second JP, you will be disappointed. When the dinos are in the movie, they don't look that good. One exception, the pteridactlys look awesome, that is the only good scene in the movie. You get tired of the woman in it and begin to root for her to die. The plot is pointless and is just another opportunity for dinos to eat humans. I can see why steven speilberg was just a producer. He wanted to stay away from it. In the first one, Allen Grant knew the raptors communicated to each other and in this one, he made a big deal of it. To end I just wanted to say that I was glad I spent my free ticket from the ultimate dvd pack so I don't have to see this movie again. I just wished they could have made it better than it was, it had some good potential. "},{"Title":"Much better than the first 2 Jurassic's.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After reading reviews from people stating that the movie was better than the first or 2nd one, I would definitely have to agree with them.  It is well worth seeing.  The dinosaur graphics are amazing!!  The ending was weird to me because it kinda left you hanging.  I guess there could be a Jurassic IV. All and all it was a great movie.  There aren't too many movies I would pay to see twice, but this would qualify.  This movies for you if you're a sci-fi lover. "},{"Title":"Exciting but... stupid as well","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The world is sometimes stupid, why people like to go watch some dinos chasing human running movie (to get excited of course)... not just that .... **a bit spoilers here**....but you would have expected who would die and who woulden even before all the chasing starts!Good animation and really a hard work effort in it's animations ONLY. About the raptors being cleaver is good. But the whole idea is stupid, what makes Alan go back to the island is stupid and the reason the Kirbys are there is also plane stupid (I though they are up to something big but... instead we get the Kirby Enterprise).Would watch it once only and hope to get JP4 with improvements and imagination.  "},{"Title":"Two dimensional plot","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love dinosaurs.  Always have.  I loved Jurassic Park 1 and bought it as soon as it was made available.  When J.P.2 came out, I saw it the first day it opened - and was more or less disappointed in it. Too much bloodshed and jump scenes, but then these are dinosaurs.  What would we expect if such a thing became a reality?  I really didn't have any desire to see it again, until J.P.3 was made.  The very same day I saw number 3 and after I sat through the 90 minute film, I went out and bought, then viewed, number 2 just to compare.  Big difference.  Even though J.P. 2 was bloodier, it had by far the best 'fleshed' out story line than the first and - certainly - the third installment.  If Spielberg had added 20-30 minutes more to J.P.3's length just to add some depth to his characters, the movie might have topped the first two, or at the very least, been equal to them.  Still, the dinos are great eye candy and I loved every minute that they were on the screen. Kudos to the CGI team and others for incredible realism!!  Too bad the actors were given such miniscule script.  It was a great cast; the acting was terrific (especially T. Leoni's too real reaction to too many stresses - even though I thought what an idiot the character was to go half-crazy screaming through a dino-filled jungle.  Personally, she responded the way I would, I think! But, I was sitting safely in my theater seat, so it was easy to be critical! ).  Yet, with all the intense acting, they just couldn't fill in the gaps that Spielberg created when he made them bit players ( no pun intended) in this dino flick.  Steven should have given more screen time to creating real people.  However, I am planning on seeing it again with my husband ( I went with the kids while he was at work) and I am prepared to buy it, too, once it becomes available.  Nothing like a complete set, you know!   "},{"Title":"The best blockbuster by far this year","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was anticipating a clichd boring romp through the jungle but pleasantly surprised by how engrossing this film was. The only complaint was the sudden ending and faint surprise at the lack of the now traditional false ending. I don't know why they did this but I could have happily sat through another 20 mins.I'm relieved to be able to leave the cinema without the empty feeling so many of this year's crop of blockbusters left me with. It's not a great film but it is decent enough. Certainly better than The Mummy Returns, Tomb Raider, et al. (I have watched some trash this year) "},{"Title":"Not a patch on the first one, but much better than JP2.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, I would like to say that I disliked the second movie.  A lot. It was one of Spielberg's worst movies, and here's why 1. It was stretched it out to 2 hours.  The first film could still work at 2 hours because it was a concept few of the audience would be familiar with, so it needed to establish itself.  2. Where the hell was Sam Neill?  3. Isn't this just King Kong? It seemed to try too hard to be original, and somehow ended up being completely UNoriginal.  4. It went WAY overboard at the end, as Spielberg has a strange tendancy to do.  Luckily this habit was not used in the first film.I was worried that JP3 would have the same problems.  I am glad to say that it does not.  It cuts it down to 92 minutes, Sam Niell IS in it and it doesn't TRY to be original, it knows it cannot put forward any good, new ideas.In a way, I am glad Spielberg did not direct, as he may have done what he did with JP2.  So the addition of Joe Johnston was a welcome change.The story People on island.  Dinosaurs on island.  Dinosaurs chase people and roar.  Very loudly.  Hey haven't we heard this before?  Well, I told you it wasn't original.First, what I didn't like about JP3.  Tea Leoni.  She just annoyed the hell out of me, all the way through.  Secondly, despite me being pleased that it was short, it did seem to end quite abruptly, almost as if they weren't sure what to do.But, despite these flaws, I did enjoy the film very much.  It reminded me that sometimes with films, you just have to sit back, stop analysing it and enjoy what you see (something the young kids in front of me were obviously doing, as they walked out the cinema declaring it was probably the best film they had ever seen).  Sam Niell is still great, and William H Macy is in fine form, as per usual.  And the bit with the pterodactyl.  That hadn't been done before, so it was nice to see something original.  The way it emerges from the mist was actually quite SCARY.Plus, the effects are great.  The dinosaurs actually ARE real.  I think. And they roar.  Very loudly.  See this film with no high expectations, and enjoy it.  And stop analysing it, for god sake.3 stars (out of 5).PS. I do realise the contradiction of me analysing the film, then telling you not to, so no need to point that out.  "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing the first 2 movies, and reading reviews, i have noticed that not many people appreciate a good movie. I thought that JP3 was gonna suck, because it wasn't directed by Steven Spielberg, but when it was finished, i thought WOW! I have read reviews for this movie and the first 2, and i don't like what i have heard. If you enjoy action and comedy, these movies are good! And the time they spent on it is amazing. One part of this movie, little Eric Kirby is saying that he read Dr.Malcolm's book, but found there was to much Chaos in it. Well, i was pretty much rolling on the floor laughing, but no one else got that joke. If you didn't understand that, you cant classify yourself as a JP fan. If you haven't seen all the movies, you wont like this one. But for those who didn't enjoy this movie, or the others, you just dont realize what a good movie is. Take it from me, a movie freak, that this is a good movie. Its worth the money! GO SEE JURASSIC PARK 3!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Refund","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best part of jurassic park III was the news that Michael Crichton wasn't going to be writing the script for this fiasco,and in doing so would not be damaging his career as a writer. Sequels are usually attempts at making more money and satisfying the publics craving for more carnage, wile some films like Aliens escaped such fates, Jurassic Park III will die a worse death then most sequels. The characters are a hopeless crew of stereotypes and hallow personalities that are doomed to die or barley survive. I was eager when i heard Jurassic Park II was going to be better then The Lost World and that the character of Dr. Alann Grant would be revived (some missed Malcolm to some extent, I agree - Malcolm would have given the movie a slim chance). What appalled me more then the series of questionable discrepancies was that Dr Alan Grant's character degraded form a brilliant scientist to a lost soul whose bested by a pree-teen multiple times. I was amazed at the life-like Computer Generated Imagery (CGI) displayed in the first and second movies. I was stunned when the spinasaurus acted more like a stiff robot at points, as well as the T-rex, I then saw the poor CGI quality in all but the raptors (who were the only redeemer of the movie). For only the misely 90 minutes length, the satellite phone stunt,Spinasaurus skat incident, the baby Petrandon attack, the seeming understanding between the survivors and the raptors, combined with the insulting marine arrival at the end, coupled with the Pteranadon escape led to a cataclysmic disappointment. Im not one to diss movie usually, but at the end of this one i stood up at the and voiced my displeasure. for lack of plot, character undevelopment, lack of effort on the CGI staffs part, add views of dinos, this movie was not worth it. But to be fair, if effort had been taken discrepancies corrected, the stupidity sucked out, more dinos, larger action, and a longer movie(im sorry 1 1/2 hour doesn't cut it), this movie could have surpassed the first. If only....I think they should create one more Jurassic Park, call it end days have it be a twenty mins, and just drop a nuke on the freaking island.Rating 2 (out of five) or 4 (out of ten) "},{"Title":"sporadically entertaining but ultimately a disappointment","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I felt a great sense of anticipation in the months running up to the third installment of one of the biggest movie series of all time, and while the film is not a complete disaster it certainly is a huge disappointment. I didnt feel any of the tension present in the first installment or the much maligned lost world, that is not to say that the film is without its thrilling scenes but just that somehow they failed to engage me as the the original jurassic park had . Perhaps my biggest gripe with jurassic park 3 is the ending, its abrupt arrival left me feeling cheated , it felt too lazy a conclusion in that wasnt preceded by any great climatic scene and seemed too reliant on an dismissal of common sense. "},{"Title":"More graphic than the others","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is a winner.  You'll notice it drips blood more than the others (the dinos jaws are frequently bloodied in this sequel) and that bothered me.  I screamed ten minutes into the movie and jumped several times after that.  Enjoy the ride -) "},{"Title":"dissapointing","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  nowhere near as good as the first two, it seems like once this movie finally gets interesting it endsand if you're expecting all the death and blood of lost world prepare for another dissapointmentthe worst black mark on sam neil's career since bicentennial man "},{"Title":"A typical part 3 sequel; dumb story but great special effects.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought the movie was thoroughly predictable, at least when it comes to the story and the characters.  It's a typical Part III sequel, in that the importance of profits to these film makers seemed to tower over making the story credible.  The two best things about it?  That the special dinosaur effects were superb as usual, and that the film is only 90 minutes long. Having already known about those two things is what made me go to a theater and pay the money.  A bone-headed but decent popcorn movie.  "},{"Title":"Better than the second one, as good as the first.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of course nothing could be better than the first one but this was on the same caliber as far as exciting dinosaur sequences.  The characters in this one were a bit stale and the plot was a little embarrassing but overall if you would like to see an ACTION flick, then go see it.  It was exciting from beginning to end the way it should be.   "},{"Title":"Scares you to death AND makes you want to become a paleontologist.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't get exited excited by the first J.P., never saw the second (by choice), but, my goodness, this one was worth it! I love a scary movie and I love to be intrigued. I can't think of many movies that can do both, but this one did. It helped that the Discovery Channel had a bunch of specials about the movie's facts telling about the new discoveries we've made in the real world of dinosaurs. So, this movie was basically a GREAT advertisement for the paleontology profession. I won't give any of it away, but the new dinosaurs will WOW you big, horrible, and mean,just like we like them! But that's just the intriguing part, the SCARY part was definitely fulfilling. I know I held my hands to my face a dozen times, and I don't scare easy, baby. The added bonus was a welcomed reprieve from the generic plot story where you can pretty much see everything before it's coming. It did have a basic plot, but it was spiced just enough with humor, realism, and unexpectancies.  "},{"Title":"tired and predictable but....","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has one saving grace...the fact that dinosaurs will never fail to be cool...especially to kids. If nothing else, this movie will prove to be a summer family favorite, especially given the lack of family oriented films out this summer. Kids love dinosaurs, and kids also don't care much about plot. As long as it's simple mindless entertainment, it should do for them. The movie is tired and predictable (I mean, c'mon...who couldn't have predicted the plane crash?!), but it is decent mindless fare for summer entertainment...much more entertaining than the dumb blonde comedy Legally Blonde which only goes to prove the superficial low brow mindset of the movie viewing public. Back to Jurassic Park III...in short..tired and predictable, but dinosaurs are really cool! Rating as an actual good movie C Rating as summer entertainment B+ Rating as family fare B (for families with easily frightened young children) A (for families with older children and/or not easily frightened young children) "},{"Title":"More big budget thrills... and silly plot!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Again I was jumping in my seat and dazzled by the visual and audio effects, much like the second movie. And even though I thought this film was a little better than 'Lost World', it was still only 'a little better' not 'alot better'! The plot was weak and full of holes. This was just an excuse to see a display of dino monsters and stupid people running from them. I was thrilled, but once I came down from that, I wasn't impressed.  "},{"Title":"Worthy effort, and my sequel theory","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I left the theater today with mixed feelings. It was definitely a worthy effort, but it came up short in many areas. The first is suspense. SPOILERS TO COME....... The audience has little time to build a fear of the unknown on the island. The spinosaurus was quick to attack. Definitely too soon. It seemed like one attack came right after another by each of the species. C'mon.....!! I didn't find myself gripping the seat, fearful for the characters. Right after the spinosaurus chase, 20 seconds later, they're face to face with the T-REX(his only cameo) The fight between the two was decent. The first movie had more build-up to the action. My biggest complaint for JP3 is no climactic ending. No final showdown. The raptors circle them, exchange glances (and eggs), but that's it. Then the characters are saved. Where's the suspense? The acting could have been better. One thing about these movies....yes the people scream, but they just don't act like a regular human would confronted with a dino that was about to take their life. A little too casual. I wouldn't dare walk through the jungle not knowing what was watching me. But then you wouldn't have a movie....but they should still act more terrified. Dr. Grant's reaction to the Kirbys' deceit was not very convincing. He was hardly ticked for more than a minute. Think about it....he's faced these creatures before...one would think he would be scared as hell considering what he went through last time. I thought he was going to hit Macy (I didn't care for William H. Macy or Tea Leoni in this movie.....these roles should belong to more unknown actors.) The plot seemed to resemble the second.....a rescue. Nothing more. Lost World and JP3 both had stranded people venturing through the jungle to safety. The first movie had a great plot. Lots of substance. The second two movies use a little plot just to get the characters out to island for a game of cat & mouse. The special effects were excellent. I don't know how they do it so well with computers and real footage, but it all looks real. The pteranadon sequence was a fresh look for JP, something new beyond the raptors and T-REX (but they are still great). I enjoyed the new situations the characters encountered, like the boat river attack and the pteranadons. Lots of action, but sometimes a little too much. I think the first movie was the best, because it was the first. My theory on sequels is that when we first see a new idea onscreen( in this case,realistic dinos in a park) movie goers love it. The second time, when the sequel is viewed, we think Been there, done that We want the same substance in a new idea, but not too far-fetched (Like T-REX in San Diego) It takes a supergenius to make a sequel better. I believe if JP3 had been the first of the series, we wouldn't like Jurassic Park so well cause we would find it boring. Another example.... Everyone loves Star Wars and always will. I think of all movies in the trilogy, it is the worst. Cause it's not the one I saw first ( I can't decide if I like Empire or Return better). Even though it has good characters and story, I believe if Phantom Menace was the first movie ever released with the star wars subject and theme and with its awesome special effects and action, and then Star Wars came out after it, people would say Whoa..who made this awful thing. Darth Maul vs. Qui-Gon and Obi Wan saber scene was a LOT more entertaining than Alec Guiness standing there poking a stick at Vader. I'm not saying I like Phantom Menace better, I'm saying that's the way it is for sequels.  One of my regrets about Phantom was its lack of Luke, Leia, Han, Chewie, etc.....but that's obviously because its set in the past......and for a star wars movie to be star warsy, it has to have those characters, because that's who we grew on. It just wasn't the same without those characters, but what can you do? That's why I hope Episode 3 has Darth Vader, TIE Fighters, stormtroopers, X-Wings...some of the old star wars stuff. Anyway Back to JP3. I have a few minor flaws that I can't get over. First, if the air space over the island is restricted, how on earth did they get a boat out there in the beginning for parasailing? Hard to believe they didn't get caught after leaving Costa Rica or wherever. I doubt they had permission. Second gripe, how did the kid survive for 8 weeks on the island.......very unbelieveable. A KID!!!! I don't see it happening, with the dinos and all. Even though he had the truck and the compound as refuge, those two places weren't dino proof. He would have been dead in two days. Third complaint, the island looked large, and their chances of finding the kid in that amount of time were skeptical. Grant wasn't even thrilled to have found him. Finally, the cell phone in the spinosaurus? They wouldn't hear it, especially from that far away. No way. All in all, the movie was well shot, exciting (not suspenseful) at times, great special effects, and some humor. My only regret about the series is that in the story, the rest of the world knows about the dinosaurs' existence. It would be better if the island and its contents were still secret but to a select few. My score....... 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Not bad, but not great either...","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, I loved the first one.  And I liked parts of the second one.  But it's definitely gotten a little formulaic.1.  People loose in dino-land (obvious) 2.  Kids are the heroes (Hammond's granddaughter, Malcolm's daughter (step?), little Kirby) 3.  New dino each movie (all new the first, stegos & pachys the second, Spinosaurus & ankylos the third) 4.  Family theme each movie - Hammond's grandkids and the Ellie/Grant debate, Malcolm's little PC family, the Kirbys 5.  Baby dinos each movie - raptor, t-rex, pteros & raptor eggs 6.  Funny moments - the stuffed dinos, the godzilla theme, the satellite phone 7.  Exploiters vs. Preservers (although in the third movie the debate is toned down to touching vs. watching)Needless to say, there are more.The dinos are great, although the hyped fight of Spinosaur vs. T-Rex was too short.  But there are problems.1.  When the plane falls to the ground, it looks like it's a lot further than 16 feet (the height of the spinosaur)2.  In the water, the spino is standing up with what appears to be only its feet in the water (at the crane), but the dino was just seen swimming toward the boat, which can't be in water much deeper than the crane!  While the homage to Jaws is nice, could it be a little more realistic?  The difference in water depth is too exaggerated in too small a distance, to my understanding.3.  If the raptors are so intelligent in this movie (talking to each other, communicating, etc., basically acting like primitive humans) then why did the female in the first kill all but two of the others?  Bad PMS day? Cowing others into submission would be a better way than killing them, doncha think?4.  How did Kirby know Billy's name?  I was expecting a well, I met this guy earlier scene (probably on the cutting floor) where Billy explained to Grant who Kirby was.  Nope.5.  The T-Rex didn't have to chase the humans too far to run into the Spino's territory (unless the Spino just looks to kill T-Rexs (hinted at here, but that DOES NOT fit the Spino's characteristics as understood today)) so any notion of territoriality of predators is kinda quashed.Three were good points though.1.  The raptors. 2.  The ankylos (one of my fave dinos). 3.  The sat phone. 4.  The aerie (from the original story, good use of a lost piece). 5.  The student aspect (taken from the second book, but reworked). 6.  Dissing Malcolm (who should've died in the first movie, but Spielberg changed it) 7.  No John Hammond (also should've died in the first movie, again thank Spielberg). 8.  The nice resolution of Ellie & Grant's debate on kids (although they shouldn't've had a relationship, again thank Spielberg)Better than the second, could've been better than the first if they tried. Why can't we have a GOOD quality dino film that's realistic? I'm waiting for Raptor Red to be made into a movie. "},{"Title":"Bland Bland Bland","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is strictly a connect the dots film. If you've seen the first two you'll easily be able to connect the dots and see the entire plot coming long before any of the characters do. The entire movie has an air of tiredness to it. Everyone just goes through the paces and there isn't any sense of urgency in any of it. A real dissapointment. "},{"Title":"Pretty decent, but also pretty forgettable.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There's a point in this film when it ends and you flashback to the piece earlier in which we learn the true nature of why the couple (Ta Leoni and William H. Macy) want to take Dr. Alan Grant back to the island, summing up the film's true purpose and that's when you are then left asking, what was the point of this film? Good question. My only conclusion is that they wanted to show off a couple of new dinosaurs that we never saw in the first two. I come to that conclusion because besides the raptors, those two had more screen time then any other (we only see one T-Rex for only about a few minutes).The plot borders on clich, the story is A-typical and the film goes by a bit too fast as well as being filled with a lot of oh my Gods in a possible attempt to reinforce the audience how horrifying living dinosaurs are to us Homosapiens - as if we really needed it told to us. My biggest complaint is that there are a lot of things that never pay off, including the ending. (Even The Lost World had a much more satisfying conclusion.) As the film begins to finish, that's when you begin to hope that the film isn't really over... is it? It seems to have been tacted on as some last minute stunt situation and it looks as though some new window is going to be opened for the story, but sadly, it is the end and that's when you've come to the dreaded conclusion that there was nothing really to the film's backbone and that showing off cool dinosaurs was really the root of this film (and it seems as though we didn't really get much of that either to be honest with you). Absolutely nothing in this film pays off anywhere. Not the plot, story or even the film's core purpose for being made (if you don't include profit as that purpose).There's also a thing about the Velociraptors having evolved more intelligent. Something else that never really paid off either, perhaps only laced into the writing as means to ground that the film could have had some actual point. While on that subject, how could, in less then a decade time span since these animals were reborn, grow that much smarter? I mean, these are the same stupid things that ran head-first into a reflection in the first one, so could they grow smart in such a small amount of time? I figure there'd be at least a century before they reached that level of intelligence, if not, longer. Evolution seems to work in a hurry for story convenience this summer. (First in a Duchovny film and then in a Leoni film? Think about it people.)On the subject of special effects, besides the points where they used animatronics, the effects didn't come off all that well. I was watching something on the Discovery Channel the night before and I'd have to say the dinosaurs looked better there then it did in this film.Good points There is some good acting and some good opportunities to show off dinosaurs ravaging poor humans. I also saw this in a good part because of William H. Macy (one of my favorite actors) and the John Williams score is great as his always are. Plus bringing Dr. Grant back is good for those who found Malcolm (and Jeff Goldblum) annoying.An okay film worth seeing for some things cool, but it lacks the magic of the first and so little is accomplished that you more then likely won't remember too much of it afterwards. "},{"Title":"Much like the others","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this movie to be much the same as the other 2 movies, with different details.  If you go into the movie expecting only entertainment, you will probably enjoy the movie.  If you are expecting anything else, you will probably be disappointed. It kept my attention the whole time, and I enjoyed it, but I wasn't expecting a best picture nominated film. "},{"Title":"Just When Final Fantasy Had Us Believing C.G. Was The Answer","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Too bad the Jurassic Park series is going to wither and die because nobody ever got the guts to make something more intense than a two hour Land of the Lost. This latest movie is no exception, and in fact, adds more ridiculous crap to the mix, hoping the effects could bail it out.Nope.First of all, the Rex and the Spino would never have met, considering that they were on two different continents in reality. The Spino's longer, but the Rex is stockier and built for dealing damage. It would trash the Spino. My point? If you're suspending reality, don't make it this lame. The fight scene was too short and too insignificant considering the fact that they were replacing the main protagonist with an entirely new one. Yeah, I'm a Rex fan!Second, the movie itself felt foreshortened. The Army and Navy? Is this Godzilla or J.P., I forgot. These movies are starting to make me feel like its against the law to leave out the happy ending, and that they'll drop in whatever tripe they can to create one. Hell, they even cut away from one Spino attack and wasted time showing us some toddler watching Barney on T.V. Here's a hint Hollywood kids watch Shreck. Adults wanna see people and dinos get eaten. It's PG13 so no babies are getting in. Why do you keep making movies that babies can handle, and charging $9 for them as if they were serious movies? You're boring the babies too, and portraying kids as unwitting saviors only works once, not THREE TIMES.By the way, where exactly can I find a cell phone that can be heard ringing from within a dinosaur's stomach?Sorry, but the effects just weren't enough this time. It was NOT scary AT ALL, NOT FUNNY when it tried to be, and NOT very engaging at any point. Lost World felt more serious even with the gymnastics and T-Rex cruising San Diego. All three films felt like the makers were trying to sneak them past censors without getting in trouble. Believe me - you'd be better off caught. "},{"Title":"Great Thrill ride, but plot obviously trimmed down too much.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked the dark feel of the film. The dinos were bigger, stronger, meaner. I was annoyed that they took such little time to develop the characters. (Why should I care that they could be eaten?) It ends rather abruptly too. I had heard that they went back to reshoot the ending, maybe they should have stuck to the original one. "},{"Title":"NOT THE BEST, BUT A GREAT DIVERSION","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was able to take my 4 and 8-year olds to this movie without hesitation. (Ok....I know...PG-13, but you know, after all of the fart and other potty humor other movies serve up, this was a breath of fresh air.   Neither was scared, or scarred, to a great extent (my 4 year old had a hand over his face for 2 seconds) and neither came out telling rude jokes (ie...Dr Doolittle).  There was a minimal amount of thoughtfulness, just pure action and thrills geared for younger folk.  This is not a put-down...this is what summer is about.And I can't see the PG-13 rating.  What was the deciding factor?  No vulgar language, the briefest gore, and youngsters only on the edge of their little seats.If you have kids who love adventure and dinosaurs (and they almost all love the latter) see this.  And the pteronodon in the mist is a groovy image. Maybe the only one in the movie that gave this horror movie gal a shiver. Think Nosferatu. "},{"Title":"Come on, like we were expecting oscar worthy performances.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was short.  The ending was no good.  Yeah, it was unrealistic.  But that did not disappoint me, as I have come to fully expect little meat on my dinosaur plots.  But the special effects are mind bogglingly (is that a word?) real.  And William H. Macy is good as always.  Everyone who sees this will have their little nit-picks, but hey, it's so much better than the second one.  I think Joe Johnston deserves an award of some kind for not following the trend that movies tend to get worse and worse as they progress.  (Rocky anyone?) "},{"Title":"Fun, and that's all you can ask for","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a popcorn flick, in every sense of the word.  I don't understand anyone that would see this film expecting some intricate plot or deep message, they already did that in the first one.  This film is just an excuse to get Sam Neill back on the island getting chased by dinos, and what's wrong with that?  I feel sorry for all the people that didn't enjoy it, they seem to have lost their flair for movies that are just fun to watch, not to analyze.  Usually it's the critics that do this, but this film's actually gotten pretty strong reviews, because they recognize that it accomplishes what it's trying to do.  What kind of criticism is it to say that it's not realistic??!!!  It's called science-FICTION for a reason. Why you would see a dinosaur picture expecting realism is beyond me.  Sure, Dr, Grant is too easily persuaded to go back by the island, but did you really want them to waste 30-45 minutes of the movie coming up with an elaborate way to get him back there that would probably not be any more believable anyway?  No, we all know he's gonna end up back there, so just get him there, and that's what they do.  Sure it has no character development and they're all one-dimensional, sure the plot is predictable, sure it left the door open for yet another sequel, but so what?  If you feel compelled to rip apart this movies flaws (and there are numerous, more than I've mentioned) instead of just enjoying it, then I feel sorry for you. "},{"Title":"Accomplished what it was supposed to","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With each passing year, quality of the majority of movies made in hollywood has drastically decreased. The power behind the throne has effectively designed a way to trick us into believing we are going to get our money's worth when we enter the theaters. Why...Why not? This is a business, just like fast food chains. An industry with the sole objective of making money. And if they can do that with out going through the trouble actually creating a good movie, then its all the more convenient for them isn't it? I'm not saying a like the way things are headed, but I do feel that I'm one of the few that has come to accept this completely and have ultimately taylor my expectations to these changing times. In this day and age I have finally come to realize the IMMENSE difference between a film and a movie. Being able to make this destinction allows me to lower or higher the bar before I journey to the megaplex. People are far too critical of movies that don't even take themselves seriously. Perception is everything. This is exactly why people make ridiculuos comments about lack of character development or holes in an almost non-existent plot. Oh, and this one's my favorite, I've seen it done before. It's a sequel!! They made another one because people want to see more of the same thing...it's what we call a sound investment! How can you judge a Jurassic Park movie for subjects worth disscussing after The Godfather? This picture deserves credit for what it does...entertain. Joe Jonston has given me exactly what I wanted...a thrill ride. A short, light, fast paced adventure movie. I'd also like to thank the director for having the balls to break away from Spielberg's style, which makes this movie feel fresh and almost detatched from its predecessors. All I can say to those who were arrogant enough to criticize this picture as if it were an oscar contender is...grow up. Hollywood is changing, even if for the worse, it's definately changing. And if you can't keep up, then you're going to find youself disappointed 9 times out of 10 once you leave the theater.      "}{"Title":"Not as good as the first but twice as good as the second!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved the first Jurassic movie, I walked out on the sequel Lost World. This one is 100 times better then the first sequel, effects were great I guess my biggest disappointment was the movie was over too quick.  Overall I liked Jurrassic Three but I wouldn't see it again at least until it comes out on video.  Thanks. "},{"Title":"What the hell was that?","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw JP3 last nite and all I'm wondering is why did it take so long to release this crappy movie?  I was pretty hyped on seeing this movie too til I saw it.  It was WAY too short!!!!  They tried to fit too much in that little amount of film.  The story was pretty weak and the dinosaurs looked worse then the first two.  The only thing it had going for it was the sound. Besides that, its not worth seeing it.   "},{"Title":"so they strike again...","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think the first thing to do would be to congratulate the director for doing quite a nice hollywoodian job. The movie answers to the standards of the industry with some efficiency with the suspense elements. Actors were pretty good too; including a different kind of casting for William H. Macy.  Special effects did respond to what you expect in a such movie. The person I would like to throw something at, is the writer(s). Come on! some plots are pretty obvious and they could have used an ending a little less cheesy.  So, it is a good sequel and it was worth doing it, so we can forget about Jurassic Park 2. But I'd say the dinosaurs have done their time. Studios! get back to work and find us a new monster!!! ...or be a little more original???  "},{"Title":"A Quick Blast of Raptor Action","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, I know I should've hated this film because of it formulaic approach, predictable plot line and overquick ending... but i didn't.What can I say, seeing a JP film is like watching a Bond movie. You know that it's going to be one chase scene after the next with lots of death defying near escapes along the way, but it's fun and exactly what you came in for..The raptor's were great, far more realistic than in the first film, and filled their roles of the perfect villain more than adequately.Sam Neil played his part to perfection, despite the corny lines, and you know this was a lot funnier than the first two.I could watch a dozen more of these and not get bored. Just like bond films.  "},{"Title":"Certainly worth a look... (VERY small spoiler near end)","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, I went to see the movie at the local theatre yesterday, and while it may not live up to the original this film was by no means boring or bad. The beginning may be somewhat boring, but that's what you should have come to expect from this trilogy. The movie is shorter in length than the first two; not necessarily a bad thing by any stretch. This actually forced less boring stoppages of dialogue and more dinosaur encounters. Because let's face it, if your going to an action movie expecting lots of dialogue and story developing most of the time you will be sorely disappointed. It was nice to see the introduction of 3 new dinosaurs that were unseen in the past Spinosaurus, Pteranodon, and Ankylosaurus (wasn't named in the film, the one that looks like a tank). There were times when you could tell that some of dinosaurs were computer generated, but for the most part they seemed real. The only thing that really bothered me was its very abrupt ending. Kind of let me down. I'd say even 10 more minutes of leading to the ending would have made it much better. Most of the different action scenes were very thrilling, I personally liked the Ptranodon scene best of all, which is no surprise when you consider Johnston's skills in making good scenes involving flight. One more thing I want to touch upon before I finish, and this contains a small spoiler about the number of people that die. I've seen people complain that not enough people die, but I think these people may have just been spoiled by Lost World. Many people died in that one in various scenes, but that was also due to dinosaurs interacting with more people. In the first Jurassic Park, 5 people died. In JP3 4 died.Overall, I'd just like advise you to check this movie out at least once. If the only reasons you are going is for gore, people's deaths, and dialogue you will be disappointed from in those aspects. But I'm sure you will love the major action sequences and the faster pace of this movie than its predecessors. It's worth a look. "},{"Title":"Delivers on what it promises","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III had disaster written all over it from the get go. Steven Spielberg refused to direct, rumors of on-set strife and rewrites, and the inherent risks of being the third part of a series all weighed on its pre-release life.I am happy to say that none of this mattered. Jurassic Park III is an all-out action movie with stellar setpieces, high tempo pacing, and taut direction. It is a 90 minute dino-fest, which is all that I expected from this third installment. It wasn't quite time to move the dinosaurs off the island, and it didn't need the scientific preaching of the earlier two. What it needed were dinosaurs and more dinosaurs.Is the plot standard strand and rescue fare? Yes. We know who will live and who will die from the first time we all the characters. But, the design of the film is amazing. None of the dinosaur sequences are too drawn out, nor do they end too abruptly (like the raptor escape in TLW).The animals are phenomenal. ILM and the rest of the technicians have brought out dinosaurs more real than ever before, and they are a pleasure to watch in and of themselves. The Spinosaurus and the Pteranodon (which is NOT a fake animal) are tremendously well-realized, and the sequences involving them are well worth the price of admission.Overall, the plot is generic, but it is great fun. Was anyone expecting an Oscar caliber movie? No. Was it meant to be an entertaining, loud, bigger, and meaner actioner? Yes, and on this, unlike other movies in the summer of 2001, it was a great success. Go see it, and enjoy it for what it is a great summer action movie, with great dinosaurs to boot. "},{"Title":"Exactly what I expected","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite the deus ex machina ending, I got exactly what I expected from this movie.  Once again, the CGI dinosaurs are phenomenal.  The action scenes are seat-of-the-pants, and the gore is just gory enough.  The new spinosaurus is suitably scary.  Plot?  Just as hokey as the first two.One thing I saw in the movie theater was a family with a young child, maybe three or four.  I think this film is WAY too intense for a child that age. I predict a few nightmares for the tyke, because the dinos are BIG, they are MEAN, and they are LOUD.  If you have small children, hire a sitter, get the video for DINOSAUR, and leave the kids at home.  And, oh yeah, plan to have a soda and some popcorn.  It's definitely a summer popcorn flick. "},{"Title":"how to ruin two films with a third","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STORYLINE REVEALEDJurassic Park 3....although Lost World was not up to Jurassic Park itself it did however have stand up on its own and was a good film, its predecessor being an excellent one. JP III is in one word terrible. Being a Michael Crichton fan I fear that both his characters and story have been ruined by what is only a money making machine. Although the film opens well, in the respect that we have to give some reason for people to return to the island, after that its downhill. Sam Neil (Alan Grant) once again plays the part well but development of character is reduced to running around trying to be a hero. The other characters are merely there to provide bate. Lack through action ends up giving way to splices of action, basically an excuse to have people running around. It does not fell anything like the first two films, even though on of the main characters returns (again most likely due to the money) The film builds to quickly, the scene of the T-Rex and Spinosaurus should surely have been saved to the end. A scene where Alan Grant falls asleep and sees a raptor talking is cringe worthy, and the use of the mobile phone only adds to what amounts to some humiliating scenes, destroying the first two films. The special effetcts try and out do themselves, often looking not half as good as the first film which was made nearly 10 yrs ago. Some scenes are played out nicely, if only they had been interwoven with an interesting plot. The Spino seems unbelievable, looking fake at times, trying to out do godzilla almost. Where was the T-REX? we see him once-although he was used in both the previous films he is still the audiences favourite and was ignored to a terrible degree.I was expecting something dark, brooding and exciting. What I got was short, stale, unimaginable pap. Never once did I fell inspired, I had been here before....although this time there was a sour tatse in my mouth. Please, please don't make a fourth one. "},{"Title":"What a ride!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the long awaited sequel to Jurassic Park, The Lost World arrived, people left theaters sour and a bit frustrated at the ending the film offered. Jurassic Park 3, directed by Joe Johnston, takes the audience a few steps into a new direction. First of all, the third film gives of somewhat of a vibe that reminds us of the first. Two of our favorite characters, Alan Grant and Ellie Sattler, are thrown back into the mix of prehistoric terror. The director does a good job of showing what happened to these people's lives after the events on Isla Nublar. Second, the film returns the original idea of the everyman being hunted by dinosaurs. (As apposed to The Lost World being bombarded by scientists and different experts in the feild.) The third and probably the most powerful factor in the movie is the new dinos in introduces. The new king of the jungle, the Spinosaurus, a dinosaur that barely anyone had heard of until this movie, is the major catalist to much of the adventure. The Pteranodons also offer what I think is one of the greatest adventure moments in one of these movies. A nice touch is also added by expanding on the theory of Raptor intelligce, for once showing the creatures as smart problem solvers, not monsters. To sum up, I give this movie a 8 out of 10 stars. It's better than The Lost World, but nothing could ever live up to the original Jurassic Park. It offers adventure to the max and will leave you satisfied in the end! "},{"Title":"JP3 delivers the goods!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Those who criticize Jurassic Park III are obviously missing the point of what the summer movie season is all about.  Some might think it nice to have nothing but cerebral films with complex plots and interweaving storylines, but now and then some of us find it refreshing to have a movie that simply entertains.  What were the best parts of the first Jurassic Park film? The parts with the dinosaurs, of course.  The second film tried to give us more dino-action, but when the story moved to San Diego the T-Rex was not the only one guilty of running amok (wink, wink... Mr. Spielberg). Jurassic Park III is a fast-paced, exciting, roller-coaster ride of a movie.  There is plenty of dinosaur action and mayhem, and the characters are there to serve the story.  So what if there isn't that much to it. What does one expect?  The movie quickly moves us through the setup and into the action.  Sam Neill does a wonderful job of reprising his role as Dr. Alan Grant, and the companion characters do a fine job a creating plenty of situations that make for some rousing action set-pieces.  Bravo Joe Johnston for stepping into some big shoes and making a fun popcorn movie that, while not as novel as the first in the series (how could it be?), is every bit as enjoyable to watch.  This will definitely be included in my DVD collection someday. "}{"Title":"aaight","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was aaight. All you not smart poopie head reviewers said it didnt have a plot. it did have a plot, just not a good plot. darn, i wonder what the plot that sam neil rejected would be like. but the movie was good. i didn't like the computer stuff more than i liked the first two movies because the first two movies looked more real. these kinda changed a little bit. besides the t-rex being brown, he was grey, which isn't quite a big deal. i just hated that tarzan kid too. what was that? they shoulda made him some starving boy. and i just dont like that boy. but sam neil was awesome. there are no actor changes, no bad jokes, and the script was good too. it was scarier than the first two, probably cuz i was in a theatre playing the hell out of the noise and stuff. getto go see it if u saw the first two. "},{"Title":"It was all right...","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers Ahead** As a fan of the Jurassic Park series, I had high hopes for this film. After hearing rumors about a huge fight between the classic T-Rex and the new Spinosaurus, I couldn't wait to see the film.  But, after seeing it, I realized that this wasn't as good as I hoped. While the movie was entertaining, there were a few problems.  The first is the length.  The movie was definately too short!  The movie ends abruptly without a final chase or final battle between the dinosaurs.  In the first there was the T-Rex vs. Raptor finale which was truly awesome. The second had the T-Rex romp throughout San Diego, but this didn't have anything.The second problem was that there wasn't a good range of dinosaurs. Sure, they added the Spinosaurus, but it just played like a replacement for the T-Rex.  Imagine how good the film would have been with the Spino AND the T-Rex!  That would have been great.  The addition of the flying Pteranodons was excellent.  The flying terrors had the best scenes of the entire movie. The Raptor made a return, but it wasn't anything that you haven't seen before in the previous films. The third problem were the chase scenes.  Some of them had no suspense! There were no memorable scenes such as the T-Rex van attack in the first or the Raptor sequence in the second.  The chase scenes are extremely quick, and just as your getting into the sequence it ends.  This is apparent in the legendary T-Rex-Spino fight. It was practically over before it started. They should have put that as the finale, that way there was more suspense as to who would be the victor. The ending was terrible.  Enough said. In conclusion, the action was great, but everything was too short.  There is probably going to be a fourth Jurassic Park movie, so maybe the problems with this one will be corrected in the next.  All in all, it was ok, but it did have problems. "},{"Title":"Popcorn, anyone?","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So it isn't as good as the first JP.  It's way better than The Lost World. Johnston has done a great job making a great popcorn thrill ride.  Dr. Grant (Sam Neil) is back and ready ready to battle some new dinos.  Some parts will make you jump big time.  I think this one is the scariest in the series.  It's also the funniest.Sure it ends abruptly but so what.  I recommend this movie because it never lets up and you will be humming the score for days after you see it.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Overall I was pleasantly surprised with this movie.  It accomplishes what it sets out to do; It puts the viewer on the dinosaur infested island for a thrilling roller coaster ride of adventure.If you go into this movie with the mentality of a critic, you will find flaws. Some of the scenes were like watching the old TV show 'fantasy island'.  For example, the opening scene is has the two actors in parasailing near Isla Sorna.  Besides the idea being a little rediculous, the background in the close-ups was obviously fake.  It really felt like I was watching a TV show.Some of the acting was a little awkward but I'm not sure if that was the actor's fault or the writer's.  For example, most of the scenes between the mother and father of the boy, Eric.When you boil down the story, it's really just an excuse to put us on the island again.  Once you're on the island, we follow the same pattern as the first Jurassic Park HOW DO I GET OFF?!?!I recommend just looking past all of these things and enjoy the thrilling scenes with the dinosaurs.  Nearly all scenes with Dr. Grant (Sam Neill) are good.  It is also a nice surprise to see Dr. Sattler (Laura Dern) although I wish she would have had a more significant role in the film.There some memorable moments in the movie like when we first meet the sail-back 'super' predator and when he/she fights the T-Rex.This movie is not as good as the first JP but it is waaaay better than the second one.My rating    6.6I thought of a fun fantasy variant of this movie... A mix between Aliens and Jurassic Park.  Arnold Schwarzenegger leads an elite force of seals to Isla Sorna to extract a team of scientists who have become stranded there. OOoooooh yah!  (You have to admit in 3 JP movies they haven't yet come up with somebody who can open up a can of whoopa** on the dinos.)  "},{"Title":"Second best easily","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this movie is nowhere near as thought-out as Jurassic Park, it is definitely better than The Lost World.Since JP3 takes place on Isla Sorna, the island from the second film, there's not much room for characterization or even a story.  This isn't an excuse for Joe Johnson.  Its fact.  The only way this series should keep going is if they move back to the original, interesting island.But the dinos alone are almost enough to make the difference.  The fight between the Spinosaurus and the T-Rex is worth the price of the ticket. The great pteradon scenes are icing on the cake.But I do recommend that you leave the theater early.  The ending is EXTREMELY weak(its kind of interesting, but not good), and you will leave the theater disappointed.  Another dino scene(fight scene, preferably) was needed.Expect a non-stop action movie.  Don't go in expecting anything else or you'll be disappointed.  Not as disappointed as you probably were with TLW, but disappointed nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Plot??? What Plot (spoilers)","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you expect anything intelligent out of this film forget it. The first Jurassic Park was fantastic, good plot, good characters and great dinos, the second film at least had a believable plot even though the ending was terrible but this film has virtually no plot. Basically they get them on the island and have 60mins of dino chases. The new big dino is good but the T-Rex isn't seen much at all, a major disappointment. The Raptors are no where near as cool as in the first two films and are again underused. The best bit is by far the birdcage scenes which are actually quite tense and scary. Oh and the ending, how lame, what a major cop-out, that last scene with the Raptors and then them running to a beach full of marines!!! Please. I just have this terrible feeling that Jurassic Park 4 will follow on the 'birds' escaping and trying to land in habited areas. "},{"Title":"At last a true Summer Blockbuster to Enjoy.....","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i saw Jurassic Park III this evening and really enjoyed,at last a SUMMER BLOCKBUSTER worthy of watching,this years crop of summer films have been really crapp, but JP3 made up for that, it is also alot better than the last film Jurassic Park the lost World, i did not like that movie atall...... JP3 gets a big thumbs up from me. "},{"Title":"Really good! All the best bits from Michael Crichton's books.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just got back from the show with the family. Everybody loved it. It's scary. It's exciting. It's fun.If you liked the books but wished Mr. Spielberg had left in the river sequence, it's here. If you wanted the bird cage sequence, it's here. If you liked the abandoned, moldering infrastructure of The Lost World, there's more of it.Predictable - who cares. More of the same, yes. I wanted more of the same.Why do critics go to the movies? Because they get paid. My family goes because we love movies.  "},{"Title":"I saw everything coming but the ending!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not as good as the first, much better than the second.  Some REALLY good one liners involving a cell phone.  But the ending just comes out of nowhere, as if they used up the budget in the first half of the film.  The first half is alot of fun though. "},{"Title":"what a dissapointment!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, 1 hour and 20 minutes is not a movie!!! That was the biggest dissapointment. I was sitting there thinking this can't be the end!!That's not the worst of it!! the other two atleast had an ending fight sequence (dino vs. dinner type scenario). And dont you dare call that ending with the raptors an ending, its a freaking shame. It was still cool with the new dino's and raptor intelligence. But I was (INSERT FOUR LETTER SWEAR HERE - *'in) shocked at how two great movies now have to be related to THAT!!Anyways, I'm done. Go see it! "}{"Title":"Excellent Film!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought it was excellent.  I am a 20 year-old male and I did not get bored at all with this movie...most of the entire movie had me on my chair gripping the sides.  Not so much of a scare...but just to see what would happen next.  The graphics and cinematography were excellent.  Its one of those movies that you wish you could be there, except you really wish that you weren't!  Non-stop action and suspense makes this movie a great crowd-pleaser.  You won't be let down.  If you are a fan of the Jurassic Park movies, then you must see this.  I wasn't really into the second one The Lost World, I felt it ran to slow for some reason.  But this brought back all the great memories of the first one.  So enjoy it, its worth the admission price.  Especially to see the new Dinosaur that evolved.Josh "},{"Title":"An OK entry in the series----6/10","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think it was a little better than The Lost World in the storyline department, but in the action department, Lost World prevailed. The first Jurassic Park is still unrivaled by its follow ups and i don't think it ever will be. In the third installment, Dr. Alan Grant returns to help a couple look for their lost son. Their is a lot of bull in the movie that makes you say Thats impossible but it is an adventure flick. Their isn't enough people getting eaten, they just disappear and you must assume their dead. There were a few good action scenes and it was cool to see Sam Neill back in a JP flick. Its a cool film to check out in the theaters but it could have been better. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Dinos Return in Cheesy, yet exciting movie","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 falls somewhere in between the fantastic Jurassica Park , and the dismal Lost World.  The plot is at a minimal (Boy gest lost on island.  Parents go with rescue team.  Survivors try to get off the island), but it gets the job done.  The acting is good enough for the most part, and Sam Neil does a fine job as Dr. Grant.  More importantly, the real stars of this movie, the dinosaurs, return and look fantastic.  The film is very fast-paced, and no time is wasted jumping into the action.  After only a few minutes, everyone is on the island, running away from dinos.  This is obviously quite different from the way Jurassic Park 1 opened, but this is the third film in the franchise, and the plotline about the dinosaur park has already been established.  The audience came to see dinos, and dinos they saw. The thing that really bogs the film down is the lack of continuity it has with the previous ones.  Dinosaurs look completely different from the way they did in the first film (Raptors are now purple...Brachiosaurus are sorta spotted..)  Also, one of the big, albeit cheesy plot points is that Grant has discovered through fossils that Raptors were smarter than they had ever imagined.  So, the raptors in JP3 are now really smart, which is really frustrating to watch because they weren't anywhere near as intelligent in the first film.  Also, Grant discovered that Raptors can communicate, so right on cue, the raptors in this film talk to each other, which they obviously didn't do in the first film. But, I suppose those are just a few minor problems.  The biggest problem of the film is its abrupt ending, which comes out of nowhere.  The audience never really got an epic finale, as the movie just ended in an incredibly hokey way after one of its action sequences. Overall, the film is very entertaining to watch and downright creepy in some spots.  What it lacks in intelligence it makes up in excitement. "},{"Title":"Was it really THAT bad?","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, it wasnt great, the plot line was weak, the characters were underdeveloped. But what did you really expect? I saw Jurassic Park III opening day, knowing that there would be a paper-thin plot, and that the characters probably wouldnt be that great. But ya know, they were enough. I cared for the main characters enough to enjoy the movie. As for the dinosaurs, which of course were the main attraction in this film, they were awesome. By my count, there were 12 different species, more than Jurassic Park, or The Lost World.Now I am a huge fan of JP, my tenth birthday was dedicated to it. To this day, Jurassic Park is probably still my all time favorite movie. Of course there are other movies I like more, but JP probably had the greatest impact on me. For all of third grade I was positive that I was gonna be a paleontologist. Four years later, came The Lost World. Still a fan of JP, I read the book two times by the time the movie came out. When I finally saw it,opening day of course, I was bitterly disappointed, especially because of the ending, but it eventually grew on me, and now I accept it as a true sequel to Jurassic ParkBut back to Jurassic Park III, after LW, I decided not to set myself up for another upset, so I went in, sat down, and enjoyed the movie for what it was, a thrill ride. At times I stopped and thought, Spielberg wouldnt have done that, (for instance Grants little nightmare on the plane, that was a joke, and not a funny one) But all in all I think Joe Johnston, did a pretty good job, but not as good as Spielberg. Jurassic Park-10/10 The Lost World-7/10 Jurassic Park III-6/10 "},{"Title":"Ummm&#133; Excuse me, Hollywood&#133; What happened to the ending?","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Did Dr. Sattler call in the US Navy? How did Billy get rescued and wind up on a helicopter?  Why does Costa Rica monitor the air-restricted space over Isla Sorna? And just how did Eric collect that dino-urine?Now, if this were the first Jurassic Park movie seen by the public, the audience would have been ecstatic!  The special effects are top-notch, and the sound is superb.  But this movie has to deliver the goods since the first movie was an absolute theatrical triumph.  The goods were almost delivered.  But left you thirsty for more.  There were too many events I was waiting for that didn't take place.  I thought for sure the dino-urine was going to be used as a survival tactic.  And having us believe a young boy could survive for 8 weeks sent my eyes rolling just like the female gymnast kicking the dinosaur in the head in JP2.  And why didn't Eric's stepfather cut himself down from the tree?  And wouldn't you think that if a little boy lost his beloved step-father, you'd think he would have been a little emotional over his loss.  But there's no reference to him at all.But the movie was impaling from the opening scene.  And your eyes never leave the screen, as you feel engrossed in the spectacular feel of realism.  The use of the cell phone was creative and very clever.  And you'll find yourself constantly looking behind the characters just in case they missed a dinosaur following them.  There's a sense of urgency throughout the movie.  I, too, wanted off the island.  And then, when that moment finally arrived, I was disappointed.  I wanted to stay and try to survive a little longer.  And that's the only downfall of this movie.  A military attack on the dinosaurs would have been interesting... Prehistoric monsters versus modern-day machinery!  But the movie quickly ends, leaving a taste that JP4 is already in the works.  The realism, mixed the awesome special effects, and bringing back Dr. Grant makes this a great movie.  The abrupt ending only makes it a good movie.  Dammit Hollywood... I wanted and expected more! "},{"Title":"one helluva rollercoaster ride","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved JURASSIC PARK, but thought it took a little too long to get going. I loved THE LOST WORLD, but thought it took a little too long to get going. But JURASSIC PARK III is already kicked into overdrive before you know it. As soon as the group arrives on the island, it's the first of four non-stop action sequences in a row (the runway sequence/plane crash, the first Spinosaurus attack, a T-rex chase, and a Spinosaurus/T-rex battle), making for one big long adrenaline rush.And it's great to see the underrated Sam Neill back among the dinos. The rest of the cast is good Alessandro Nivola, William H. Macy, Tea Leoni, and Trevor Morgan. The action scenes come at a quick pace, but the quiet dialogue moments in between (while not exactly Oscar-worthy) are good as well. Joe Johnston has a flair for aerial elements in his films (THE ROCKETEER, OCTOBER SKY), and the Pterodactyl sequences in JPIII are quite good. I also thought Johnston did a good job making the film seem like a Spielberg film while not entirely doing so, still maintaining his own touch. Same for Don Davis's score, which puts John Williams's original themes to use to provide continuity, while at the same time adding his own touch to the soundtrack.My only complaint is that the film seems to end a little too suddenly. I was also hoping for a bit more exploration of the abandoned worker complex, and perhaps a glimpse at some other unknown dinosaurs that were created. As it is, the only new dinos are the Spinosaurus and another one that shows up briefly near the end, a sort of small version of the T-rex, with reddish-type skin and a horn on it's snout. But those are just small complaints, and the fury of the action helps me to overlook them.Another thing I liked were the subtle references to THE LOST WORLD. The San Diego incident is briefly mentioned during a lecture, and upon their discovery of the worker complex, Grant pauses for a moment to inspect the very same truck Jeff Goldblum ducked into for safety in THE LOST WORLD. You can tell it's the same one by the way the door window is broken from the raptor that attempted to break through in that film.Who cares if the story is not great? Films these days hardly ever have exceptional stories. JURASSIC PARK III is full of gut-wrenching action, and that's all that matters. I actually prefer it out to the others because it has a great pace and doesn't have a lot of scientific explanations and such that get in the way. Of course, this was necessary in the first film (which is still a great film), and THE LOST WORLD had to introduce it's new characters. But JPIII lets us gradually get to know our new characters as the film starts, without bogging down the screentime to introduce each character.So when it comes down to it, JURASSIC PARK III is a well-directed action flick that delivers what all fans of pulse-pounding action films like. Hopefully this film will do good business, because I'm eager to find out what Spielberg's really great idea for a possible JP4 is. "},{"Title":"A great ride of a trilogy!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was quite awesome in my way of speaking. I mean, the visual effects were kind of lame, but the movie was cool. The whole thing about pteridactles were pretty cool. I honestly thought this movie was going to be lame because Steven Spielberg didn't direct it, only the executive producer. Joe Johnston should've had the movie based on the book. My favorite part in the movie are when the pteridactles made their arrival. Good acting too. I love when the people are running with the dinosaurs right behind them. That was awesome. So, above all this was a slam bang trilogy.  "},{"Title":"Pteranadons Rule!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although it's definitely flawed, this is a huge step up from the abominable The Lost World, with much improved characters, acting, direction (by Joe Johnston), and pacing. The pteranadon sequence was the best moviemaking I have seen all year, and the movie is worth it just for those 15 minutes alone. An abrupt ending didn't do too much to dampen my enjoyment of this one. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good sequal.Better than The Lost World","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a good movie. It is as much fun as the original and better then the first sequal.Has some good surprises and the special effects are great.Although the music and directing were by different people they can still keep ot like Williams and Spielberg. **** ( 4 out of 4 ) "},{"Title":"Pass the oxygen cylinder I need air.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just got back from seeing this movie ten minutes ago and I'm still needing to catch my breathe.  This film is almost non-stop action from start to finish.Having seen the last two films this one is able to hold its head tall amongst them.  I liked the first one, but at times found it too talky and more character based, using action only at short intervals.  The second film on the other hand didn't even stop for biscuits.  It was two hours of action.The third film I liked because it was more like the third film in that respect.  It moved from one edge of the seat scene to the next, but also balanced with enough time to get to know and like the characters, the second film's biggest failing.This film, unlike the last two, also scared the Cornflakes out of me (I'm glad I don't get enough fibre or the theatre would have smelt like left overs at a bull fight).  The fast pace made any dinosaur appearance a popcorn spilling scare, and the will they/won't they escape scenario made the entire thing all the more tense.Bottom Line - If you want a heart warming oscar winning drama (apart from get a life) look elsewhere, but if you want an all out action flick that won't let up for a second this is your movie and role on part four. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Not As Good As The First and Second One","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 was very action packed and had good computer animation, but compared to the first movie, it wasn't that great. You knew from the start who was going to survive and you could tell when an unexpected dinosaur would pop up. However, what I did like about this movie was how the dinosaur's would look the audience right in the eye. This movie would be neat to see in 3D. "},{"Title":"What the...?","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that I am a huge fan of the Jurassic Park series, and I anxiously await the sequel to this movie. That being said, let me give you my views on what may also be the last film in this series.First, let me touch on the plot, or the lack thereof. I would like to know what Joe Johnston and Steven Speilberg were thinking when they made this movie. Obviously it was not Let's come up with a shooting script before we start filming. The pitch must have been something along the line of Let's get Sam Neill to reprise his role of Dr. Alan Grant and have HIM go to Isla Sorna. We can come up with the rest as we go. And its evident. Nothing memorable at all as far as dialog. At least Lost World, which in my eyes was the best of the three movies, had stupid cliched one-liners that were quotable. This film's biggest line is Look out! They should have used that as the tag line, and saved some people some money.The acting, while bad, was no where near as bad as most cheap b-movies I have seen in the past. Once again, some of the best acting is done by the digital dinosaurs, but I will give credit where credit is due. Sam Neill did a great job with what he had, and the reason for them to be on the island in the first place, Trevor Morgan (who plays the boy, Eric), was much better than any of the previous kids. One of the reason I did not enjoy the first movie was the lousy performance by the children, not that Malcolm's daughter in the second movie was much better. Both mercenaries could have been played by anyone on a street corner, and William H. Macy was entertaining, but I can't stand Tea' Leoni to begin with, and she wasn't very good here.The effects were what you expect from a Jurassic Park movie. With television quickly catching up to what you see in feature films (the recent Walking with Dinosaurs being an example), they might need to up the ante a bit with the next film, but they did a fine job here. The new big boy on the block, the Spinosaurus, was well animated and effectively creepy, as were the cool pterodons, but my hat's off to the team that worked on the raptors. Superb work, guys. I really, really liked what you did with them by making them individualistic and extremely graceful and fluid in their movements. I hope your successors keep up the good work.Now on to my final point and my biggest complaint about the movie, the ending. So abrupt was the ending that I considered sticking around through the credits just to see if there was more. There is no closure here, and it raises a whole new level of questions. Things were brought up in the film that I expected an explanation for an we never get it. In one scene, it is mentioned that the Spinosaurus was not on the list of In Gen bred animals and the discussion brought up the question as to what else was on the island that did not make the list. I am still waiting for an answer. And how did the pteredons get out of the birdcage? I understand that Tea' Leoni left the outside door open, but she clearly ran through two seperate set of doors to get out with Trevor Morgan. What the heck?!? And why didn't the smaller carnivore (which I am assuming is a Centaurasaurus(sp?)) not attack them when they bump into it in the movie?Maybe the DVD will answer these questions, and as I stated in the beginning maybe the possible (and likely) sequel will answer some of them. Until then I am left wandering...  "},{"Title":"Improving upon the JP franchise","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Jurassic Park series of films are so shallow and yet so much fun. Obviously, when you throw together dinosaurs and humans interacting with each other and chasing each other, you tend to find big audiences young and old. JP3 is no different in its deliverance of non-stop action and is a step in the right direction of the franchise. In the latest installment, we find Ta Leoni and William H. Macy as rich parents looking for their son who wound up on Isla Sorna because of a parasailing accident. Both actors are so much better than the overrated Vince Vaughn and Julianne Moore from The Lost World. The special effects are spectacular, although the story line is a bit rushed at times (the film clocks in at about 90 minutes). Director Joe Johnston has a knack for good popcorn movies. He did wonders with `Honey, I Shrunk the Kids,' `The Rocketeer,' and `Jumanji.' Yet, he does much better with true-life human dramas as he did with `October Sky.'  JP3 has a lot of action, chase sequences and such, but you can't help but feel like it's the popcorn that's filling you up, and not the movie. The editing is a bit choppy in places as it was hard to follow some of the darker chase sequences such as when the Spinosaurus attacks the group on the riverboat. Still, I left the theater feeling much more satisfied than when I saw JP2. Jeff Goldblum's Ian Malcolm is sorely missed, but at least we get to see Sam Neill and Laura Dern reprising their Dr. Grant and Sr. Sattler roles. The franchise has come full circle "},{"Title":"Not nearly as amazing as the original","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III....good or bad?  It all depends on your opinion.Here's how i rated it...started out with 10 points.-1 point for bad acting -2 points for bad ending -1 for predictable plot and bad dialogue.  (i.e.-  when the girl says this is how you make dinosaurs?...i found myself saying no, this is how you play god...two seconds later, grant said the exact same thing.  i think that line was used in part I also. -1 for ***spoiler**** * * * * * killing the damned t-rex, king of dinosaurs+1 for awesome action scenes.so i ended up giving the movie 6 out of 10 stars...worth a viewing, but i'd rather just watch part I over again "},{"Title":"not quite there, but close","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steven Speilberg has finshed another triolgy. even though he didn't direct it, he did produce the final installment. a man by name Joe Johnson directed the film, which is totally different from the first two films. which is the good and bad thing about JP 3. the bad thing is that it is not like the first, even though sam neil and laura dern are in it. the good thing is that it has nothing to do with the lost world were many fans got lost. in fact sam neil's character Dr. Jack Grant puts down the whole ordeal in san digeo. it violent, but not two t-rex tearing people in half violent.they leave must of the violence to the moviegoers head. however, i gave it six stars out of 10 stars. but go see for yourself. "},{"Title":"definitely not a quality film, but enjoyable enough","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is definitely not gonna get by on its merits as a film. the plot both sucks and blows; the characters are shallow; and its the same tired thing we're all used to by now. it truly hurt me to see that william h macy would take such a part (much as vince vaughn's appearance in the 2nd jp hurt). this is clearly a movie that could never stand on its own and could only be made or watched because of its ability, as a sequel, to rely on the name recognition of the first. having said all that, i sorta enjoyed it. of course, it was free. on the plus side-- you can expect some good action sequences and intelligent use of both animatronic and cg effects for the dinos and a plot that, while not being intelligent, certainly doesn't drag. as bad as the script is, truly terrible lines can always be appreciated ironically and i have a strong feeling that the writer himself wrote some with this in mind (see dream sequence, military arrival). and it's only about an hour and a half long--which, along with the non-ending, also manages to give the movie a feeling of amateurness--like it doesn't really count as a jp installment. in short--this movie avoided the major mistakes of the second jp, while also avoiding the brushes with greatness of the first.  "},{"Title":"Loads better than JP2","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When Jurrasic Park premiered in 1993 it had some of the most amazing special effects wizardry ever seen. The movie was intense, shocking, and most of all fun. It had a great score that will probably always be connected to this series of films. It was truly a great movie... Then, The Lost World came out, and not only didn't even compare to the first, it was a travesty, a joke, and even worse than that... It was a Godzilla movie, pretending to be something that it wasn't. I saw that movie once, and swore that I would never waste precious seconds of my life watching it ever again. So needless to say, I had low expectations of the third installment of this series.I was very surprised.Granted, the film was short, and relied heavily on the precedent set by the first film. But Thank GOD they didn't do anything to remind you of how awful the second movie was. Sam Neill really makes the JP movies what they are, he has style and a certain charisma that he brings to the screen. Without Neill, you just don't have a Jurrasic Park movie... And this film proved that sentiment.I didn't like the opening sequence with Laura Dern, but it turned out to be a stage upon which the movie needed to start (Thanks to the End)No spoilers here, if you want to know what happens... Go see it for yourself!!! Trust me, it's worth the money to see it in the theatre, if not for what you see... Then DEFINITELY for the sound effects. (Very cool 3D sound all around)I've read both books... And was disappointed they didn't try to be faithful to them. But with a third installment, I've come to accept that we will never see the invisible dinosaur from The Lost World.So be it... I still enjoyed this film. If they would have just not made the second film at all, and gone straight to this one I would have been much happier with this series. They took all the good scenes from the book that they left out of the first movie, and put them in this picture. How clever.  "},{"Title":"Is the third time a charm?","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although I do not believe that either Lost World or JP3 live up to the original, this one outshines the second installment of the trilogy.With amazing CG dinosaur fight scenes, this one held my attention and kept me on the edge of my seat throughout.  In my humble opinion, the movie was worth the $7.50 to experience it on the big screen BUT they should have added about 15 more minutes to the movie to provide for a better ending, thus my rating of a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"oh, what  s**t...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is the worst of all the JP. the end is just so crap and the special effects not as good as in the first one. We wanted something really good and we got only 2 or 3 good moments. no, really, don't go and see it, or only if you think you have too much money and you want to waste it.  "},{"Title":"Not that thrilling","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Warning  Spoiler!Jurassic Park 3 wasn't that great. It probably would of been much better if Michael Crithon (I think thats how you spell his name) should have wrote an interesting story. The whole plot is pretty much spinosaurus crap. It's about some stupid kid who is lost on Site B for 8 weeks. His parents then trick Dr. Alan Grant into going saying they won't land and just want a free tour. Then Everyone who isn't in the movie talk about the huge scene with the spinosarus(something bigger then t-rex) and t-rex fighting. They make it seem like a huge event in the movie. It's only like what 2 minutes. If you want to waste 8 bucks on a movie, waste it on Cats & Dogs or Legally Blonde. "}{"Title":"Lots of action crammed in a short feature.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've always been a big fan of the first two Jurassic's and this third did not leave me disappointed.  It brought back Laura Dern (small part) and Sam Neil but nicely left out all the others.  The movie had its usual above par special effects and did have a plot, but one thing bothered me about this, it was less than 90 minutes long!  With all of the excitement and action, I left feeling like I just watched a typical Disney animated feature and didn't get my bang for the buck.  Overall I enjoyed it, the sound was great, and the acting was fine, but I can't give it a perfect grade for the short length. On the other hand, my legs and butt do rate this a 10 for minimal sitting in a crammed theater seat. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Bore","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Climax of JP3 English Speaking Raptor.In General, Jurassic Park 3 is an insult to Michael Crichton's and Steven Spielberg's original. JP3 was lacking in plot, originality, suspense, acting and so on. The idea of intelligent Raptors had a lot potential, but due to a poor story-line, JP3's hope of being a creative and worthy sequel was lost. I had hoped the Jurassic Park Trilogy would end with the same quality as the first two installments, unfortunately I was greatly disappointed. "},{"Title":"Make this the last one! (6 out of 10)","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ******CONTAINS SOME SPOILERS********** Without any real action like the first two the third needed something. Many situations of the movie didn't make any sense. Why would a group of angry Velocorapters (? spelling) not attack the group after they stole their eggs? Where as in the other two they didn't have a problem at all. But indeed it was a fairly good movie. At least they included the other island and different animals that were not in the first two. But the movie was way too short, only 1.5 hours. "},{"Title":"Intense thrill ride worth exploring","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just went and saw JP3 and I wasn't expecting anything good. I am a fan of the original two, but I was disappointed by The Lost World. I feel that JP3 surpassed the second one with visuals, action sequences, and intensity. This final movie even though was not directed by Spielberg it did still have his feel in it. The dialogue was kind of bland but was made up for by all the intense action sequences. I was on the edge of my seat from the beginning and felt the new dinosaur introduced in the movie was more terrifying than the raptor or trex from the first two. This one was a little more gory and raw compared to the first two. I would recommend this to fans of the first two movies and anyone who loves dinosaurs this movie will not disappoint. I would think twice before taking small children to see it though with a lot of the violence in the movie and feeding scenes. "},{"Title":"High Hopes","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was expecting something totally different when I saw the movie. In the the long run, I was somewhat disappointed of it. It hurts me to say this since I LOVE the other Jurassic Park movies, but there was just something missing. It didn't have that Steven Spielberg or Michael Crichton touch. You kinda feel wishing that the movie should have been held off until the two could have gotten together and made it. . . well, right. It was also missing those extra minutes that the first two movies had. It was as if they (the characters) were just rushing through the whole movie. There are some more things I didn't like, but there are some good things I did. I enjoyed seeing Alan Grant (Neil) and Ellie Sattler (Dern), Some of the old and new dinos, and the special effects. But in the end, it just wasn't the same even with the familiar characters... "},{"Title":"Too Short","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie had a great all star cast, and good special effects, but the production team could have put some more time into this movie. The addition of the Pterodactyls was something I wish would have been added to the 1st Jurassic Park. Compared to the 1st Jurassic Park, this one had hardly the plot and action. It was a shame to put such talented actors in such a cast, but it shouldn't matter to them, they got paid rather decently I'm sure. I, being such a movie enthusiast would gladly rent this movie again, and possibly even buy it on DVD. I enjoyed all the actors and the parts they played. We might see another sequel to this movie in the immediate future. "},{"Title":"Serviceable B-movie","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie is kind of like 100% recycled paper it makes you feel kinda good inside, but the fact that it's a hand-me-down really shows. Indeed, everything in this film is 100% recycled from much better movies, and yet it has some interesting action pieces (a ringing dinosaur for one) and it's never laughable like, say, The Mummy Returns (that is, no one mentions the next apocalypse or anything). It's unintelligent summer fun, but it isn't anti-intelligent summer crap. See it if you've got a free ticket off of your Moviewatcher card. "},{"Title":"Truly awful, but in that entertaining sort of way","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the long, endless, steaming pile of crap that has been the summer of 2001, Jurassic Park 3 manages to share the same niche as The Mummy.  It's bad, but not so bad you want to cry.  More like, Ha!  That was bad but so humorously bad I can't actually say I was not entertained.  What do I mean by that exactly?  Well, take Eric the Dino Boy, who somehow by the age of 11 has acquired the survival skills to live 8 WEEKS by himself in the jungle, no problem.  Also note that his parents are worried enough about him to kidnap a paleontologist and fly to a dinosaur infested hell hole to search for him with nothing but a megaphone and a flashlight, but not quite worried enough to look for him sooner than say...8 WEEKS!  Then there is the touching love story that develops between Dr. Grant and Billy the Intern, and by the time we get to the ringing dinosaur (and the world's most durable phone) you just have to sit back and let the stupidity take control.  Is it a good movie?  Heck no.  Are there worse ways to spend a rainy afternoon and $5.50?  Heck yeah. You could see Tomb Raider for example.  "},{"Title":"Superior to Lost World in every way.  Great fun.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lean, fast and fun seems to be the objective of Jurassic Park III and it succeeds without ever hitting a dull spot.  It wastes no time in getting to the island and once it does it just doesn't let up.  The FX are astoundingly good--the pteradon attack has to be one of the most beautiful pieces of wizardry I've seen.  Director Joe Johnston did a fine job with Jumanji and he more than proves his salt with this.2001's first non-disappointing Summer blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Much better than # 2 but............","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was much better than # 2 but pales considerably compared to the original. I was very surprised and disheartened when in the battle between the T-Rex and Spinosaurus,for whatever reasons,the T-Rex was killed. Ruined the movie for me and my kids because we are T-Rex fans. Some positive moments were the pterodactyls,and the good up close face shot of the Brachiosaurus.  Acting was fair to say the least,but Sam Neil does a fine job,and Laura Dern (in a cameo role)looking better than ever,made me ask Why exactly did Billy Bob dump her for Anjelina Jolie?  Not a bad movie,but just didn't live up to our expectations. "}{"Title":"Disappointing Sequel","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just watched the first show of JP3 on the first day of its release. I was expecting a better show than what I watched. Now I understand why Steven Speilberg didn't direct this movie. I am a huge fan of Lost World Jurassic Park and I also liked the original. This film lacks the good acting, nice story lines and crisp direction of the first two movies. I remember from Lost World, it was thrilling right from start when the little girl discovers the velociraptors on island beach. The new movie does not thrill at any moment. A movie such as this can usually overcome bad story by providing thrilling action sequences, spectacular sceneries and good special effects and it could have done that only if more work had been done. Lost World had twice as many dinosaurs than this movie and I have seen better quality dinosaur effects in Disney's Dinosaur than here. Also, there were no nice daylight shots of the greenery or beach side of island. This movie feels like a cheap follow up to two of the biggest blockbusters on the movie history. This installment in the series is an insult to the name Jurassic Park. "},{"Title":"This movie is worse than we thought possible...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't believe there is one positive comment for this movie.  Hasn't this entire movie already been made?  What can we possibly gain from this movie that wasn't shown in the first two except a couple new species of poorly rendered dinosaur species.  There is NOTHING new here.  Storyline and characters are a joke- absolutely no attempt at consistency or believability, and absolutely no shame when it comes to dialogue and cheesy plot devices.  From beginning to end, I lose count of the number of times I was like come on, gimme a break!  bad bad bad, even by big-budget Hollywood standards.What amazed me most was that I expected just that I've come to expect big-budget Hollywood films to be nothing more than vehicles for computer-generated eye candy.  However, I couldn't honestly say that I thought they did an ok job on even that!  The dinosaurs were cartoonish and their movements seemed to defy laws of physics.  Maybe its because I just saw final fantasy yesterday, and next to that every other piece of CG animation looks like cheap trash.Bottom line there is no reason to see this movie.  If you want character and/or plot development, simply see any other movie, which is bound to be better than this one.  If you want to see nice CG eye candy, see Final Fantasy.  If you really really need to see dinosaurs (again), rent one of the other jurassic park movies.  Trust me-this movie is not worth it.  If you saw this movie and thought it was good, I feel sorry for you.  "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't believe it....despite the numerous species of dinosaurs, great sound effects, a child-hood (and adult-hood) fascination with dinosaurs AND NO late nights, I actually fell asleep and missed the end of the film!!!! it was sooooo boring I'm not going to go back to see the ending!I do give the film-makers some credit....85 was long enough...another half hour and I might have been comatose!!!Can you believe that they're considering another one????????????2.5 of out 5 "},{"Title":"This script is really several trailers stuck together.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From beginning to end, JP3 strains disbelief to incredible limits. We all know the plot before the screen darkens and sure enough, the certified smart guy saves the civilians from their own stupidity. But then, what would you expect when the dinosaurs are smarter than the average human? Oh, yeah, the computer generated graphics are very good!  "},{"Title":"Formulaic retread","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is a non-event.  It is a formulaic retread of the first two Stupid people go to the island for some hackneyed reason and systematically, starting with the African American then the unknown cast members, become dino kibble.  This time, William H. Macy and Tia Leoni play a rich, adventurous couple that hire Dr. Grant (Sam Neill, picking up a paycheck) and his assistant, Billy Brennan (played with beefcake jiggle by Alessandro Nivola) to take them on a tour of Isla Sonora.  Of course, a tour is not their true intention.  I found it hard to believe that Dr. Grant actually fell for it.  However, I could see Grant being swayed to return for the real reason.  But that is of no matter.  What does matter is that the stupid people go there, get stranded and, as Jeff Goldblum so aptly put it in The Lost World, `First there is the 'oohing' and the 'aahing'.  Then there is the screaming and the running.'  Let's face it, that's what we're here for.  This time, the addition to dinoland is the big, bad spinosaurus, a predator supposedly more vicious than the t-rex.  Whatever.  After the t-rex attacks in the first two we've seen it and done it!  One clever moment with the spinosaur puts a high-tech spin on the crocodile with an alarm clock in its belly in Peter Pan.  The addition of the pterodactyls is quite fun.  I wish more time was dedicated to them.  Instead, Joe Johnston's connect-the-dot filmmaking races us through several Rube Goldberg setpieces before abruptly ending at the hour and a half mark.  I suppose young viewers will get a kick out of it (parental note  this movie is rated PG-13 for a VERY good reason), but overall, it lacks substance.  The wide-eyed innocence of the first and the dark menace of the second (my favorite of the bunch) are gone.  I would prefer this to be the last visit to the land of the lost. "},{"Title":"same old, same old","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***Warning***, plot spoilers will be somewhat mentioned in this review. I didn't have the high expectations, and sure enough I was right.  Although, it is better than Lost World, it is not as good as the original 1993 release.  The plot a bit different, where the characters of the movie have no choice but getting to the island where individuals were either lost or dead themselves on a dinosaur infested land.  It's a rescue movie of the sort, and is entertaining to some degree.  New dinosaurs are featured, and William H Macy.  He played the character you'd expect him to play.  Being a different person underneath the one he portrays.  But you still root for him because of his good intentions.  Always a plus.  The characters are better than in Lost World, they're not as stupid.  Because they were sort of forced on to the island for the search and rescue.  The only moron, was the guy who stole the raptor eggs.  But it wouldn't be a Jurassic Park movie, without humans doing dumb things in it.  And they had me believe that dinosaurs are smart, that they can build traps, climb fences, and so on.  I thought dinosaur brains were tiny, unintelligent animals.  Ahh, but these are velociraptors, they're the most intelligent.  Whatever guys.  Visually, just like the ones before this film, the movie is done very well.  But the ending is so predictable, I can't believe that it turned out the way it did.  I would have ended it on a darker note, teaching the moral of the story that humans and dinosaurs don't mix.  If you actually enjoyed Lost World, you'd for sure want to see this movie.  But if you didn't.......at your own risk "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What's amazing about this film is that it made it from script to screen. This movie is essentially an 80 minute collage of all the scenes that should have been in the first 2 pictures.  There are only 2 things I enjoyed about this movie.  It was free (I won tickets to an advance screening), and the discussion my friend Rick and I had about which plot holes were the biggest. On an island the size of Isla Sorna, the group heads in a random direction and just happens to stumble upon the parachute crashsite (about a three foot square area in dense forest), the old central complex Ingen left behind, and the one pile of dino poo that has their (still working) phone in it.  The large cast of dinos only appear to make cameos, aside from the pteradactyls, raptors, and the T-rex wanna-be (who, despite plenty of easier, larger prey, follows a group of fish sticks across the entire island).  All other breeds are nothing more than scenery.  What a short waste of time! "},{"Title":"Coulda shoulda... not made the movie","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first Jurassic Park was a very enjoyable film.  While the second made everyone wish that it hadn't used the Jurassic Park name.  The third however is just blasphemy to the Jurassic Park movie name.  The worst part about the movie had to be the character development.  In most movies people like it when the bad people die, or get theirs in the end.  Not with this movie.  It's just another failed attempt at trying to get all ages and all types of people to be able to watch and enjoy a movie.  The middle of the movie may have you going and all excited.  However, once the climax is over, you're going to wish you never spent your money. "},{"Title":"Short, just too short!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe it was a good idea that Hollywood made this movie short, very short. Or maybe it was too short for anything good to happen?  I doubt that. The plot was fairly cheesy, but bearable.  Not enough dinosaurs + predictable story = multiple yawns.  On a brighter note, this movie surpassed the highly disappointing Lost World sequel, but does that really say anything? "},{"Title":"What?!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't have great high expectations for JP3 but neither was I prepared for the shocking letdown of this poor excuse for a movie. A movie must first of all have a credible story and well-rounded characters, then second, great special effects. This movie seems to be gunning for a running sequence of special effects with no real plot in sight. Somehow the chase scenes appear disconnected and awkward appearing more like sub-plots rather than ingredients of the main plot. Not that the main plot was very engaging--it wasn't. The ending was abrupt and affected a stunned Huh? from the audience. There was no grand ending sequence, no great showdown (the last fight-scene was as energetic as all the other fight-scenes so there was no REAL intro to the ending), and major loopholes gaping everywhere!I felt that the actors were adequate but under-utilized. The director is clearly no Spielberg. Unlike the first installment and the second, to a lesser degree, there weren't any jaw-dropping or hold-your-breath or scream-out-loud or grab-your-neighbor's-arm sequences. JP3 has certainly lost the magic of the original Jurassic Park movie. The frightening scenes were actually quite mediocre, one scene involving the raptors being laughable!The cinematography grew increasingly boring with scenary that became monotonous after 45 minutes. The fight scenes were chaotic and disorienting without a clear sense of perspective. In most of them there wasn't even a decent built-up of suspense. Spielberg would have had a build-up (remember the trembling water when T-Rex would be creeping round the bend? Or the raptor-in-the-kitchen scene in JP1?) and that would have added to the screams when the dinosaur lurched up and attacked.T-Rex is hardly featured in this movie which is a pity because he clearly is the star dino of the JP franchise. The new dinosaur Spinosaur does have some pretty exciting scenes but he does not have the screen presence of the classic T-Rex. Sadly, those frightening scenes looked really half-baked. So much potential, so little realized!On the good side, the flying-dino scene was the most memorable and the most captivating. With the movie getting a little more exciting at this point, it was truly a pity that the movie ended not long after that. It was really a HUH? moment. That's IT?!Overall, the movie was half-baked. Half-baked plot, half-baked ending, half-baked characters. It was like a sponge cake taken out of the oven too quickly. Maybe with a 2002 release, JP3 could have done some justice to the JP trilogy. The dinosaurs look great and scary enough (though the rators looked strangely like GREMLINS from Gremblins 2!), the actors had potential. Blame it on the ding-dong who wrote the script and the amateur who directed the movie. A disappointing turn. I would advise you to save your bucks on another movie but you may still want to grab this movie just to catch a rare glimpse of two awesome mean, ferocious dinosaurs going for each other's throats on your BIG SCREEN Spinosaur vs. T-Rex! Now, that's a sight...worth ONLY half your ticket. Still, it's quite a sight.Enjoy. "}{"Title":"The Lost World kisses it's a** goodbye","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is what The Lost World should have been but failed to. The first Jurassic Park was a big blockbuster hit, but it had a lot of elements for dinosaur fanatics that made it slow for some other people. The third installment is all about action and effects. Great new dinosaurs appear on screen and chase the dull humans with no mercy. Although the script is pretty stupid on the plot department, the action sequences are really interesting, and they are a lot. Not just two or three big action sequences just to have some adrenaline. There are actually three new species for the third Jurassic Park, we get to see an Allosaurus, some Ankylosaurus and the Spinosaurus, which is pretty scary and can beat the hell out of any other dinosaur around. But the amazing thing is that the Velociraptors still are scary and menacing. I think the Jurassic Park films feature some of the best computer generated FX ever, and this one tops the other two. Some daylight scenes seem too real, although there are some which still look computer made, like the ones with all the herbivore species next to the river.There is violence, mild but still way better than Godzilla (1998), he chase scenes are really tense, and the Pteranodon sequence is one of the best moments in the movie. This JP is a no-brainer for sure, but it's one hell of a ride, way better than Tomb Raider, Pearl Harbor, and most of the summer trash that has been running in theaters this year. "},{"Title":"Missed opportunity for a great trilogy","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As could be expected, Jurassic Park III went further downhill coming from the first one. The first Jurassic Park was great a good story line, brand new stunning visual effects, and most of all, originality. The Lost world, the second film, was more of that. As for the third one, you get the idea the writers must have spent months trying to come up with an original story. In which they didn't succeed. This film is build around a very average story line, for which they tried to make up with the same *old* visual effects.***SPOILER*** Dr. Grant accompanies a couple who go look for their son, who is missing on the island. This is pretty much it, the rest of the film is one big dinosaur-chase around the island. ***SPOILER***To not hammer the film completely, I think it's still a film worth seeing, of course only if you liked the first two. Some new dinosaurs, some nice effects (the bird cage!), the original music and a couple of actors from the first movie make it an hour and a half well spent. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park I was great... II was bad... III smells like sh*t","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't believe what i saw.. this movie totally crap... bad acting... I'm allergic for Ta Leoni. This movie isn't worth showing in the movie theaters. The only positive thing of this movie are the flying dinosaurs. Maybe they shouldn't try to make sequels of good movies..  "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is Jurassic Park? It is a theme park created to showcase genetically engineered dinosaurs. It is not something bad,just something good which went wrong. The whole concept of Jurassic Park was falsely displayed in JP2 and the same thing can be once again seen in JP3. I really enjoyed Jurassic Park....it was really fun to watch the characters, and the dinosaurs were superbly displayed,blending peaceful herbivores with the terrorizing carnivores...but, all this can't be seen in Jurassic Park 3. Here,all you get to see are savage dinosaurs attacking the group of humans time after time. The beauty of watching dinosaurs interact are no more there. And believe it or not,the dinosaurs are smarter this time around having learnt such skills as using bait to trap the troublesome humans AND use satellite phones. (seriously)! Sam Neill is back as Dr. Alan Grant and he plays his part quite well having done it before in the first movie. The others are merely characters for the dinosaurs to chase and eat...you cannot connect to their suffering or terror. Which actually makes you root the dinosaurs than the humans! There is ONE young boy...something I think is a requirement from the producers...you know,to excite the children, but here the guy is so 2 dimensional,you'd wish he was just eaten up by the dinosaurs. The storyline is nothing to shout about,in fact it's just about 10-15 minutes of story backed by the endless chase of dinosaurs. The movie itself is very short,about 1 and a half hours. I was really expecting more from JP3...it was a good thing Spielberg stayed away from this movie...it would've been one of the few pitfalls in his superb career. However, the dinosaurs are really awesome...they never fail to impress you and were very realistic,but then again...it's not something you haven't seen before.I really don't see the Jurassic Park franchise going anywhere... and I pray to God there is no Jurassic Park 4. In short,this is a flick where you won't regret if you miss it...but like me...all those who loved Jurassic Park,there is a nagging feeling to go watch it no matter how bad it is. Just don't expect much,because there really isn't. "},{"Title":"Next StopJurassic Park the TV Series","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hmm, 87 min.(incl.end titles) for a major Hollywood Movie License? That's more like a pilot for a new TV series.And that has been the general feel of the whole movie. Of course it's more expensive and technically advanced than a TV show but it's already been done in Part1&2 and the plot is not even worth mentioning.The whole movie is more like a Jurassic Park the Ride at Universal Studios. Mind- and brainless fun for the kids with some parts of violence and terror thrown in between to wake up the parents.My advice would be to wait and rent it on Video/DVD (don't even think to buy it).2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"dino-yawn","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neil) is desperate to continue his research into dinosaurs.  When he's invited by wealthy adventurer Paul Kirby (William H. Macy)  and his wife Amanda (Tea Leoni)  to act as host on an ariel tour of Isla Sorna, which has been a breeding ground for dinosaurs.  It doesn't take the greatest mind to realise what will happen next.... The best thing that can be said about the third Jurassic Park is that it's very short by comparison with the first two films (around 85 minutes) but it has enormous problems not least of all with turgid and by-the-numbers direction, hackneyed editing and a script and plot written on the back of a candy wrapper.  It's a series of disconnecting set pieces, which verge from humans meet dinosaurs, get chased by dinosaurs, talk, cliched pathos, hamfisted humanism, detacted violence, more chases. The End Perhaps very little children might get some level of thrill seeking from this, but anyone over 10 will be bored, not just by the over-familarity of the film, which is more of a franchise cash-cow than a creative enterprise, but by the real lack of care and imagination on view.  if kids have been weaned on films much more violent than Jurassic Park, they will think that this is really childish stuff. Paradoxically, young children may not be able to handle the sometimes jarring violence. At least films like Shrek blend elements for both children and adults; that takes skill, intelligence, wit and talent which is totally absent here.  Even the poor attempts at humour in this film are lackluster and half-hearted. As I said, It is short film and that will be the only antidote to keep you going if you're tugged at the knee, begged to be taken by your nearest and dearest- the little people. On a positive note, the special effects and sound design are excellent giving an air of tension and some effective shock moments.  Although the whipping up of tension is ruined by the by-the-numbers direction and jigsaw puzzle editing. After seeing this film, I can only conclude that Hollywood is in total free-fall and can't see further than the bank.  It might be nice to see Jurassic Park 3 as a benchmark for Hollywood to rethink their policy on cheating the audience with little more than the kind of short-attention span plot synopsis that a child could come up with. In the final analysis it makes no really difference, this film is critic proof and those that enjoyed the first two (I hated the first sequel) will enjoy being fed the same tasteless and bland auto-pilot approach.  "},{"Title":"Seems like a pointless exercise","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It became apparent rather quickly during my first viewing of The Lost World Jurassic Park in 1997 that even an old master like Steven Spielberg was lacking ideas for the follow-up to his 1993 smash. So it comes as no surprise that director Joe Johnston, whose most popular work back in 2001 consisted of mediocre fare like Honey, I Shrunk The Kids (1989) and Jumanji (1995), failed to squeeze any life out of the extinct prehistoric monsters on show. Even the writing talents of Oscar-winners Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor - who co-scripted with Peter Buchman - struggle to bring any dimension to the film's ensemble of disposable characters.When their son Eric (Trevor Morgan) goes missing while para-sailing near to the dino-infested island of Isla Sorna, his wealthy parents Paul (William H. Macy) and Amanda (Tea Leoni) look to launching their own rescue mission. As their guide, they approach Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill), one of the survivors from the events of Jurassic Park, to whom they offer a big pay-cheque and the promise that their plane will not touch ground. Paul and Amanda have some explaining to do when they inevitably land on the island and are soon running for their lives from a hungry spinosaurus. The velociraptors have also become more intelligent, learning to vocally communicate with each other, and do not respond nicely when Grant's assistant Billy (Alessandro Nivola) steals one of their eggs.It's no surprise that the franchise stagnated for 14 years following this third instalment. Little more than a re-hash of the first two movies - characters scream, run, get eaten, and make stupid decisions, while the true stars, the dinosaurs themselves, still impress. There's little pity to be had for the characters as we are urged to accept that Paul and Amanda would let their young son adventure near to an island now famously inhabited by ravenous monsters, and then ignore every piece of advice offered to them by the expert they employed. Even Sam Neill sleepwalks his lines and fails to bring any life to Dr. Grant. It all just seems like a pointless exercise, like everyone involved were simply seeking a nice pay day, and any ethical questions raised in the first two films are ignored in favour of somehow squeezing in yet another dinosaur attack. "},{"Title":"My least favorite of the series","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If I had to admit, this was the first Jurassic Park movie that I saw in a theater. Not the first, and certainly not the second. Just this one that I am reviewing. This came first just before I saw the first one being brought back in 2013 in 3D. With that said, the movie is about Alan Grant who is a survivor from the first one as he is still studying dinosaurs as he has been offered by a couple to be their tour guide as he brings Billy along, and things turned out to be a set up. They pretty much kidnapped him for his help to find their lost son, Eric who has been missing for eight weeks. So they go out to find their son, and try to get back home. This whole premise as you are reading really does play out like a B movie as you may have seen in any other movies that carries the same scenario. I first once did like this movie, but as time goes by it doesn't hold up really well. I don't hate it, but I don't consider this to be the absolute worst. I say it is the weakest, but not the worst of the worst. What is good and bad about this movie? The good is that it is really nice to have Sam Neill come back as he does give a good performance, and pretty much the best character in the movie. The other cast all did fine, but there was nothing much to root for. I can like two or three characters, but the others were just there. The music by Don Davis is very well scored as it does have some of that Jurassic Park feeling. The special effects are again like the second film, where they are parts that look slightly dated but for the most part they are really good. It has some neat actions, but nothing much to say about. The bad is that I don't think Joe Johnston does a good on making the movie. He did okay, but he just keeps missing on the boat. Also, the pacing is only an hour and a half long. When I first saw this movie, I was like Really? That's it? It just leaves me to wanting more, because it needed more action and excitements. The story is what it is, and never I find it original. In spite of some of the issues that I had, I can still watch it as a time waster and I can't hate it because I grew up with it. Overall, the movie was okay. I know many people can like this one over the second, but I can take the second one over this because there is so much to like while this one may have its moments but its just not that good. You can decide whether you want a Jurassic Park movie that is directed by Steven Spielberg or just go by at a quicker pace; it is all up to you. To me, I just want a good movie. So, in conclusion, Jurassic Park III is by far my least favorite, but it is indeed watchable. I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Popcorn Flick","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie does not deserve the flack it typically gets. Sure, it's nowhere near as good as the original Jurassic Park, but in my humble opinion it is a major improvement over the second film.This movie provides beautiful scenery, fun with the dinosaurs we expect to see, characters that don't grate your nerves, and is an all around fun ride.If you were not a fan of the last entry in the series, I would still recommend giving this one a go. While not without it's flaws, it is ultimately a short, fun piece of entertainment.I give Jurassic Park III a 6/10. "},{"Title":"It's dumb fun, but nothing more.","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Jurassic Park is just for pure spectacle. At this point, who cares about what happens and how they end up in the island, all we care about are the dinosaurs, and that is what we get. The cool thing about this film is the return of Dr. Alan Grant. Sam Niell effortlessly slides back into the role quite well, and should provide comfort food for Jurassic Park fans like myself and others. If anything in this film, aside from the dinosaurs are worthy of your time and attention, it's Dr. Grant. We also have a nice cameo from Laura Dern who returns as Ellie Sattler. The new cast are kind of expendable. I did in particular liked Alessandro Nivola's character Billy, but I didn't care for the rest of the mercenaries or the couple who are looking for their missing son portrayed by Tea Leoni and William H. Macy. Trevor Morgan plays their son Erik in the film, but like the previous installments that always involved children, it has a very been there and done that feel. This time around I didn't buy into the reason why everyone was forced to go back to that island once more. I thought overall, the film was thinly written, sloppy dialog, and just kind of shoehorned in. I mean after the events of the first two films, it's well known and publicized that dinosaurs exist once more so why in the world would anyone attempt to go near that island. Also, going into spoiler territory here, but if Ellie is able to rescue Grant and the others, by calling the US navy and the marines, why didn't the Kirby's(Macy and Leoni) do that to rescue their son? I also found that Malcolm's excuse to go back to that island was kinda lame in the second film, but he was forced into it because of his girlfriend, but for Dr. Grant, even if he was bribed by the Kirby's, he's smarter than that. But I guess money can change people's mind. Despite the characters repeating the same mistakes and getting into same situations again, the pacing is brisk and the dinosaurs are as cool as ever with some impressive visuals. We now see the Pteranodons in full action and they're just as deadly. The Velociraptors never fail to be threatening and vicious and this third entry displays their intelligence even more which was quite intriguing to watch. The Spinosaurus is introduced, and new dinosaur villain and single-handedly destroys the T-Rex. One thing I can always commend for the Jurassic Park franchise is their smart use of blending animatronics and cgi together. To simply put it, despite it's flaws, its fun and a good time to kill 90 minutes. 5.6/10 "}{"Title":"I didn't find as bad as many people make it out to be","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This to me is the most underrated one of the Trilogy. Even though not the best, I didn't find it as bad as everyone made it out to be. This was actually the first of the trilogy that I watched and over the years people have thought that I was crazy because I've said good about this movie. It's not as good as the first one and will never be, but to me it's fun. The part that I enjoyed the most was the scene with the Pteranodons. Many people complain about the Spinosaurus replacing the Tyrannosaurus Rex but I didn't mind because the Spinosaurus is actually bigger than T. Rex. Well those are my thoughts on Jurassic Park 3, and I have nothing against you if you hated it, but I just wanted to give my personal thoughts on the film. "},{"Title":"It sounds bigger....","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anxious to fund research for his new theory of velociraptor intelligence, Alan Grant is persuaded by wealthy adventurer Paul Kirby and his wife Amanda to accompany them on an aerial tour of Isla Sorna. This island has become breeding ground for John Hammond's magnificent creations and a magnet for thrill-seekers eager to encounter them. When a tragic accident maroons them, Grant discovers the reason his hosts have invited him along. In their attempt to escape, the group encounter terrifying new creatures and Grant is forced to learn the dreadful implications of his raptor intelligence theory.....The thing about this movie is that if you take away the maguffin of the child in peril,this is just a watered down version of the first film, and when you look at it that way, it seems a pretty sparse affair, and sometimes looks like a low budget movie.Neill looks tired and fed up, and the rest oft he cast are going through the motions. The set pieces are just poor retreads of the first movie, and for a film that's later, the effects are poorer than the groundbreaking original.It doesn't have the Spielberg magic, and Johnston should have done this in his sleep, but the end product doesn't feel magical, and it leaves you feeling a little empty. "},{"Title":"Dinofun!","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sam Neill's Alan Grant gets a second run in with dinosaurs after Jeff Goldblum got his turn in JP2. Grant is recruited to help search for the missing son of estranged couple Paul and Amanda Kirby (William H Macy and Tea Leoni) on Isla Sorna, where multiple dinosaurs are - of course - encountered, included old friends the velociraptors and new friends pterodactyls and an enormous spinosaurus.JP3 doesn't really have very much to say which hasn't already been said, but it says it quite entertainingly - there's an adequate story which picks up bits left over from the books and the previous films, lots of dinosaurs, decent dynamics between the characters, and that's about it, really. "},{"Title":"Pure, Unadulterated, Efficient, Confident, Fun Dinosaur Adventure","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III (hereafter JPIII) is essentially JPI or JPII without the excessive environmental, industrial, and genetic ethical moralizing. JPIII is simply content to pit humans vs. dinosaurs as the humans seek to escape the dinosaur domain alive, and does so, as I said in the title, efficiently, confidently, and entertainingly. Unlike the first sequel, which gave us the brave but bemused and not dinosaur-savvy Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) JPIII has the good sense to reintroduce rugged, resourceful, Indiana-Jones-like paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant in a latest attempt to save someone from dinosaur-infested Isla Sorna. That someone is resourceful, plucky 12-year old survivalist Eric Kirby (Trevor Morgan), stranded by a parasailing mishap. Eric is certainly a refreshing improvement upon the first sequel's whiny, peevish Kelly (Vanessa Chester). A third plus, at least initially, is Dr. Grant's able, young, handsome graduate student assistant Billy Brennan (Alessandro Nivola), who comes along for the rescue attempt.Somewhat unfortunately, JPIII counterbalances these competent characters with Eric's nondescript parents Paul Kirby (William H. Macy) who poses as a wealthy businessman willing to subsidize Dr. Grant's research in exchange for his son's rescue, and Amanda Kirby (Ta Leoni), Paul's tenderfoot ex-wife. Both participate in the rescue, even after Paul reveals he is merely a hardware store owner, and Dr. Grant exasperatedly punches him for the hoax.Off the quartet goes to Isla Sorna, where they are, naturally, stranded when a gigantic carnivorous Spinosaurus dismantles their aircraft and slays the mercenaries accompanying the group for protection. Despite their encounters with the Spinosaurus and T-rex, the latter which is killed in a vicious knockdown battle, the quartet becomes a quintet when they find Eric quite alive and quite well near an enormous aviary. The Spinosaurus was the first new angle in JPIII, the second is the eventual discovery of towering winged Pteranodons nesting within the aviary. The Pteranodons chase them as well. The group's progress is impeded by Eric's out-of-their-element parents, and, surprisingly, by Billy's appropriation of velociraptor eggs in a misguided attempt to fund Dr. Grant's research. Dr. Grant discovers the theft and severely chides Billy as no better than an avaricious corporate suit. Billy redeems himself by using a parasail to save Eric from a pteranodon's clutches and disappearing into a stream. The remaining group drive off the attacking Spinosaur with a crane and a boat fire, escape a surrounding pack of velociraptors by communicating with a shell that simulates their cries and giving back their eggs, and manage to contact Dr. Ellie Satler (Laura Dern) with an elusive cell phone for help in getting off the island. They get off the island, find Billy injured but safe, and see the freed pteranodons fly off the island for a possible third sequel.I liked JPIII because it is a stripped-down, just-long-enough, straightforward dinosaur adventure. Furthermore, we learn more about more dinosaurs (carnivores and herbivores) and realize they are far more than villains that chase and eat people. Also, the characters, even Eric's stereotypically clueless parents, test their mettle and will for survival and eventually earn our respect. Finally, the CGI beasties are as awe-inspiring as ever and advance in our estimation because of Dr. Grant's scholarly admiration of them. One can find lapses in JPIII, such as the T-Rex's willingness to leave the carcass it's feeding on to chase little humans, and a 40-pound pteranodon's questionable ability to pick up an 80-pound kid (besides pteranodons are fish-eaters). Nevertheless, JPIII is a thrilling, suspenseful ride (especially the sequence when Dr. Grant desperately calls Ellie on the slippery cell phone, gets her 3-year old son instead, and tries to get the Barney-distracted child to get mommy on the line). And yes, it's much better and more intelligent than The Lost World, and on a par with the first Jurassic Park.P.S. After three Jurassic Park movies, what's left for the putative third sequel to cover? Okay, we have the escaped pteranodons. But is that enough? All I can think of is that unscrupulous InGen scientists somehow obtain the dinosaur zygotes from the first movie, perform some cross-breeding on the mainland, and create new dinosaur hybrids, including humanoid dinosaurs (from the velociraptor embryos). "},{"Title":"Why the hate? WAY better than The Lost World","Date":"16 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Jurassic Park paved the way for CGI and anamatronics, also bringing several actors to light. The story, acting, writing, and special effects are all superb. An edge of your seat adventure film with amazing twists and character development. The sequel, eh, not so much. David Koepp did a terrible job writing the screenplay. I couldn't care less about the dialogue, it was all boring and stupid, poorly misconstructed facts. Second of all, the characters couldn't be more unlikeable. The characters are all annoying, especially the know-it-all Sarah Harding, and the only ones that aren't are Dr. Ian Malcom, his daughter, Eddie Carr, and Roland Tembo. Everyone else is hopelessly boring and annoying. Not to mention that the main characters (partictularly Sarah Harding and Nick Van Owen) are responsible for nearly every death in the movie. They steal bullets from the people who saved their lives to protect the dinosaurs that tried to kill them multiple times. And they also unleash vicious dinosaurs on their camp, killing who knows how many people, but that's okay, they just wanted to make sure the dinosaurs weren't put in a zoo! Who cares how many people die! And also, Sarah and Nick are always saying that you can't disrupt their environment, and proceed to steal a young t-rex and mend its leg. Rightfully so, they are pushed off a cliff. But the effects and most of the acting is still pretty awesome, and to its effect, the movie is still pretty good. But enough about that one, now let's get to JPIII. I honestly can't understand why people hated this movie so much. This film is a very fun thrill ride, that I loved. How can people love the first sequel more than this one? Just because Spielberg directed? In this one, Spielberg isn't in it, but people automatically shun it or blame the film's flaws on the director because of that. And that isn't fair. Sure, this movie has flaws, but it isn't as bad as I thought it was going to be. For example, chief amounts of criticism are drawn towards the fact that the t-rex is killed off by a much scarier and stronger dinosaur. Because the t-rex was the big guy in the last two installments, people have shut their minds so they will accept no less than the t-rex, when there are thousands of other potential candidates. Why are people so close-minded? Okay, the Spinosaurus is faster, stronger, more agile, bigger, and stronger than the t-rex. Not to mention the fact that it has a larger bite radius and arms that it can actually use. In reality, the Spinosaurus is just a better dinosaur and killer, but people feel the need to pick at every last detail, when, in reality, this is an awesome movie and one of the biggest blockbusters of all time. Also, there was one reviewer who stated that it was predictable when they were attacked in the InGen lab. Well, DUH! It was foreshadowed! It actually showed a raptor running into the building! Besides, it isn't the director's fault that the movie was predictable! Again, because he isn't Spielberg, it won't do. I do have a few problems with this though, but only two major ones. * The raptors can TALK to each other. Okay, as much as I love the raptors, thinking that they have developed a language is absurd. Although it is original, the idea makes absolutely NO sense and therefore bugs me more than anything. * The Pteranodons fly away from the island at the end because (The 'burbs reference here, Someone left the gate open.) Although these prehistoric reptilian clones tried to kill them all savagely, and when they reach civilization, will most likely create a nesting ground and will kill more innocent people, do these people care? No. And do they tell the military who is with them? No. Um, why??? All in all, this film DOES have its flaws, but it is still an improvement over its predecessor and it is very fun to watch. Not to mention other threequels (thought it up myself) like Jaws 3, Amityville 3, Superman III, Spiderman III, etc, are MUCH worse than this awesome, suspenseful, well written film. 8/10 stars. ) "},{"Title":"A Compulsory and Artificial Cash-In","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Michael Crichton's cautionary saga of humanity's unchecked biological trifling had by this time unashamedly entered the flat surface of bluntly revenue-chasing amusement, the same region that the Rocky, Nightmare on Elm Street, Friday the 13th and other trademark blockbusters came to fill as original casts and directors began their mass-migration to other ventures. Having accumulated some box-office cred on Jumanji, about a splintered family fleeing from feral animals, this one film in the series that's neither directed by Spielberg nor based on a book by Crichton indicates a sensible manufacture within the thin function of director Joe Johnston's specialty. The idea of human characters has been substituted practically by folding-carton patterns, each of which performs either of two functions to escape from dinosaurs or to be consumed by them. When you think about it, that essentially means there's no need at all for human actors.The initial Jurassic Park was a tour de force of suspense and adventure sheathed in a thrilling present that employed vanguard visual effects and digital sound to totally convince us that dinosaurs could exist afresh. The Lost World, though disparaged by some, essentially streamlined the crisply paced action and adventure, just as Jaws 2 did for its Spielberg-helmed predecessor. But somewhat like that sequel's shameful cash-in descendants, this numbly entertaining film simply repeats the basic gimmick with far less technique and human interest. Here, there's no upsurge to the first emergence of the dinosaurs, they're abruptly there. Character interface is shoddier than obligatory, it's, to all intents and purposes, absent. Each action set-piece is presented in a standard way, leaving no scope for anxiety or dread, not to mention any that even comes close to the Jeep sequence in the first film, for instance. And the entire thing is over so quickly that it barely feels as if to have been experienced.The story, to the degree that there is one, has paleontologist Dr. Grant reluctantly voyaging to Isla Sorna as the salaried guide for William H. Macy and Ta Leoni, an alienated couple hunting for their son, who's disappeared there. Grant, along with his protg, Alessandro Nivola, almost immediately find himself in the unchanged sort of life-and-death predicament as the last time he was here, being pursued by Raptors, Tyrannosaurus, and the new Spinosaurus. Also along for the jaunt are Michael Jeter and John Diehl, who virtually have Expendable Character Actor outlined on sandwich boards.It's poignant to find that the most skillful scene, a reunion between Grant and his past subordinate, Laura Dern in a cameo, involves no actual dinosaurs. All that happens on Isla Sorna is cyclical and mainly dull, barring the sporadic bald reference to classic Spielberg films, which is also rather sad. There are some fresh dinosaurs at the table, some airborne, though they work to the same effect as all the others. The raptors have been promoted to Ubermensch level They now consult one another, though not in English; I was imagining subtitles. In the meantime our first love, the T-Rex, has but a fleeting, base cameo. The effects, while basically convincing, appear to have been done at a bargain price Some of the dinosaurs, even some of the new ones, are visibly less refined and worse, transparently CGI.This children's slasher flick, this computer-game-and-action-figure promo, lacks a genuine high point. It more or less finishes with a cumbersome, economical lack of creativity where conflict is rapidly and gruffly worked out with the manufactured intervention of running time rations. This is in proportion to the film's largely mediocre arrangement. The movie unproductively fantasizes about reproducing the human interaction of the first movie a modest romance and an adult-child friendship. In this case, though, it's compulsory and artificial.The filmmakers transparently trusted that reprising Sam Neill would contribute a flavor of authenticity to this production that it might not otherwise have had. And, to offer him scaffolding, they've contrived a troupe of first-rate character actors. Nevertheless, since the characters are so weakly written, no sum of ability or familiarity can matter. Considering the bits and pieces he has to ply, they can be pardoned. It was almost certainly silly to look forward to something fresh or innovative to emerge in Jurassic Park III anyway. On balance, the modus operandi has long been set up for this variety of cinema, though it shouldn't have been excessive to anticipate at least a fraction of excitement comparable at all to that of the prior two films. "},{"Title":"An unneeded sequel","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A good number of films have sequels. Most of the time the sequels are not as good as the first film. There are a few exceptions to this rule as well. Films sequels in my opinion fall into at least one of the following three groups, sequels that are not good, sequels that are good, and sequels that should not have been made. This film falls into both the first and three groups.The basic gist of the film is that some people want to go Site B and see the dinosaurs. They get there and things go from dumb to worse.I didn't like this film that much at all. The characters just don't seem like real people, they were not 2-d characters, and they are not 3-d characters, but sorta 2.5-d characters. They change some, but not much to seem like they should.I also wasn't impressed with the CGI effects. The effects didn't seem realistic at times. The other problem I had with the film was the length of the film. The whole film seemed rushed and there was not much character development at all, which is important for any films, especially the Jurassic Park films.This film is sorta like the many Friday the 13th films. Not good and not needed. If you enjoyed the first two Jurassic Park films then ignore this one, it's not worth it. "},{"Title":"Exciting, but it's gotten tired","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park was an original and scary thrill ride that introduced the stunning effects of Stan Winston; it was the debut of bloodthirsty cloned dinosaurs that managed to escape and prey on humans. Steven Spielberg kept the plot tight and the action spectacular, but the drama was sparse. Ah well, nobody went to see a tearjerker, they wanted to get that chill in their bones when the T-Rex was introduced and the raptors came out of the shadows.Then came The Lost World, where Spielberg lost himself in a long but successful combo of drama and more terrifying dinosaur effects. It was no Jurassic Park but it was still a cut above the rest, a great thrill ride that was entertaining and scary.And now comes Jurassic Park III, and it works so well because it's so damn shameless. This one finds a rich couple coaxing Alan Grant (Sam Neill reprising his role from the first film) into being their tour guide on a flight over Isla Sorna, Site B where there are still dinosaurs living naturally in their own habitat. The area is not only restricted but the couple (William H. Macy and Tea Leoni) actually land on the island with intentions unknown to Grant- to find their missing son who disappeared when parasailing on the coast of the island.About ten minutes into the film the plane has crashed and left the group, (which also includes a nerdy pilot and Grant's ambitious paleontologist protg Billy), hopelessly stranded. Not to mention at the hands of a new, bigger and badder carnivorous monster, the Spinosaurus, who sports a gigantic sail and boasts a huge mouth full of razor sharp teeth. He puts the T-Rex to shame (but where the hell was he in The Lost World, where another group of people was also on Isla Sorna?). As soon as the eccentric couple's intentions are clear to Grant, they have to stick together and survive the brutal, never-ending attacks from various dinosaurs while they search for their teenage son (Trevor Morgan.) The movie really is literally shameless, moving at a lighting fast pace and throwing in every action movie clich into the mix possible, at the same time introducing tons of new species of dinosaurs into the story that weren't apparent before. There are plenty of satisfying chills and the movie keeps you entertained for its short running time of 90 minutes, but it lacks the Spielberg charm, style and brains that made the first two movies so much more original and fun. "},{"Title":"Were they even trying this time?","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1997's 'The Lost World Jurassic Park' has one of those endings where it would be OK to leave it at that, or continue with the option of going in any direction. For the third installment Steven Spielberg stepped back and gave someone else the opportunity to direct. Also the writers were new and aside from Sam Neill and a cameo by Laura Dern, so was the cast. Having enjoyed the previous installments very much, I was looking forward to the further adventures of these characters and the creatures they fought for survival against. Unfortunately, instead of a sequel that took chances and showed us new sights, we got more of the same. I hate to say it, but III is an example of rainy afternoon entertainment instead of classic entertainment.Pros Decent performances from the cast. Moves at a brisk pace (It better at 84 minutes). Though we've seen most of them before, the effects are still excellent. More beautiful eye candy in the form of tropical scenery. An OK score, but the main theme is overused a bit. Some great set pieces and scary moments.Cons Though the acting is fine, some characters are kind of annoying. Also, some characters do the stupidest things. Like two, this sequel's plot is just a thin excuse for action and elaborate effects. Aside from the addition of a couple species of dinosaur, this film brings nothing really new or exciting to the table. Instead of a new setting we get the island again. Yawn! Lastly, there's one annoying plot hole involving the boy.Final thoughts What started out as a great adventure has become by-the-numbers. How and why this script was greenlit is beyond me, but the deed is done. If there ever is a part IV here's some advice for the filmmakers How about trying new and exciting things with the concept instead of giving us the same old thing? My rating 2.5/5 "},{"Title":"Actually a worthy chapter in the trilogy","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III, when it came out, split the critics. Ebert thought this was the best that the genre could do and other critics hated it. Others said it didn't matter whether or not it was good because the first two were enough. Personally, I think it's a worthy addition to the trilogy. Jurassic Park III is simple- a simple plot, only 80 or 90 minutes long, but less is more. The dinosaurs aren't just more of the same. The rex is replaced by the Spinosaur, who's supposedly bigger but definitely leaner and meaner. The pterosaurs are seen battling humans for the first time- taking the man vs. nature struggle to the air. The struggle is also fought in the water for the first time as the Spinosaur can swim. On land, we have the raptors, but they're revised, and they're smarter than they were in The Lost World, which makes them more interesting.Sam Neill, who starred in the first one, stars in this one as well after being left out of The Lost World. (Perhaps in fairness, Jeff Goldblum starred in the second and was left out in the third). Neill is good here. One flaw of this movie, though, is the special effects. These are the least convincing in the trilogy, particularly on the small screen. Still, Jurassic Park III is good for a sequel of its kind. Recommended for fans of action movies. "}{"Title":"Final chapter from trilogy  that provides exciting and sweeping amusing and entertainment","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This enjoyable third entry , plenty of spine-tingler thrills and emotion, deals about archaeologist Alan Grant(Sam Neill) and his pupil archaeologist(Alessandro Nivola). Grant is deceived by a marriage(William H Macy and Tea Leoni) and along with a mercenaries group(Michael Jeter, Bruce A. Young, John Diehl) return to Dinosaurs island looking for their son(Trevor Morgan).When the plane crashes on the island populated by the Dinos, the humans try desperately to escape of the colossal carnivorous . The group is chased through lush jungle by fanged creatures from the cretaceous period and genetically engineered formerly.The Dinosaurs are ,once again, the authentic protagonists, they're again marvellous terrifyingly awesome and almost completely convincing, combining elements from previous films . Actors give vigorous physical performances dodging the Dinos, this time appear, an impressive Spinosurious fighting against Rex, a giant Dino-birds and , of course, the intimate Tyrannosaurious and Velocirraptor made by means of incredible combination of computer generator-ILM, Industrial Light Magic- and animatronics models- Stan Winston studio-. Simple dialogue and plain tale, the story is more exciting and inventive than second outing, Lost World, though inferior to first entry, Jurassik Park . The film packs a quite potent soundtrack by Don Davis, remaking the classic score by John Williams. Atmospheric and colorful cinematography reflecting the luxurious jungle by Shelly Johnson. The motion picture is professionally directed by Joe Johnston. The film will like to the previous films enthusiastic, but no for small kids by violent, realistic and gory attacks by monsters animals. "},{"Title":"Lacks in length with a disappointing ending.","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III (2001, Dir. Joe Johnston) Dr. Alan Grant is now a happy man with the previous incidents of Jurassic Park now behind him. Grant is that happy that he announce in public, that nothing on Earth can persuade him back onto the islands. Maybe nothing, except Paul Kirby. Kirby and his wife, Amanda want a plane to fly them over Isla Sorna, with Dr. Grant as their guide. But not everything Kirby says is true. When the plane lands, Dr. Grant realises that there is another reason why they are there, that he doesn't know of. Now, Dr. Grant is stuck on an island he has never been on before, with what was a plane journey now turned into a search party.Losing Steven Spielberg as it's director, gave Jurassic Park III a bigger task to be better than the previous films, then the second had with the original. It is successful? Yes and No. Familiar characteristics are found in this movie, such as the return of Sam Neill and Laura Dern, as well as the theme and the dinosaurs. The visual effects are amazing as always, although they did seem a bit disappointing at certain points. The full scale animatronic models moved liked models a few times, and the CGI movement seemed a bit off, but nothing noticeable. The real problems i have with this film is the length and the finale. This film is just too short, compared to the previous two films, with the film seeming a bit similar to the original. A lot of the different turns in the films, such as deaths should have gone a different route. The ending was also disappointing and looked quite silly. Still, 'Jurassic Park III' is a solid entrance into the Jurassic Park series.Dr. Grant said that is a very bad idea. - Paul (William H. Macy) "},{"Title":"Superb Stuff","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, the first one is a classic, the second one a worthless pile of tat... this one... lovely stuff. Great effects, probably the best of the lot by a long way... some great set pieces... e.g. The Terradactyl Cage scene is awesome... the music's got back to normal (after the awful 2nd film)... acting's pretty good for this kinda thing... but as a film, has to be a 8/10 surely, and can't understand why it's currently scoring so low? Nice to see Sam Neil back in something decent as well although I'm not sure why Laura Dern was even in it... continuity maybe?The story is a little weak overall, but so are all of them... "},{"Title":"The Most Logical Result When You Add Jurassic Park 1 and 2 Together","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is Jurassic Park 3. In short, Jurassic Park 1 was a masterpiece, perfectly executed, and likely never to be topped by any sequel. Jurassic Park 2 was an attempt to recreate the same dramatic awe and inspiration that was generated in audiences with the first Jurassic Park. It was poorly executed and easily topped by the following sequel, Jurassic Park 3.Why is this? Because the logical step, after the studio had created a cinematic masterpiece about dinosaurs, should have been to get right down to the nitty-gritty about dinosaurs living in the 20th-21st centuries, which would be 'They Effing Eat People!' That is the big difference between JP 3 and the predecessors. It skips the whole dramatic, scientific tedium, and gets right into the larger-than-life Spinosaurus eating human flesh, dominating the T-Rex, and creating an atmosphere of chaos. This is what dinosaur movies should be like now that JP1 has taken care of all of the dramatic awe and wonder parts of this. Lets see the dinosaurs draw people into their habitat, and consume them! After 90 minutes I have had enough anyhow.The makers are never going to get another Oscar for making dinosaur movies(most likely). So give the people what they want! My only regret is they continue to leave the violence in the pg-13 limbo. I want R-rated fountains of blood! Seriously though, this is a great popcorn movie with lots of action and thrills, which doesn't have a long meandering plot to drain you and your child's brains. This deserves a higher rating in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Why is everyone complaining?","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just don't understand why everyone just says bad things about this one. when i saw it in the cinema, back some years, i found it really really good, although it was a bit short. but that's no problem, because better a little shorter than long and boring. Jurassic park was one of my favorite movies when i was a kid and i watched it at least 10 times, because it is such great. i was quite disappointed from the lost world, although it was okay. so if you have seen lost world, don't give up and watch part 3! it's a really nice one. don't give a sh*t about what people are saying here (even what i say here ;) ), but build yourself an own opinion.greetings, anchelito "},{"Title":"Still fun if you like that kind of thing","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 3rd in the Jurassic Park series, and like the lost world, this outing is more about the dinosaurs and the action, not the characters and the plot.Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) is re-introduced as the familiar face to keep the series tied together, and this time he's taking a eccentric couple (Tea Leoni and William H. Macy) on a guided tour of the island, or so he thinks? The action is plentiful, and we see some new dinosaurs in this one, but unless great special effects, lots of chasing and running and plenty of action is all you're after, you may feel a little let down by the idiocy of the plot and the characters in it. (For the record, the acting isn't the problem, i have to blame the writer and the director for this) 6/10 I still found some enjoyment in it. "},{"Title":"Worse than 1993,but better than 1997.","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my opinion the third Jurassic Park is not quite as good as the first one,but much better than the second. When I have heard of JP3 in 2001,I thought I must see that,because I was a large fan of the other two movies.As I read some comments and previews in magazines,I was worried about the film being not very good,too short and too pathetic. But since I saw it in winter 2001,I didn't think so. It's the JP movie with the most action,the most dinosaurs,with a not bad story and great pictures.The picture with the T-Rex and the spino or the scene with Grant and the raptors,I won't forget too fast. But let's start with the story.The story is simple(Boy got lost,parents search him with a few other people for example Dr.Grant,dinosaurs wanna eat them and they try to survive),but that doesn't mean that it's bad. The plane crash at the beginning of the film and the spinosaur attack is as good as the main-road scene from JP1. That the spino fights with the T-Rex an kills him is exaggerated,but you must see that the spino is bigger and has more powerful claws than the Rex,even if he could bite more wasteful.So it isn't too unrealistic. The skin of the raptors had changed,but i don't think that they now look worse or not as dangerous as before. That you can see the InGen constructions again,and see how run down they are,is very interesting.The cars and breeding places look the same as the ones in the first movie,but more dirty and broken. The pteranodons look kinda scary,I liked them,their flying style seems natural. Besides,the river scene with the spino is great and the raptors behave intelligent and understandable.One part of the people who have seen the film hate it,and the other part love it. I love it for being a great movie,and I think it's a must-see movie for fans of Jurassic Park,and a good film for people who like dinosaurs or simply want to be entertained. So watch it,cause it's worth.PSSorry for my English,but I'm German. "},{"Title":"Wow! Spinosaurus!!!","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had no idea Spinosaurus was such a bad-a** until I saw this movie. In fact, this movie puts Spinosaurus on the map. Until Jurassic Park III Spinosaurus was just one of those run-of-the-mill big meat-eating dinosaurs, who happened to have some funky-looking spines on his back but otherwise wasn't too impressive. Now fast-forward to the beginning of JP-III, where he shreds some poor pilot guy who was lost in the forest, then bundles a Tyrannosaurus rex who challenges him over some table scraps (ultimately killing the T-rex). I'd like to see a best-of-seven playoff series between these two predators, because I still think T-rex would have held his own more often than not, what with his bigger, more massive jaws and all. If fact, that's what this movie really should be about. Unfortunately, the rest of this movie is a little too contrived, far-fetched and boring. Some little kid gets lost on the island and Sam Neill is roped into going back on the island to save him. Personally, I couldn't care less about the kid. Tea Leoni was fun to look at, so when the movie got boring I prayed for more Tea Leoni shots. Clearly this is the worst of the trilogy (I've heard a fourth installment is due in 2008, which would certainly pique my interest). However, I give it a 5 because it's still pretty lively and I feel like it has to receive a better score than the third movie of the Carnosaur trilogy just on principle. "},{"Title":"A few good moments and a nice setting","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One really can't understand what the writers and directors were thinking when they planned JP-3? Were they really aiming for a semi-serious or I dare say, comedy, with the talking Raptors and the CGI Spinosaur and all? One should not go expecting anything as massive on the lines of Jurassic Park or the Lost world and the third part really does not compare to either of them. The effort itself has been one on a much smaller scale. The movie is completely devoid of story. As you expect, Sam Neil and a few others crash on the island and they have to escape. So they try and they do. Nothing unusual happens and there's no twist in the story. The ending is quite pathetic. But with some beautiful locations, a few great moments of suspense and plenty of dinos, this movie does not fail to entertain despite its inherent flaws. "},{"Title":"Better the the second","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I believe Jurassic Park three managed to be a lot better than the second one, though the originality of an island of dinosaurs had worn off this was good with some great new ideas.The fact they got rid of the T-Rex (which was getting rather dull) and added a more threatening Spinosaurus was really good. Another good new aspect, is the scene with all the flying dinosaurs which i always thought they should have done before and was very jumpy. However, I wasn't entirely happy about the velociraptors evolving smarter which was a bit ridiculous.This film will never match up to the first film, but improves the quality of the Jurassic park series after the dismal second film. This is darker, and more edgy than the other two films and good to watch on a Saturday night. "}{"Title":"Not so bad after all.","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've watched Jurassic Park and Lost World more times than I can count, so I decided to watch this one. I was told that it really sucked, but I beg to differ. It doesn't suck, although it's not the best--it's good in parts.Paul and Amanda Kirby (Macy and Leoni) are a seemingly rich couple who hire Alan Grant (Neill) to give them a tour of the island. Little does he know, though, that they really want him to help find their son, that they're not as rich as they say, and that their son is on the island he never went to. Danger lurks on the island, ready to leap out at them and have them for dinner&#151;including the mighty new creature that wasn't on the other island a spinosaurus.(Funny line from Grant about not getting paid&#151;made me think of the first movie, and the amount Hammond paid him.) Grant brings along Billy (Alessandro Nivola) because the whole coming along thing was his idea to begin with. They never showed this part, but that didn't bother me. I was just glad that Billy gets to go. Without him, the movie would've been less exciting.Two or three others go with them, which are eaten one by one. The surprising thing is that Ellie is on this one a bit, too, and she's married with kids&#151;and not to Grant. Disappointing. I did know that they never married, though, because I read the books.Anyway, the main bad guy is a spinosaurus. Keep in mind that scientists aren't sure if they were quadruped or biped, due to uncertainty about the weight of the sail. They could've been that way. As for the raptors&#151;don't get me started on those. On all three, the raptor is portrayed as being big--which they aren't. Deinonychus is.Anyway, this movie isn't as bad as anyone says. It definitely has its parts, some of which are funny. Go watch it. "},{"Title":"Has some bright ideas, but sadly drowns in super dinosaurs and stupid Kirby's","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's been 8 years since the incident at Jurassic Park. And one of the survivors Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) is asked to be a guide for the rich and happily married couple the Kirby's (William H. Macy, and Tea Leoni). They are adventurer's and want to fly over Isla Sorna to see dinosaurs. But after the plane crash the people Alan Grant travels with seems to not be the ones they said they are, and with dinosaurs smarter then primates, all hell breaks loose. JP3 is not the worst movie ever, but it's not a good movie. I have never understood the people that say they like this better the Lost World. And i hope i never will either. For me this movie feels like a Pizza without the cheese. JP3 only last 92 minutes. If they should do it right it would have lasted at least 120 minutes, and with a MUCH better story. There shouldn't be any Kirby's in the movie. Or a little Kirby that hides in a tank and saves Dr.Grant with smoke grenades, as he runs through the smoke in his jungle-ish clothes to save his hero Dr. Grant.It all looks so stupid and childish. This could have been a great movie. Because there is some GREAT ideas. For example, the birdcage. When they realize where they are (in a birdcage) it's scary and done really well. For one moment it is the JP3 it should have been. But it doesn't last long until it's back to the JP3 it sadly was. "},{"Title":"Doesn't even attempt to suggest a hint of a plot","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original JP at least had the plot of capitalists abusing mother nature and the resultant chaos teaching a Frankenstein message. It had a theme park out of control, Alan Grant learning to be a father-figure (you should put that in all your films, Steven - oh, you already have), greedy traitor Dennis Nedry attempting to cash-in on the park's secrets, and Malcolm's whole chaos theory stuff.....The Lost World was much darker, bitter Spielberg, about how evil capitalism is. The now very-sober, brooding Malcolm's ominous gaze is very much Spielberg's own when regarding the merciless strip mining of nature itself. Technically, it had twice as much story as JP3 - it had people running from dinosaurs, but it also had the fight against the poachers that ended up Godzilla style in NY.What's the plot of JP3? Kid gets lost on island. People go to rescue him. Dinosaurs on island are smarter than previously thought. That's it.Only weeks before JP3 went into production, the script was changed, and the producers were all praising the new version, saying they'd gone for a stronger story at the last minute.I shudder to think at what the previous script must have contained. Is it possible to have less story than JP3? JP3's story is just an explanation as to why everyone is on Isla Sorna, and then into the mayhem. And I saw it THREE DAMN TIMES at the cinema. "},{"Title":"Super cool dinosaurs! People not so cool...","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I feel surprised to see Alexander Payne (Sideways) in the writing credits. That's the first of all. Next, the story of the movie and it's plot is a little bit too...silly. A boy who get lost in the island of dinosaurs because he wanted to make some risky sports. OK, so bring Dr Grant, who knows nothing about this island! Ha ha ha! I can't stop laughing at that. The whole movie is a non-stop escaping from the CGI dinosaurs, very well made by the way, difficult to make them difference from the Animatronics. That's a good point. Another good point is to see the Rex smashing the Spino before this one knocks and breaks his neck! We see Pterosaurs, yeah that's more than cool, we were waiting a long time to see them, and not disappointed, very happy with them. The bad things we have here? The music made by Don Davis. He did a great job in Matrix, but when they told him Tension, he heard Annoyance, so every time that there is an action sequence, the music gets very high volume, and with lots of shrikes from the instruments like they were torturing ten cats at the same time. If we include Tea Leoni's over-acted performance, then we have the following. A good Jurassic movie with nice CGI and better dinosaur designs (including sound effects) with annoying music and not so good performances. Please, make JP 4 a little bit better, remember the original movie. "},{"Title":"Far from excellent, but far from horrible","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park was a very good movie. But, of course, like JAWS, it must have a sequel if it did well in the box office, in Speilburg standards. I'm not sure if this is good or bad, but this film isn't done by Speilburg. This may be a good thing, because his sequels were never done well. JAWS 2, for example was directed towards teens, which may of ruined the movie. Then again, Steven Speilburg is a great director, the best of them all- except Alfred Hitchcock.Jurassic Park III doesn't have as much story as the original. There is a lack of quiet moments for the story to build. The upside to this is that it makes the film easier to pay attention to, and you don't have to get bored to death by the boring beginning of the first one. The storyline is decent, but mostly replaced by stylish action.This film is a disappointment to the original, which was highly likely because it is a sequel, but it isn't too bad, in my opinion. It isn't a remarkable or excellent film, but it does have its high points.7/10Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "},{"Title":"Lack Of Action","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 is a good sequel of JP, but there is a problem, lack of action , on JP2 we see a organize group of mercenaries sent to capture dinosaurs on these sequel of JP we see the use of weapons , survival , running and shooting, armored transportation and technology, but in JP3 the only good fact, that would attract people to see this movie is Dr. Allan Grant , but the movie is missing a lot of action i mean common only 3 mercenaries , 2 of than kill on the instant action , a kid that survives 2 months in a jungle like this i hope JP4 which is a work in process, be better more action more like a Dino Crisis Style.JP3 could it be better if more action were put on the movie, different story and a whole cast of all the others old school JP characters , but still the movie gets a average score, i hope Steven spielberg put his magic of action on JP4. "},{"Title":"Dreadful as hell, unless you're one of those audiences..","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a common dinosaur fan, JP/// is brilliant entertainment. The sad thing is that to the ones who respect the concept that made JP unique originally can be real badly disappointed with this after TLW's let-down climax. Yes, Jurassic Park is part of the monsters eating people genre but the very reason it was successful in the beginning is also the reason why it has lost all of it's true content to be replaced by plain dinosaurs eating people. You see, the one thing that ever made this concept unique was lost right after the first movie. Jurassic Park was about three things in major 1 Dinosaurs being brought back to life with complex genetic engineering which poses an issue far greater than the mere capability of being able to do so.2 Dinosaurs evading public awareness with their mysteriousness when almost every other monster film of similar shape has made it's creatures well known for people, something The Lost World's ending completely evaporated.3 Characters you can actually be surprised by.So what remains is what we've seen before, dinosaurs posing dynamically in front of cameras and press while dangling screaming victims from their mouths in imitation of King Kong. Why is this? Because the majority of fans spending cash to the trilogy don't care about anything else in their movie night. They are the common dinosaur fans, not fans of Jurassic Park as a unique concept. So the one single thing that made the first movie a success has ever since drowned and faded away to be replaced by cheap canary tricks to quote Spielberg himself. The first film was a one-time wonder thanks to it and, now that the fandom of JP's true concept shrunk badly from the 90s, it is clear why this film forgot so much of what the first tried to imply and has condemned itself to be just like any other dinosaur film with no true relevancy whatsoever outside I'm bored so I'm watching this entertainment. And that eats away the experience of  being at Jurassic Park above other prehistoric imitations like acid. So, for a fan loyal to the concept such as me, this movie is irrelevant at best as it's only true magnetic pulling force lies in the dinosaur effects when the story is obviously a cheap gimmick to make it happen when it could have been more. And that's kinda weak. 4.5/10. "},{"Title":"An improvement over The Lost World Jurassic Park.","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was more satisfying than the Lost World Jurassic Park. There was less dirtiness in the plot and action scenes, the acting was better, and the movie went for the original feel of the first movie and brought back Sam Neil and Laura Dern. The script has a bad story to it, but it tries to make more sense than the second movie. The problem that The Lost World had was that it was a great novel that was taken and made into a movie that was WAY below the greatness of the book. The third film tries to be a stand alone movie, and it succeeds because there is no novel to this movie. Maybe Spieldberg was smart to let someone else try a hand at the series, because Joe Johnson did a damn better job with this sequel than what Spieldberg did with The Lost World. "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated Sequel","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I realize I am in a distinct minority on this one, but I thought JPIII was vastly superior to JPLTW and different but comparable to the original JP.The original JP mostly succeeded on the remarkable special effects, which, at that time particularly, were amazing. By the time of JPIII, CGI was completely run of the mill. If the original had not been fueled by the Gee Whiz factor of the newness of the technology, its own plot problems and character issues would have been more apparent. This is not to criticize JPI - I liked it a lot - just to put some perspective on it. I do think that JPI did something pretty impressive - it actually improved on a fairly weak book. The original JP book was a great idea masquerading as a story - the movie actually fleshed it out nicely.JPLTW was a fairly wretched waste of celluloid. Horrible, silly, annoying characters, a nonsensical plot, poorly manufactured suspense. JPLTW really was about as bad a sequel can be. This was particularly troubling because Crichton's book The Lost World - which predated the movie - is a spectacular improvement over JPI. Unfortunately, the filmmakers took the title of Crichton's book and none of its gripping story. This movie not only fails on its own, but fails massively when compared to the material they had in front of them - material which would have made a great movie if they would have simply followed it.JPIII, coming after the pathetic LTW, had nowhere to go but up. The filmmakers clearly saw the excesses and failures of LTW and decided to solve them by stripping the story down to an adventure yarn. This is somewhat similar to what the filmmakers later did in Terminator 3 to similarly successful effect. They toss in some new cool dinos - finally getting us the pterodactyls from the original JP book - and tell a very simple story very well. JPIII is not a great movie but it holds together well and ultimately makes sense - two points which were sorely lacking in LTW. In fact, after LTW I expected nothing from JPIII and I was pleasantly surprised at the vast improvement.Because of the watchability of JPIII, I have some hope that ultimately JPIV will be equally watchable. Tell a decent adventure story, spiced with some cool (if dubious) science and it could work. Hopefully they will keep everyone involved with LTW away from it and it will develop from the teams that did JPI and JPIII. "},{"Title":"it was decent until the end.","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" i was surprised that i didn't completely hate this movie; i still believe jurassic park didn't need a sequel at all, and now there's a fourth one coming.however, i did like the film, for the most part. the dinosaurs lived up to their animatronic expectations and i think they made the movie as realistically as it could have been made.but the ending SQUASHED all of the rest of the movie like a bug. okay; we all knew dr. grant would call ellie to save the day, or at least most of us figured that out pretty early on. but how the hell does ellie, a paleobotanist, have the authority to literally send in a huge staff of marines and the navy to save everyone on the island within MINUTES of her receiving a virtually unintelligible phone call from allen? you don't call the NAVY all, my ex and some folks are trapped on an island full of DINOSAURS, send EVERYONE right NOW and get away with it, at least not without something in the plot to back up her authority to do anything even remotely like that.so, in short, if you skip the last five minutes, it's an all right flick. "}{"Title":"Best so far","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Personally, I think the Jurassic Park series is getting better and better with each outing. Okay, so it's still just popcorn fare, and the novelty of realistic looking dinosaurs has worn thin since 1993, but director Joe Johnston (a protg of George Lucas) brings more rhythm and showmanship to Jurassic Park III than either of Spielberg's previous two efforts. The Michael Crichton screenplay is cleverer which is a good thing since I always felt the previous movies were just too simplistic in their approach to the concept. Jeff Goldbloom and Richard Attenborough are both absent from this movie which makes room for William H Macy and Tea Leoni. Although Jeff and Dickie are two fine actors, Macy and Leoni are interesting as the warring couple bringing a much needed human element to the CG dino fest. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Quite good but a little short","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this is a good movie for a few reasons. The first one is the the plot of the movie is interesting. The story about the creating of dinosaurs and the tourist attraction, Jurassic Park is a very new and interesting idea. The point of using genetic engineering to make dinosaurs is interesting. I think this may be a possible way to make dinosaurs in real life. The second reason that I like the movie is the events in it are very exciting.For example, when the plane that Dr. Grant took wanted to leave the island Sorna, the spinosaurus, a kind of dinosaurs which is bigger and more fierce than tyrannosaurus Rex, appeared and stood on the runway. The plane bottom flew into the back of the spinosaurous and crashed into the jungle. The spinosaurous followed them into the jungle and wanted to eat them. Then they met a Tyrannosaurus Rex when they were escaping from the spinosaurous.The two dinosaurs fought together and Dr. Grant leaded them ran away under the fighting. One of the other exciting parts is the student of Dr. Grant, Billy, who has also came with them, stole two of the velociraptors' egg's so the velociraptors surrounded them for getting back the eggs. At last Dr.Grant used a tool to pretend the sound of velociraptors and made them left. One more reason that I like the movie is the sight and sound effects. The movie had done a very good job on these and these made me feel very exciting. The roaring of the spinosaurous, the scary sound of the velociraptors, the skin of the Dinosaurs and some others also seemed real. If the full mark is ten, I will give this movie eight as it is a little bit short. Anyway it is still worth us a watch. "},{"Title":"Land Of The Giants For A New Age","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favourite of the Jurassic movies, it combines Republic serial action thrills with Land of The Giants-style big bad creatures with lost people in the jungle thrills.Jurassic 1 was too slow in actually getting to the dinos, Jurassic 2 had too much talk from actors who looked like football players, but Jurassic 3 is a well performed show that captures a Hollywood-style not often seen these days. This movie is fun for everybody and it survives repeated viewings rather well. That much loved John Williams music is here as well. I think a Jurassic 4 is in the works, but that is pushing it, three movies is enough, we don't need a 4th!Added note. Looking back now, it is rather interesting to see that this century should begin with a film like Jurassic Park 3. In 2004, the world would be turned upside down by the TV series LOST. The early LOST episodes involving giant polar bears attacking folks on south pacific islands, wild experiments, lost people in the jungle...I would say Jurassic Park 3 was a nice taste of things to come on television. "},{"Title":"More Dinosaurs, Less Filling","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some movies tend to go on and on and on and on (I'm not looking in the Lord of the Rings direction at all), but not Jurassic Park III. It's short, to the point, knows when to end. Some people have felt cheated by the sudden ending, but I felt it was fine. Better svelte, without the fat than dragging on and on to another chase sequence or something like that. Jurassic Park III takes place as the second JP movie does, whatever it's name is, not the one where the actual park was on. It is overrun with dinosaurs, new ones and old ones from the Jurassic Park franchise, and they look fantastic. When we look back at the original Jurassic Park when it came out in 1993, we marveled at the wonderful special effect dinosaurs, so by 2001 when Joe Johnson's JP3 came out, the dinosaurs were ho-hum, which is a shame, because they look fantastic. The setup to the plot is interesting, a young child is stranded on the dinosaur-infested island and his divorced parents (William H. Macy and Tea Leone) want to get him back. They enlist Dr. Allen Grant (Sam Neil), the scientist who battled the dinosaurs in Jurassic Park, to help guide them through the island. There are a few great looking chase scenes, very little actual plot advancement, and some hidden chuckles. I was surprised with how funny some of the scenes were, especially the one involving dino-pee. The movie is nothing more than popcorn entertainment, but it's pretty good and worth a look. The movie loses steam at the end, but by then, the movie's over, and Jurassic Park IV cannot be too far away. "},{"Title":"Something tells me there's more to this couple than they are letting","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Jurassic Park III hit theatres in the summer of 2001, posters and adverts described it as 'Not just good, better than the original' Quite a bold statement, and one that despite best efforts is left dead in the water.Jurassic Park III begins with a child and his stepfather para-sailing on the waters near the 'sinquo meurto' (five deaths) islands off the Costa Rican coast. After what seems like an accident on the boat, the boy and his stepfather cut loose their parachute of sorts and steer towards the nearest island. This island happens to be Isla Sorna...SITE B. Cut to the badlands and Dr Alan Grant and his student are offered a chance to escort a wealthy couple as 'guides' on a plain journey over Isla Sorna in return for a generous donation to the paleontologists dig funds. After accepting, Grant and his student (billy) get more than they bargain for as the couple (the Kirby's) land the plain on the island against Grants wishes. No need to tell you that when the plain lands, it wont be taking off again without a bit of mayhem first. Something tells me there's more to this couple than they are letting on..! First things first. Jurassic park III is NOT a bad film, despite other IMDb comments you may have come across. As a film fan, and a Jurassic Park/Spielberg nut, my only MAIN sticking point with the film is that the sense of awe and suspense has gone from what the first and indeed the second had. Maybe this has something to do with Spielberg giving up the directors chair to Jumanji director Joe Johnstone. Remember the suspense of the T-Rex jeep attack in the first film or the Raptor attack in the kitchen. It left you with a sense of awe, a sort of chill as you see just how vicious some of these animals were. This is not on the agenda in JP3, the agenda it seems is thrills thrills thrills.These Thrills are very good though, with the best section of the film having to be the 'Bird-Cage- scene. A scenario that would have shone in even the original JP. The Raptors are as fearsome as ever, but the story follows an 'increased intelligence - subtle- approach with the raptors which only distances further that suspense. The 'new' dinosaur on the block is Spiny (spinosaurus) and while being a good addition to the roster, involved in a couple of good sequences, doesn't quite live up to the boots he's trying to fill...Mr T-Rex. In a greatly directed scene the Spino kills a Rex. Very impressive to watch but in all honesty, the director chose the wrong winner. It seems for every good scene that makes you sit up and take note, there is another to make you slouch again. Without giving anything away, Grants 'dream' on the plain,the 'jungle-kid' Saviour scene and the 'ringtone' scene are those that make you slouch, and for a lot of people, maybe even cringe.Sam Neil (Grant) is excellent at his role again, and bringing in William H. Macy and Tea Leoni as the Kibys adds to the impressive acting cast, helping boost the credibility of the film. The directing is very good and Stan Winstons animatronics improve all the time. It doesn't seem like anyone has made any errors with Jurassic Park III apart from totally misjudging what exactly it is that the viewer wants to see with this continuing saga.Jurassic Park III is well made and entertaining throughout. It isn't overly clichd or delving into the deep and meaningful. Its a blockbuster. a very well made one. Its only fault was to be a sequel to a classic and fantastic film that it could never ever outdo. "},{"Title":"Just a lot of running around.","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is like an episode of a TV series, a very plain plot and has no real significance. Here, Dr. Alan Grant is summoned by two desperate parents to help them find their lost son on the dinosaur-inhabited island. This movie's two predecessors have significance, the first one being Dr. Hammond's mistake of creating dinosaurs and trying to exploit them, and the second one being Dr. Hammond's redemption on his past mistakes. This third entry is just lots of running around, a rescue mission. Lots of action and dinosaurs though, with some decent special effects, especially the execution of the pterandons, but not much of a story. Is also doesn't have the suspense as its two prequels. Some of the characters were pretty cheesy, but mostly watchable, and the movie does have some neat dinosaur fight scenes and cool visual effects. Overall, an OK and somewhat fun movie nonetheless to pass the time. Let's just hope that Jurassic Park IV is a winner.Grade B- "},{"Title":"This movie was a disgrace to the series","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" JP3 was terrible in many ways. One of the things I picked up on first was its detachment from the other two movies, no former buildings, signage, or anything to relate the locale of this movie to the other two. The plot was terrible too. Where as the first and second movies take on a sort of established big business vs. world sequence, this one has a crappy unreasonable type story. This movie has too many whatever plot holes. First of all, the ease with which the lead child (who in my opinion was the worst actor in the movie) gets on the island is just braindead. Second, the method by which the Kirby's get Grant to the island, also stupid. Overall this movie just was impossible to comprehend. Also the ending is without a doubt the worst, most chopped off end since Monty Python and the Holy Grail! I think Universal is going to have to make JP4 really good in order to bring dignity back to the trademark. "},{"Title":"Very poor ending","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this originally at the cinema. I've just seen it again on TV and my first impression is unchanged.A decent B movie adventure yarn with a very poor ending.JPIII must rate as one of the most toe curlingly best/worst at using the cheap technique of story development based entirely on people doing the wrong thing all the time. Come to think of it, the other two JP's were much the same. Having said that, I was reasonably entertained until suddenly, the entire US fleet turned up along with hundreds of marines. End of film! Is that it? I asked myself again.The special effects were as good as ever. Story writers seem incabable of doing justice to the extraordinary talents of these special effects technicians and rely too much on them to cover their own inadequacies.Given that the film is only 92 minutes long, I can only conclude that it must have run short of either money or ideas. I suspect the latter.I also suspect we won't be seeing those pterodactyls again. "},{"Title":"OMG","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie could have been good instead it was boring and a waste of time. Stop making these kinds of movies they suck!!! The second one was bad enough, but it made lots of money so why not make another one. This one did to so expect there to be a fourth really soon. In this one this family goes looking for their son who is missing in this forrest. They get Dr. Grant and three others to help them. Only the four of them think they are getting married there. Number one who would want to get married in a place where their where dinosours??? The deaths happen in the beginning of the movie so why make us watch another hour??? Overall 3.6 "},{"Title":"SHORT, SWEET, AND ACTION-PACKED","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JURASSIC PARK &#150; 1, was larger than life; larger than anything else that had came out of Hollywood, larger than anything that Spielberg had done before. The concept was fresh, the dinosaurs were scary, the backdrop was unimaginably awesome, and the direction, impeccable. Justifiably, it turned out to be one of the best movies ever, with a huge cult following. It was only natural that it had to be followed up by a sequel, which turned out to be a great disappointment, alas! With the high expectations raised by the first part, in an attempt to live upto the high expectations, in THE LOST WORLD, Spielberg, it seems, tried a bit too hard, making a mess of the movie altogether, making it much too long, much too boring.However, JURASSIC PARK &#150; 3, is surprisingly much better than THE LOST WORLD, especially, since, it isn't directed by Spielberg.  OK, so it has the same dinosaurs, and has them chasing around and killing the humans, who repeatedly happen to drop themselves by amongst the dinosaurs, for some strange reason or the other. Well, if THE LOST WORLD was solely about dinosaurs chasing around humans, with a very sorry ending giving out the message `don't mess with nature', this one however, has dinosaurs chasing around humans, but with the feel of a fast-paced action movie! In JURASSIC PARK &#150; 3, the director doesn't try to complicate things by trying to bring the dinosaurs to the city and try to make a GODZILLA and a JURASSIC PARK at the same time, but concentrates wholly on the action taking place within the island itself. The movie is incredibly short, and is action-packed, with dinosaurs popping out from every corner of the screen, without a moment of respite; and before you know, the movie ends.Unlike THE LOST WORLD, the straightforwardness of JURASSIC PARK &#150; 3 is what makes it a highly viewable movie. There are however, certain things, which this movie could have carried on from THE LOST WORLD, like JEFF GOLDBLUM, and his sarcasms, reeking with pessimism.  The movie is packed with action from the first scene to the last, without trying too hard to be intelligent. Since it doesn't try to achieve much, but only try to entertain, it is short, and makes the viewer want for more.Rating 7/10   "}{"Title":"As a fan of the series, I wasn't disappointed.","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 (JP3) is part of a welcome trend among recent popcorn movies that they are not one minute longer than they absolutely have to be.  In 2002, neither The Scorpion King nor Men in Black II ran longer than 90 minutes, so the tendency is becoming particularly prevalent among sequels.The compact running time of JP3 contributes to its strength, because as the third movie in a series about people struggling to survive close encounters with man-eating dinosaurs, it doesn't have anything new to say, and the filmmakers were honest enough to avoid pretending that they had more than 90 minutes' worth of ideas for it.In such a short movie, there's obviously not much time for character development, but even so I like the early scenes that show how Neill's Grant character has changed since the first JP movie the scene in which he tells Dern (as Sattler) I'm the last of my breed is strangely touching, and one of the movie's biggest laughs comes when he prepares to answer questions after his lecture and causes most of the raised hands to disappear by saying Does anyone have a question that is NOT related to Jurassic Park?I'm especially glad that Neill was able to reprise his Grant character from JP because his subsequent career has been disappointing, ranging from mediocre movies (In the Mouth of Madness) to unforgettably awful ones (Event Horizon).  He's in fine form in JP3, giving a performance perfectly suited to the material I love his deranged yet tongue-in-cheek smile when he says Either way, we probably won't get off this island alive, as well as the priceless look of fear on his face when he realizes at one point that he's surrounded by velociraptor eggs.William H. Macy and the late Michael Jeter are the other two cast members whose performances are so entertaining that they make the movie worth seeing despite its indefensibly ridiculous story.  Macy's character is reminiscent of his career-making role in Fargo, and there's even a hilarious scene in JP3 in which the other characters realize that he's been lying to them, and when he grasps the situation he awkwardly tries to talk his way out of it in the same manner that his Fargo character might have done.Jeter's character does little besides wisecrack, but he does it flawlessly he was a solid supporting actor and we will miss him.As I mentioned, the story is noticeably weak, but even so I don't fully understand all the negative comments for JP3 because when I first saw it in the theater the flaws in the script hardly mattered.  The dinosaur sequences really deliver the expected thrills when I first saw the spinosaurus attack on the airplane, I was a little amazed by how intense, well-directed and superbly edited it is.  In fact, I'm impressed by it no matter how many times I see it.Obviously, people have a right to dislike this movie, but some comments dislike it for reasons that I simply don't understand.  Some have complained about the acting, which I don't understand because as I said Neill, Macy and Jeter are all solid and appear to have had a good time making this movie.Joe Johnston was the ideal candidate to direct this movie in lieu of Spielberg because he tends toward movies which consist largely of characters running from special effects, such as Honey, I Shrunk the Kids and Jumanji. I believe he did as good a job directing this movie as any other director could have done (even Spielberg himself), so I don't agree with people who say that the movie is badly directed.This movie really pleases the kid inside me, because in many respects it's a deliberate throwback to the B-level dinosaur movies of the pre-JP era indeed, JP3 is closer in spirit to the original King Kong and virtually every B-movie dinosaur-adventure made before the era of blockbusters and CG effects, than it is to Jurassic Park.  None of the earlier movies necessarily had the same plot (desperate parents trying to rescue their kid from a dinosaur-infested island), but any of them COULD have had the exact same plot as JP3, and many of them were similar anyway.So JP3 is a worthy sequel because it brings the series full-circle in a very interesting way in the first JP, Spielberg was consciously trying to make a new kind of dinosaur movie that depicted dinosaurs as animals rather than monsters, and depicted a plausible scenario whereby they could exist in the modern age.  After the tongue-in-cheek transition of JP2, JP3 is a complete regression to the dinosaur movies of the 1950s, with a ridiculous scenario and the dinosaurs serving merely as larger-than-life movie monsters.This doesn't mean that JP3 is great cinema, exactly, but when a movie is as fun as this one the regression should be cause for appreciation rather than contempt.Several people have complained about the contrived ending, but I like it for a couple of reasons.  First, it's similar to the actual ending of Crichton's JP novel (more so than the first JP movie), especially because it provides the setup for yet another sequel!Second, JP3 doesn't occur in what I call the Real World it's a fantasy-adventure.  Even if movies are still bound by certain rules, I'm occasionally amused by one that cheerfully tosses credibility aside at the end.  Because of plot devices like the one in JP3, the phrase deus ex machina (hopefully everyone knows what that is) still has relevance.So JP3 isn't exceptional, but it works as an old-fashioned B-movie adventure and a guilty pleasure, so the flaws in the script hardly matter.  In fact, I'll go see a fourth JP movie on the big screen if it's ever made, even if the same director and writers who made JP3 are credited for it.  What can I say?  I'm a fan.Rating 7 (It's lots of fun, worth at least one viewing.)  "},{"Title":"the scariest, but a little short.","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The third is mostly a horror movie, without Jeff Goldblum's comedy relief. The third is darker , and more scarier and violent than any other. When the planes gets stranded you just know you're trapped in a dark, wild jungle, the movie creates the most dangerous biological reserve possible to be trapped, there are 25-foot meat eaters, and still the raptors as genius as can be, and more dinosaurs we've never seen. The movie was to short though, the first two were over 2-hours, and this was only 90 minutes. Sam Neil is a sight for sore eyes as he returns after being gone 8-years, and of course there's a kid, Eric, which is some sort of tradition for the JP movies. The movies a little predictable though. "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Lost world was horrible. Ripping of Godzilla for crying out loud, when I saw Japanese tourists running around scared of the crazy monster, I had to laugh.This one was much better, but far from great. Was that the worst crash landing scene in a movie ever? It looked like that plane landed on a pillow, it was so soft. What on earth would the Marines send out a guy in a suit and a blowhorn for?? How does the Navy get its ships to this island in like an hour?Anyway, the dinosaurs looked pretty real, I did like the Spino vs. TRex scene. They didn't shy away from the gore like the last one. So it was a better movie. But it should be wrapped up now.Steven, if you can hear me, hang up the Jurassic series, it's so played.  "},{"Title":"Better than the second","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  left by spielberg, i thought jurrasic park 3 will lost it's touch. but joe johnston has made a wonderful directing for this movie.the story was very simple, return to the island, that is. and then we can guess what happen.the special effects still great, sam neil gets his lead role again,new species of the the dinosaurs.although it was a short movie ( 92 min ) I enjoyed so much.not to mention that the lost world is bad,no , the lost world is a great movie.but you will see why I said that Jurrassic park III is better. rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hopefully the Series Is Extinct Now.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The third installment in the Jurassic Park series struggles the whole way to stay watchable and just barely succeeds. This time the very wealthy William H. Macy and wife Tea Leoni contact Sam Neill to go to the island from the second installment to do supposed research. Naturally they are really trying to get their adolescent son (Trevor Morgan) back after he crash-landed paragliding over the island. Neill agrees, not knowing the real motives, and chaos strikes once again as the dinosaurs have evolved mentally. Jurassic Park III, as bad as it is, is still a bit better than The Lost World Jurassic Park (a film that was a pure mess). Director Joe Johnston does admirably with a silly screenplay and goes for strict chills and thrills over the very short running time (running just under 90 minutes total). All in all though the Jurassic Park series continues to be a typical franchise that has only produced one hit. 2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Not as good as the previous JP's.","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 was a shorter and less entertaining of the three. I thought this sequel might be good because JP2 was good but I was wrong! I have picked some notes while watching this movie. Usually Jurassic Park films are 2 hours long, this one is some 40 minutes less! and does not quite contain the same fun and horror it did on previous jp's. DR. Grant returns which is a suprise. It didn't have it's entertaining parts though i must admit. JP3 had amazing special effects, most probably the best out of the three. I have heard that Jurassic Park 4 will be released in 2004. Should I say this one will be a bad sequel as well? "},{"Title":"* 1/2 out of ****","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pointless sequel has few redeeming values.  The acting is little more than mediocre, despite a very strong cast.  The script is able to build no tension whatsoever and offers little in the way of an interesting storyline, not to mention its horribly cliched and ridiculous attempts at character development.  Basically, the series is starting to get a little bit too familiar and this entry has very little to offer, even to fans of this type of film. "},{"Title":"Decent, but no where near as good as the other movies in the series.","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While it's a fairly decent film, it really does not live up to the other films in this series. Sam Neil is good but does not have the presence to hold a film by himself, and the rest of the cast really does not help him do so. The special effects are ok and the story is passable but compared to Jurassic Park and the Lost World, it defiantly lacks the goods to make it a worthy follow up to both of them. It's a good film but it's should have been a lot better.  "},{"Title":"Jurassic III, take it or leave it.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film can be described as a love/hate it movie. You're either to enjoy it for it's action and fun factor or you're going to compare it to the 1993 classic and dislike it for it's lack of originality. The plot is rather simple, so I'll give it to you in one sentence. Four years after TLW Alan Grant is coaxed into flying over Isla Sorna by two parents searching for their lost son. Joe Jonston did a good job with what he had. The script was ok, but it was written at the last minute. Some of the acting is good, but some isn't. Sam Neill is always great. He gave Grant, the perfect cynical nature as he was the only one who been through this before. Macy was pretty good, but some of his lines fell flat. Leoni was ok, but she seemes a little out of place as did Michael jeter. The supprting cast was good, but some were not even given enough time to prove themselves. The plot is paper thin and 84 minutes(without credits) is short for A jurassic Park. But it is the perfect summer popcorn movie. Action, adventure, and a little darkness help the movie. Now, when compared to the first one, it certainly doesn's measure up, against TLW, it possibly lacks, but it qualifies as a big B movie. If you like one and two, give it a shot, you'll either love it or hate it. Recently Spielberg has been talking of Jurassic IV having an incredible base story. Well, i hope that's true, a good story might save the franchise from extinction. So I say go JP4.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Gargling with Bleach is more fun","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***major spoilers*** This movie is so bad, it is hard for me to put into words. In the ranks of Armageddon and Pearl Harbor of totally crappy summer films, this one could be one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my entire life. The ending is abominable. The movie ends in the middle of nowhere. What was the screenwriter thinking? I think my 2 year old cousin could write something better. The special effects are nothing we haven't seen before, and the script is filled with cheesy lines, one after the other. If interested in seeing this film, go to your local kmart and grab a bottle of bleach. Then proceed to gargle, it will be more fun.Grade F "}{"Title":"time to put an end to the franchise","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Jurassic Park series, which started off with an original, imaginative, fun romp of a movie, has bottomed out rather quickly with this third installment to the series.The dinosaurs are impressive as always, but the day in age in which fantastic CGI could make a movie on it's own are gone.  Such flicks are a dime a dozen now, and to stand out from the pack, movies have to rely on more classic aspects of film-making.  Like the story, for example.And there in lies the problem with Jurassic Park 3.  Filled with plot holes, this movie simply re-hashes the first two films humans are stupid enough to get trapped on island with dinosaurs, humans make the dinosaurs mad, humans get chased around by dinosaurs.  It's pretty sad that, even though it took 4 years to make the follow-up to Jurrasic Park The Lost World, they couldn't come up with an original idea.  It's also a very telling fact that this movie is only 90 minutes long.  Where almost all movies of this blockbuster, action-packed nature usually check in at 2+ hours, the people behind JP3 obviously could not come up with enough original thoughts to stretch this movie out.  It's probably just as well, anyways. "},{"Title":"Okay sequel","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I popped in the DVD that winter evening, I knew better than to expect plausibility from a summer movie like this, made solely for financial gain. The setup is contrived beyond belief. I mean,what the hell was that kid doing there anyway?!? The entire film is little more than an excuse to put a bunch of people on a dino-infested island.That being said, it's actually a more entertaining movie than The Lost World. It's professionally made, with some good action/chase sequences. Plus, it has the good sense not to overstay its welcome--it's only an hour and a half long, atypical in today's mega-blockbuster market. The ending is rushed and more than a bit convenient. Rumor has it part 4 is on the way. I'm not too pleased with the idea, but it's something I can live with.**1/2 (out of ****)Released by Universal Pictures "},{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was disappointed by this movie - I felt the plot was too predictable, and the ending was too abrupt.  There weren't enough 'jump' scenes, and the best one was shown in the TV spots, which really ruined it in the theater.  This movie as well as the second Jurassic Park movie proves that a sequel is almost never as good as the original.  I honestly think it could have been somewhat believable had Steven Spielberg directed it.  Steven Spielberg movies are never as good when someone else directs them (anyone remember Jaws 2, 3 and 4?).   "},{"Title":"Fast paced, entertainment & better than Lost world....","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was a little dubious seeing the third installment of the Jurassic series given than the second (Lost World) was a great disappointment.  I quite liked this one though, bringing Sam Neill back into the story was a great idea & seemed to work fairly well.  The story was basic & not particularly imaginative but it didn't matter - I was there to see what type of animatronics & digital animation they would come up with...& it was no disappointment.  There was a great array of dinos in this one which were all put to creative uses.  The cast was O.K too, it was not hard to pick who the dispensible ones were as the story began.  Some scenes reminded me more of Jaws than anything, especially near the start of the film.  You don't need to think in this one, it's a no brainer, so you can watch it really late at night, but it's recommended that you watch the Jurassic films in order...otherwise the start of this film probably wont make much sense. "},{"Title":"A good, fast-paced romp!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Director Johnston does much to redeem the franchise after the debacle of The Lost World. Although Sam Neill seems to be getting a little long in the tooth, he does a much better job as protagonist than did Goldblum in the second. Effects are top-notch, and Bill Macy turns in a solid performance as does Tea Leoni, whose acting is significantly less wooden and more enjoyable than it was in Deep Impact. Fans will note the appearance of venerable character actor John Diehl, who has been around since the earth was cooling. Crichton should be scolded for the silly plot, but the cast doesn't seem to pay much attention to it and after 20 minutes, neither will you. "},{"Title":"Better than The Lost World","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was quite suprised when I watched the third in this trilogy. I wasnt expecting much at all but to be honest it was quite refreshing and many parts made me jump which is what I like when it's meant to be a scary movie. The effects are as per usual great but 'The Lost World' is seriously lacking in storyline and the manner in which Jeff Goldblum and the other survivors escape is totally unrealistic.I think Sam Neill is a good actor, but there is nothing worse than an actor in a sequel who you can tell is simply in it for the money. Thankfully, Neill's performance does not suggest this as he is great in his reprisal of his role as jurassic expert Dr. Grant. This sequel just pips 'The Lost World' basically because of the storyline and it's realism. Don't get me wrong, Jeff Goldblum I think although he has never changed in all of his acting since he played the Brundle fly is hilarious in the second film, but a good film is not just about the actors who are in it, it needs to have substancially more than that.Good movie, Enjoyed it, rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Worth a watch","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 isn't a bad film - it's just tired. We've seen it all before - the cool special effects, the nasty dinosaurs that have a malign intelligence, the contrived plot (oh look - I swore I'd never return to a dinosaur infested island, but I'm here again facing almost certain death. Silly me!)Yes, all the bad things about sequels are here. This is a 100% cash-in.Despite that, if you like popcorn movies, it's actually quite good. It doesn't matter that the characters run around aimlessly from action set-piece to action set-piece. Don't trouble yourself with the fact that if there really was an island infested with man eating dinosaurs, government scientists and the military would have the whole thing secured for research.Just sit back and put your brain on ice for the duration - you'll enjoy Jurassic Park 3, although don't expect it to leave a lasting impression.7/10  "},{"Title":"Plot holes but watchable","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'll come to the plot holes in a moment, but the biggest problem with this film is the ending. It's a huge anti-climax which arrives abruptly, leaving you thinking, is that it ?, did they run out of special effects money or something ?.Talking of money, I guess it must be much cheaper to do CGI in the dark than in well lit daytime scenes. Far too many monster and horror films end up in near darkness.So to the plot holes (well some of them), and inevitably there will be SPOILERS!.The flying dinosaurs (terradactyls ?) are meant to be new to this film, and in the DVD extras one of the filmmakers even describes them as hidden up until now. They're supposed to be trapped in a huge birdcage, yet we've already seen them at the end of JP2.How big is that island ?. The new super-predator is a T-Rex killer that we're told is attracted to T-Rex scent.  You'd think he'd have wiped out all the T-Rexes in all the years they've been there.Despite all the negatives, if you can put your brain into neutral the film can be exciting and fun, just don't expect much of a finish. "},{"Title":"My Thoughts","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  well , what can i say about this film. The CGI was a step down from the first 2. the first 2 atleast looked real. the one's in this one look cheesy. The plot makes me wish they don't make another jurassic park 4. Unless they redeem themselves in the 4th one with a plot about sending in scientists to see what other dino's ingen made that weren't on they're list and marines going in to kill all the dino's with them , which would be a good step considering how bad this one is , i hope they kill off the franchise soon. The script , or lack of one , is just dreadful. at times , i felt as if i was watching a spoof of the first 2 films. Attempts at suspense ( the phone thing ) just made me laugh harder and harder at the film. I could have wrote a better script than the idiots who wrote this one. The movie i thought was just boring and only has some good chases and 1 or 2 good comedy lines. And the running time was the worst thing of all. The first 2 were over 2 hours each. This one was only just over an hour and 15 minutes. Final thoughts , this movie should have been a direct to video release and the direction ( by Joe Johnston , shining moment was October Sky ) and script were awful. I can tell why this got nominated for a Razzie. "},{"Title":"So-so movie, great sound track! If you have DVD and a surround sound system with subwoofer.","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS - I rented this DVD for only one reason - to enjoy what I expected to be a great workout for my surround sound system. And it did that. If you happened to be upstairs at my house during the movie, you could feel the floor shake!!  The story itself is fine, a divorced couple (Tea Leoni and William Macy) reunite and pretend to be wealthy adventurers to convince Dr Alan Grant (Sam Neil) to give them a guided tour by low-flying plane of the island with the dinosaurs. However, their real goal is to land and try and find their young son who was lost there 8 weeks earlier in a parasailing incident. They land, but crash upon takeoff, trying to evade a T-Rex.That all happens quickly, and the rest of the film is to see if they can avoid being eaten, see if they can find their son, and see if they can somehow make it to the ocean. Not everyone survives, but the 5 principal characters do. This Jurassic Park film introduces several new dinosaurs, and the Raptors are smart enough to plan and communicate with each other. We see flying dinos for the first time.The film doesn't take itself too seriously, and I don't think we the viewing audience should take it seriously either.  After all, we know that having an island of dinosaurs in 2000 is impossible, so the whole thing is just a big fantasy. Retrieving the cell phone in a pile of dino dung!  Doc saying, OK, no one move a muscle, the dino roars, then everyone behind him turn and run. Macy looking for change for the abandoned vending machines, while someone else kicks the glass in and takes what he wants. A number of light moments among the carnage.The DVD allows you to select either a Dolby 5.1 or a DTS 5.1 soundtrack. As I have found almost uniformly with other DVDs, the Dolby track is much more aggressive in the subwoofer channel. In fact, during the dinosaur fight in chapter 6, the sound levels at my listening position often got as high as 92 to 95 dB, and the subwoofer bottomed a number of times.  The same chapter in DTS, at the same receiver volume setting, had peak volume levels of about 88 to 90 dB. This means the Dolby track had four times the signal going to the subwoofer. This is too much.  The DTS track sounded more natural.The DVD has a number of interesting extras, the ones I found most interesting were the behind-the-scenes making of footage. Overall a good DVD for an entertaining evening.  However, if you listen to it only on TV speakers, you'll miss 3/4 of the effect of the film. Overall, and compared to all the other films I've seen, I rate it 7 of 10. "}{"Title":"Jurassic Fun","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked the movie. It's quick and to the point. What's the point you ask? The point is Large dinosaurs eating poor little humans.. Seriously, it's not a thinking mans movie but it's fun.... COMMENCE WITH THE CARNAGE ) S. "},{"Title":"A Must See!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After deceiving couple intices the great doc played by Sam Neill to an offer of giving them a tour of dinosaur island he refuses but, his heights are broadend by a blank check.  Of course thiers always a nut willing to go to the limits especially the lovers played by William H. Macy and Tea Leoni. They can't resist to wanting to see the dinos close up and personal of course, thier true intentions are to find their son whom some how found his way on the island.  I really enjoyed this one.  Alot of dino chases prey (or humans) scenes.  A definate recommendation. "},{"Title":"This time they got it right!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes after the fatal and almost destroyed it all The Lost World!  Jurrasic Park has redeemed itself and finished the way it all began, quite something since its eight years since the jaw dropping opener and first setting sights on those Dinosaurs.  Thank goodness they brought back the two best actors from the original or this would have like the lost world been ancient history.Sam Neil and Laura Dern as ever have the same chemistry they still had way back in the first film, pity they never finished this film with them in a scene!However the plot may be thin in places but Sam Neill and the rest of the supporting cast do a really good job with what they are given, the dinosaurs once more come in center stage.Yet like the first Jurrasic Park the classic of them all this film did manage to bring the awe and suspense of the first.  Giving the film a heart and soul which the second never had.In all honesty this is a pritty good summer flick and for a third outing it was dam good, the music is also notibly very good but the true highlights were any scene that Sam and Laura were in together and the final 30 minutes, gave pace, action and heart this is a worthy follow up to the original and well done to all that made the film Jurrasic Park will go down in the history of film making thanks to this and the original film! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Saturday Matinee Chills and Thrills","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Certainly not a plot-driven movie, just run, run, run, monster, monster, monster! but lots of chills and thrills in the great tradition of Saturday matinee dinosaur island flicks. And, face it, the dinos are very cool! "},{"Title":"A good old fashioned straight ahead puzzle box","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot here is so linear, I believe it was drafted with a T-square and not a word processor.  Gee, let's see, a bunch of incompetent boobs get stranded on a remote island (that seems to have been under radar of the local aircraft controller!) and everything seems to want to eat them (Why? nothing even resembling humans existed at the time of the dinosaurs and there seemed to have been plenty of other preferred prey to eat anyway--much bigger and juicier!).  The even pulled the old Pteradactyl wants to feed a fat juicy human to its babies routine (Pteradactyls (pteronodons) probably could not fly anyway, just glide from high perches).  After about 20 minutes into this film, I just put my brain in neutral and tried to enjoy the visual experience--which amazingly seems to look cheesier with each passing sequel (have the other SFX 2nd unit directors surpassed the Spielmeister--or does it need his personal touch?)The artistic misgivings aside, I was definitely OK in the saturday afternoon serial schlock kind of way. "},{"Title":"Back From the Lost World","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen The Lost World Jurassic Park, and thought it just didn't measure up to the original movie.  But then I saw Jurassic Park III, and I felt that the franchise has redeemed itself.  Of course, I think casting Sam Neill as Dr. Alan Grant again helped.  And it interested me to see how the dinosaurs evolved.  When new archaeological evidence proved that velociraptors had feathers, they were added to the raptors in the movie.  Sure, there were some slightly campy moments, and some farfetched parts of the story.  But this second sequel is worthy of the original! "},{"Title":"Better than the second, as good as the first","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, that's right. This is a rousing, suspenseful dinosaur tale that moves quickly and whose shorter running time (92 minutes) works to its advantage. The first two were overlong (at 2 Hours) for this kind of picture. The second one was disappointing, cluttered with big-name hunters and a tacked-on, badly directed San Diego finale. The first was good, a little corny in spots, yet there are some dinosaur scenes (not enough of them) that are phony the reclined animiatronic Triceratops, and the Brachisaurs in a night scene. Jurassic Park lll retains the best actors from the first, Sam Neill, seasoned, earnest and looking fine, as well as, in a smaller role, Laura Dern, whose character is refreshingly NOT married to Neill's. Shanghaied into returning to the second island by a concerned couple (Tea Leoni and William Macy), they are once again chased by bizarre creatures. There are many brilliantly executed set-pieces, photographed in realistic CGI to a pulsating score and with only a few cornball conversations; the direction is great.  In between the mayhem are scenes of great visual beauty as we view some gigantic, spreckled Diplodicuses and other beautifully rendered creatures - no phony-looking ones here. Even the opening credits are very imaginative. The ending opens it up for a fourth in the series - hope it happens! "},{"Title":"Better","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like this one more than the first and second installments. It is pure action and have mixtures of comedy as well. The monsters are better but too bad some of the scenes are too dark.As i seen the setting, some of the background are very unique, so it not just focus in one location but many and this make this movie one of the most enjoyable to watch. "},{"Title":"Stomping fun","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Call it a popcorn movie, a Hollywood product, a revisitation of the old, or just mindless rumble, but it is hard to dispute the fun and entertainment factor audiences get when they watch this movie.  It's pure roller coaster with fun and laughs.  Great for the kids, great for the adults.  No foul languages, no sexual hints, and no guns flairing.  I enjoyed this movie. There's a lot of revisitation of the past two movies which made the franchise so famous and rich.  Definately got the old characters back and old dinosaurs stomping their familiar trademark.  Nothing to disappoint, nothing revolutionary.  But who wants complication or complexity, I mean it IS the summer, isn't it??  We have the old complex, we have raptors, we have Sam Neill's Indiana Jones imitation.  But it's all good, it's all fun.New Dinos!!  New characters,  New kids, New bad guys!  JP1 bad guy was the T-Rex.  JP2 Corporate Enterprise.  JP3 Villian is now family feuding.  Fun twist, immature stunt, but still fun and enjoyable.At the end, we get some Awwww, how cute!! when we see the flying dinosaurs flying freely.  Remember how savage and dangerous they were?  Forgotten when they're free.  But ... where will they fly?  Will they lay tons of eggs??  Surely speculation and pondering is allowed and encouraged.  And it is done in light of hope so it's a great ending. "},{"Title":"IGNORE NEGATIVE REVIEWS, THIS IS PRETTY GOOD!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unlike Planet of the Apes (2001), JP3 is actually not bad compared to other Spielberg tri-parts like Jaws III, Poltergeist III, and Last Crusade. This film is somewhat a menagerie of One Million Years BC, those Godzilla movies of the 70s, and those 'hidden prehistoric island' comics but the material is still fresh unlike the extra characters' current state. Sam Neil is excellent as his performance as Grant (again) and the dinosaurs as majestic as in the first. Lost World was more of 'Jurassic Park as Carnosaur 4' with little to emphasize on the dinosaurs (particularly the raptors that merely popped up in long grass and eat baddies, why Spielberg made it I don't know). There were also more 'beauty' scenes in this one (eg Brachiosaurs exiting the lake in the original) which is a bonus. I heavily recommend this to anyone with kids age 10-15. Anything else will either be too cheesy or too scary. My only complaint not enough Tyrannosaurus screen time.  "}{"Title":"people complain about plots, People you went to see a dinosaur movie!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III was everything I was looking for in the movie. People complain about plots and stories, but people, you went to see a dinosaur movie! The special effects were great, the acting was even good. I usually only go to the show to see special effect movies or movies with my wife. I got my moneys worth. "},{"Title":"What is this???","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie had pretty good special effects...and the same lame raptors they show in every movie they made and they really over did it with the raptors this time. Raptors are cool but when you show them 80% of the movies then it gets really boring.The plot is horrible. People go to island to save a boy that was left there 2 months ago!!! Guess what? He  survived! Yeah, I know, I couldn't believe it either...Yeah right. The guys  with the sniper rifles that could blow up tanks died right off the bat too. How did the kid manage to stay alive this long? He ate Nestle Crunch bars and hid inside a bus...If you  want to watch a good movie watch Kiss of the Dragon or Rush Hour 2... "},{"Title":"This was a popcorn film, plain and simple","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Is this a bad thing... no way.  I really enjoyed this film, even thoughit was not the deepest or most reflective film I have seen...sometimes you just want to see big-ass dinosaurs mess stuff up. Sometimes you just want to see some serious carnage (a higherbody count might have been nice, but what the hell).  Thedinosaurs did not look as good as they did in the first two films...they did not 'breathe' for me, but the menacing ones were scaryand the 'Peter-Pan-clock-(or cell phone)-in-the-belly trick was kindof cute.Overall, not a huge amount to say about the film, but it is worthsitting through if you have want to kill some time. "},{"Title":"Better than the lost world,worse than jurassic park","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hate the lost world,its bored and with bad screen,but when I watch Jurassic park III I think that its a good film with a little bit of action,a little bit of comedy and a little bit of adventure.Sam Neil (Alan Grant) is a good start but not the rocker of the lost world.My favourite film is rhe first but this is a good sequel. SENTENCE FOR JURASSIC PARK IIIBETTER THAN THE SECOND ONE. "},{"Title":"Terrific B-Movie fun!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Assuming that you're going to see Jurassic Park III for the dinosaursand not for thematically complex, character-driven drama, you'll have ablast. I've read through some of the complaints listed in these reviews(regarding inferior CGI effects and the like) and I just don't get it.Who CARES what plot devices sets these characters down on the forbiddenisland? The only thing that matters here is the action itself, and thatis first-rate. The film moves quickly, has a few decent jokes, anddoesn't take itself too seriously. In other words, a great B-picture.My take on Jurassic Park III better than The Lost World, not asgood as the original. That was all I was hoping for and that's what Igot. F "},{"Title":"Lights, Camera, Action, Action, Action","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III (2001)A pair with hidden motives trick Dr. Alan Grant to go to Isla Sorna and from there it's dog eat dog or rather, Dino eat Man.If you want a storyline, skip this movie.  If you want non-stop thrills and action, then this movie is for you.Nothing much to this movie than amazing looking dinosaurs chasing and attacking humans around an island.I was quite surprised at the cheesiness of the opening sequence.  The flying scenes with the parachute hand glider was really beneath what one would expect from a top notch special effects movie.  It didn't look real at all.  But besides that, the look of the movie is great and if you want mindless fun, go see this movie.Of the three Jurassic Park movies this is my second favorite.  The first one was the best because it had a story line and action.  The second one took place in too much rain and darkness for me to enjoy, thankfully this one takes place in the sunlight where one doesn't feel visually cheated.  "},{"Title":"Best installment of the series","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this one. They finally threw out all pseudo-intellectual crap about chaos or the danger of genetics, which should make the story 'deeper' or more 'moral'. Such an approach may work for the book, but it plagued both former movies in the series. Finally, JP3 is nothing but an action movie. It has just enough formulaic plot elements to keep the excuse of a story going, the human characters only serve as a backdrop for the real stars the dinosaurs. (I was clearly more fascinated by the the velociraptor 'society' than by any of the humans.) And that's how it should be For the first time in this series, nothing hides what it is all about the age old horror scenario of wild beasts killing humans. And thanks to the experienced hands of ILM and Stan Winston these beasts are very well portrayed in doing so (there, of course, JP3 has the unfair advantage of 8 years of CGI development over JP1). "},{"Title":"Proof that less is, indeed, more...","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To be honest, I'm not an overwhelming fan of any of the three Jurassic Park movies.  Don't get me wrong; they're all at least decent movies of their sort, and the effects in all are very good, indeed. Still, if I were to pick one of the three as being the most together, I'd pick this third installment.  It's around 90 minutes long, and this has two positive (and one negative)effects.  First, I'd classify JP movies as adventure, rather than horror movies or even sci-fi. As such, good adventure movies benefit from a fast pace.  Let's face it; the plot holes inherent in such a genre are more easily swallowed when the movie comes at you at breakneck speed (case in point; just about ANY Nick Cage action movie!) Second, the movie has less time to get bogged down in romance or 'revealing character features,' and again --- in action movies, this is a good thing. Action movie characters, by their very nature, need to be archetypal (that is basic.)  Too much characterization is actually a bad thing!  But there is one problem with JPIII that is length-related; the ending is truncated. It's in keeping with the rest of the movie, but it did leave me somewhat dissatisfied. Still, this movie was a fun romp; a great movie to chow down on popcorn and take an emotional roller-coaster ride.  Oh, and while there's plenty of suspense, there's little gore, so if the six- to eight-year-olds can handle the suspense, at least they won't be having nightmares, most likely.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Weak Installment","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What were they thinking with a story like this?  Some guy must have said, Yeah, have some kid lost on an island populated by dinosaurs, and have a group of people look for him, oh yeah, we can get that guy...what's his name...Sam Neill that did the first film.  He can go with them.  Essentially, that is the crux of Jurassic Park III. Hovering just around ninety minutes, the film has so little to offer in original storytelling.  I mean, you know with a film like this you are going to get certain cliches, scenes, etc..., but this story was just so empty from the start.  The script, which was also the biggest flaw with Jurassic Park  The Lost World, is, to use a cliche, weak as water.  The script for the first film was very good.  It explained the scientific possibilities of dinosaurs living in a modern world, etc...  It had more than one plot strand going on at one time.  The second sequel, and this one, shamelessly try to push one story to its limits...and each story has very definite limits.  What's wrong with making the film a little more complicated in terms of plot.  Audiences are not as stupid as to not be able to follow more than one line of thought and action.  How bout having a film that DOESN'T have a child protagonist.  There's a thought! So much could be done with the technology and scope of these projects if they were just utilized in a more sophisticated story.  Yeah, okay I know people expect people to be killed(not much of that in Jurassic Park III by the way), but how about showing something other than killer instincts of dinosaurs.  Wow!  That would be a concept!  Well, enough of my sermonizing about the film industry treating audiences like ninth graders without minds.  There are some good things about Jurassic Park III.   Hmmm...let's see...yes, Sam Neill does a pretty good job again(the rest of the cast sucks...sorry for my frankness!).  Tea Leoni and Bill Macy are excrutiatingly bad as the parents of the kid who can survive eight weeks alone, untrained on the island when experts are killed off in seconds after landing!  Laura Dern has a brief cameo with little to do really except look real nice in a very tight pair of jeans.  The talents of Michael Jeter are wasted in his thankless role.  The special effects are good, and at least in this film, a wide variety of dinosaurs are shown(not just the T-Rex and the raptors).  In fact, the best part of the film is the encounter with the Pterodactyls.  They are impressive.  The film is not real bad, nor real boring...just very, very, very disappointing.  For me this is much weaker than the second sequel The Lost World. "},{"Title":"Dumb Fun","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *** SPOILERS ****Overall, Jurassic Park III was not a good film.  I absolutely loved the first two.  Both were well made, interesting, and most important of all plausible films.Going into this movie, I knew it wasn't going to be that great.  The fact that Speilberg had backed out was the main thing for me.  In fact, before the trailers began to roll, I had a conversation with my freind about how bad the movie was going to be.The whole movie has little lapses that we, the stupid moviegoers, are expected to simply overlook.  The Spinosaurus is the villian , if you will, of the film.  It's the biggest, baddest carnivore out there.  So then why haven't we seen it in any of the other films?  OK, maybe it wasn't in part one because it wasn't popular enough to gain commercial success of the park.  But in The Lost World, where the team walked all over the island, there is no excuse as to why we hadn't seen it before.  The writers try to excuse it by having the characters notice that the Spinosaurus wasn't on the original list.  Grant says hmmm, make you wonder what else InGen has been up to.  And they leave it at that.  Any decent movie with a plausible plot would have come back to that point and developed it later.  It's obvious that they knew it was a plot gap and were trying to subtley excuse it.Also, there is a decent scene involving the pteradactyls, which escape into the free world. The closing scene shows them, finally free from their prison, finding a new home.  Why is this a flaw?  Because the final shot of The Lost World shows a free Pteradactl!!!!!  This is an insult to anyone who has seen the second film.  How could they have done this?Also, Tea Leoni, amongst other characters, is just a plain moron.  She spends the first half of the film, fully well knowing that she's in an island inhabited by some of the deadliest hunters ever to walk the face of the eart, yelling and calling into the woods.There are some good moments in the film.  And overall its a mindless fun experience.  But most of the entertainment of this film is derived from laughing at it, not with it. "}{"Title":"Jurassic Park (3)","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems to me that the masters of this film only needed the name. This movie was a waste of time and life. When I go to see something called part 3, I expect it to live within the same realms of part 1 and part 2 (no matter how bad part 2 maybe). Jurassic Park 3 is a nasty movie that treats it's dinosaurs like Jason, Michael Meyers, or Freddy Kruger, not like animals. These dinosaurs wouldn't just want to kill people just to kill them. The raptors also talk. They talk. What? The movie was a subtitle away from making me vomit. This was worse than 1997's Godzilla (the one the Americans made), and I hated hated hated hated that Godzilla movie.I thought Jurassic Park 3 was 2 hours like the other two, it felt like it, but when I left I found out it was 93 minutes. How did a movie turn 93 minutes into 120 minutes. Also, this movie has the world's loudest cell phone, and world's dumbest cameo. I hated Jurassic Park 3, no matter how big the dinos were (of course we only got close-ups of the Dinosaurs so we rarely got to see their height next to a human). Please, please do all of humanity a favor and don't let this movie gross any huge amount of money, because they're only going to make a Part 4, and it's going to have something to do with Pterodactyls lose in the city. *1/2 (2) "},{"Title":"Watch with the expectation of not expecting too much.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III, despite what the critics say (what do they know?), is quite an enjoyable movie.If you watch with the expectation of not expecting too much then you'll be rewarded with the usual dino-treats, stunning visual displays and the added bonus of superb sound.The plot is a little thin, OK it's transparent but considering its our third return to this magical cloning theme park it is to be expected. The writer has made the correct choice by not making it a necessity to those new to the JP world to have experienced parts I & II before hand and despite the usual Hollywood charm of yet another happy ending I would thoroughly recommend the film to others if only to fill a spare 90 minutes in their lives.It's a popcorn factor movie, nothing more and nothing less. However I would have personally preferred to have watched a flick that I could have got my teeth into. ...and as for a JP IV, don't count your dinosaur eggs just yet. "},{"Title":"The film TLW should have been","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some people talk about how the characters aren't developed enough.  I 100% disagree.  These characters are as developed as they need to be.  What's left to tell?  We know as much as we need to know about them.  While this isn't a best picture quality film, it gives me what I want in a JP movie pure action.  This film is also way better than The Lost World which seemed to drag on for ages.  It isn't quite as good as the original but I don't any JP film will be simply because no one knew what to expect in JP.  When the dinosaurs came on the screen, everyone was in amazement at how great the dinosaurs looked.  I don't think any JP movie can capture that again.  Overall, if you're looking for an action packed movie with fantastic special fx, buy a ticket to this film. "},{"Title":"Okay (spoilers)","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III was an okay movie. I mean, I wasn't expecting to much out of it when I went in, I was just hoping that I'd see some groovy dinos eating people, which I did. Granted, I would have liked the dinos to eat more people, but there was a fairly small cast, so there were only so many people to get chomped on anyway.    My only real complaint is that the movie had a really lame ending that was rather abrupt. **SPOILERS* I mean, come on, did the marines really have to come save the day, or, if they did, couldn't they lose a couple to become dino chow? It was just kind of silly! *Spoilers ending**semi-spoiler* I have read a couple of other posts and I don't understand where people think that the dinos were using the phone, it was in the stomach of the dino folks! *semi-spoiler end*Anyway, I would recommend this movie so long as you understand that there is only so much one can do with a dino movie. GO, watch people get chomped on and running like idiots and have fun! "},{"Title":"C'mon guys,you know it's FUN!!!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie more than I thought I would. Obviously, it is not better than the first installment, JP1 had a sense of awe and discovery going for it. But this new installment is DEFINITELY better than The Lost World. The second installment was big,loud and boring, Steven Spielberg was on automatic pilot when he helmed that one. JP3 feels more like a monster movie than the others, a well made big budget B movie, on that level it succeeds admirably. I had read some reviews of this film before seeing it, my expectations were lowered by them. After seeing it I feel that some of the criticisms are ridiculous. One of them is that the movie is too short at 92 minutes. These days people seem to be equating length with quality, not so, the length for this movie is just fine, it is an action film, not an overblown epic. It is nice to see Sam Niell back as Dr. Grant, Laura Dern has a nice cameo as Dr. Satler. But in this series the stars are the dinosaurs! They are as fierce as ever, but again the awe element from the first one isnt here, the audience had seen most of the creatures before. The film is exciting and entertaing, to quibble about character development in this kind of movie is useless. Compared to Godzilla of a couple of years ago, JP3's script seems like Gone With The Wind!!!! So just go sit back and have a good time!Grade B "},{"Title":"Great Goggoly moogoly","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 is hands down what part 2 should have been. While the first one will remain a classic, The lost world, in my opinion, could have been much better.  But, the series picks it self up and shows that there can still be great dinosaur flicks made.  Director Joe Johnston makes a great effort, and comes away with greatness.  Almost everything that the last two were missing is in this movie.  Dino Fighting, perandons, and lots of raptors. Bringing back Grant was great too.  An already established charecter means no jacking around with the human charecter development and getting right to the Dinos.  Also, moving away from the t-rex as the main big dino and getting the Spinosaur in there was a great choice too.  The Spinosaur is one freakin bad ass.  Although the film is awkwardly paced in some parts, as theres action, action, action, then stops to talk about something for ten minutes kinda throws you off in this movie.  My only main complaint besides the awkward pacing is the time and ending. While i'm not going to tell you the ending, it just seems to come in too abrupt. And the run time, just an hour and a half, it's just too short for a movie of this kind.  It needs to be longer, more dino action.  But other than that, it's definatly worth seeing. "},{"Title":"enjoy for what might have been without comparing to the present","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I got what I expected. I have always been interested in dinosaurs. This movie did nothing to usurp that interest. For those of you who want to see humans act, try another movie. For those of us who want to see what dinosaurs might have been like, this movie should be on our must see list. The story is about something we can only hypothesize about, so we have no facts to compare this to anything real. This was just to be a fantasy/adventure movie, and that is what it is, so do not try to read anything into the movie. Sit back and enjoy the unknown. The actors are not the stars of this 'series'. Michael Crichton never intended this to be a movie series. He just wanted to pique our interest, and he has done that. "},{"Title":"second best","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its the second best in this three part installment (Jurassic Park is and will always be the best.)  The film has better acting and effects then The Lost World.  There wasn't too much depth in the plot though and the film was much shorter than the original.  The movie was much better than I thought it would be, and the effects were amazing, although, with them being so realistic and intense, it seems to be a little to much for the younger viewers.  The movie passed on my scale, Joe Johnston did a pretty good job with this installment, and the actors like Sam Niell, and Alessandro Nivola, did good acting jobs.  But i do not think it is such a good idea to make a fourth, three is always more than enough.  Bottom line, not as good as the first, but better than the second. "},{"Title":"Better than the second, not as good as the first (and a correction)","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In brief, JP3 is solid popcorn entertainment.  Everyone seems to throw around the opinion that 1) it has a sucky ending (I thought it was at least original, better than a retread of some tired idea), and 2) it has no character development (???  I'm convinced character development is the first phrase used by people who know nothing about film but want to sound like they do).  Who expects character development in these films?  It's a roller coaster ride.  Do you go to Six Flags, get off the big nasty coasters and say It was fun, but I expected more character development? C'mon, people.  Sit back and have fun.  I did...a lot of it.As for those who complain about (MINOR SPOILER) the lack of grief over a spouse's death, I just want to add that I don't remember the person ever referred to as a spouse...couldn't it have just been a boyfriend? "},{"Title":"I'm ready for my close-up Mr. Johnston","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  Spectacular dino scenes!  Too bad the dinos didn't eat the scriptwriter.  While I was (again) blown away by the dinosaur reality, I find it more difficult with each passing year to really enjoy a movie with a poor script.  I yearn for characters whom I either relate to, care about, have an interest in, or just plain hate.  Ok, cute kid, but I never had the chance to care one way or the other.  Tea Leoni is beautiful, but live or die, I get to go home.  William H. Macy is ordinarily the guy that creates some interest, but his character falls just short.  That leaves the returning Dr. Grant (Sam Neill).  He is believable in his role, but disappointing in his naivety.  Wouldn't you want certified funds?  I will go see this movie again just to count the close-ups of Neill and his raised eye-brow.  Must be at least 7 in this short 85 minute flick.  Who does he think he is, Barbra Streisand?  Dinosaur sounds are wonderful and the teradactyl scenes are really cool.  See it for these, but brace yourself for a lousy story.  Don't know if this is the end of the series, but hopefully the next will honor the first with a tight script and interesting two-legged characters. "}{"Title":"A Trip Back to Isla Sorna","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As in The Lost World, this movie takes place at the Isla Sorna.   Instead of Goldblum, JP3 brings back Sam Neill as the slightly grizzled Dr. Alan Grant who seems happy to put his terrifying up-close dino experiences behind him. But running out of funding and an offer of What would it take to get you to be our guide, has him heading back to monster island.  The plot is a little thin, how 14 year old Eric Kirby (Trevor Morgan's first stint with dinosaurs was Barney's Great Adventure), could survive 2 months alone on an island of man eaters is a mystery , but the dinosaurs are phenomenal.  I didn't think anything could defeat a T-Rex.  The computer generated or mechanical creatures are so life-like,(although one of the dino fight scenes looks like a remake of something out of One Million, B.C.), you can almost buy into the illusion that they are real.  Throw in a little comic relief at the right moments, JP3 is an exciting, enjoyable way to spend about 90 minutes this summer.   "},{"Title":"It isn't intense enough from the original","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1993, the first one had the explosive firepower of captiving the audience and scaring the wits out of them,but the dinosaurs were much more terrifying on the same formula as Spielburg's other monster hits like Jaws,but it still sends shockwaves of terror eight years later! The other one,it's sequel The Lost World had the same format,but this time around the dino's were running rampant throughout the city,and still gross millions. The first two in my book,were excellent,but in this third installment(and lets hope they don't make another one),it lost the intensity of the original,but the dinos in this one are much more meaner and very dangerous. Even though this film runs no more than 90 to 93 minutes,and it is much shorter. By the way,didn't they learn there lesson in the first two installments not to go into territory that was already inhabited by blood hungry lizards who didn't like humans to interact with them? Well,in this one an estranged mom and dad inexplicably sends their 14 year-old son to paraglide too close to the island where the dinos roam (what were they thinking?),and naturally the kid lands there,and-in a ruse equally hard to swallow idiotic parents(played by Tea Leoni and William H. Macy) into tricking Sam Neill's crusty Dr. Alan Grant and his assistant Laura Dern(from the first film) back to the site of Jurassic Park. Here cool-looking pterandons and a gigantic sea creature which scared the heck out of me,finally get their day as well as the return of those no good raptors. However,the human characters here are so dull and stupid that its really rooting for the dinos who make lunch meat out of there prey. Baaically another theme park ride for the summer to keep audiences in their seat and to scare the wits out of them. The only that was missing here is Jeff Goldblum,in my opinion which could have gave the film some comical relief. Spielburg serves as producer here,giving the directoral stuff to long time protege Joe Johnston,and for the musical score,I'm like where was John Williams when we need him the most? However,the compsoer Don Davis did an excellent job here,but the film itself could have been better. By the way,lets hope they don't make a TV series here,because there is a Lost World already made for the small screen. Rating **1/2  "},{"Title":"Almost as good as the original","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All I have to say is I'm proud to be a big fan of the Jurassic Park movies.  I was so afriad that I wouldn't like this movie because the second sequel never is good in a lot of series but I loved this one!!  It really blew me away with all the non-stop action.  it seemed like chase after chase after chase and it really kept you on the edge.  Even though a lot of people say that it was more the same and they didn't develop the characters good enough.  WHO CARES about the characters!!!  They developed them good enough here without using too much detail.  What you expect in a Jurassic Park movie is scary and suspenseful moments and thats exactly what you get in this one.  All the actors on the island were great.  I even think WIlliam H. Macy almost stole the show with his humor.  And Sam Neil, as always, did great as Dr. Grant.  I loved Jurassic Park!!  Lost World wasn't bad at all!  But Jurassic Park 3 was awesome!!  But I don't think no sequel can be as better as the original.   I also like to add that I was very impressed with Joe Johnston's direction to the movie.  It made me kept thinking that Spielberg was still directing this.  That's how good he did.  I  really recommend to this sequel to the Jurassic Park fans who expect a lot of action and humor.  If you don't then I don't think you will like this one!!!!  Now I read that they want to make a Jurassic 4.  Now even though I don't think thats a good idea I'm still gonna see it because  it might surprise me like Jurassic Park 3 did to me.   "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, went in expecting a good action movie with decent special effects and well... thats what I got!No spoilers here... but just go in there with your brain turned off and you'll love it.Considering how much effort they put into the computer animation and all I have to admit I am disappointed at sloppy editing.  Quite a few goofs.  First and most blatant one is in the first 10 minutes of the movie seeing a BIG microphone on top of the screen for at least 3-4 seconds.  Add to that mud flying on the camera lense in one of the chase scenes.  Plenty of other goofs and inconsistencies.  I would have expected better.But it was a FUN film.Moo  "},{"Title":"Good sequel with great FX (mild spoilers)","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know that everyone is going to say that this film is not on par with the first film, to which I would quickly agree.  The original JP was a modern film classic, like Jaws, that was not written with the intent of a sequel. So, any attempt at a sequel will appear to fall short.  However, when you look at this film on its own, it is a very enjoyable action film, with plenty of cool dinosaurs to keep audiences wowed.Like the previous two films, this films puts a group of people in the midst of a dinosaur infested island.  However, this installment comes across less preachy than JP2, owing to the fact that Jeff Goldblum (Ian Malcom) is absent from the cast.  Instead, this film focuses more on the dinosaur's social behavior (specifically the raptors).The way the dinosaurs were handled in this film, specifically the raptors, will make dinosaur fans happy.  After the dumbed-down dinos in JP2, it was nice to see intelligent raptors again.The plot of this film is somewhat linear, and predictable in places. This does not interfere with the enjoyment, since the action sequences are incredible, and there is a good amount of comedy worked in.JP3 follows the pattern of previous JP movies when it comes to which dinos to show.  Give the audience some glimpses of the herbivores, but put primarily carnivores on screen.  The aforementioned raptors play a large roll, as does a new JP dino, the spinosaurus.Bottom line this is a formula movie.  If you are wanting plot twists and a deep message, this movie won't be for you.  But, if you are just wanting a fun summer movie, watch JP3. "},{"Title":"Good Ol' JP revisited","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I unlike the other review posted above liked this movie. It took me back to the first Jurassic Park and the memories of me as a young little guy waiting in line with my mom and dad to see a movie that was a milestone for kids and adults alike. I do however agree that the second Jurassic Park sucked. It was missing the original characters that survived like Dr. Grant. This movie some what makes up for the long grueling 2nd jurassic park. While at time this movie may have gotten a little far fetched and I do agree it had some pot holes in the script it's a good chance to see the jurassic park style in the theaters if you missed it the first time round. Plus think about it this way...it's a lot better than seeing Pearl Harbor for the 50th million time.oh...and it IS funny.....if you hear a cell phone ringing during the movie...it's no the person sitting next to you ;) hey who would known dinosaurs are hip and trendy too "},{"Title":"Non-Stop Action & A1 Special Effects!!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic 3 is a non stop action film at its best.  From the moment they step on the island until the end, there are but a few scenes that aren't action packed.  After the let down of Jurassic 2, I was a bit skeptical, but the movie has more than made up for the producer's errors.  If you are a fan of the original than you'll love this one.  I personally feel this is better than the original and a must see!! "},{"Title":"not as good as the first better than the second","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  hopefully the last film in a great series the ending is alittle bit cutoff and theres a few plotholes but all in all its a good summer film and the new spinosaurus is even more frightening than the t-rex "},{"Title":"better than expected...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, let's face it, we all thought it would suck...and it didn't, not really. It seems like the creative team (and I use the term loosely) realized after the awful JP 2 that no one could ever take the franchise seriously again - and so they didn't either. Maybe being free from the influence of schlock-meister Michael Crichton helped, but the new-and-improved FX, the in-jokes (particularly Dr. Grant's snide remarks about Goldblum's character from part 1) and the total lack of any plot make this a relatively enjoyable ninety minutes. Not great, though, not by any means. As expected the supporting cast dies off in remarkably short order and the best actor in the whole thing is the kid - kind of like the exact opposite of the other two movies in the series.  Put it this way - I went in fearing the worst and now I'm hoping they make part 4. "},{"Title":"They could have called it SNORASSIC PARK!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sam Neill is a wonderful actor and Stan Winston did an incredible job with the creatures, but this is one franchise that aint cuttin' it any longer. It's not boring, mind you, but it aint exactly edge-of-yer-seat, hold-on-to-yer-popcorn-bag neither. It just lopes along in a predictable, plodding way until it's over, and then you leave.  Snorassic Park? "}{"Title":"Great - but could have been longer!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, the film started promisingly enough with the initial sequence being typically disturbing and setting the tone for the rest of the movie.We get to see Dr Alan Grant again (yay!) along with Ellie - and whilst the part she plays in JP 3 is a small one, it is very important nonetheless.The dinosaurs are as fantastic as ever and as an ex geological sciences student, still bring tears to my eyes!  We see the introductions of some new species, along with some old favourites, and are made to really think about some theories of recurring villains from the previous films! My main quibble with the film is that it isn't as suspenseful as JP 1 and is nowhere near long enough.  Even as the end credits were about to roll, I was saying, that can't be it?? - but it was. "},{"Title":"I knew this was a bad idea...","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first one, in my opinion, delivered. The second one was a disaster. Now why would they even consider making a third one, especially without the directing skills of Steven Spielberg. In my opinion, Jurassic Park 3 was the worst of them all.the first reason for this was the directing. I have nothing against Joe Johnston, but i did not like any of the movies he has directed, with the exception of October Sky.The other problem was the time. An 85 minutes just isn't enough time for a  major motion picture. There wasn't enough time for the characters to develop, nor to build enough of a storyline.In conclusion, The third Jurassic Park was a poorly made film that was only made to rake in the big bucks. If you were a fan of the second one or enjoy watching just watching special effects, by all means, go see this film. If you're looking for something fresh, and a movie with some story, stay far away. "},{"Title":"A sudden, unexpected end to a really short movie.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was good, but it had many disappointments. This movie is only 80 minutes long. They talk about the 'Big T-Rex' many times and don't see any T-Rex's in this movie at all. This movie also ends so abruptly. To many things in the plot that could have been answered. "},{"Title":"Johnston does it right","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whatever the critics might say about its lack of originality, which is undeniable, this movie still convinces, succeeds on every level, and will have audiences cheering the whole way through. The dinosaur effects, which is why anybody will show up in the first place, are perfectionized, and the actors look more terrified and natural than Jullianne Moore and Jeff Goldblum in JP2, who are happily absent.While I still thought JP2 was excellent entertainment, JP3 is much and much better, because the human element is much better taken care of. No irritating children this time, dr. Grant is back and William H. Macy and Tea Leoni make an interesting couple.And about the film itself, it's just a thrill ride from start to finish, kinda like Mummy Returns, but much more realistic and terrifying. One of the most spectacular films I have ever seen, I'll definitely be seeing it again.**** (out of 5)   "},{"Title":"Entertaining yet lacking","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Overall, Jurassic Park was a very enjoyable movie. The plot was interesting and the characters were believable. Then, in The Lost World, Speilberg exposed us to the worst movie he has ever made. Now, in Jurassic Park 3, Joe Johnston brings a movie that is more entertaining than The Lost World, but not so much as the original. The acting was mediocre as was the story. However, with the special effects and moderate suspense, Jurassic Park 3 was enjoyable. Oh and it was extremely predictable.  "},{"Title":"Spinosaurus and Cohorts Kicks Ass!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3!! After seeing this movie, I was sort of disappointed because of the plot, and that it was not that original. But after seeing the dinosaurs, hell, forget everything! It has THE best sequences ever! As you can guess, my favorite scene was the Rex Vs. Spino fight, but I was disappointed to know that Tyrannosaurus Rex, THE KING of the dinosaurs, didn't have his comeuppance. Anyway, it has the traditional elements of a summer a movie, which you can all guess not so good script, not so good acting, Mega special effects, and no chacter development. Another disappointing thing about the movie is its running time, a piddly 94 minutes. But throw all of those away and leave the hyper realistic dinosaurs and what have you got? Pure entertainment! Overall a good popcorn movie which receives a solid 7.2/10 from me, because of the SFX. Alright! I'm a sucker for good effects! "},{"Title":"Mediocre at best.","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now, I am a very loyal fan to the Jurassic Park franchise, both the written book's and the filmed movies. That all changed when Jurassic Park 3 came out. While the first two movies had a book to be based off of, giving it a solid source material to follow, (Even though Lost world ignored it completely..) Jurassic Park 3 was made from scratch, and it really does show. While the movie isn't bad per say, it could have done many things better. The story is poor and rushed, the character's are annoying and forgettable, and most of all it just feels phoned in. While the last two movies had amazing effects for the dinosaurs, it felt downgraded in this movie, with the dinosaurs looking less believable. It's a nice film to watch if you want a good laugh with your friends, but it's nowhere near as good as the first movie. "},{"Title":"Evolve or Die.","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 is the one in the series that is not directed by Spielberg. It gets a lot of flack and deservedly so, the film is a poor excuse to get another film in the theatres to make money. Let's look at the reason they go back to the island. A couple trick the poor Dr. Grant into going back to the island. He thinks they are flying over it, when in reality they land on the island to look for their son who has disappeared on it. Start the dino attacks.This film is famous for two things, one is the Spinosaurus, the so called new king of the jungle. We are given a small useless fight scene between the Spinosaurus and the T-Rex to prove this point. Ram it down out throats, we get it a new dinosaur that is more dangerous. The second would be the Pterodons stuck in their bird cage. An exciting sequence yes, but something small that is stuck in a ridiculous film. Given that the point of this film is really useless, I like to look at it as a simple popcorn flick that serves no purpose other than to give the viewer a decent time at the theatre. The first two were at least based on books. The film does give decent chase sequences but we don't care for the characters other than Grant, from the first one. How the kid survived is a brain teaser. He'd be dead in reality, also how the boat they were parasailing on was destroyed and the crew killed is a plot hole to me. There are theories, but to me it's just lazy writing.Jurassic Park 3 is a short film too, they basically arrive on the island, find the kid, then leave. The sense of adventure is lessened in this one than the previous two. The stakes aren't as high and the new dinosaur is pretty much a yawn. This is the obvious weakest entry in the series which I guess makes me appreciate even the weaker Spielberg films even more. "},{"Title":"different, not bad","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So people are putting down JP3 because it allegedly does not stand up to the original. Well, it is different. It is short, less philosophical, centered on the family quest, and the concept is already known. It is part of a series! So why not do things a little differently? There are new accents the raptors are not shown as monsters but as intelligent beings, and in general, the animals appear more like real animals rather than dinosaurs. There are even quiet moments with a Tyrannosaurus. What you get, is a short, compact film with elements from horror and nature documentary. It does not have to have the gravitas of the first movie, or the exploratory nature, as the ground work has been laid. So, if you're able to get past the fact that this is not a clone of the other two films, it is actually quite good. "},{"Title":"Quicker, Faster and a little bit exciting","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III is the second sequel from the famous dinosaur franchise with the exception that Steven Spielberg is no longer behind the director's chair but serves as an executive producer. Kid director Joe Johnston is in control now where things run at a smoother pace.The film takes place just four years after the incidents during The Lost World Jurassic Park where we see Alan Grant's (Sam Neill) point of view. He's still studying the theory on how Velociraptors work and communicate together and considers all the dinosaurs he encountered on the trip from the theme park to be genetic monsters rather than animals. He meets with an entrepreneur (William H. Macy) and his wife (Tea Leoni) who fund him with whatever amount of money the doctor's need as long as he goes with them to Isla Sorna (note this island is from The Lost World). Grant along with his associate (Alessandro Nivola) and a group of other people go to the island and get more than they bargain for besides having dinosaurs chasing them.Jurassic Park III is shorter than it's two predecessors, but it's not boring like the original or frightening like it's first sequel (the best of the trilogy), but has it's moments where it feels like you're on a theme park ride where you just want to go back for more afterwards. Apart from that, the film breaks horror rules along with not dealing with harsh language like the first two films making it possible for everybody to see without having bad nightmares.I missed the magic from Spielberg, but Johnston passed the test with me. "}{"Title":"Misses Spielberg.","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now, I don't think JPIII is a bad movie, but it's certainly not a good one either, unlike its predecessors (many will disagree with me on The Lost World).The CG dinosaurs looked good, very good actually, but for some reason were a slight step down from the previous incarnations. The animatronics were also a little less than the ones in the predecessors. I didn't really like the revamped designs either. Sure, it's nice to keep your dinosaurs up-to-date to new scientific discoveries, but not when it contradicts the previous movies! The plot wasn't really as interesting either, overall the movie felt too small-scaled in comparison to its predecessors. I felt that the running time was too short, too.Now, there are also plenty of good things about JPIII. I liked to see Grant and Ellie again. The Spinosaurus, though unnecessary- they mistakenly thought the audience had grown tired of the good ol' T.rex- was an interesting and refreshing new addition, and the Spino/T.rex battle was nice. It wasn't overdone or stylized, which was good. Although in the end it was a bit unrealistic that the Rex's bone-crushing bite didn't kill the Spino. The aviary scene was definitely the height-point of the movie, it was well-directed and exciting.Aside from a not-so-great script, I think some of the bad things can be attributed to Steven Spielberg not directing. I know he doesn't always make good movies (never really cared for Hook), but I think JPIII would have been better than it is with Stevie in the director's chair rather than the producer's. Not that Joe Johnson is bad, though. I loved Jumanji.I liked JPIII enough to *buy* it on video, so I don't dislike it or consider it to be trash, but it could- and should- have been better. I'm still looking forward to IV, though. "},{"Title":"Excellently average film","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a blockbuster franchise finally gets to its second sequel, things are bound to start getting hard for the producers over at the studios. Ideas are few, and yes, its the third Jurassic Park. Unfortunately, though many would say otherwise, I think this film ain't as cool as the original or the second film either. Its a 90 minute spesh FX sesh with booming sound, with...whats that? LESS screaming and LESS blood and guts than the original. heck, I don't even think there was any blood in JP3...or very little. Must look again. Throwing in a few new species of dinosaur and coming up with a poor and short battle scene to kill of T-Rex doesn't amuse or impress me, and perhaps many out there for that matter. Right. Thats the bad news. On the good side, there are some nice dino chases, and those ferocious little Compys are back! (Bad news again for a second I thought the Raptors looked retarded with their dumbass new look, and were too smart. Talk about 50'000 years of evolution in eight years. Whatever.) The spesh FX are absolutely outstanding and the sound (especially the dino roars and such) are spot on. A nice sit-down-watch-and-put-away movie, and forgettable not to mention. Jurassic Park 4 should be a heap better. "},{"Title":"The third, the worst!","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anxious to fund research for his new theory of velociraptor intelligence, renowned paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant is persuaded by wealthy adventurer Paul Kirby and his wife Amanda to accompany them on an aerial tour of Isla Sorna. This infamous island, once InGen's site B, has become both a primordial breeding ground for John Hammond's magnificent creations and a magnet for thrill-seekers eager to encounter them. When a tragic accident maroons the party of seven, Grant discovers the true reason his deceptive hosts have invited him along. In their perilous attempt to escape, the dwindling group encounters terrifying new creatures undisclosed by InGen, and Grant is forced to learn the dreadful implications of his raptor intelligence theory firsthand.Steven Spielberg is NOT the director of this third installment but that is not were the problems lie, instead it seems that the script is incredibly thin, and boring in-between the senseless action. Sam Neill returns as Dr. Alan Grant. Directed by Joe Johnston. "},{"Title":"Excellent job in this Sequel","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Realy I give a 9 for this movie, because I like everything, the story was tight and smooth, the job of 3D and puppet animators was more than excellent, and a big Bravo for all compositors that make this movie. All was true as hapens in real life. I like it more than the first one.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but not as good as I hoped","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is defenetly no movietrash. I thought it was very enjoyable. But as the first JP is my favorite movie I was very disappointed with JP3. The acting was very enoying and bad sometimes, The story was too simple, the action sequences were much too similiar to those from JP and TLW, and the dinosaurs looked more like monsters than like natural living breathing dino's. But on the other hand I think it's an enjoyable movie that you don't have to take too personaly as the first film. And above all the pternodon sequence was one of my favorite action sequences from 2001.6/10   "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first two...but what did you expect?","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Any movie with a Roman numeral three in its title can't be all that great, and the thing about Jurassic Park III is that it doesn't try to be anything more than it appears to be.  The only reason to see any Jurassic Park movie is just to ogle at the dinosaurs, and occasionally ooh and ahh as they eat people and generally act scary.  Jurassic Park III doesn't disappoint in that area.  That's pretty much all it has going for it, considering the complete lack of plot.  The dinosaurs here don't look as good as they did in the earlier movies, like they were done on the cheap. And the thrills themselves don't seem as, well, thrilling, although there is a pretty cool scene with pteradactyls (that's taken from the original Jurassic Park novel, interestingly enough).But that stuff didn't really surprise me much.  Spielberg wasn't even directing this one, and the legendary Dennis Muren didn't have anything to do with the full-motion dinosaurs this time around, so what did you expect?  Jurassic Park III really feels like a B-movie.  But in a way, that's kind of fun.  As long you aren't expecting much, Jurassic Park III, which lasts a mere 82 minutes, isn't a bad way to kill some time. "},{"Title":"Considering the other films of 2001...","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is above and beyond the competition. OK, it's not an instant classic or wholly memorable, but in comparison to such garbage of last summer like Planet of the Apes Pearl Harbor A.I. and Swordfish the film is much slicker, if not repetitive. Also, in comparison to other 3s like Rambo, Rocky, Jaws, Alien, etc. The only other one that this can be compared to is Indiana Jones...Last Crusade. The talent in the film--both in front and behind the camera--is superb and it is certainly more fun than The Lost World. While not as good as the original (duh) it is still a fun film and deserves some credit for having lasted the series successfully for 8 years. Too bad Spielberg was too caught up in A.I. to do more than produce this. With luck there won't be a JP4 because it looks like the series is in a dead end now.  9/10 stars.  "},{"Title":"At least it didn't have Jeff Goldblum....","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of people have told me that a good story is not important in movies like this one, since they are obviously meant to entertain through constant action and humour. To a certain extent, I agree with them. However, there are two buts 1) if the action reallyisn't any good, then the story becomes important 2) some movies have such a ridiculously poor story, that it doesn't matter how good the action is.Unfortunately, JP 3 suffers from both phenomena. The action in this movie is identical to that in the first two JP movies again we have chases by big nasty dinosaurs, and scenes in which the humans have to outsmart the oh-so-smart raptors. Nothing new here except for a short appearance by some (goofy-looking) flying dinosaurs.Then there's the total lack of story, internal logic or character interaction after 15 minutes, all the main characters are already stranded on the island, and two extras have already been eaten. Not to mention the incredibly silly way in which Sam Neill ends up on the island again, even after he had vowed not to go to any dino-island again. After that, we are made to believe that an 8-year old kid can survive by himself on a dino-infested island for 8 weeks, that a character who is clearly heavily wounded by pterodactyls actually survives, that a cell phone can survive a trip through the intestines of a 20 foot dinosaur, and that Sam Neill is suddenly fluent at raptor language.Redeeming qualities some funny jokes, absence of Jeff Goldblum Bad points repetitive action, poor story, huge lapses in logicRating 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The Third Chapter of Jurassic Park....","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"        JP3 was nothing like I expected. It was actually better than I expected. I loved the first JP, and the second was okay, and the third was actually pretty good. Although, I was kind of disappointed that Jeff Goldblum wasn't in JP3. JP3 didn't have very much violence in it either, and I think that anyone who had seen the first and second noticed that.I give JP3 an 8 out of 10.  )  "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There were two things I want from Jurassic Park sequels. The first is to see the dinos stomping through a city, and although this did happen in The Lost World, it felt tacked-on and cheesy. The other thing I wanted to see was a knock-down, stand-up fight between two really BIG dinos, like you used to see in the old classic Ray Harryhausen films. Well, I'm still waiting for the dinos to invade the big city, but the T-Rex vs Spinosaurus face-off near the beginning of Jurassic Park 3 made me a happy man. Just a shame there was no grudge rematch at the end to close things off a bit better, because as it stands this third film seems to do little except line up a fourth.Not that you'll hear me complaining too hard about that. With each film the effects get better, the dinosaurs more realistic (and more prolific), and &#150; bizarrely &#150; the humans get dumber. Sure, the plots of the two sequels both stink, but that's the nature of sequels and, provided we're fed some great action and FX, that suits me fine. That's what these films are about, after all. if you want a treatise on the dangers of genetic tampering, read the books instead. At least with this second sequel, the &#145;plot' has been kept deliberately threadbare, letting the film flow from one action scene to another, unlike the ponderous pace of The Lost World.I couldn't hear most of the exposition at the beginning of the film due to all the kids chattering in the theatre. They just wanted to see the dinos, and so did I. Thankfully, character development is kept to a minimum, and we're thrust back onto Site B in no time. In a throwback to the original book, we get Pteranodons this time round (the technology and budget obviously stretches to flying dinos now), and this section of the film is inventive and exciting, and well-handled. There's less blood and gore this time round, and quite a bit more sly humour, and the welcome return of Sam Neil, reprising his role as palaeontologist Alan Grant. It's a shame Laura Dern was present only as a cameo. All told, this is a fun way to pass an hour and a half, and anyone not too jaded after seeing the first two should lap it up.  "}{"Title":"Good movie, full of great action and suspense!!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was suprised when I saw this movie, because it was much better than I had expected. I mean, sure Joe Johnston is a great director and I loved the first two movies, but would the third one be any good? Would it even have a good story? Well, the answer to both of the questions is yes! I'll admit that the story isn't the most original, but it works well. The t-rex spinosaur fight was cool, but I just wish that it was longer. In fact, I wish the whole movie was longer. It clocked in at over 90 mins. Yes, the movie was great, but I think that it could have been a little better if it was just a little longer. Hopefully the DVD (Which I will buy when i comes out) will have some deleted scenes or additional footage. I know that I am being picky. Anyway, if you were a fan of the first two, or you just like good summer movies, then I suggest that you see this. I don't think that you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"a very fun film","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, I have read other reviews and can see why people don't like this movie. Yes, it does have a wafer thin plot, no character development and is extremely predictable but hey, it's a summer movie. It was good fun.It wasn't as funny as the first and second JP which both had a few good lines, mainly delivered from Jeff Goldblum's character. The only thing wrong with Jurassic Park 3 was the lack of this. I still really enjoyed the action which just kept on coming and I enjoyed every minute of it!! It kept making me jump and the raptors were extremely scary as they had become SO intelligent!! That was good as they weren't just running away from mindless monsters they were being herded into traps by intelligent yet fierce creatures. Add to all this the large new creature the spinosaur and the fight between this and the T-Rex with the great plane crash at the beginning then it's a great movie! Go and see it! U won't regret it if u don't expect the wrong things!! "},{"Title":"What The Lost World should have been","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are certain moments in life that you simply don't forget- be it the day you got married, the birth of your first child, or even just a crucial goal to win a cup final. .Cinematic moments like these come along once in a blue moon, and so when the original Jurassic Park was released in 1993, generations of film-goers would remember it by the scene when Sam Neill turns around and we see the CGI dinosaurs for the first time.1997 spawned JP2, again directed by Steven Spielberg, but this time the magic had gone as critics savaged it and audiences dwindled. Another four years on however, and this time Spielberg takes a back seat as Joe Johnston takes the helm.JP3 skips over The Lost World as if it didn't happen, which isn't altogether a bad thing considering the disastrous reviews it received. Instead we begin with Dr Grant (Neill) trying to raise money to fund his archaeological dig. Despite pledging not to return to either of the dinosaur islands (we know where this is leading.) a rich couple (Leoni and Macy) offer him a large gift to escort them on a flyover visit to Isla Sorna - the notorious second island.Of course, with 100 minutes to fill things are never going to be that simple, as the couple's ulterior motives are revealed along with (surprise, surprise) their party becoming stranded on the island.Jurassic Park without Spielberg was supposed to be like bangers without mash, Morecambe without Wise or Chris O'Donnell without a bad movie to his name. Instead Joe Johnston has created the sequel that The Lost World should've been. Gone are the trite scenes with dinosaurs running amok in the city, gone is the annoying Jeff Goldblum and gone is the clichd boring dialogue that sent us reaching for the popcorn.True, we do have to endure Tea Leoni screeching like she'd just been forced to sit through An Audience with Carole Smilie, but in the end there are more ups than downs. There are even a few throwaway lines to see who's really paying attention plus the ultimate punishment idea for people whose mobile phones go off half way through a show.A disaster movie is never going to be a Shakespearean play and the director Joe Johnston seizes on this as he exploits the audience by giving into what we want dinosaurs bigger, faster and much more real. Why else would you go to see a dinosaur flick if you didn't want dinosaurs?As with all dinosaur films, the actors are merely bi-products, used to spout a few lines before the next dino pops up looking for lunch. The quality of the CGI graphics and real life models though are simply breathtaking, with the Pterodactyls particularly standing out.JP3 was never going to live up to the original - nothing compares to out first glimpse back in 93, but if all else fails and you find yourself getting bored then you can always revert back to the timeless classic of betting on who will get eaten next.7/10  "},{"Title":"Eat the rich! or they saved the best(version) for last","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just when you thought it was safe to visit exclusive resort islands for the very rich (can you imagine the fear rich kids are growing up with now?)...Either I'm just a sucker for good comedy (from subtle to very absurd) or the first 2 JP's had bottomed out my expectations for a decent script, but JP3 comes out on top. There are none of the make my day swaggering jokes or toilet-seat killings; more like Jaws (we're gonna get a bigger boat, right?). It avoids the nauseating extremes of focusing on kids(JP1) or gore(JP2) though it still clarion blasts the FAMILY UNIT (human or dino)(which doesn't make these family films - would you take a kid to Texas Chainsaw Massacre?). However, at least the idea has some practical benefit (as shown by Laura Dern's rescue which speaks volumes of her unrequited love, and echoes an earlier joke that people aren't whom they seem - her government Public Relations husband obviously is more than that).The film is more traditionally paced, and even manages to build suspense before the chase scenes, simply by NOT showing things. There's beautiful island photography, and some beautifully intergrated F/X scenes (the stampede, the Ptero's). There's a nice bit of speculative science about raptor intelligence which is, of course, immediately validated (though they're certainly not smarter than dogs/wolves when they fall for the oldest decoy trick in the book); also some continuity with the second movie when Dr Grant ranks on Dr Malcolm 's book. Some obvious flaws the editing makes it seems unlikely they could outrun the predatory/stampeding dinos. Dr Grant seems glad dinos escape the island. And after all the deaths little Eric still thinks it's all worth while. He's a leatherface waiting to happen. But the acting, or reacting, is up to snuff. Like the Indiana Jones movies, the third one is the best. PREDICTION Just as plot themes crossbreed with the ALIEN series, JP4 (like Aliens4) will have Laura Dern cloned with a brontosaurus which will fail as a TV pilot for an Attack of the 50 ft. woman series.    "},{"Title":"over budgeted Godzilla movie......","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see this movie with a fairly open mind.  I didn't expect much of a plot or story.  All I expected was semi-decent dialogue to move the story(or lack there of)ahead to the next sequence of action.Instead what I got was eighty boring, and at times laugh aloud funny, minutes.  The dialogue was just so horrible.  This had B movie written all over it.  I have a place in my heart for B movies, but not this one.  This was Godzilla with a budget, and without the heart. William H. Macy was here, and I can't figure out why.  After great movies such a Pleasantville and Fargo, I am ashamed for him for showing up in this pile of trash. The ending, well, I won't spoil anything for any of you who are anxious to go out and see this, but lets just say its disappointing, and really against everything Jurassic park has been.  What was once a series of suspensful movies has given way to the Hollywood money machine. The first movie, a classic, and this one is a far cry from that day.  We've seen it all before, and its been better before.  More dinosaurs and more volume doesn't make it scarier, it just gives you more of a head ache.  At least at eighty five minutes or so, they put you out of your misery as quickly as possible.  But it wasn't fast enough for me.  Plus, it has my vote for one of the worst ending scenes in movie history.  Two out of ten, but one of them is a charity point. "},{"Title":"A good follow up to a dismal sequel","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I find Jurrasic Park 3 to be a good sequel to a great film. I think this should have been the sequel to the first film. Sure the diagoule was kind of written the way people talk but who cares just go in and have a good time. Can't wait for Jurraisc Park 4. "},{"Title":"Spinosaurus?  How lame can they get","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe it's just me and maybe I don't have enough knowledge about dinosaurs, but what in the hell is a spinosaurus, and why are people making a big deal about it for the third installment to the Jurrasic Park series?  I have never heard of a dinosaur like this, and it certainly wasn't mentioned in the last movies.  But hey, considering most of this movie is unbelievable (I DON'T mean that as a compliment), I guess it's just park of the sac.Part 3 is one of the worst movies of the year.  An increasingly dumb and hollow action movie that has Niel returning to the island for what- oh a kid, I see.  If they make another Jurrasic Park (which I'm sure they will knowing Hollywood) I hope that they don't stick to this storyline.  Anyway, Niel and company, which includes William H. Macy, Tea Leoni, Michael Jeter and Alessandro Nivola, go on Isla Sona, or Isla Nublar, or whatever Isla, and look for a kid and oh what (is this a spoiler I wonder?) dinosaurs start the attack.  And not only is the spinosaurus present, but so are the infamous velocoraptors who not only plot out traps and can speak to each other, but can also cook Tex-Mex and gorganzola cheeze for no extra charge.  AGGH!Sorry to go off like that, but this movie shouldn't have been made.  Sure as far as visual effects go the dinosaurs look good, but after Toy Story, Babe, Shrek, and even the recent Final Fantasy, doesn't having good looking dinosaurs have a similarity to being valedictorian at summer school?  Sure for 1993 and maybe even 1997 they looked great, but so what, it was really the movies themselves that were good, not the dinosaurs (actually, part 2 got a B- from me).  What started off in 1993 as a smashing action film that was skimming as a satire, is now a dumb and incredibly predictable series of movies.To sum up the movie and my sarcasm in this movie review, if you really want to know how bad this movie is, well, have you ever been watching a movie and since the heroes are unappealing and dumb so often that you start rooting for the villains (which in JS3 are the dinosaurs of course)?  Well, it happens here.  Grade D- "},{"Title":"Enjoyed the movie, but it appears a lot of audience blase about dinosaurs these days.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thank heavens that Sam Neill is back.  Special effects are better than ever. Plot was even a little different as to the reasons for Sam Neill's character going to the island. I thought the story was inventive, and enjoyed the new dinosaurs introduced in this episode, but it does not follow smoothly from #2.  Concerned to see so many people with 5 year olds and younger in theater... this is not a film for young children "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park 3 is definitely worth a watch!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After waiting for absolute eons, I dragged my mom and sister to the theatre to see Jurassic Park 3 on July 18th. Overall, this movie's plot was almost nonexistent, but it kept you entertained for the entire 92 minutes it was on the screen (it was a bit short if you ask me). The dinosaur chase scenes kept you on the edge of your seat- literally! Obviously, going into the movie, I was not expecting it to be anything like the original Jurassic Park, and it wasn't, but I wasn't disappointed. The characters were not as likable and didn't blend together as well as they did in the past two movies, but Sam Neill and Laura Dern are back and that's all that matters! Although, after realizing Laura Dern's position in the movie (you'll know what I'm talking about after you see it), the whole audience groaned in despair.My favorite parts in the movie had to do with the new spinosaurus and flying chase scenes. The only complaint I have about the movie is that the ending was very abrupt, and it annoys me that they only used an hour and a half for the movie so they definitely had enough time to make a decent ending. While watching the movie, you sort of have to suppress all of your questions and let them be, because they're probably not going to be answered! If you do that, and sit back and enjoy the new dinosaurs, it will be a great movie- and definitely one that I'm planning to get on video! "},{"Title":"worth the money","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although there is very little intellectual content in this movie, it is still well worth seeing. Don't expect to be informed; simply expect a fast-paced movie with wonderful animatronics and tons of action. Bottom line expect to be entertained, and you will not be disappointed.  "}{"Title":"No more or less than it aspires to be","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fun, entertaining movie. Nothing particularly deep, and what could be laughably referred to as the plot was nothing new, but it was a lot of fun to watch. The one thing that this lacked that I would have liked to have seen was more dinosaur vs. dinosaur fights (Triceratops or Ankylosaurus vs. T-Rex or Spinosaurus could be fun)but this was 90 minutes of dinosaurs, and, quite frankly, that's what I went to it to see.  "},{"Title":"It's great!!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just got back from seeing JP III and found it at least as intertaining as II! There were actually quite a few funny lines in the movie and they all seemed to come at the right place and time. Sam Neill did a wonderful job as an older, more tired Dr. Grant. Especially one who wished InGen never did what they did..! He would  rather have his dinosaurs dug out of the dirt instead of chasing him. William Macy did a nice job of looking younger than he really is but Tea Leoni is not ever going to be a major talent. The young boy who played the son was really believeable and after all he went through, still could look at the dinosaurs with wonder....a wonderful way to spend the afternoon!! "},{"Title":"Little less talk, lot more action","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I noticed that this movie was only about an hour and a half long, I knew something was wrong.  It takes time to build a plot, and unless the movie is a comedy or kid's movie, you really need a longer running time. So I watch this movie and the whole time, I'm thinking, I'd so much rather be watching the original Jurassic Park!  JP3 is just full of dinosaurs constantly chasing characters who escape and for those insignificant ones, they of course, get eaten.  Overall, it was just a movie not worth wasting your time on. "},{"Title":"I only wish I could sleep through films.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I went to see the preview of JP3 last night. And what a complete and utter waste of time. The plot was contrived, and entirely unoriginal. The circumstances by which the characters end up with the dinosaurs once more are implausible (even by movie standards), and the film has a plodding pace that makes it tedious. It seems to be more like a narrative - And then this happened. And then this happened. And then this happened.... The character development seemed forced, and phoney as well. Boring, boring boring.I have to admit, the action scenes were often corny enough to make me laugh out loud, which I'm sure wasn't their intention at all. There's quite a parallel with the Batman series, the first two films were the best ones, but in the third and especially the fourth, the emphasis was more on big action scenes, at the expense of other scenes. The same has happened with JP3JP3 could have been so much more, but none of the actors' hearts seemed to be in it. I can only pray that they don't try and resurrect the franchise for a fourth installment. "},{"Title":"Worse than the second","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP3 fell far short of the second and is not even in the same ballpark as the first. The movie lacked the magic that the first movie had, it lacked imagination, a good story, and good actors.  I think Sam Neil was just looking for another cash in but his acting in this movie is his obvious low. An unbelievable story and some bad acting make this movie a rental at best. "},{"Title":"A fun movie!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Jurassic Park 3 on opening day, and I must say I was quite pleased with what I saw. The movie may not have had the strongest plot, but it was equally as entertaining as the first two films.  The film may have been hard to understand at points, but the visual effects and chase scenes made up for all that was wrong.  Unlike the first two Jurassic Parks, this one was much scarier and thrilling.  I heard people and critics say such things as, This film will bore people over the age of ten.  Myself being 13, I was very entertained from beginning to end, never once being bored, but rather covering my eyes because I never knew what would pop out next.  I strongly recommend this film to anyone who wants to be entertained.  When Jurassic Park 3 was made, it wasn't intended to be an Oscar winner, it was just suppose to be a fun movie, and that's what it was. "},{"Title":"Why do people hate what the people wanted?","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw JP3 on it opening day, and all i can say is 'WHOA!'. I will start off simply by saying that it is true....it lacks plot, but basically.... I DONT CARE! It was a cool way to get Dr. Allan Grant and Ellie Sattler back into the story instead of the dry and very dumb character of Ian Malcolm.I loved this movie, from beginning to end...the BEST movie I have seen all summer. After a very disapointing viewing of Final Fantasy, this movie was simply a life saver for summer movies for me. In this movie, there is more Dinosaur action than the 2nd ever produce(and while people complained about the lack of, they complain for the more off it in this one, hense why the hate what they wanted in the firstplace.), and special effects the first one could have dreamed off. The Raptors as always are vicous and yet beautiful as always. The addition the Tyroo-erm-ah.... since my spelling sucks big time, I'll just call them Rodans. Anywayz, with the addition of the Rodans and Spinosaur into the story made it even more action packed....but nothing beats the sight of the king of all Dinosaurs, the Tyrant Lizard King, the T-REX! Making its film return once more with force and fights the Spinosaur to a somewhat disapointing death, but alls well... cause the Spinosaur is worthy enough. Can I praise this movie more? Oh hell yeah....but will I? No, cause you should get up, grab 4bucks and head to the theaters and let your job or dirty home go into waiting as you sit back, relax (for the most part....it is an exciting film), eat your large pop corn and drink your coke as you watch some MAJOR Dino Action! "},{"Title":"Good, but no where near the first.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a huge fan of the first of the series, and of the books I was VERY let down when I saw The Lost World. Adapted from the book with the same name? Give me a break the only thing that was the same would be the name of the island and that there were two kids. Drifting that far from a half-way decent plot into something resembling king-kong is not what I expected.That said you can understand why I wouldn't have high expectations for the third in the series. Well I'm glad to say it isn't a total slap in the face. If the first movie was half a novel, and the second the inside cover, the third installment is a few pages in length. Crafted in the same fashion as a comic book, jp3 brings you action and a touch of what was. A short visit to the island nothing more. No plot and no character development. It's almost a trailer expanded into a whole movie. Full of action but no substance.It's hard to rate a movie like this. If your going to see the action it won't disappoint. And you'll be hard-pressed to realize there is no story the action is non-stop. You won't even notice you missed anything until it's over and your left with this weird unfulfilled feeling. What is it? Lack of story. I only give it 7 out of 10 because it is Jurassic Park. Had it been anything else I would give it a 4. "},{"Title":"better than the second, not as good as the first","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was pleased with this movie.  It featured a variety of dinosaurs.  Not the tired ones already shown in the previous two.  Sure it featured a Rex and Raptors, but they werent the prominant ones.  The story kinda slowed alittle in the middle but kept me interested.The only problem I had was, that the dinosaurs seemed too computer generated.  Personally, the dinosaurs from the first film looked more real than in this installment.  It seemed that they were striving to make these dinos too real.But, it was a good popcorn film. "},{"Title":"How can such a good movie and decent sequel result in THIS movie?","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was greatly entertaining, i could not help but laugh the whole time, i sat in the movie theater next to my friend and predicted 95% of the movie right as it was about to happen. I can't believe that the last (hopefully) of this trilogy was so bad. it fits in with the other great trilogy disappointment, Godfather III. The only reason this movie should be seen is for the amazing graphics. I was surprised when the movie ended and the crowd started clapping. I joined in because of my joy that it was finally over. In front of the theater i heard some people talking about 50% of the people there enjoyed it. Two of the scenes in the movie are almost exactly the same as scenes from the first and second Jurassic Park. And horrible unrealistic ending even made the movie worse. At certain parts most of the theater broke out in quiet laughter (these parts were obviously not meant to be funny).My final thought if you want to see a comedy, forget about scary movie 2, go see Jurassic Park 3 the (hopefully) final movie that even makes the lost world seem like a masterpiece. "}{"Title":"High Tech Bore!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a big disappointment to me, to be honest, I did not expect much but I was hoping for a well spent hour and a half of my time. Jurassic Park III failed to amuse me. The special effects are nice but the story will completely put you to sleep! Not only does this movie try to make light of a would-be devastating situation by cracking lame sarcastic humor, it also makes you question why you would dish out hard earned money for this over-rated, over-hyped, and definately over-exaggerated film! So far this summer season of movies is a big waste of time and money, I'll definately think twice before I go to the theatre again!! "},{"Title":"Tooooooooooo much","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP3 lacks the Spielberg touch. It's an all-out assault on the senses featuring in your face dinosaurs. Watching this film was a bit like a roller coaster ride from hell. The script is lame; it simultaneously asks and then leaves too many questions unanswered. Also, we don't really get to appreciate the humans in the film for all they're worth. For example, William H. Macy is too great a talent to have to compete with dino-thugs for our attention. And Laura Dern was especially sympathetic in JP1; in this film, she's barely a blip on the radar screen.The whole JP3 experience was t o o     m u c h. Too much noise, too many surprises, too many characters dying off, too much predictable, gratuitous violence.  Word to the wise vote yourself off this island.(I rated it a 3 for special effects; I took off the other 7 points for having absolutely no originality.) "},{"Title":"An Episode of Super-Survivor","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some day people will appreciate what a director of Spielberg's magnitude brings to movies. This one is only a superior version of Lake Placid. There's no substance to the story (it's not written by Spielberg and David Koepp as the first two were); it lacks moral purpose (there's only a single line on cloning or genetic engineering) so there's no science in the fiction, and without the character of Malcolm it's almost completely humorless. Also, these dinosaurs, rather than behaving like natural creatures and dangerous predators, have evolved into unrecognizably thinking monsters that carry out vendettas. The effects, if that's all one goes to these movies for, are fine, though more fanciful than natural. But raptor movement STILL doesn't work.  "},{"Title":"The Return of Dr. Alan Grant","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All right, let's get one thing straight.  This is NOT JURASSIC PARK 1.5, it does NOT take place between JURASSIC PARK and LOST WORLD.  It is JURASSIC PARK III, and it does take place eight years after the terrible incident at Isla Nubla.  Now, not only is it a different location but a different director, Joe Johnston, who takes over the helm as the director for the third (and hopefully, the last) of the JURASSIC PARK trilogy. It's been eight years since Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) paid a visit to Jurassic Park compliments of John Hammond and Ingen.  After coming near death several times, Dr. Grant made a vow to never step foot around Isla Nubla again.  In fact, Dr. Grant doesn't want to see another live dinosaur again!  For the last several years, Dr. Grant has been doing theories about velociraptors how they can communicate with each other.  He is a world wide celebrity for the adventure he encountered and wrote a book about eight years ago.  In fact, those are the only questions that Dr. Grant gets from his audience members, that and the San Diego incident four years ago that he had no part in.  Dr. Grant is approached by thrill seekers Paul and Amanda Kirby (William H. Macy and Tea Leoni).  They are willing to give a large donation to Dr. Grant's research if he helps them charter a plane over the island to see dinosaurs up close.  Dr. Grant doesn't wish to go back but after the thought of having more money for his research, he bites the bullet and travels back to the island and brings along his young assistant, Billy Brennan (Alessandro Nivola).  When they reach the island by airplane, Dr. Grant is telling the Kirby's about the dinosaurs when he is told that they are about to land.  Dr. Grant puts up a fight and realizes that the Kirby's are not looking for thrills, but for thier missing son, Eric (Trevor Morgan) who had disappear for eight weeks with Amanda's boyfriend, since the Kirby's are divorced.  The Kirby's also hired a hunter, Udesky (Michael Jeter) to help them look for thier son.  And to make matters worse, their plane crashes and Dr. Grant is on the island that he has never been on.  You see, they are on Jurassic Park site B, Isla Sorna, not Isla Nubla, so this complicates the situation. I at first felt very skeptic about JURASSIC PARK 3, being that it wasn't directed by Steven Spielberg.  I then felt more worried that it was only ninety-three minutes running time, thirty-five minutes shorter than the other films.  And that this film was directed by the same man who did JUMANJI and HONEY, I SHRUNK THE KIDS.  But after watching this film, I found myself to enjoy it quite a bit.  In fact, I thought it was a very enjoyable sequel.  I guess you can compare the JURASSIC PARK trilogy to the DIE HARD trilogy.  The first one is the classic, the second one o.k. but not great, the third is better than the second but not as good as the first. I did enjoy how much exciting and entertaining this film was for the third go around.  And I did enjoy it more than THE LOST WORLD, when I also enjoyed the LOST WORLD.  Johnston manages to give JURASSIC PARK 3 the Spielberg touch with the excitement, family values, suspense, and humor. I have to give kudos for Johnston for doing a good job, as much as he did with his last film, the barely seen OCTOBER SKY.  The acting for a major summer film is also respectable.  Tea Leoni is so-so as the worried mother, at times she is o.k., at other times she's annoying.  William H. Macy does a very good job going from a low budget film actor to a big budget film actor and manages to keep his famous personality and humor.  It just shows that William H. Macy does deserve to get casted for more major film roles.  But if anyone walks away for the acting, it's the always excellent Sam Neill.  I have never seen a bad Sam Neill performance and I always enjoy watching him.  I thought it was Sam Neill, and not Jeff Goldblum who made the original JURASSIC PARK fun to watch.  And with this film you can see the proof, it's Sam Neill carrying this film again, and it's more enjoyable than to watch Neill than Goldblum, who can be a good supporting actor, but not the main star.  And the dinos are again a treat to watch.  The fimilar faces of the Velociraptors and the Tyrannosaurus Rex, to the new faces of the much bigger and scarier Spinosaurus and the errie flying Pteranodon's.  The fighting scene between the T-Rex and Spinosaurus is fun to watch, but it seems too short.  However, it's made up with the scary scenes with the flying Pteranodon's who attack our heros. JURASSIC PARK 3 is one of the more enjoyable films of this summer, but it has the obvious sequel suffering, not as good as the original.  But for a sequel, it is decent and enjoyable, and this will make the fans of the original JURASSIC PARK who disliked LOST WORLD to have a enjoyable time as well.  Like I said earlier, let's stop the series here, while they are ahead, otherwise it's going to get tiresome. ****1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"what took them 4 years for this one?","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was very disappointed by JP3. The special effects were great, but the movie didn't have a plot, didn't have a story to it. Ok, the boy is lost on the island, but they find him after the first couple of minutes. So, what is left? The thrilling, very creative and interesting task of.... reaching the coast. They meet a couple of dinosaurs on the way and hardly anyone gets killed. No background story. They tried to make it interesting by the fact that the raptors can talk to each other, but they never really used it. The raptors just looked at each other, screamed a little, and ran off. The movie had hardly any suspense. And it ended too quickly. There was no highpoint or anything. They reached the coast and the movie was over.I was very disappointed and so was my wife.If they make a JP4 they should give a really interesting plot, like set it 100 years in the future and there's a Jurassic Park in every major city, or Dinosaurs are used as working-animals and revolt or something. There are so many possibilities, but JP3 didn't use any of them.The only thing I liked was the ringing Dinosaur. That was funny. "},{"Title":"Sequel of a sequel is a pile of dinosaur ...","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 1 was an eye-opener in CGI for its time. Its first sequel is nothing to write home about. The sequel of the sequel even less so.Somewhere in the middle of the movie, someone digs into a steaming pile of dinosaur poop, and that is pretty much how the moviegoer must feel watching this film. The characters to be rescued are for the most part so idiotic you hope they get eaten. Caprona had a better pterodactyl scene than JP III. In fact, if you haven't seen that Doug McClure vehicle from the 70s, rent it instead of JP III. Caprona is far more amusing, and its primitive special effects (yes - they decorated a glider plane to look like a pterodactyl and scoop up a Neanderthal in 1,000,000 BC fashion!) at least have a palpable physical reality.JP III is a muddled mess of robotic acting, implausible character motivations, boredom at yet more dinosaurs eating stupid people. Of course, THE STEVE was no longer at the reins here, but Joe Johnston has directed some pretty decent movies, like Honey, I Shrunk the Kids and Rocketeer, so what went wrong? The real blame goes to the script writers. Sam Neill and Johnston should have just 'said no' when they saw the steaming pile of you-know-what that is the script for this film. In fact, a simple piece of advice any movie that credits 3 or more script writers, be as cautious as a movie directed by Alan Smithee before investing your time. Or you will lose two hours of your life, as I did.The film still has professional production values, and the actors attempt to act, so it gets 4 stars because I reserve 0-3 for even worse. "},{"Title":"so many questions....","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I gave this movie 4 stars only because I love the dinosaurs and the first two movies. I have tried to view JP3 as entertainment and not be cynical, but I have had a hard time because there are so many questions. 1.)If this is the same island as The Lost World, where did the landing strip come from? 2.)Um, was the Spinosaurus hibernating in The Lost World?If he was, that may make sense, but why has he not interacted with the Trex before? 3.)After 8 weeks, A teenage boy can defeat raptors AND save Dr. Grant who has survived an island of dinosaurs already? How did the boy get his food? If no one was on that island for 4 years, then the food in that trailer would be old and unedible....even beans. 4.)Why didn't Dr. Grant wait for the check to be cleared before he agreed to go to the Island? 5.) I would havebeen satisfied in the end if the families of the three men sue THAT IRRITATING COUPLE for causing the men to lose their lives, even though they agreed to go. The couple was too annoying and stubborn! I still would go see the fourth installment if there will be one. After all, anything would be better that JP3. "},{"Title":"The weakest of the saga","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 is simply by definition a big dumb fun monster movie. Whilst the previous installments had an air of intelligence around them this one is brainless but thats what you get when you choose the guy who directed Jumanji. The guy in question is Joe Johnston and in all fairness he makes a better movie than Jumanji this time round. Sam Neills character is returned to the Island by a bunch of parents who trick him into it, as they have lost there son over the Island in a para gliding accident. Grant the group then parade around the Island looking for the boy and dodging big nasty beasties. I loved the first film and enjoyed the second very much and while I had fun with Jurassic Park 3 I could not but help feel slightly disappointed. The acting is only ever adequate and the effects unsurprisingly don't seem as brilliant now due to the fact they are the same every blockbuster every week. Personally during the summer of 2001 I preferred Lara Croft Tomb Raider and whilst it has no more in the way of brain power it does have more exciting moments. Enjoy Jurassic Park 3 while you watch it but I doubt you will remember it for very long afterword. "},{"Title":"Inferior but not unenjoyable","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I don't know what I expected, but this was not it. One of the primary elements which made the first two movies so successful was the high level of suspense that Spielberg devoted to them. I did a little research on Joe Johnston, the director, and could have smacked myself for expecting more. Although I am a serious Robin Williams fan, I absolutely detested Jumanji and he directed that, too. Go figure.Although Dr. Allen Grant is brought back for this third installment, the other principal characters are portrayed by William H. Macy and Ta Leoni (as Paul and Amanda Kirby). I liked neither of their characters, and Ta Leoni was stiff and appeared to be a living stop-motion character. William H. Macy was adequate as a duplicitious man with ulterior motives.There were some good elements in this sequel; it was fun to watch and still held a sort of morbid fascination, but the story was of the mainstream popcorn variation and I found it lacking for that reason, principally. The Kirby's kidnap Alan Grant and take him to the second dinosaur-laden island in order to obtain his assistance in saving their son, Erik, who has become stranded on that island. I hated the mainstream addition of the kid. Why do that? They had 2 kids in the first movie, and brought in Malcolm's daughter in the second. Why keep dragging kids onto these islands? It does nothing to help the franchise. Ironically, Sam Neill and Trevor Morgan (as Erik Kirby) were the bright and shining stars in this installment. There is a new dinosaur, one larger than the T-Rex, whose addition to the second island was a complete and total mystery due to the fact that the second installment (The Lost World) supposedly took place on this same island, and this new dinosaur was not present. He was instead ... what? Off watching Friends? The CGI quality in this production was decent, though I detested the addition of feathers to the heads of the raptors. Let science hang! I liked the raptors as they WERE! But I did like the inclusion of pterodons. I have been expecting to see them since the first installment.The best line in the movie? I rescued your hat! delivered by Alessandro Nivola as Billy Brennan.It's sad to say, but the hat is the real star of Jurassic Park 3. I still found it mildly entertaining to watch. I don't have the slightest idea why, but it was still somehow...amusing even though it totally lacked the charm and edge of the first two.I look forward with great anticipation to Jurassic Park 4 (even considering the detested feather factor) and were it the Fiend's perfect world, Spielberg would be back to direct it.It gets a 7.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of **** (Possible spoilers)","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is bad. The first half is decent but predictable then the second half is just so ridiculous that you can't help but feeling jipt. What was with the ending. The movie seemed to have regained its momentum towards the end and then they just end it. It's like the writers just said alright I don't feel like writing anymore, lets just make up some bogus ending and maybe somebody will by it. I mean come on are we actually suppose to beleive that this woman just called the marines and they just showed up on the beach. NO you cant end something like that, its cheating the audience. The acting in the movie was also horrible, and Tea Leoni was particulary annoying. The only real plus this movie had was the FX they were pretty good but other then that it sux. "}{"Title":"Rented this recently","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And I want a refund.  The first one was good, the second was not, this one I don't know what I was expecting, but it wasn't much.  And that's exactly what I got.  Gee... the kid was still alive after 2 months alone on an island filled with giant predators.  Gee... his stepdad was dead 10 minutes after they landed there.  I don't know why they continue to insist on the raptors as a focal point for the movie, or why they continue to make them 4 times as big as they should be(large dog size ~50-60 pounds).  Now they've even made them smart, to the point of full fledged emotion.  Though, if they were really that smart, they simply would have slaughtered the people the first time they saw them, and gotten their eggs back.  I also don't get how all these people can consistently outrun things that are going 30-40 mph.  over uneven ground.  Don't waste your money on this, it's not good, and it's not bad enough that you can laugh at it enough for it to be good. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park III is just plain awful!","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Since director Joe Johnston appears to have stooped to standards that are lower than those held by a three-year-old child, I will keep this review short and simple your movie sucks. Go back to making more October Skies and Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, but do us all a favor and stay away from directing action movies, because Jurassic Park III is a disgrace to the genre. Sure, it had it's moments -- as any other bad movie does (with the exception of Spider-Man) -- but you just can't fill shoes as big as Steven Spielberg's. Okay, maybe I'm being a little harsh, but I don't think anyone can argue the fact that JP3 was simply awful. A talking dinosaur on an airplane? A screenplay with more cliches than a comic book? Are we watching an action movie or an episode of Barney (ironically, the purple dinosaur DOES make a cameo in the movie)? And the script is full of lines like the following SAM NEILL That's T-Rex pee? How'd you get it? TREVOR MORGAN You don't want to know. Actually, Trevor, I DO want to know. How does a little twelve-year-old boy get access to the feces of a flesh-eating prehistoric monster? Are we to believe that you dressed up as a physician and gave him a plastic cup? I don't THINK so. And another thing Michael Crichton wrote two novels about Jurassic Park. Not three, but two. That's the way it was intended to be. I mean, don't you have the slightest curiosity as to why the scientists keep going back to the darn island? The answer is simple Crichton didn't intend for them to. But for some odd reason Johnston felt he could just grab a camera, buy a poorly-written screenplay, toss in a couple of special effects, present it to us under the franchise name of Jurassic Park, and make just as much money as its predecessors. Sadly, his plan worked. But hopefully, he won't ever try it again.Overall rating 2/10 "},{"Title":"Parent Trap - Jurassic Park Style  (SPOILERS)","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let's just review the plot hereA separated couple is reunited on dinosaur island at the gory expense of some extras.  An 11 yearold boy survives for 8 weeks in a hostile environment which a large well-funded corporation could not.  Disbelief is greatly suspended as a supporting actor survives an attack from 4 or 5 hungry pterodactyls, and Dr Grant makes peace with the Raptors by communicating with them. Oh yeah - Laura Dern has a cameo.Wa-f***ing-hooApparently Spielberg and Joe Johnston were out to flex their SFX muscles and show some new dinosaurs (especially one that could kick a T-Rex's ass) that they didn't in the first two, as well as to lead the way for some sequel involving political relations with a newly formed raptor democracy.  I imagine some Raptors take humans hostage in their Washington DC embassy, and a team of specialists are inserted to rescue the hostages without killing any raptors (who have just developed nuclear weapons).  Of course Dr Grant would be the reluctant leader/translator along with Ellie Degler (who's young son was on a tour of the embassy with his kindergarten class) and a large team of extras to be devoured in new and unusual ways.  Of course Dr Grant's nonspecific pessimism regarding politicians' dinosaur red tape will be played up, and some new mutated form of raptor will astound and terrify the team.  Ultimately, all important characters will live as will only one of the extras (most likely the one with the most lines).  Peace will be reached with the raptors just before their embassy turns into a spaceship and blasts off.  The movie will end with a Dr Grant telling a notso funny joke about raptors and humans and everyone (despite the gruesome memories of their numerous acquaintances dying horrible deaths in the previous 2 hours) laughs heartily. The END.Hopefully for release directly to TV (preferably to USA Up all Night)  "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park III, 3 times worse than the first!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If they make another one I'm afraid.  The ending is wide open for a sequel and the second one was terrible.  The third one had obvious moments where the suspense could have been much greater but it almost seemed rushed.  The movie ended and I kept thinking... huh???  thats it?  It had so much potential and fell so short.Bad bad movie.  Not worth renting.   "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Reading like a diary instead of a story, this third movie of man versus maneaters has a lot of interesting events, but no real plot. With it moving as quickly as it does, by the end we are still waiting for something to happen. Sure several unimportant people get eaten in various ways, and we get to see Tea Leoni dig into a pile of dino dung, but nothing original happens and the big beasts are getting a little boring. What could have made this film better? Trashing the idea before any money was spent.*1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"No surprise it was the worst of the three.","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It seems the Jurassic Park series progressed downward as the sequels came. The first Jurassic Park, was an incredible masterpiece and my favorite movie.  The second film, not counting the terrible job of Book to Movie Conversion, was at least, as movies go, entertaining.  The last installment had nothing at all to offer viewers.  The non-stop action led to little, if any character development.  I was pleased that the movie only lasted One Hour and Thirty Minutes.  As I don't know if I could have handled more of that tripe. "},{"Title":"Another franchise being killed by awful sequels...","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I'm sorry, I can't put it any other way, but- this movie is RIDICULOUS. The only reason I gave it three points in my vote rather than only one is a) the dinosaurs, they're really great, especially the fight scene between dinosaur and dinosaur (no spoilers here...) and b) I've had a really great time watching it, making fun of it, laughing at it, and tearing it apart with my best friend. I mean, I laughed more in that movie than I did in Germany's comedy production of the year. The plot is non-existent, the dialogue defies description (what would you talk about in life-threatening situations? Yep, losing weight and the weather) and they could not have done a worse job fitting the action scenes together to form a movie. In addition, the ever-so-popular American family values are emphasized to the point of absurdity (My son! I love you! Oh, big carnivorous beast standing in the background- no matter! My SON!!)The predictability of this movie starts with the opening credits where my friend and I just sat grinning at each other, anticipating the claw that would make the III. I loved Jurassic Park and boykotted The Lost World because I was convinced any sequels would ruin the first one. I watched this third one for fun (I swear, whenever I wasn't clawing at the seat or looking away because the eating scenes seem to be getting progressively gorier to make up for progressively bad plot, I was laughing my head off). Now I finally did watch Lost World, and while it was not as good as the first one, compared to this third one it's a cinematic masterpiece. And finally, before I go on to individual scenes, I have to say everything in this movie seems to be recycled from the prequels. Their flight over the island (even the music is the same!), their entering the building, overgrown with vines, the river raft scene is from JP1's novel, as is the pterodactyl scene, and so on and so on...they even stole something from Lord of the Flies. And I hear that after JP3's success, JP4 is already a sure thing. I don't know whether to laugh or cry about this one...-SPOILER WARNING-Some of my favorites from JP3 Tea Leoni's getting out of the plane on an island that's known to be dinosaur-infested, whipping out a MEGAPHONE, and starting to yell around. I'm paraphrasing a little here Dr. Grant doesn't think that's a good idea. WHAT? SHUT UP!! WHAAT? AM I TOO LOUD?!?!?! Ooops, a dinosaur! Now where did he come from? The raptor scene has already been commented by another user- it's just plain ridiculous. Raptors bargaining with the humans- if you give us back our eggs, we won't eat you. Either they're supposed to be too intelligent or too stupid. Grant's scaring them away by calling for help doesn't help. And while we're at it, they barely escape the hungry raptor, run for their lives, and Grant- stops, gapes at it for sheer eternity and comments, Oh my God! It's calling for help!! Oh, great realism. I'm not sure whether I should view the cellphone scene as further evidence of the incredible stupidity of this movie or see it as one of the few ironic hints that this movie takes itself just about as seriously as we do. (the other one would be Grant hearing a raptor talk to him in his dream, which is genuinely funny). After seeing him hunt and eat dozens of people in TLW, I find it hard to believe that T-Rex is suddenly being displayed as a scavenger (which he probably was) in this one. Furthermore, why should he fight with the spinosaur then? If one's a hunter and the other's a scavenger, they're not rivaling species. There are many other examples abound- I hate to break it to you, but everything about this movie except the dinosaur special effects is garbage. "},{"Title":"Well, I liked the opening credits...","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even with a run-time of not quite an hour-and-a-half there are parts of this new film in the Speilberg/Crichton dinosaur franchise that drag.  Since a director can only crowd so many special effects into a film &#150; and this is wholly a special effects film &#150; the reason for the dullness is obvious.There is a story; but it is predictable and not as 'in-your-face scary' as the first two Jurassic Park films.  Maybe not so surprisingly, the scariest moments were when the audience was anticipating what might (or might not) happen instead of when it did (or did not) transpire.  The reason being is that we can create more terrifying images in our heads than all of the computer generated monsters that can be produced on the screen.Sam Neill reprises his role as Dr. Allen Grant and Laura Dern makes an all-too-brief appearance as her character of Dr. Ellie Sattler. Mr. Neill seems to be doing a pale imitation of an Indiana Jones type character &#150; without the strengths and charm of Indiana &#150; which seems like more of a script problem than an actor problem.Tea Leoni and William H. Macy are both very capable and able actors and they do what they can with the script they were presented with.  They deserve better material.The score was only thematically influenced by the master of film orchestration, John Williams &#150; but it was not written by him so it lacks that special something that he is able to impart in all the music he writes.The location photography was up to the standards set by the previous two Jurassic Park films and made up in many ways for the other missing elements of this film.I think I was more surprised by who did not die, or was not eaten, or otherwise deposed than by who survived.Immediately after the film was over I turned to my film-going companion and said, `I smell a sequel.'  It is probably already in the works.  "},{"Title":"Why even bother?","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is another one of those why bother? sequels.  Just like Jaws 3 and all those other tired sequels.  I guess publicists felt they can make money on a film that simply has Jurassic Park in the title.  After all, the last two were hits.  I deeply enjoyed the original and personally, I didn't like the sequel as much, yet I enjoyed it to a degree and didn't hate it as much as lots of audiences did.  But this third outing is total crap!At the same time, I can't say I was disappointed.  That's one positive note. How many good Number Threes do you ever see in the movies?  I liked Rocky 3, I liked Die Hard 3, but more often that not we're faced with those Enough already! sequels like Back to the Future 3 (I LOVED the original and can watch it over and over again).  It's bad enough that the initial sequels usually suck, but once they go for another try--they often fall flat on their faces.  And Positive Note # 2?  It was short!  Sure, when you watch a good movie, you don't want it to end, but after sitting through the slow, 3-hour torture of Pearl Harbor I'm just grateful I got it over with in approximately 90 minutes.I felt the addition of William H. Macy (an actor I deeply admire) to the cast would at least make this sequel halfway decent.  Well, I was wrong. Macy tried his best, but his character is so embarrassing and one-dimensional.  Tea Leoni plays his ex-wife, and her job is pretty much to...annoy the hell out of the audience with high-pitch screams.  In every scary movie there's always that one female character who gets terrified and screams at everything that crosses her path--whether it's a false alarm or not.  Well, that sums up Leoni's character, and she hams it up to the fullest.  Sam Neill (about the only character reprised from the original) is the only one we really give a damn about.  And even the prestigious Australian actor seems subdued and bored in his performance.  Yet he's about the one who gives this lifeless actioner a little bit of fuel.The action and terror scenes are totally cliched.  You'd have to be either under ten years old or the most timid being on Earth to receive a jolt from these cheap thrills.  The plot is very thin, and there is nothing you wouldn't expect.  Dinosaurs approach, people run away.  Minor characters get eaten.  The black man has to die first.  I guess without Spielberg in the director's chair we can feel free to inject all the cliches we want.  The lighting is dull and uninteresting.  There aren't any good scenic shots, like Spielberg gave us in the original.  The direction is completely formulaic.  About the only shot I admire is one where Leoni is hanging on a tree by her feet and a dinosaur jumps up and tries to snap at her.  That was, I think, the only attempt at true suspense.The characters (except for Neill) are so flat and unoriginal (and somewhat annoying) that you're cheering for the dinosaurs!!!  You want those monsters to devour these morons so this movie can finally be over and done with!!!If you're expecting another lame sequel--you guessed right!  Please save your money!  This is a walk in the park you shouldn't take.My score  3 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Trainwreck","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sorry if it took me a while to catch up with this one, I was out in California for the week. And now, we are on&#x85;&#x85; to thisIf you haven't seen my other Jurassic Park reviews, I like the first, I find the second hilarious and I find the third one....WHAT THE HECK HAPPENED!! How, HOW was this even made!. This is one of those movies that is impressively bad. And its not even funny bad, its just a horrible experience to have to sit through. So now I will explain this experience to you now.First lets start off with the characters, all of the characters from the previous movies are now just bland and generic hero characters, and the new characters are just unbearable at times with how idiotic they are. Oh, and the acting is also terrible.The effects were actually good at first but then later on they also messed that up by making the dinosaurs seem like stretchy rubber action figures. I do appreciate that they did use practical effects a number of times. It doesn't make up for the terrible characters but its a plus.Some of the events and scenarios don't even make sense. Like when one of the dinosaurs ate one of the characters phones (don't ask) and when the dinosaur comes back when they don't notice him (even though he is a dinosaur, which means when he steps he creates vibrations and they didn't even notice tha- I MEAN SERIOUSLY!!) and they finally notice him because the phone starts ringing in his stomach&#x85;.. There are many other nonsensical moments in the movie I could make fun of but if we did that we would be here for days.Just&#x85;.Just stay far away from this movie. And I have to unfortunately have since I bought the Jurassic Park trilogy not knowing about 2 and 3, which means I get to have the really good movie along with the other two massive train-wrecks. Yay&#x85;.Final Score 3/10 "}{"Title":"Reverse Darwinism - survival of the most idiotic.","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 8 years after the horrors of Jurassic Park, we find Dr. Alan Grant happy with his lot, nothing on Earth could coax him back on to one of the InGen Islands. Trouble is is that Paul and Amanda Kirby, in the search for their missing son, get him to Isla Sorna without his knowing anything about it, and sure enough, dinosaurs are set to rule their evolved world once more.Clocking in at just about 83 minutes in actuality, you sense that director Joe Johnston (Jumanji) knew he had to get in quickly, do his job, and get the hell out of Dodge ASAP. Sure enough, JP3 feels like (is) a quick coin in, the formula is straight up simple from the executive desks, dump a load of annoying characters on an island and see if they can survive being chomped on by dinosaurs. That the makers managed to get Sam Neil and William H. Macy on board with such a turgid script, is nothing short of amazing. Perhaps just as Neil's character is duped in the film, so shall it be in real life...Still it's no abomination by any stretch of the imagination. Johnston, realising that the audience wants dino action, wastes no time in letting the critters loose on our motley crew. Which in spite of the child friendly nature of the piece (think more chase movie adventure than monster peril) is all rather spiffing and enjoyable. You may find yourself hoping the irritable Ta Leoni gets eaten, and you may find yourself laughing at some of Alessandro Nivola's scenes when you are not meant to (is that a Superman homage?), but at least it's fun enough to get away with the bad points. Thanks in the main to the creatures and the relatively short running time. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park III","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most sequels never seem to live up to the original film, and Jurassic Park III is no exception. The film pretty much rips off from the first film, but they add some new dinosaurs to movie including the deadly Spinenosaurus; the Raptors start showing signs of intelligence. The film is about a boy and his brother wave boarding, one day, on the outskirts of a deserted island. Unfortunately, the boat crashes, and the boy is forced to fend for himself. However, it seems that the island that the boy is stranded on is actually another Jurassic Park that was secretly under development a few years ago. It's now up to the paleontoligist from the original film to go to this island and save this young man before it's too late. The movie fails to offer anything original to the series except for a few new dinosaurs. Overall, I still think fans of the series will still find some things good about this film but don't expect too much out of it. "},{"Title":"Sucks, but better looking Ceratosaurus","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 was a waste of time in the beginning, the spinosaurus kill the t-Rex to easy, when the t-Rex have the spino's neck it would kill it off, it irreversible, and somehow the spino did, the fans of Jurassic park agreed it that is fake how the spino got out of the t-Rex's death bite. i hope that Jurassic park IV (4) doesn't do this, Jurassic park 3 seems like a rip-off, if i was directing it it'll base on science dinosaur theory. one other dinosaur i like was the ceratosaurus, i like the face part and while he turn away from the viewers, his upper legs (the part that attach to his hip), it reminded me of the V-Rex in Peter Jackson's King Kong, how the v-Rex legs is kind of like the ceratosaurus in Jurassic park 3. i hope that Jurassic park 4 has all the dinosaur in it from Jurassic park 1 through 3 and some new dinosaurs of course. "},{"Title":"Had some good moments, but the worst of the 3.","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As usual, the dinosaurs are impressive, making the film worth seeing. However, this movie is more like The 3 Stooges Meets Jurassic Park. I couldn't stand Tea Leoni's character and kept hoping she would get eaten by a dinosaur. Unfortunately, my hope was in vain as this film followed the Disney-style adventure to an absolute T. There was no way the child was going to come to harm, nor his parents. It was very much like The Lost World in that you knew Spielberg would never allow harm to come to children. It really detracted from the suspense element. As soon as you saw who was in the plane on the way to the island, you could easily predict who would get eaten and who would make it off the island.Back to Tea Leoni. What was she thinking??? Or perhaps I should say, what was the director thinking? What a lame female lead! At least with Julianne Moore and Laura Dern, the women showed an ounce of competence! Teo Leoni acts not like she is on a dinosaur island, but more like she has just come across Scooby Doo. Terrible, just terrible. I fully appreciate comedic moments in suspenseful films to relieve some of the tension, however this movie had very few actual suspenseful moments and the comedic moments were more worth of an Ernest movie.Why does Spielberg insist on having children as the action heroes? Jurassic Park was a very exciting movie, but then he had to go and introduce the Wonder Twins in The Lost World. Killing a raptor by a parallel bars routine?????? It's the same rubbish in this movie, a 12-year old survives for 8 weeks on the island whilst mercenaries don't last 5 minutes. It's the same reason The Temple of Doom was the worst of the Indiana Jones and Phantom Menace was the worst of the Star Wars movies. Just leave the kids at home!! There is no reason to make them all into super-heroes, it just detracts from the adventure and the suspense.Sam Neill, as usual, was excellent. Other than the dinosaurs, he is the one holding this picture together. I just can't help feeling disappointed for what could have been a great movie. The dinosaurs were incredibly well done, and there were a lot of them. It's just the acting, plot, and general story which were lacking. And what was the editor thinking including those terribly unrealistic para-sailing shots at the beginning???? There are some good distance shots, but then the close-ups are so obviously shot on a set that I cannot believe they let that pass. Sloppy, just sloppy. To think they could bring dinosaurs to life in a realistic manner but then leave in shots that look like they come from a 1970's TV adventure is just ludicrous.5/10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first better than the second","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 was not as good as the first and much better than the second. It was scarier and more thrilling than the other two. The dinosaurs were more verocios and are much faster. the dino's look more real than ever. I prefer the T-Rex but the Spinosaurus is a good substitute. The movie was a tad short and the ending could have been better but hey this is a summer release and is well worth seeing. Sam Neil made this movie happen and Tea and Macy made the jokes in this film. Great casting but Laura Dern should have had a much bigger role than she did. She was the hero in this film. I think this movie will do better than the second in the box office. I gave this film a 9 out of 10 and give it two thumbs up. Rumors that there( might be a fourth)in the Jurassic Park Series. "},{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"16 December 2011","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third of the Jurassic Park franchise, 'Jurassic Park III' is Great Fun. It works as an entertainer & as an adventure. It grabs your attention from the beginning & wonderfully manages to maintain it's momentum till it culminates. 'Jurassic Park III' Synopsis A decidedly odd couple with ulterior motives convince Dr. Alan Grant to go to Isla Sorna (the second InGen dinosaur lab.), resulting in an unexpected landing...and unexpected new inhabitants on the island.'Jurassic Park III' isn't as amazing as compared to it's predecessors, but yet it packs in solid entertainment. Also, the film is quite short in terms of length, which also works on it's advantage. It never drags or lags. Peter Buchman, Alexander Payne & Jim Taylor's Screenplay is throughly entertaining & adventurous. Joe Johnston's Direction, is well-balanced. Cinematography is stunning. Editing is good. Graphics are brilliant. Performance-Wise Sam Neill is good. William H. Macy is in form, as always. Ta Leoni is impressive. Alessandro Nivola leaves a mark. Trevor Morgan is first-rate. Others lend good support. On the whole, 'Jurassic Park III' is a complete entertainer. Go for this adventure! "},{"Title":"Amazing!!!!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to put my neck out and say this is the best film of the series. When watching the 1st two films i was'nt interested in the characters, it was all about the dinosaurs. JP3 satisfies in spades. Not only is there a kick ass dino fight but there are now flying dinosaurs...what more do you want in a film!!! I can watch this film over and over and still have a big grin on me face. But this is just my opinion!! "},{"Title":"Great, I loved it.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to go see this movie opening and I could not wait to see it.  I waited four years for the both the sequels.  The first is my favorite movie of all time.  I mean it was a fantastic movie.  I felt the second was also good, but a lot of people didn't like it.  The third was awesome.  I still liked the first better, but I felt it was good.  I liked it about as much as the second.  Almost equal.  What can I say I gave all 3 of Jurassic Park movies 10 out of 10.  The are ultimately my favorite trilogy movies along with Star Wars.  If you want to see a good movie you should definitely see this one. "},{"Title":"Best Since The First!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OH MY GOD! Why wasn't The Lost World as good as this. Out of the three Jurassic Parks I would have to say that this was even better than The Lost World but still not as good as Jurassic Park. Good Heavens No! And what makes this better than the second one is that it has none of that stupid Chaos Theory as explained by Ian Malcolm. It is also far more action packed than the second one. And probably the first one. Infact why wasn't the first one as action packed as this one. Although I have to admit that when I saw Jurassic Park at the movies in 1993 I missed half of it because I got so scared when someone was killed that I put my hands over my eyes. Well I was only 11 years old then. But what I am saying is that this is one damn good movie. Although it will never be as good as the first one in almost every way possible. To me it does beat the first one in action. I give this a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Very, very entertaining, ending is just a little lame!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie twice thats how much I like the JP series. Only thing I was dissapointed in was the ending. It wasn't bad but there could have been the now classic dinosaur ending and there wasn't one. Would have been cool to see a confrontation between the marines and Spinosauras in the end. Maybe it would have raised the level of violence though. If they make one more I hope they either go to the first island or at least explain in movie timelines why they haven't needed to visit he dinos on the island.Anyway like I said its very entertaining and I recommend it to families. My kids loved it.Gary "}{"Title":"The best action film of the summer of 2001 so far","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SOME SPOILERSIt's been a long while since I've seen a movie that made me clench my teeth, squint my eyes, and grasp on to the chair arms tightly. Since 1992, to be exact, when the first Jurassic Park came out. When the sequel came out several years later, I was in line. And I was swiftly and painfully disappointed. However, I did enjoy it as one of those so-bad-it's-funny sort of movies. Now comes JPIII, a film that, when I heard that it was in production, I scoffed and swore I'd never go. But, when many critics approved of it, I thought that it wouldn't hurt to go see a matinee.And that's exactly what it was worth. It's a Saturday matinee. It's a Saturday, and I did see the matinee show at 500 PM. And it was as fun as any movie I've seen in a long time. There were problems. The exposition was convoluted and difficult to fully understand (how did Mr. Kirby (Bill Macy) charter a flight anyways? Who were all those supporting characters who bought it so quickly? Why are Sam Neill and Laura Dern divorced? Why the heck are there dinosaurs we never saw in the second movie, and, better yet, why are they always running into them?). Suspense, however, is built very well. Maybe not as well as the first movie, but still quite well. The two new dinosaurs are the Spinosaurus Aegypticus (sounds made up to me) and the Pterodactyl. Both are awesome sights, especially the spinosaur. The scene where they find pterodactyls is the most exciting in the film. I'm glad to see Sam Neill back. Even more glad to see Jeff Goldblum gone (his career is so in the toilet it's not even funny; there's a great jab at his annoying character in this film). Glad to see that Laura Dern has a reduced role (kind of wish they had kept her out all together; her cameo, and the way she comes back later in the picture, felt incomplete and silly). Bill Macy and Tea Leoni are great supporting characters. Trevor Morgan is good as their son, even if it is unbelievable that he could have survived there for two months when the dinos are so darn intelligent (he kind of has a Newt (Aliens) thing going for him). The one really awful character/actor is Alessandro Nivola as Billy, a grad student who accompanies his teacher (Neill) on the expedition. He's nothing but a mimbo (cf. Seinfeld). He can't act and his character is annoying. I nearly clapped when I thought he was pterodactyl food, but his deus ex machina reappearance in the end dropped this film down a notch in my mind. If he returns in the sequel, I probably won't go. All in all, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Way better then 2","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went and saw it expecting it to be a bad movie as the 2nd one sucked and Steven Spielberg wasn't directing 3 so I was like oh it's jurassic park I have to see it but it isn't going to be good.  Well I was way wrong about that in the fact that it is by far better then 2 but still not as good as the first one but then very few movies are as good as the first.  The acting in this movie was far more belivable then 2 and the Special effects were awsome  If you like Dino movies then this is deffenitly for you and if you say I don't want to watch it because 2 sucked then go watch it and you will be supprised it's very good could be a little longer though.  I thought it was just a tad to short running a little over 90 minutes but well worth the 90 minutes Alan Grant(Sam Neil) Dose a awsome job at acting once again.  Well GO WATCH IT IT IS REALLY REALLY GOOD7/10 "},{"Title":"Non-stop action!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** First, don't read this if you haven't seen it. What can I say? JP lll is going to get a 9 or better from me just because I love the series. Actually, it deserves it. A few minutes into the film and it's non-stop action. If you have a date prepare to have your hand crushed from fear if they scare easily! Bringing Sam back for JP lll had me hooked. He's a stud actor and carried the film. Dern makes a small appearance. Open for a JP lV! But how??? Positives The Spinosaurus is awesome and powerful. Who else could kick a T-Rex's butt??? The Kirbys all acted well. The animation of the birds was great! New dinosaurs..cool!  Hang-gliding over the island and fog..oh ya! Sam....period! Dern's curly hair looked great on her. Great non-stop action. Raptors were great as usual. Mystery. A bird cage! Negatives Too short! Way too short! 92 minutes for $15.00!! Actually less on my watch! C'mon!! Expensive date! This could've gone 2+hrs easily. Why rush it? Dern's marriage to a mystery man? Weak, rapid, stupid ending! T-rex pee..c'mon, do something with that at least! Billy surviving..please! He was bird food! A little blurry on the big screen in my opinion. Unless you have a date and want to be close, see the matinee and save a few bucks, just because it's short...still worth the cash no matter how you dice it! FLAMIO "},{"Title":"GREAT FLICK!  I WANTED MORE!!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie was wonderful.  I enjoyed the fact that the movie was too drawn out...it had a different look and feel, yet it was very good.  At the end of the film...it didn't leave you hanging...it left you wanting more of the film.  That is practically the only flaw in the film...it should have been 15-20 minutes longer.  This is probably why it got such good reviews...it didn't overstay its welcome.With talks of a 4th installment...I can't wait.Jurassic Park III has a good story, interesting characters, and a few good scares.  A nice treat for the summer for fans.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good second sequel","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here is the sequel that I've been dying to see all year. I'm a huge Jurassic Park fan. I loved the first two movies in the series, and now comes the third movie Jurassic Park III. I wasn't sure that I would like this one as much as the first two films since Steven Spielberg decided not to return as director (he does return as executive producer). But to my astonishing surprise, I really did enjoy this second sequel to the big box-office smash from 1993. It's not quite as good as Jurassic Park and just a step down from The Lost World. Jurassic Park III is a movie that is so much fun that I didn't particularly care if the story was weak (which it is). I would have to say the storyline of Jurassic Park III is weaker by comparison to the first two films. However, when I go to see a Jurassic Park movie I go to see it for two reasons action scenes and special effects. And Jurassic Park III delivers on both accounts big time. Sam Neill returns as Dr. Alan Grant, the dinosaur expert from the first film who vows that nothing could persuade him to return to that island populated by genetically engineered dinosaurs. But one day an estranged couple (William H. Macy and Tea Leoni) ask him to be their guide in a plane trip over the dinosaur island Isla Sorna (where most of the events in The Lost World took place). Then things don't go exactly as planned. The plane crashes on the island, and now Grant, the couple, and a few others spent most of the time running from dinosaurs. The couple apparently hide a secret from Dr. Grant. The main reason why they're traveling to Isla Sorna is that their young son (Chicago native Trevor Morgan, who you might remember from the movies The Sixth Sense and The Patriot) gets trapped on the island after his parasail crashes, and they're trying to rescue him. Sure this premise is ridiculous, and there is quite a bit of stupidity throughout. But hey, this is a summer B-movie that is entertaining from start to finish. The performances are nothing special, but it's fun to watch these actors running from dinosaurs. It's nice to see Neill back in what has got to be by now his most famous role, and also encoring from the first film is Laura Dern, who turns up in a cameo as Dr. Ellie Sattler. But obviously the real stars of the movie are the great special effects. These dinosaur effects are super, no doubt about it. The T-rexes and the raptors are back along with a couple of new dinosaurs, which  includes the huge Spinosaurus and the flying Pteranodons. They steal the movie, as they did in the first two outings. The director of this outing is Joe Johnston, who specializes in special effects pictures (Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, Jumanji) and even though it may not be as good as Spielberg's two JP movies, he does an effective job nevertheless. The thing that surprised me the most about Jurassic Park III was it's short running time (92 minutes). The first two movies ran about 2 hours long. That didn't bother me at all. In fact, it was kind of nice to see a short movie for a change. So many movies nowadays run overlong and they don't need to be. Here is a film that's just good fun. And at least it's great to see that this Jurassic Park series hasn't disintegrated as badly as the Jaws movies did. *** (out of four) "},{"Title":"One of the best summer blockbusters so far!!!Fantastic!!!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having the first JP films and loved them, my expectations for the 3rd were very high, and i am pleased to say I was not dissapointed.It had elements from both of the previous films while adding a few new, and very good touches, for example the dinos looking as real as ever, the intelligence of the raptors and the new dinosaur, Spinosaurus which probably was one of the best i've seen in the series.The characters were well written by making them act like humans really would in a situation like this, no Rambo gun-ho style take on the world action here!!The actors and actresses chosen were fantastic (it was excellent to see Sam Neill reprising his role as Dr Grant!)I gave the film 9/10, I would have awarded it 10 if it wasn't for the daft ending.One of the best summer blockbusters so far!!!Fantastic!!! "},{"Title":"Who wants smart Stuff in a movie with Dinosaurs and Humans!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Go  into this movie without any critical thought , and you will love it. People are saying   Bad script , No character development . Who needs that in a movie with Dinosaurs and People! Non- Stop Action is what you get. The movie is better than The Lost World  but not as good as the first Jurassic Park. It might feel a bit short though. Go into this movie without a brain and you will like it.  The best summer blockbuster so far.9/10 "},{"Title":"why..Why..WHY?","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, sure, expectations were high for this movie. Sure, third movies tend to be sub-par. I just can't get over this movie. What we have here, ladies and gents, is what you can classify as The BATMAN plague. You have a first film that was excellent. It was well-rounded, and more-or-less followed up to the expectations built around it. It is followed by a sequel that is not as good as the first, but thats okay. It was a worthy sequel, which followed up a the first film in a decent way. Then the #3 comes out. A new director steps in, while the old director simply produces. The plot is far too thin, the film is way too short, and all the while the movie seems to depend too much on crammed-together eye candy. They are now saying that they will make a JP4 if JP3 makes what they think it will make. Mark my words, this trend will continue. We will have a fourth film in which 30 minute cartoons have thicker plots. That being said, let me focus on a few gripes. As mentioned, the film is way too short, and there seemed to be no climax to the film at all. Worst of all THE T-REX IS BARELY THERE. Not even that, the T-Rex got demolished in what little screen time he had. That is not supposed to happen to the T-Rex! The T-Rex is a Jurassic Park staple! Oh well...over all, this film was a disappointment, no matter what expectations I may have had.   "},{"Title":"Better Than I Thought!","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 is a great movie, better than I thought it would be. The new dinosaurs are amazing. This time around, Alan Grant heads to Isla Sorna. He was originally told by a family(Kirby) that they needed him as an expert. But when they land, Grant and his sidekick, Billy are told they were needed because the Kirby's son is lost. Now they must evade the new, evil dinosaurs to head to safety without being eaten by the dinosaurs. As I said before, the dinosaurs are better. I noticed that they all have the same red stripes on their body. I liked the dinosaur birds the most. The one thing that did bother me is the length. The time does not even surpass an hour and a half. That means the story was not explained well as it should've been. The music is better than the last film. More of William's original themes can be heard throughout the movie. Don Davis added more great music. Everything else regarding this movie is pretty darn good. Overall, this is not for younger children. I rate this movie 9/10. "},{"Title":"Very underrated and a very classic adventure film","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed this one much more then the previous two. This third installation doesn't waste time in explanations and dinosaur making of innuendos, it doesn't pretend to be something special, doesn't show exact bioengineering science in work and doesn't want to be educative. This seemingly fools many people to think that there is nothing special or something never seen in this movie.The fact is that there is nearly perfect adventure with good to great cast (Neill) and unrivaled CGI. Obviously the CGI people learned well from previous films of what and how to do it, so you can enjoy the best dinosaur CGI yet (2003), and there are not seconds but minutes of those prehistoric animals lurking and upsetting the crew as they venture through the island.The story is well, adventure like, they got on the island, that is full of dino-beasts so they try to survive and escape them. Yes, that's all, it's that simple, so Crichton addicted storyhounds may leave, but the rest of us stays and enjoys the adventure.I give it 9/10 for the year of 2003. "}{"Title":"A GREAT movie....","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That's right, I said it! It's the perfect length, great action, and great acting all around. Joe Johnston, created something with great atmosphere, and clicked a great chemistry between all of the actors. I agree somewhat that the movie lacks in the awe that was created by the first one, but that's just a given. It is a sequel, and most due lack that charm. But this is not a movie for awe, this is an adventure story. It's not about the science behind creating dinosuars, and the Oh my god, they have recreated dinosuars. That part of Jurassic Park is gone. The series is becoming one where you go to the movie, trying to pick out who's going to get eaten. I for one like that. Jurassic Park 3 is a FUN movie. It gives us a new take on the series, with a different tone, and atmosphere. I brings us the Spinosaurus. The new coll bad mother in town. And I am set, and willing(with some fear), to back to the park once again. Until then, enjoy the Jurassic Park trilogy. And for all the haters, and people, go watch the Godfather or something. SCORE 8.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Good Sequel","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The expectations for this movie were high - as a big fan of Jurassic Park, and one who thought that The Lost World was something of a disappointment, I was really looking for this movie to deliver. Thankfully, it does.It's fun, for one thing. We get a Spinosaurus, Pterodactyls, Raptors, and even the odd T-Rex and a few other familiar favourites. The story is intelligent whilst still delivering the dino-attack set pieces the audience is looking for, and the acting is good, on the whole. Sam Neill gets a welcome return to the franchise as Alan Grant ( far better than Jeff Goldblum as the tiresome Ian Malcolm ), with support from William H Macy, Tea Leoni and Alessandro Nivola. Of the supporting cast, Macy steals the show as the out-of-his-depth Kirby.The novelty value of Jurassic Park's amazing special effects has worn off by now, so the film must rely more on a decent script and good direction to wow audiences. This time, the script gives an intelligent reason for the characters heading out to Isla Sorna ( Site B from The Lost World ), provides some set-pieces which are a little different to those from the previous films, and Joe Johnston does a fine job in the director's chair. I have only one minor complaint about the film, in fact - and this is the fact that the Raptors return, a species of dinosaur I've never found particularly interesting. Nevertheless, at least the script develops them somewhat, and gives them a little more character.Ultimately, then, a good summer blockbuster, a far better sequel to Jurassic Park than The Lost World was, and a far more conventional JP film than many of the internet-spread rumours would have you believe... "},{"Title":"Jurassic Crap.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Useless entry in the Jurassic Park series lacks not only the showmanship, characterization and excitement of it's predecessors (The original Jurassic Park and it's fun and worthy sequel The Lost World) but it's not even as good as the bloated mess that that followed it (Jurassic World). Jurassic Park 3 earns it's reputation ten fold as one of the most useless, unnecessary sequels ever made and I can see why it almost ended the series. The acting is terrible, the setting does not even look like the Site B of the last film (The Lost World) and the story is so thin that it's does not even warrant the 90 minute run time which is way to short for a Jurassic Park film. When a SyFy movie of the week has better production values and better acting, you know you have a really bad movie on your hands.Avoid. Stick with Jurassic Park and The Lost World. Even Jurassic World was better than this( But only worth a rental) "},{"Title":"Shame to the Jurassic Park franchise","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film takes place on Isla Sorna, the island from the second film, after a divorced couple tricks Dr. Alan Grant into helping them find their son. It is the only film in the series that was neither directed by Steven Spielberg nor based on a book by Michael Crichton, though numerous scenes in the film were ultimately taken from Crichton's novels.The characters in this film are hard to sympathize with. They are highly annoying and as cruel as it sounds I wished they all got ate. The special effects are inconsistent, especially in the T-Rex versus Spinosaur scene. Blood reappears, disappears, etc. and there are many scientific inaccuracies and even some scenes that are literally impossible like a cell phone being able to be heard from MANY yards away in a spinosaur's stomach. This is among hundreds of problems that the movie has that I won't list here due to not having enough space.I do not recommend this film and I can only hope that JP4 is better. "},{"Title":"Caused a second extinction of the dinosaurs","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" An embarrassment to the franchise. It's hard to decide where to even start with this extinction level disaster.Sam Neil, as JP1 veteran Dr. Grant, tries, but has no script to work with. William H. Macy, usually able to make the most out of any role, has a character that appears to have been written by a 5 year old. Tea Leoni is, well, Tea Leoni.Laura Dern, as Elly, is involved, but relegated to (literally) a phone-in role. No, I'm not making that up. Some bozo actually thought having Elly and Grant discuss things over cell phones would be more exciting than having Elly present on the island for the action. Well, this brilliant maneuver did set up a scintillating scene where a phone falls in the water. Wow, talk about suspense. Other vets from the first two films wisely said thanks, but no thanks to signing on.Spielberg is now gone, and it shows. The script for this junk would have been laughed at by him, probably. A couple of people hire Grant to assist them, as they fly into a dino-infested island (yeah, another one, folks). Bodies start piling up immediately, as smart raptors wander around croaking bad guys. Ugh. It reminded me of the later Godzilla comedies, when the big serpent started knowing which human were good, and which were bad. The raptors follow suit. No, really.Blood, guts, people running around, some getting killed in a forest. It all looks like one of those Sci-Fi channel low budget quickies. But forget about a coherent story. In one scene, Grant et al inspect a giant bird cage with giant bird droppings. That's one of the high points, believe it or not.Speaking of dino droppings, that's the best way to summarize this film, which has no business being given the Jurassic Park name in its title. "},{"Title":"Crash landing on the island of Jurassic creatures large and small.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Are you ready? This is a modest sequel to the original blockbuster dino thriller. This hackneyed story is an improvement over part two. The newest assortment of creatures are what fill the seats anyway. The special effects are tremendous. This is a beautiful movie to watch.An estranged couple from Oklahoma(William H. Macy and Tea Leoni) use false pretenses to persuade the noted Dr. Alan Grant(Sam Neil)to help search and find their young son(Trevor Morgan). My favorite scenes are the plane crash and watching Macy's character fumble for change to operate a candy machine in a deserted lab.Also in the cast are Michael Jeter, Laura Dern and Alessandro Nivola. Dinosaur fans will be greatly pleased. Macy is near perfection. Leoni is extra easy on the eyes. Don't wait to rent, you owe it to yourself to see it on the wide screen and do your part in this blockbuster summer. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  IGNORE all the bad reviews you read of this movie.  If you like dinosaurs at ALL, even just a little bit, you will love this installment in the Jurassic Park saga!  The actors were all excellent and believable.  The real stars this time, again, were the dinosaurs. The scenes with the raptors were top notch! I have a few wishes for the film though which could only add to its greatness in very small ways  Could have been a little longer,  could have seen the stunning Laura Dern more,  more scenes with the spinosaurus. Thats all.  Other than that, this movie was absolutely enjoyable every minute I watched it! "},{"Title":"Not horrible but way below average.","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bob the film Guy I am just going to get out of the way what I think is good about this movie. The developments with Grant's character is really good, the CGI occasionally looked impressive, one or two of the animatronics looked good, the action sequence with the flying pteranodons is great, maybe one or two jokes work... and that is it. To be completely honest this is a movie that I grew up with but now I almost completely hate it. It's lazy, it doesn't take much risks (with the story/characters) and the risks that are taken are insulting, nothing really Happens, yet there is a lot to talk about. It's a rehashed story with uninteresting characters. It can be described as a perfect train-wreck. My first main issue is that the story and characters are lazily written. The basic story is a rescue mission that runs for 90 minutes. It's a bad sign when a movie has such a sickeningly simple story, underdeveloped characters and 3 writers. It could have worked as it's own individual movie but not as a Jurassic Park movie. It took the B-movie route like the Jaws series and didn't care about continuing the story thus making the film feel like a dumb special effect cash cow. The rest of the characters are forgettable, expendable, annoying and pointless. There is even an attempt to make you feel sorry for one character after he supposedly dies. This doesn't work because we aren't given much detail about the character or what his personality is like. Suddenly, he is brought back from the dead... what was the point? A lot of people who do like this movie compare it the first two saying, The other two took themselves too seriously and this was some good B-movie fun! The first two were so good because of their themes and creative ideas and this one just doesn't care and goes for goofy rental action movie. It borrows so much imagery and plot devices from the first two and it's painful. It isn't horrible as a movie, I just can't enjoy it. 4/10Ciaran's Review Jurassic Park 3 almost ruined the entire Jurassic Park series for me. How? Well the movie was just cheap, with a pathetic excuse for a story and a wide range of 'new' dinosaurs to lure audiences in. I believe that after about 30 minutes or so the movie knew the story was fading and so multiple references are made referring back to the original film. The CGI is decent but not brilliant, Grant's character development is good and some jokes are funny- but the movie is ruined by dumb action scenes. Whenever i ask someone how they would rate all the Jurassic Park movies usually JP3 comes in with the second highest rating- this always disgusts me. Many people say JP3 is better because it contains more dinosaurs and has better action scenes... People like Spinosaurus over T-Rex rampaging through San Diego...Ladies and Gentlemen the world has gone mad. As i said before i despise this movie as it almost ruined the previous two Jurassic Park films. Jurassic Park 3 in my opinion is a sin on the dinosaur movie community. (Although it isn't as bad as Age of Dinosaurs) 3/10 "},{"Title":"Worthy sequel","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III attracted a lot of backlash, didn't it? Maybe it was that Spielberg handed the franchise over to his friend Joe Johnston who admittedly seems less confident than Spielberg does, therefore taking a flatter, more risk-free approach to directing the action sequences than Spielberg does. To his credit however Johnston keeps the film moving at a quick pace and it is never boring which is more than can be said for The Lost World Jurassic Park, a film with spectacular and enjoyable action scenes and numerous scenes in between that fell flat.The script for Jurassic Park III was written by the team behind Election, Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor, who polished and built upon a script by rookie writer Peter Buchman (who has recently written for Soderbergh's Guerrila). As you might expect from this writing team and without a source novel to draw from the plot devices leading into the action scenes frequently seem a bit, well... retarded (especially a scene late in the film involving Raptors and a 'challenge'). Then again, the humor, dialogue, and opening scenes of the film leading into the action-packed second half greatly benefit from this writing team and improve drastically on The Lost World Jurassic Park. I also don't look for realism in chase movies involving dinosaurs, I look for good adventure atmosphere and lots of action.Johnston does a good job as director, but the film could have been better under more experienced and confident supervision. While in the first two movies Spielberg would create tension and 'wow' moments through expert guiding of the camera during action scenes Johnston's film is more straightforward and safe. The cinematography here is a bit problematic from Shelley Johnson, who tries to expand on the Janusz Kaminski trademark of bright lighting and ends up with a film that sometimes looks a little like a soap opera. Don Davis' music is alternately good and horribly misguided, as well (his original score, I mean, not the recycled John Williams compositions).Still, despite all these flaws the film ends up being a good way to spend 92 minutes. It moves at a brisk pace, the action scenes work, and the characters are all fairly sympathetic. Once you get past the fact that Jurassic Park hit upon a rare sort of big budget movie magic that will never be replicated by any given sequel Jurassic Park III is just a good time at the movies.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm surprised by all the negative reviews this film has got on IMDb. I saw (and enjoyed) it in the cinema when it first came out, and last night I watched it again on TV, having forgotten parts of it from my first viewing 3 years ago. And once again I really enjoyed it.I don't really like Tea Leoni at the best of times, and I found her prominent presence in this movie to be one of it's minus points. It it was a real shame that Laura Dern's character wasn't given more to do instead (like actually accompany the expedition, rather than just sit at home in the States with her kid and answer the phone). But that aside, the other characters were fine - I even thought that the brat kid Erik was quite likable - and of course the dinosaurs were magnificently brought to life yet again. It was also nice to see some new dinosaurs like the spinosaurus, the ankylosaurus and (best of all) the flying pteranodons - focussing just on T-Rex and the raptors for a third time would have been too much of a good thing. The story was a bit predictable I guess, but that said, it wasn't supposed to be a documentary or tax the brain too much. It's pure entertainment and in that respect it delivers.As someone else pointed out, the ending was perhaps a bit weak - a skirmish between the U.S. Marines and the raptors would have made for an exciting climax to the film - but all in all I'd give this one 7 out of 10. If an extended version (click on alternate versions to see a list of deleted scenes) was to ever be released on DVD, I'd certainly buy it.  "}{"Title":"Quite good...","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a lot of cases like the Jurassic Park series, the films deteriorate as the franchise continues. However, the case with the Jurassic Park series is slightly different. The best film came first, followed by the worst (Lost World), and then the quite good.Although not as good as the original film, Jurassic Park III was better than I expected. Following the disaster that was Lost World, I anticipated this film as something to tide me by for a few hours, featuring dinosaurs, and people getting eaten by them while screaming loudly. And of course, these two things were featured. But there actually was quite a good plot, and acting. I was pleased to see Sam Neil return to the series (a factor which instantly made the film more pleasing). The cinematography created a dark atmosphere, and the story moved along at a fair pace.Overall, an good addition to the series.7/10 "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park III reflections","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I went to see Jurassic Park III at the movie theaters while my sister and her friends went to check out The Princess Diaries. I had no idea that I'd be waiting on them before we'd be leaving the movie cinema. The length of this film truly astonished me. I never counted on such a fast, lesser storied film, but that's what this is. It is about a group of people being chased by dinosaurs. That's really all you need, and the audience expects it so the filmmakers delivered. It's flawed definitely and I don't buy the ending no matter how stylishly the screenwriters rescued their characters from the certain doom of Raptors. The film has Neill(who is tricked by Macy and Leone who tell him that they desire to see the dinosaur island to sight see)assisting Macy and Leone in finding their missing son on the dinosaur island of Spielberg's Lost WorldJurassic Park. Nivola is his protg as they somehow try and survive on the island long enough just to find the boy. The film has some amazing action set pieces, specifically when the crew is trapped in the remaining half of their plane as it is being attacked while on top of a tree, a dazzlingly suspenseful chase through a pterodactyl birdcage, and being chased through a laboratory by raptors. The film moves at a brisk pace not focusing on character development, but instead honing in on the action and tense plot of walking through an island forest with no telling what dinosaur lurks around a tree or bush. I found the film hard to swallow, but the action scenes and visual effects deliver. It's short enough, and is so fast based you might not have time to dwell on specifics. I find the ending, when the family is closed within a circle surrounded by Raptors, a bit silly(not to mention the entire military landing on the island just because Neill calls former flame Dern, who must have unspeakable power in federal government), but this film makes up for the flaws with intense chases which almost never cease. I also thought the cast is too good for such an exercise, but this film certainly has an advantage with them being there. It's an entertaining quickie to just sit back and munch on. "},{"Title":"And They're Back Again...In The Wild","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like its prequels, this one is sheer entertainment as well. I prefer this one over the second film because unlike, the other two movies, this one has more humour. 'Jurassic Park III' brilliantly balances adventure, comedy, suspense and action. It's filmed in a beautiful exotic adventurous jungle. Unfortunately, Tyrannosaurus Rex has a supporting role but there are loads of 'new' predators in this one (great special effects too). Sam Neill reprises his role and leads the new cast that includes Ta Leoni and William H. Macy. There's a funny moment where Neill's Grant takes a dig at Goldblum's Malcolm. I've always liked Leoni's sense of comedy. She doesn't have to rely on contorted facial expressions or slapstick to be funny. Her approach is more subtle. She just has to say the dialogues a certain way and that'll do. With William H. Macy, you just have to look at him and that will get you laughing (I mean that in a good way). Poor Michael Jeter also gets killed here (like he did in 'The Green Mile' and 'King Kong'). Overall, I really enjoyed this one. In my opinion, people who trashed this need to chill. It's just fun, nothing more, nothing less. "},{"Title":"Fast and Fun","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was much better than Lost World.A They didn't attempt to outwrite Michael CrichtonB They included many elements missing form the original that appeared in the novel, helping to complete the original story.C People take movies way TOO seriously, and therefore can't enjoy them.Not only should movies be different from one another, offering a variety, but should especially do so among series films.  JP1 was the introduction, and statement on messing with nature. JP2 tried to be more sophisticated, further exploring that world. Failed. JP3 was a pure rollercoaster ride. Fun. "},{"Title":"Better than Lost World, but far off from the first","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hmm, wonder why Singapore gets the wide release a week before US? But anyway, no matter. It just isn't as good as the original, although it was slightly better than The Lost World (JP2). While watching JP3 I was praying please please, no T-Rex in the City .... that was simply too awful and tacky. Thank god they stuck the whole piece of action to Isla Sorna. We see new dinosaurs for the first time, such as the Spinosaurus, while revisiting familiar ones like the T-Rex and Velociraptors.A bit of spoiler T-Rex ain't the king here anymore.The overall mood of the film wasn't as dark as I thought it would be, and there were certain comic relief moments. No gymnastics though, thankfully (that was TACKY), but no exciting hold on to your edges chases either.At least they tied JP3 to some of the original characters in JP Alan Grant and Ellie, with a brief mention of John Hammond.Overall it was OK ... maybe cuz we're all jaded by raptors and t-rexes. "},{"Title":"It's a blast!!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For all those who left The Lost World Jurassic Park with a bad taste in their mouths, rest assured that Jurassic Park III is a dessert that makes up for the meal.Of course the orginal JP will always be recognized as the best.  When Speilberg tried the sequel (which was mediocre at best) 'The Lost World' was simply a ridiculous insult to the fans of 'Jurassic Park'.  Thankfully- that wrong has now been corrected.Jurassic Park III is not a Speilberg movie, it is not a Michael Chrichton story.  It is pure Hollywood, and for once, Hollywood did something right. Hollywood remembered that what made the first JP movie wasn't the real-ness of the dinosaurs- it was that the movie was scary!  Part III has some of the scariest moments of the trilogy.  It's a scary movie, and the writers brought the story back to the basics.  It's a resuce mission.  It's got scary dinosaurs, unlike it's predessessor 'the lost world' with the ridiculous T.Rex in San Diego.The new dinosaur of course is king of the movie.  The Spinosaurus scenes will genuinely scare you!  If you've read the Chrichton books, you will recognize that the writers of JP3 stole and adapted some scenes from both books for the film.  The movie is pure fun, and a relief that the 'jurassic park' name was not wasted again.  You will leave this movie satisfied, scared, and cheering!  "},{"Title":"What have you possibly got against this film?","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"26 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A good sequel to the original and it seems more like a Jurassic Park film than The Lost World. These have always been my favourite films and always will be. The only complaint is the length. They crammed so much action into the first 85 minutes that the ending seems rushed. I look forward to Jurassic Park IV. Go and rent it out. You will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"A big enjoyable Summer popcorn movie...","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"34 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP3 seemed to appear in the Summer 2001 movie schedule with a lot less hype than its competitors, so I didn't know what to expect... but that's good, isn't it?  I'd enjoyed the first Jurassic Park movie but, like a lot of people, thought the sequel was a bit poor (to say the least).  Thankfully Part III is much, much better.  It won't linger too long in the memory but as far as Summer Popcorn Movies go, this is great stuff.The story is slight but it's enough.  Kid gets stranded on Dino Island. Parents journey to island, with Sam Neill in tow, to rescue kid.  And basically that's it.  But hey, who wants convoluted character arcs and labyrinthine subplots in a movie with dinosaurs in it?  You want running and screaming and velociraptors running amok, right?Jurassic Park 3 delivers.The cast, led by the ever dependable Sam Neill, spend most of their time running and jumping and looking pensive -- their acting muscles aren't exactly taxed -- but it's fun to watch these great actors (especially William H. Macy) on a big rollercoaster ride, getting the hell knocked out of them.Joe Johnston takes over the megaphone duties for this sequel and he does a damn fine job.  The action sequences are thrilling and a nice line of tongue-in-cheek humour is woven throughout.  And the visual FX are so well integrated in this movie that you really do forget you're watching something that isn't real.  Hats off to ILM!My only complaint is the running time.  As the end titles rolled I looked at my watch and saw that it hadn't even been on for 90 minutes!  Too short! I wanted more!  I suppose it makes the film more of a sharp adrenalin boost. There's no time to get bored.  Top stuff. "},{"Title":"It's not a movie, it's a travesty!","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"52 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III is the perfect example of how over-zealousness, over-ambition, and a studio's thirst for profit can affect a movie. The trailer made it look like a good, fun movie to watch, when it is, in reality, nothing short of terrible. I'm going to go against my own rules in this review, and mercilessly spoil the movie, because, to be perfectly honest, you'll only waste your time watching it.Hearing that neither Steven Spielberg nor John Williams were returning, an alarm went off in my head. This alarm, however, was quickly stifled when I learned Sam Neill and Laura Dern were reprising their roles as Alan Grant and Ellie Sattler. I should've known better.The plot is flimsy, constructed around one or two memorable scenes from Michael Crichton's novel Jurassic Park that had to be omitted from the original movie (due to budget or time constraint, etc.). All the same, these scenes are (pitifully) the movie's only highlights (but rather poor ones at that). Also, the movie is littered with inaccuracies and plot holes. In the original JP, dinosaur embryos had to be kept at a low temperature (-10C, according to Crichton's book). JP2 took place four years later; JP3 takes place four years after JP2. So how is it that the dinosaur embryos were perfectly preserved (emphasized in a sweeping shot that is an altogether too-obvious set-up for a Velociraptor attack) despite being stored at far over -10C for eight years? And that's just the tip of the iceberg.The highlights of the first two movies were the dinosaurs. But all of a sudden, I couldn't care less about the advanced special effects. It doesn't matter how much damage a Spinosaurus can do; if it looks as ridiculously fake as it does here (they went overboard with the special effects), I'm not interested. In addition, the Velociraptor looks like some completely new dinosaur, changing drastically (in just four years? Evolution moves fast!) from its look in the previous two films.I addressed a flimsy plot before. Let me point out that the great big, even more dangerous challenge that faces the heroes in JPIII is&#133; wow. The Velociraptors can communicate. Let me take out my watch paint dry kit.Whereas the first two films were ingeniously crafted thrillers, JPIII is obviously crafted for quick profits resulting from the franchise's popularity. Apparently, Joe Johnston wanted to do JP2! I'm glad he didn't I hate his direction style. Scenes that are supposed to thrill or scare are so boring and dumb. As soon as the characters enter a facility where embryos were once kept, I knew they were going to be attacked by a Velociraptor. That's how bad this is.It amuses me to read Roger Ebert's review for the original Jurassic Park, and apply arguments that were inaccurate from his review to JPIII. The human characters are a ragtag bunch of half-realized, sketched-in personalities, who exist primarily to scream, utter dire warnings, and outwit the monsters, he said about Jurassic Park. Nonsense, I say! Mr. Ebert merely had a vision of what Jurassic Park III was going to be like! Because, really, what do we learn about the characters by the end of JPIII? The mercenaries all died right away, and all we learned was that one of them filled in for someone who got sick. (How lame!) We learn that some young kid managed to survive on the island for EIGHT WEEKS when the adult who was with him didn't even get the chance to get down from his parachute before dying. And how did he survive? He hid&#133; in an abandoned truck&#133; With two gas grenades he never used&#133; And he was safe in the back of it, too, despite the fact that the Velociraptors now know how to open doors&#133; His parents were going through a divorce, but got together because of his disappearance. Yay. We learn mom is a bad driver and dad has a hardware store (who, by the way, can somehow afford to buy four cars in three years; one was an SUV and another was a Buick). And yeah, the main thing they all do is screaming. (If anyone wants, I can still find that paint!) The only word of praise I have is for Sam Neill, who flawlessly reprised his role as Alan Grant. But he couldn't save this movie.Finally, the stupidest move the makers of JPIII did was replacing the T-Rex. We see it in ONE scene, where it is killed by the Spinosaurus. And then it's gone! Apparently, a dinosaur that was non-existent four years ago has magically become king of the dinosaurs. (Another plot hole!) The T-Rex always was and will be the star of Jurassic Park&#151; some lame, swimming dinosaur (who apparently swam far enough from the island to kill the crew of a boat that was rather far from shore&#133; LAME!) with a sail on its back will never replace Mr. T-Rex. Shame on all those responsible for Jurassic Park III! It's a cheapquel that just cost a lot of money. "},{"Title":"Here we go again!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"53 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit this movie was a lot better than I thought it would. I don't know how true that theory on the velociraptors is, but they managed to make it look semi-plausible ) The movie is a little slow to start, but once it finally does, it delivers a good dose of dinosaur action. I found it to be very entertaining minus some elements in the storyline, which made very little sense to me... It might be because I refused to watch the second installment of the JP series, but then again... Allan Grant wasn't in that one so it mustn't be it! A tad long to start and quick in the ending, but action packed in between and if you're looking to be entertained and liked the first (or second?) JP, this movie is a sure bet. "}{"Title":"I hate this movie!","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"76 out of 153 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" How could anyone who liked the previous JP movies even stand to sit through this 1 hour of drivel? There are so many stupid things about this film it's mind boggling!! I remember when i went to see JP as a kid it was my favorite movie and franchise, the acting, the SFX the Music, the direction! all fantastic, JP2 in my opinion was OK pretty much the same apart from some really stupid moments (like the gymnast girl kicking a raptor..please!) but on a whole a watchable and reasonable cinematic experience.But the the third one has no point!! It's supposed to be a sequel that Carry's on from JP2 and yet it magically includes brand new things to the franchise that would have been impossible to miss on the previous 2 films! for example 1) The new mega Spinosaurus - Seriously, what the hell!! This thing follows them everywhere they go, they cannot escape it's presence and yet in The lost world (the same island) do you see it once? do you hear it? does anyone even MENTION it? NO! Its ridiculous!. The star character in the previous 2 movies was, and always will be the T-Rex so what does the d(urr)irector Joe Johnston go and do? Kill it off! as soon as you see the huge T-Rex in all its awesome roaring glory it gets killed and you never see it again - a new Dino on the town is the excuse.. where did it come from!!?? not a single explanation! and don't get me started on the whole satellite-phone-in-the-Dino-belly thing! 2)Just when you start to get over how stupid the Spinosaurus is you see the Raptors, Aside from their new Punk Haircuts they seem pretty credible! *Phew* they will make this movie watchable right?... WRONG! now they speak to each other!! and the excuse for them speaking in this film and not in the First and second are...wait for it... Evolution! - yes the process of millions of years in just a few months from when the second movie ended, amazing! surly they should have grown opposable thumbs and created tools by now!! OK i am not going to say anymore about the plot because it's getting up my nose, so i will close on this Jurassic Park is a classic, JP3 is a lousy sucker punch to any of the original fans of the series, my favorite franchise was well and truly dead after watching this Monstrosity (no pun intended) Avoid this movie like the plague "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"79 out of 159 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I looked through about 20 of the comments on this movie & I was surprised to find how many people didn't like it. I, for one, really enjoyed it! I saw the first Jurassic Park movie when I was 10 & it reigned as my favorite movie for quite awhile. I liked the 2nd film as well but I thought it missed something (most likely due to not having Grant in the film).... I thought that this 3rd installment really brought it back home. The movie is extremely fast paced & holds your attention throughout the entire film. I really hope they make a 4th movie, I'll definitely be waiting in line for it! "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"86 out of 173 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I expected this to be a very bad movie. I mean Jurassic Park III ??? Comon! It has all been done before how can they possibly come up with a new movie with a believable story. But the movie turned out to be actually pretty good.One of the reasons why this movie became successful for me was because of the different approach. Jurassic Park and The Lost World took itself very serious and tried to create a somewhat believable story, while Jurassic Park III had far more humor in it and it was obvious that the makers didn't tried to create a breathtaking movie with lot's of tension and a realistic story, but a fun entertaining non-sense movie instead.The story is also better then I expected, at least it's original and it has some nice moments in it. It's a big plus that finally those dinosaur-birds (sorry, don't remember their name) appear in the movie. The raptors are also cooler then ever. They're not as scary as in the first and second movie, but at least they look better in this one. And that goes for all the dinosaurs. There are some more nice new dinosaurs in this one but I won't mention them all.It's great to see Sam Neill return as Dr. Alan Grant and same goes for Laura Dern as Dr. Ellie Sattler (although here role is pretty small but yet important) Alessandro Nivola is a great addition to the cast as Billy Brennan. The other characters are more for the comedy elements which works pretty well.So my conclusion An entertaining movie that is good for a few laughs and a good movie with some nice scene's and better then ever special effects for the dinosaurs.I'm actually looking forward to Jurassic Park IV!7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The worst of the Trilogy, but with their pluses and minuses","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third parties almost ever was bad, also with Jurassic Park III. To start, the great bad point is the script. Is bad in comparison with the other movies, has enough holes in the dialogs. And this movie has a lot of errors! Not that influences in the history, but... is an errors.For the irregular points, the movie not is directed for Spielberg, and the music no is composed for John Williams. His director is Joe Johnston and his composer of Soundtrack is Don Davis. Is possibly that choose a Spielberg for director is better than Joe, but the soundtrack no influences. Davis has a similar style of John Williams. (For me).And the best of the movie Spinosaurus. One dinosaur best than the T-Rex, with a terrible appearance. He's won the battle with T-Rex ) Other dinosaur that it must appear more in the movie is the Carnotaurus (only appear in the moment of the phone). The new dinosaurs justify this new part of Jurassic Park.For my *THE BEST The Battle of Spinosaurus vs. T-Rex, Sam Neill, the Spinosaurus and the visual effects. *THE WORST The script, the Kirby's family(not included William Macy) and the lot of errors.6'5/10. "},{"Title":"Fun big-budgeted B movie","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you look at this film as a sequel to the incredible ''Jurassic Park'', you will be disappointed - the story, the effects, and the characters are all worse, while the acting... well, it ranges from passable to ''Why-the- fu*k-am-I-here?'' disinterested. The scope is also a lot smaller, while the criminally short running time doesn't help either. However, if you look at it as a silly, big-budgeted, standalone B movie, set in the Jurassic Park universe - then you are in for treat. It abandons the overly complicated premise of ''The Lost World Jurassic Park'', and embraces its own silly (but simple) premise, to give us some nice thrills, interesting set pieces, and a cool new dino villain. So, just relax, and enjoy the fun ride. "},{"Title":"A Sequel That Works","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alan Grant once again returns to the Island of the Dinosaurs. This time after being tricked by a family who lost their adventurous son. This movie is yet another Grand Jurassic Park tale. This time we see Pterodactyl's & Stegosaurus's and the massive Spinosaurus. This movie is a treat for Dinosaur lovers and enthusiasts not to mention Palaeontologists.As with any Hollywood story combining facts with interesting stories is very hard. Making Wall Street was difficult because it made finance & Banking which is boring very entertaining. War movies have the opposite effect because action and violence will naturally gravitate people towards seeing these movies. Now to create not only a movie about Dinosaurs but to follow on with two more sequels with quality is quite an achievement.Take the Star Wars trilogy. Yes those movies were great and indeed it even made the politics interesting but fast forward to the prequel movies and here you had movies that could write themselves with action, adventure & a myriad of subplots. Despite all that the movies were not successful. Jurassic Park III does not try to beat the first movie but instead tries to be an enjoyable watch.I thought the movie was very good. It had a small cast and most of the energy of the film emanated from the Dinosaurs. It was better than the second movie which had a much more in depth story involving Ingen and a T-Rex running around town. This movie was slow and careful. We get a moreintimate experience of the Island similar to the First movie. It lacksthe grandness of the original. The visuals are more important in this movie.Sequels should emulate or have this movie in mind when thinking of doing a sequel to other great films. "},{"Title":"The third of Jurassic...","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III is the third movie of Jurassic Park and in this one we have a couple which convince Dr. Alan Grant to go to the second island of Jurassic Park B but there he will understand that the reason was something else and the inhabitants of the island are not very friendly with them.I liked this movie but not as much as the previous two movies of Jurassic Park. In this movie the story continues and the connection between the previous two movies and this one are not as tight as the two previous movies were together. I also believe that the interpretation of Sam Neill who plays as Dr. Alan Grant was really good but not enough. Another good interpretations made by William H. Macy who plays as Paul Kirby and Trevor Morgan who played as Eric Kirby.Finally I have to tell you that Jurassic Park III is a really nice movie but not as good as the previous two. Although I recommend this movie and I believe that every fan of Jurassic Park will like this movie. "},{"Title":"Favorite movie ever! really amazing!","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When it comes to movie series usually I think the first movie in that series is the best. When it comes to this series the last one is defiantly my favorite. Jurassic park III is one of my favorite movies of all time. Once again Jurassic Park brings back deadly velociraptors and even though Jurassic Park always messes up the size of the Velociraptor they are still as awesome as ever. One thing I don't get is why an adult would take a child any where near an island with ferocious and supposed to be extinct creatures. Some body might say the adult didn't know, but then how did the kids mother and father know to contact Dr. Grant. That was never explained. Also I didn't think that the T-Rex should have been killed off. In the end I forgave all the flaws because of that brilliant twist at the end. I really thought that Billy was gone. Any way, a while ago I was looking for maybe another Jurassic Park and I came across something that said another sequel was coming out in 2012, well now it's 2014 and it says its coming out in 2015. I'll believe it when I see it. "},{"Title":"Still has all its B-movie goodness","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) has gone back to digging and wants no part of the islands. The Kirbys (William H. Macy, Ta Leoni) comes along to offer unlimited funds for his digs if he joins them for a fly-by. Only when he gets there, they want to land and find something valuable.Sam Neill's return is tempered by a all too quick Laura Dern cameo. It's a disappointment that they aren't together. Quite frankly, her cameo serves no purpose other than as a reminder of better days. They are now manufacturing excuses to get these people onto the islands. It feels very fake. The lizard action remains the same. It still has all its B-movie goodness. Ta could do less screaming. Other than that, the action is still a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Sequel.","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Joe Johnston took over the directing duties of this third entry,(not based on a Michael Crichton novel this time) which sees a young couple(The Kirbys, played By William H. Macy & Tea Leoni) contact Dr. Alan Grant(Sam Neill again) to guide them back to Jurassic Park(Site B) where their young son went missing while he was foolishly hand gliding on a powerboat! Grant, needing the promised money to fund another dig, reluctantly agrees, but of course things go wrong soon after reaching the island, and once again Dr. Grant must lead the survivors in their desperate struggle to find the missing son, and escape with their lives.Laura Dern makes a welcome return playing(the now married) Dr. Ellie Sattler, who becomes invaluable in helping Grant out of his predicament. Though the story is thin and contrived, the superb dinosaur F/X once again deliver the goods in a terrifying jungle and underwater atmosphere, and make this(short) film quite entertaining and involving. "}{"Title":"Weak story and characters with great jungle action","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III is a decent 2001 sequel, marginally better than 1997's The Lost World. It has a been-there-seen-that feel and lacks the huge suspense build-up of the 1993 original. Whereas Jurassic Park took a whole hour to get to the dino-action, this second sequel jumps to it in the first 15 minutes with a huge fight between a spinosaurus and a t-rex. Of course the former beats the latter to show the audience who's the baddest mofo on the island. (Incidentally, one dinosaur expert pointed out that, although the spino is larger than the t-rex, its head and maw aren't. In fact, the more slender and crocodilian shape of its head would make it virtually impossible to do what it does to the t-rex. Besides, the spino was basically a fish-eater).In addition to the spinosaurus, we are treated to a good pteranodon scene and another velociraptor sequence (but nowhere near as good as the original), not to mention brief scenes with brachiosaures and anklyosaures.The best part of the story is the return of Sam Neill as Dr. Grant and Laura Dern looks great in a cameo part, but the rest of the characters are weak and forgettable. In fact, the story is merely a clothesline that links the many dinosaur attack scenes in the jungle.At only 1 hour and 24 minutes (or thereabouts) before the credits role this is not a deep story with fleshed-out characters &#x96; flesh-eaten, maybe, but not fleshed-out. If you thought the original film had a weak story and characters, double that here. But the dinosaurs look great and the action sequences are thrilling. These may be worth the price of admission for some but, at the end of the day, Jurassic Park III is just really forgettable.GRADE C "},{"Title":"Step aside T-Rex, Spino's here!","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was a little kid, about 6 when this movie was released, I ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT! especially the tumbling plane fuselage action.and it's totally brilliant, going with a new carnivore instead of with the same old T-rex, the fight scene between the Spinosaurus and T-Rex was like Move over Rex, you've had enough screen time! it is very symbolic on how the (JPIII's) director & Writers managed to introduce a new Anti- Hero well, So I give them two thumbs up. Also, it's short compared to the first two, since you have a small set of characters, I also wanna comment on the Pteradon action, in which makes them the tertiary Anti- hero.(The Velociraptors are the secondary)but one really odd thing on the Spinosaurus, why does he/she keep stalking the group? I mean, The Velociraptors have their reason because of their eggs, but why you chase them Spino?overall, i highly recommend this movie, it does not deserve it's 300 million box office, it deserves more! "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly good!","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I never expect any 'Part 3' to a movie to be good, as a sequel just about makes it in most cases. But Jurassic Park III was surprisingly good and packed with action! Really good movie from the start to the end as the beginning gets the audience hooked immediately. I expected the scenes to be a bit weak but some good ideas are thrown into the mix, plenty of suspense and excitement. The characters are well cast. What I liked about this movie is; that it gets straight into the action, straight into the storyline engaging interest from start to finish. The first Jurassic Park movies were great and you always expect some ideas to be copied in some way or another but this was a great original addition. The direction of some of the chase scenes are very well done and does leave that butterfly feeling in your stomach just like the other two movies did. "},{"Title":"Sophomore Slump","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III is the millennium edition of the Spielberg thrill ride. But of course, Spielberg is no longer the director of the series, instead it is Joe Johnston who completely twists the original Jurassic Park movies that we once loved... and still do. With a 4 year spread between each movie, it was kind of hard to know what to expect when the newer one was released. Jurassic Park 2 was a successful hit, providing the same model as the first but with a different perspective. In this one, it seems like everything changed. The most significant difference is the effects. The dinosaurs in this one aren't remotely comparable to the first two. These dinos look almost animated, way worse than the original movies. Of course the T-Rex was well made and the raptors were created differently, the new dinosaur, the Spinasauraus, is an absolute disgrace to the trilogy. I can see what they tried to do here, but it just doesn't work at all and they really fell short in terms of effects. The acting also takes a weird twist, incorporating actors that we've never seen before. Sam Neill returns as main character and does his job well, but everyone else was just too new and too inexperienced to be able to insert into a series like this. They tried making something totally new out of an established series. The adventure part is probably the only decent upkeep about this movie. It is a lot shorter than the two other films, and spends a lot less time talking about nonsense. But instead, you've got the main plot of the movie which is now find our son, which is a radical turn of events from the two others, which had a climactic, theatrical storyline. Also the actors spend a lot of time finding that the fact that they are stranded on an island, is a joke almost. The movie lost it's edge theatrically, it is a lot less stressful but I do admit that some sequences are pretty well thought out. I thought that the best part about this movie was the pterodactyl scene, which is very different than anything we've seen so far. However, the movie does not live up to the main series' expectations. It is definitely the trilogy's downfall, and cannot be compared to the first two. If I had to suggest this to someone, I would say if you're a die hard Jurassic Park fan... get this film. It is a solid addition to the series and you will most likely watch it once every year or two. But if you are a mediocre fan, I suggest you to simply rent this. It had way too much wasted potential and nobody should base this series off of this film. All in all i give this a 6.7/10, it is not a bad movie but could've been ten times better, had Spielberg been the director. "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite live up to the legend that is Jurassic Park.","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Once again Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) finds himself on an remote island running for his life from rabid dinosaurs.First off let talk about what irks me about this movie...There is a lot of plot holes...I'm just going to leave that one at that. This whole, lets bring a new dinosaur in and replace the old ''king of the jungle'' dinosaur with it idea didn't work to well. The new dinosaur is the Spinosaures which early in the movie gets into an altercation with the old Jurassic Park sponsor ''T-Rex'' and after a brief fight the Spinosaures snaps the neck of the T-Rex and is the new king of the jungle. But even that can be forgiven had it not been for heartwarming loving family scenes in the movie. They just come off cheesy.Example...Eric meets up with his parents ''whom tricked Dr. Grant and his assistant into bringing them to the island''. Anyway when Eric first meets up with his parents they play this overly gushy orchestrated music, the whole scene just comes off as cheesy and embarrassing. And again we are confronted with more family oriented cheese when later that night Eric and his mother and father are sitting in a tree, His father ''Paul Kirby - William H. Macy'' precedes to tell us a story about a fishing trip go awry in which the tow truck driver who had to tow Paul's car and boat out of the boat launch gets angry when his tow truck is pulled in as well and ''threatens to punch his lights out''...It wasn't funny and it totally takes away from what Jurassic Park is supposed to be IMO.Another annoyance of mine is the character Billy...Billy serves as Dr. Grant's trainee basically. A young ambitious paleontologist. Billy does something really stupid halfway through the movie ''Steals Raptor Eggs'' which in turn leads the ever lethal Raptors to pursue them across the island. Dr. Grant doesn't learn of this until later. After a brief confrontation with the Teredactycals in the aviary scene Billy uses a ripped parachute to save Eric from certain death, After which the Teredactycals turn their hostility to Billy, he is last seen being pecked to death as he floats down the river. Billy SHOULD have died in this scene, if anything for dramatic effect. But instead he shows up alive and well at the end of the movie...Well battered from his encounter...But alive none the less.What else...Let's see...I love Sam Neill, the name is a great actor and I really loved him as Dr. Grant in JP1. But in JP3 he was given some...Goofy dialog. Example...During one scene they are being attacked by Raptors...Grant and his gang get the upper hand on one of the Raptors and get it stuck behind a huge iron door that encloses a cage...The Raptor shrills and makes these weird chirping noises...Grant responds to this with...''My god! He's calling for help!''...How do you know that? I mean I know that paleontologist generally know more about dinosaur behavior than anyone else...But come on...And another scene, when one of the Raptors circles their group in the jungle, Grant advises that everyone get down because he's challenging us.Jurassic Park III provides some entertainment...But it just doesn't live up to what it could have been.6/10 stars. "},{"Title":"It's quite a good movie","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this is an interesting and exciting movie. I think the vote is low probably because people already had gotten used to Jurassic Park. Of course there're some not-very-logical scenes, but in general, I really enjoyed the movie. Firstly, there is almost no stupid act (for exp, in the first part it was the grandchild of Hammond who turned on the light, in the second part it was the saving little T-rex) so you don't have to angry, secondly, the story line is quite exciting and unexpected (I personally, like this part the most), especially the part about the satellite phone. So, I recommend this movie for those who have time to spend. "},{"Title":"A good movie for a true dinosaur-person!","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, maybe i would rate it 2 / 10 if i had to compare it with the first jurassic park movie. But otherwise, its definitely not below 6 / 10 if you compare with other movies in its genre.People who hated it, let me ask you. What is not to like? The raptors? the introduction of a spinosaur? sam neil? the fact that people are stranded in an island filled with dinosaurs?... Then what were u even expecting before deciding to watch this movie?Yes there are a few negative sides for JP 3..i feel the plot is below average, some annoying characters, and some ridiculous scenes. But can you expect much from a 3rd sequel to a masterpiece movie especially when given the task to a different director?I loved the movie actually! True dinosaur-people would, and if a JP 4 comes out, and even we know the plot and characters n effects are going to be much worse than JP 3, we would still go watch it, and we know we will love it!People who gave it 1 or 2 out of 10 ratings, please go watch movies like 'the land that time forgot (2009)' or 'blood surf' or 'journey to the center of the earth'.In short, a good time-pass movie which will keep you happy/nervous for about an hour. "},{"Title":"Derivative sequel, but better than The Lost World","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are a lot of directions for sequels of the mega-blockbuster Jurassic Park to go, so it becomes increasingly frustrating that its sequels do not take any of them and insist on rehashing the same tired storyline. That is not to say that there are not elements to enjoy in this third entry in the JP franchise. In fact, this entry is infinitely more painless than the Spielberg-directed atrocity The Lost World.Having realized that Jeff Goldblum's Ian Malcolm served better as a supporting character than a lead, this entry thankfully brings back the reliable Sam Neill as paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant. Grant is more than happy to have left the denizens of Jurassic Park behind and to return to the excavation of fossils. Unfortunately, he is plagued by funding woes and curiosity seekers. Fate seems to smile on him and his student assistant Alessandro Nivola in the guise of a wealthy married couple, William H. Macy and Tea Leoni, who claim to have gotten permission to fly over the island and want him to act as a tour guide for an exorbitant fee.Naturally Neill can hardly decline, and naturally the couple have misrepresented themselves. To cut to the chase, the ragtag group end up trapped on the island simultaneously looking for escape as well as any sign of Macy and Leoni's young son, Trevor Morgan, who was previously stranded there.Among the improvements from the last sequel are the return of Neill to the lead. It never did make any sense why a chaos theoretician with no knowledge of dinosaurs would lead an exploration a la The Lost World. It is also nice to see Laura Dern back albeit in a glorified cameo appearance. The visual effects continue to amaze and we get the introduction of some fascinating new creatures (the spinosaur and the pterodactyls). The film also develops the rapters in a rather intriguing direction, although it never completely fleshes it out. There is also a truly breathtaking moment aboard a boat on a river with a brachiosaur leaning forward. The film is refreshingly short and sweet, literally flying past.On the down side, the brevity does not allow much time for development. Director Joe Johnston moves things along at a healthy clip, but the tone he sets for the film is oddly light and sorely misses the tension that Spielberg brought to the original (although even Spielberg failed to bring that to the next installment). Additionally, while Johnston has a workmanlike grasp of action sequences, none of the subsequent set pieces seem as exciting as the initial plane crash and attack by the spinosaur. Another problem is that there are so few people on this adventure that it becomes fairly obvious early on who is not going to make it, and said characters are eliminated ridiculously early into the adventure.Another thing is that the new characters as a rule fail to bring much to the film. Macy and Leoni alternate between mild amusement and annoyance as the estranged couple searching for their son. I have yet to figure out why the series feels compelled to shoehorn a kid on each on these jaunts - it fit fine in the original, while not at all in its sequel. That said, Morgan is at least competent and not the embarrassment of Vanessa Lee Chester in the prior film. The late Michael Jeter seems almost laughably miscast as the mercenary leader. Nivola is the exception to the rule here. His character ostensibly has a reason to be included in the action and has as close to a character arc as the film allows. He is sexy, believable and always seems on the verge of breaking out into something stronger, but the film never truly allows it. On a side note, I have a sneaking suspicion that the fate of his character was altered to accommodate how well he connects in the role compared to some of his co-stars.In the end, this is an enjoyable, visually entertaining romp that is a marked improvement over the prior entry, but lacks the punch of the original. Hopefully, there is another sequel looming somewhere in the future that will allow the action to step completely away from the isolation of the islands and which does not feature Vince Vaughn. "},{"Title":"Better than the sequel","Date":"1 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would describe Jurassic Park 3 as a well paced fun action film with a silly plot. I was not bored by the film but at the same time I wasn't utterly amazed by it either. The special effects by Stan Winston and the computer graphics team were superb from top to bottom. From the tiny Compsognathus to the giant Brachiosaurus, the dinosaurs looked great, and I was so happy to finally see flying dinosaurs in action. The look of the jungle was something I liked along with the decent performances. I heard they began filming before the script was complete which meant the plot was a bit of a mess. For me a movie that holds these contents cannot sustain great entertainment for a long period of time so I appreciated the shortness of the film. I liked it slightly better than the lost world but didn't come close to the greatest dinosaur film ever made Jurassic park one. If you're looking for a ninety minute B movie with dinosaurs chasing people and occasionally eating them with no moments of wonder, the film works. If you want awe, see the original. My very favourite moment in the film was the brutally fierce duel between Mr Spino and the T-Rex. One more thing I would like to add- the title, was that the best they could do? "},{"Title":"Hungry again (DVD)","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the flop of lost world, this franchise could have been dead all the more than dinos movies are limited by nature as Malcom said, it's ending always with screaming and running.But here, things get straighten up from the lost movie. The cast is better Grant and Ellie are back, Leoni and Macy are cool. the story is close to the main theme of the Lost world (a rescue mission) and for one time, the dinos are seen in plain daylight and not mere shadows in a rainy night. in addition, they aren't reduced to running stomachs as in the last movie but depicted as animals with behaviors! The jungle is beautiful, full of colors. Another good point is that the special effects are really over the top and kept improving after each movie.I first watched this movie in Bruxelles (2002) at a Sunday afternoon movies for kids and nearly ten years after, the pleasure is still there. If the franchise should stop here, it would be better than the previous crap! "}{"Title":"Regurgitated Ideas but Executed with Slickness","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" An odd couple with ulterior motives convince Dr. Alan Grant to go to Isla Sorna (InGen'a dinosaur site B) to find their missing son.Steven Spielberg's hands over the directing reigns to Joe Johnston who does a great job at mixing the feel of Jurassic Park and the velocity of the Lost World. The events of The Lost World are mentioned briefly, which is a nice nod and link for fans of the second but it also allows the action to swiftly move on. Jurassic Park 3 injects some surprises, however, they're mostly reworked, unused segments from Crichton's first novel. Despite, Ta Leoni annoying character Amanda Kirby, the other players are entertaining enough including reliable William H. Macy and the welcomed return of Sam Neill in the lead role and Laura Dern (in a cameo). Although many ideas and themes are regurgitated from the Jurassic Park novels and movie predecessors, it's all done slicker by ILM, Stan Winston and Johnston. Topped with John Williams original theme and some great dinosaur setups, including a boat attack, the Pterodactyl aviary and T-Rex battle Jurassic Park 3 doesn't miss Spielberg's directing magic but isn't perfect either, it lacks depth. That said, it's still a tight entertainment ride. "},{"Title":"Better than expected, but not as good as the first one","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the 2nd one having been such a disappointment, I wasn't expecting much from the 3rd. Surprisingly it is considerably better than the 2nd, even though it obviously doesn't match the greatness of the original. While not a great movie, it was at least okay. Its story was a little better, the scenario improved, Alan Grant is back (that also makes the difference) and so is his female co-worker. Alan Grant isn't as fun as he is in the original, but still his return did a lot for this movie.Cinematography is a great improvement over the 2nd one, but doesn't reach the level of the first one.This one also had too much characters, which were also too annoying and unnecessary. But still I liked Trevor Morgan's character and his performance. I knew I knew that kid from somewhere, but I didn't realize at the time it was him. Only after looking for the list of actors in this film, I found his name and realized he is one of the kids from 'The Sixth Sense'.Gone are characters such as Ian Malcolm, John Hammond, Lex and Tim, etc...At least in one thing both sequels are comparable to the original the amazingness of the dinosaurs (how great and real they look and their awesome roars and impeccable animation). Also, both sequels bring back the fabulous score by John Williams, but there ain't any doubts that the sequels aren't the same thing as the original. There is no way they could be, even if Spielberg directed them (he actually directed the 2nd one but not this one). "},{"Title":"Out of Place","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A different director means a new feeling. Is that good? Well...Some things were better. The dinosaurs looked better. There was more action and intense moments. One of the scenes in this movie was the coolest scene from the trilogy, in my opinion.But of course there was the bad. The plot touched very little on the nature should be left alone concept that the other movies touched on. In fact, the plot was a little thin. Acting wise, William H. Macy and Tea Leoni actually annoyed me. Sam Neill was good, as he was in the first.Overall, it's a fun movie to watch, but the feel is so different that you really shouldn't expect too much from it. "},{"Title":"What's with the reviews?","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am without doubt a huge Jurassic Park fan and for me this is in no way a let down, it promises a great story like even though it's not directly linked to a book. It promises great special effects, music as well as a fantastic cast. I have to say, this with the first are my two favourite films probably of all time and the second was rather good too. The series for me as a whole is brilliant and this is in now way a poor film. It's better than the second, not as good as the first. Which in history shows in most films, a great watch. Immensely thrilling and features all you would expect! "},{"Title":"Kinda falls between blockbuster and big budget Sci-Fi channel movie-of-the-week.","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think I first watched this movie in the theater when it was released, but I just happened to catch it again on TV when there was nothing better on so I thought I'd write about it.Wow, Stephen Spielberg really phoned this in, I thought. The special effects were shoddy, and it seemed like the actors couldn't decide to play their roles straight or not. (I only realized at the end credits that the movie was directed - ironically - by a former special effects guy, Joe Johnston.) No wonder there hasn't been a Jurassic Park IV.But, getting past that, it still wasn't a bad watch. The thrills were there, and sometimes an actor would get in a good line. It's just that this sequel didn't exactly live up to the Jurassic Park legacy - it kinda falls between blockbuster and big budget Sci-Fi channel movie-of-the-week. "},{"Title":"Not Enough Dinosaurs in this Short Film.","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 is the third in the Jurassic Park series and also the shortest at only about an hour and a half long.Grant is convinced by a married couple to be a tour guide for them on a trip to Isla Sorna. Soon it turns out that they really brought him along for a rescue mission to find their son. From there they must watch out for Velociraptors, Pteranadons, and the largest predatory dinosaur Spinosaurus.I liked and disliked the new dinosaurs that are in this movie.Spinosaurus was pretty cool. He gets to take down Tyrannosaurus and kills some people but Spinosaurus really is not in this film as much as he should be. I thought he was going to be the main antagonist throughout the film. Instead he attacks the group as they land and later appears briefly and breaks a cage and then does not show up again till the end.Pteranadons get a larger role in this film than in The Lost World. Really I did not find the Pteranadons that cool or interesting and if you want to be technical they are not even a true dinosaur.The Velociraptors are also not in this film that much. One of the main complaints I have for this film is that it is too short and really should have been longer to include some more dinosaur parts.The story is bad in this film. How could Grant be tricked so easily by the Kirby family and not realize they were tricking him. Grant is supposed to be smart. Also they do a poor job explaining where the Spinosaurus came from.It is good to see Grant back but he is about the only interesting human character in this film. I really hated Mrs. Kirby played by Tea Leoni. SHe is just so boring and emotionless throughout the film. Also William H. Macy as Mr. Kirby seemed to be lacking intrigue as well and he really played the guy not used to being in the woods awfully.I must complain with how the Spinosaurus vs Tyrannosaurus fight went as well as give some insight. This should have taken place at the end of the film rather than at the beginning. I think they wanted to show how Spinosaurus is superior but the battle between those two dinosaurs was easily the best part of the film but it happened too soon and after nothing compared with it the rest of the way. Jack Horner was involved with this film and he has always criticized Tyrannosaurus and I think he just wanted to make Tyrannosaurus look bad in this film.The music is just as good as it was in the other two.I liked the Spinosaurs and Grant. However it should have been longer, had some bad acting, and some parts of the story were lame. Easily the worst of the series but worth watching a few times. "},{"Title":"Fast-paced B-movie, competently put together","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a pleasant surprise. After the bloated 'The Lost World', 'Jurassic Park III' is furiously paced and competently put together. The Special Effects are good without being awe-inspiring. The opening forty minutes on the island are the best as the crew get the shock of their lives. The acting is serviceable and Sam Neil makes a welcome return to the franchise. The film lasts barely eighty minutes and almost ends too soon. I was expecting more from the (MINOR SPOILERS) flying reptiles. Still, it's a perfectly watchable B-movie with no pretensions to greatness.Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"Hoped it was better really...","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love Jurassic Park and have since i was a kid, i don't know what made it such an adventure to watch but it was a classic and still is to this day. When Jurassic Park 3 was in the cinema, i begged my parents to see it on the first day, at the time it was amazing but now i think about it my opinions changed...Compared to the first Jurassic Park this films very plan and lacking a good storyline. As Dr.Allen Grant is hired to tour a divorced couple around the island, he is unknowingly being tricked into finding the couples lost son Eric.Its good to see some of the cast returning but there was no well-known actors for such a famous series. Its lacking the original potential of the first film, especially the unanswered questions we were hoping to hear, i felt as if we were waiting for something that turned out to be nothing...A shame for the fans but still a good watch. "},{"Title":"Repetitive and Monotonic!","Date":"8 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first movie in the Jurassic Park series was very special because it was the first one. The second movie was shallow in the sense that there was no plot and story or anything special to look for. But the second movie still had a Spielberg magic to it and it was possible for us to overcome the monotone that sets in the second movie. Even though the story line and the progression of the movie was predictable in the second series, it still was a very well handled movie. But the third part fails miserably to do anything good. The third installment had nothing new to offer. A typical case of the same story with a different setting! This time Sam Neill's character has been tricked into going onto the dreaded island. From the very start the whole idea of losing a son on the forbidden island and then tricking a scientist into helping them is absurd on the face of it. We are given a dysfunctional couple and a very weird idea they use in order to get them a guided tour of the island. There is not such a great breakthrough in the graphics. They remain decent though they seem cartoon like on certain occasions. New types of dinosaurs have been introduced and there origin has been explained away in a rather unbelievable manner. We have all of a sudden coordination skills and intelligence being bestowed upon the dinosaurs. They have been raised to status of being almost like humans! There is a point where Sam Neill surrenders the stolen egg to the dinosaurs and they go away with satisfaction and assurance. They clearly are shown to communicate, coordinate and camouflage. One wonders how such intelligence arises. As such, the story line is very poor and the overall direction is not so great. But that still does not mean that the movie is completely worthless. The movie still can be considered as a good watch. But it lacks the magic of the first movie and it definitely lacks the Spielberg touch of both first and second movies. "},{"Title":"Third Time's the Charm","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As in so many cases, a great movie comes out and the sequel is just mediocre. Then a third sequel comes along and it too is a great movie. This is yet another example of that phenomenon. JURASSIC PARK III is a good movie. I don't think it is a good as the first but it is certainly better than the second and the dinosaur footage might well be considered the best yet. This is a straight adventure/rescue story. Sam Neil is hoodwinked into returning to the isle of dinosaurs to act as a tour guide. He is only supposed to narrate what is seen from a plane that will never land. As it turns out, the plane does land and the purpose of landing is to search for a lost boy. The good doctor was shanghaied because the parents of the boy wanted someone with experience running from large carnivores. By the end of the film, everyone has plenty of experience. If I had one real complaint about this one it is the suspiciously good timing of the marines who turn up to save the day. That didn't destroy the story, though. By the time that happens, everything is pretty much over. As with the second in the series, there are plenty of new dinosaurs at which to marvel. These include some that may pave the way for yet a fourth in the series. "}{"Title":"Jurassic Park animals not from jurassic period. derrrrrrrrr","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a movie that is basically about dinosaurs, and their relationships to the forests around them. I can remember back to my younger years as a student when I played this dinosaur game on the computer. It pretty much showed you every dinosaur there ever was. It had real videotaped footage of the dino's in action. There was an Allosaurus chase among many others. In this movie there are more dinosaurs than some people had thought before. They dinosaurs eat a few people and some dinosaurs are nicer than other dinosaurs. The real thriller here is that Sam Neil somehow has a black daughter. By black I mean African-American and not like Gothic. I could understand if he had a Gothic daughter. Always telling her he's going to study dinosaurs. I'd be Gothic too if my parent told me he was studying live dinosaurs. Anyway she is black through some way or the other and he is not black; however, he occasionally has black in his wardrobe. A focal point of this movie is that they kidnap a baby t-rex and in maniacal crazy killer t-rex fashion they try to eat the people that took the baby. The baby soon learns to speak English and translates to the parents who are still not impressed with the whole situation. The black daughter is also a gymnast and manages to woo the t-rex's with back flips and toe touches. Harelik plays a nice role as someone I can't remember. I think he was more in the background as someone you aren't supposed to remember, so I think he did his job because I can't remember exactly what he did in the film. "},{"Title":"Dinosaur smack-downs and 'talking raptors'&#151;JP3 is dumb fun.","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After making a total mess of The Lost World, Steven Spielberg handed the directorial reins for the third Jurassic Park film over to Joe Johnston. The result isn't as disappointing as Part 2, but it does have quite a few dumb moments which unfortunately mar what could have been a very enjoyable dinosaur romp.Jurassic Park III sees Dr. Grant (Sam Neill) returning to real live dinosaur territory after a couple (William H. Macy and Tea Leone) convince him to be their guide on a flyover of Isla Sorna. However, the sightseers have a hidden agenda they are really on a mission to find their son, who was lost in the area a couple of months earlier, and they are determined to land on the island...This simple set up means that it doesn't take long before everyone is running for their lives, pursued by raptors, T-Rex, and new lizard-on-the-block, Spinosaurus.As you would expect from a Spielberg produced flick, this one features top-notch digital and animatronic effects, coupled with plenty of impressive action set-pieces. The film sure looks great, but one can't help but wish that as much attention had been paid to the script as to the visuals.Sometimes it's hard to keep a straight face try not to roll your eyes in disbelief as Grant goes Dr. Dolittle on us and speaks 'raptor' using a 3D model of their 'voicebox'; attempt not to smirk when a ringing telephone swallowed by the Spinosaurus warns the survivors of the creature's impending appearance; and I guarantee you'll laugh when a boy is snatched away from hungry baby pteranodons in the nick of time... by a base-jumping paleontologist in a hastily packed parachute (which he found hanging from a tree!).Before you know it, the whole film is over, wrapped up with a silly rushed ending that seems plucked out of nowhere.However, because my expectations were much lower with Johnston behind the camera than with Spielberg, I actually didn't feel quite so let down by JP3 as I did with The Lost World. In fact, at times I was able to just switch off my brain and enjoy it for the above-average dumb monster packed spectacle that it is.6.5/10, rounded up to 7 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Weaker than the first, but Stronger than the second","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III tells the continued story of the second island in which Dr. Hamond had brought his dream to life by genetically bringing dinosaurs to life with intentions of creating the most incredible theme park in the entire world.Here, Dr. Grant takes a trip to the second island with an allegedly-rich couple in attempt to retrieve their son who has been stranded there for several weeks. When their only way out has been terminated by the newest, biggest dinosaur, they are thrown into an uncontrolled environment with uncontrolled creatures, with only skeletal-digger Alan Grant to help them, who hasn't even been to that particular island, and is already fighting to stay alive amongst the nightmarish creatures that he so much once loved and was so fascinated.This was not quite as great as the original, (but what sequel ever is?), but it was far better than the Lost World. I saw it when I was ten, and still find it a greatly-done film, as has the entire series been thus far.Look out for Jurassic Park IV, coming next year! "},{"Title":"What were you expecting?","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I went to see this, I was expecting to see people get eaten by dinosaurs and people running away from dinosaurs in terror, etc. It seems that most of the people who see it were expecting a deep emotional epic film or something. Lighten up. It seems that everyone was expecting it to be a scientifically accurate movie depicting feasible, real-life scenarios or something. It's really ridiculous how seriously people take this movie and a lot of movies like it. Like I said, Lighten up.It's just a movie you watch to kill time and have a few cheap laughs and thrills.It delivers that much. "},{"Title":"The Best Of The Three","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While enjoying the previous two films at varying degrees, I was surprised to find that I enjoyed this one more than the others. This film is taught, reasonably acted and written, and most importantly well paced. The first seemed to peak to me at the introduction of the T-Rex and then nothing really measured up after that. The second was fine as long as we were on the island but then we went to San Diego and well... This film stayed on track, built quickly and the action was non-stop. The story was believable (assuming that we have all suspended our disbelieve to accept the terms of the entire trilogy) and the cameo of Laura Dern was nice. The giant bird cage was very well handled and made the movie different enough from anything that we have seen in the other two. I also think that this opens things up for part IV and the potential of introducing underwater dinosaurs (think JAWS meets Loch Ness). Definitely the best of the three. "},{"Title":"Dr. Grant faces the dinosaurs again","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, the production team pressed upon the writers to figure out another way to get people on the same island as some blood thirsty dinosaurs in order to satisfy the hunger of money greedy Hollywood execs. So, for the third time we get to watch an adventure involving people and prehistoric creatures, no matter how contrived the story was. A boy and his uncle (or some other adult) end up at Jurassic Park (go figure) and his parents con Dr. Alan Grant into taking them there to rescue their son. Nevermind that the boy should have been dead within his first few hours on death island, but for Alan Grant to get conned by two relatively dumb and lame parents was also absurd.Once past the unimaginative story to reunite Dr. Grant with the park, the movie goes well. Besides the regular dino menaces, there was a new addition. There was a big bad carnisaur, even bigger and badder than the T-Rex. It was definitely good they added another creature character, and they even had to battle Pteridactyls as well (which was cool). Of course, the special effects were good, as was the setting, scenery, and suspense. Albeit, this wasn't nearly as good as the first, but it was still good. "},{"Title":"Worthy sequel, if quite unnecessary.","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take Serves little purpose as a sequel but packed with enough thrills to give you a bang for your buck. I am a great Dino-sized fan of the first to Jurassic Park films by Steven Spielberg. The first one was a classic masterpiece, one of the greatest films ever made. The second one was underrated. It was still a masterpiece for me. Both of them are so successful in the box-office, so plans for another sequel, not based on Crichton's novel, are well-prepared. Eventually, JP3 (the abbreviation for Jurassic Park III), although not a tanker at the box-office, wasn't as successful as the first two, but nevertheless, it's still fine entertainment. The film brings back Sam Niell for another round as Dr. Alan Grant to escort a adventurous billionaire couple on an aerial tour at Isla Sorna, the Dinosaurs' breeding ground. What happens? Their plane crashes and they come face to face with another group of deadly Dinos.For something of a monster movie, it was kinda good. But it is highly unnecessary. It's just like a chance to put a group of unlucky individuals in a frightening situation, as in death. Throw back some of the original films' characters, and voil! It's an official sequel.Nevertheless, as it is, JP3 so rightfully deserves a place in this JURASSIC PARK fan's heart. The fact that it delivers everything it promises is exactly what anyone who went out to see JURASSIC PARK III could possibly want. It's just another walk in the park, but that feels fine. Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Better with Age","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently re-watched the JPark trilogy. Because of its freshness, pacing and breadth JP1 remains a classic, both of film and entertainment. JP2 however doesn't hold up well; it is far too contrived and hokey. The fantastic becomes boring when each scene tries to out-do the previous. The surprise for me was JP3, which has an acceptable script, a good flow and a realness to the acting. It is far better than I remembered - in fact I came to realize that a lot of my favorable impressions of the trilogy actually came from #3. The scheming and desperation and repentance of William Macy's character creates pity and disgust and frustration which is not only well demonstrated by the other characters but can be felt by viewers, as well. The audience can participate in the emotional flow. I enjoyed the interjected humor and the way the action was balanced out. And like with JP1, I'm glad the director realized that an action movie could also be scenic. I'm ready now for 2008's JP4. "},{"Title":"Not Dino-mite! But better than Part 2","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For Jurassic Park 3, Steven Spielberg steps back, and assumes the mantle of Executive Producer. In the directors chair this time is Joe Johnston. Based on Johnston's CV, he was eminently qualified for the job. In fact I can't imagine a man more suited to the world of Jurassic Park than Joe Johnston. He tends to specialise in films that are action-packed thrill rides that intriguingly feature a jungle. Films like the superb Honey I Shrunk the Kids and the engaging Jumanji.And I'm pleased to say Johnston did a fine job with JP3. It's a better sequel than The Lost World. Granted its got an extremely sketchy plot, and takes place on Site B again, a place I despised in the last outing. But at least the action scenes are done with Johnston's consummate skill. And even at a slim 90 minutes, I had a much more fun time than I did with Part 2.JP3 heralds the welcome return of Sam Neill as Dr Alan Grant. And the early scenes with Grant's character are surprisingly poignant. Eight years ago, Grant was on top of the world. He was one of the world's foremost paleontologists, he was in a blossoming relationship with his beautiful girlfriend Dr Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern who makes a brief cameo here) and his work was acknowledged and respected.But time has not been kind to Dr Grant. Alan and Ellie are no longer together. They're still friends but she's happily married with children. Funds for Grant's research have dried up over the years, and many people have lost interest in his work. I felt real sadness for Grant here. Which made me realise how integral his character is to the success of the Jurassic Park series.Grant has been studying the intelligence of Velociraptors, and gets a chance to study them up close and personal when a couple, Paul and Amanda Kirby (William H Macy & Tea Leoni) want Grant to be their guide on Site B. Their son Eric was lost there during a paragliding accident, and with the authorities unwilling to help, Grant is their only hope.But no sooner have they arrived on Site B, our intrepid heroes face dangers and dinosaurs at every turn. JP3 may have the thinnest plot of the trilogy, but I enjoyed this film far more than the last one. The problem with TLW was although Spielberg staged some very exciting moments, there was nothing else to the film beyond that. They were just a loosely connected set of action scenes, with each one trying to outdo the other. But Joe Johnston has managed to incorporate some fascinating new dimensions.First off, the stars of the previous JP films were the T-Rex and the Velociraptors. In JP3, the T-Rex takes a back seat...to something much worse. If such a thing is possible.The badass dino this time around is actually a new kid on the block. The Spinosaurus. I've never actually heard of one, but apparently they did exist, and if JP3 is to be believed, its a much worse killing machine than the T-Rex. Makes you wonder why its so exalted.The Spinosaurus is one lean, mean eating machine. A huge snout. Razor sharp jaws. A deadly looking spine on its back. And its bigger than a T-Rex. It gets some marvellous moments too. Like the heartstopping sequence when it attacks their plane. And the wonderfully choreographed battle between the Spinosaurus and the T-Rex. It's a thrilling fight. And looks like something right out of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Lost World.That's the great thing about JP3. The variations on tried and true methods. Spielberg didn't try anything different in Part 2, which is why the film suffered. But Joe Johnston has crammed tons of new ideas into this instalment. We get to see flying dinosaurs for the first time. And the swooping, soaring Pteranodons are a sight to see. They're not only a majestic view, but quite frightening too.And the Velociraptors, the scariest dinos in Part 1 have been given something else to do too. We've always known how intelligent they are. But here, they've developed to the point where they've acquired speech. Fortunately the film doesn't try anything cheesy as translating their grunts, but this added level of intelligence heightens their scare quotient.Johnston doesn't leave the actors out though. Neill is as impressive as ever, and its nice to see he's evolved over the years. He seems more comfortable around children now, and his scenes with Eric are great. As for the actor who plays Eric, Johnston does a great job fleshing out his character, making him a resourceful boy capable of fending for himself. He survives two months on his own on the island without any help. That's one thing I like about Joe Johnston's films. The children in his films can be capable, young adults without seeming precocious or obnoxious. I love Eric's comments on Jeff Goldblum's character Too much chaos. Everything's chaos with this guy.William H Macy is OK, but only puts in an adequate turn. Almost like he's doing a poor man's performance of Jerry Lundegaard from Fargo. Tea Leoni is relegated to the position of annoying screamer. But Allesandro Nivola's pretty good as Grant's protg, who makes one questionable decision that plunges our heroes into a series of dire consequences.JP3 is a bit episodic. It's basically a series of disasters our heroes must overcome to survive. And the ending is surprisingly abrupt, not to mention disappointing with help handed to them on a silver platter. But I enjoyed it a hell of a lot more than Part 2. The final image of pteranodons flying off into the horizon clearly signifies developments for a further saga. Not sure what else they can do with the franchise, but with Joe Johnston back at the helm, it should be nothing less than bloody entertaining! "},{"Title":"Better than it's reputation.","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't think people get it that when a movie comes out and it's a classic, excellent film, like Jurassic Park was, that they shouldn't make sequels because it will be really hard to top it. This movie didn't top the first film by any means, but it was much better than the Lost World. I don't know what it is about it, but it has a feel much closer to the originals, and it makes it quite enjoyable. In this Jurassic outing, Dr. Grant (Sam Neil) is back, and now is an author telling his tales from the park (his book is rivals with Ian Malcom's). He gets trapped on the island again when taking a couple (William H Macy and Tea Leoni) on an in flight tour, and the plane gets trapped in a tree. Where the first film focuses more on the T-Rex, this one focuses on the raptors and their intelligence. Watching this, it was actually a pretty good movie, all except the extremely abrupt ending. Where you expect to get another thirty minutes of Dino action, we get a tacked on and quite annoying ending, however the movie is still very good, for what it is. In the battle between protagonists being Sam Neil or Jeff Goldblum, I find Neil is much more tolerable and Goldblum is much better as a side character.My rating *** out of ****. 85 mins. PG-13 for violence. "}{"Title":"We're in the worst place in the world & not even getting paid for it. Decent sequel.","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III starts with Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) as he is contacted by Paul (William H. Macy) & Amanda Kirby (Tea Leoni) who want him has a guide for when they fly over 'Site B', the island which is overrun by Dinosaurs & featured in The Lost World Jurassic Park (1997). Paul offers Alan a load of cash which he can't turn down so along with his assistant Billy Brennan (Alessandro Nivola) for company & the Kirby's people they fly to the island but the Kirby's seems uninterested in the Dinosaurs below & actually land the plane against Alan's wishes. It turns out that the Kirby's are looking for their young son Eric (Trevor Morgan) who disappeared on the island while para-sailing nearby a few weeks ago, unfortunately they are attacked by a huge Spinosaurus who eats several people & wrecks the plane. The survivor's are trapped, without communication to the outside world, no way to reach safety & surrounded by various carnivorous Dinosaurs both small & large...Directed by Joe Johnston I thought Jurassic Park III was an OK time waster, you know it's one of those big budget Hollywood films which has no soul or real purpose other than entertain & dazzle with state-of-the-art special effects & it's extravagant set pieces. The script by Pete Buchman, Alexander Payne & Jim Taylor is something of a mystery as it was widely reported that the film was shooting before the script had been completed, in fact William Macy spoke to the press & criticised the film over this aspect. Maybe that's why the film turned out so shallow? Maybe that's why the character's are cardboard cutouts? Maybe that's why the dialogue is so simplistic? Maybe that's why some of the ideas here are never really followed through? Maybe that's why the whole Raptors being intelligent & even being able to 'talk' to each other comes across as just plain stupid? Oh, & why did the script have to include yet another annoying kid? Who knows? The film certainly moves along at a decent pace, it has the requisite number of action/special effects set pieces (some of which were apparently left over ideas from the scripts of the previous two Jurassic Park films which also says something in itself) & as a Hollywood spectacle it's perfectly reasonable. I don't know, it's watchable in a popcorn kind of way but ultimately it's shallow & lives or dies by it's special effects.Director Johnston does alright, there's a distinct lack of tension & there's not much in the way of scares either plus he ruins the Raptor's by making them intelligent. The new Dinosaur's are cool & as expected the special effects are top-notch, they're pretty much flawless. I particularly liked the flying Pterodactyl's & the scene when they attack Alan & co. is my favourite part of the film. There's not as much blood in this one & the whole tone seems lighter, only a couple of people get eaten on screen this time around.With a supposed budget of about $93,000,000 Jurassic Park III is as well made as the previous entries & definitely has that Hollywood polish about it although they didn't spend much of that on the music as it's the same John Williams theme that is used throughout the previous entries. The acting doesn't matter that much, everyone plays second fiddle to the Dinosaurs anyway. Interesting according to the IMDb Jeff Goldblum & his character Ian Malcolm were included but he injured his leg during the first few days of filming & dropped out, a shame as he is the best character in the Jurassic Park films.Jurassic Park III is good solid popcorn entertainment, the special effects are predictably impressive & if all you want are action set pieces & Dinosaurs then this is just about as good as most out there. Worth a watch. According to the IMDb the script for Jurassic Park IV (2008) is currently being developed... "},{"Title":"Best of the Jurassic movies","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you've seen the first two Jurassic movies, rest assured this one is more like the first than the lame second one, but always remember in sequels, the odd numbered ones are always best and the even ones stinkers (remember Jaws?) In most respects this one was even better than the first. I won't spoil the movie by saying how many characters are centralized, but rest assured that all the characters are dealt with in some degree of dignity, unlike the others which had some real lame throwaway characters. Even the viler characters here have some dignity to them. The writers didn't just play God and say Its okay to justify killing certain people, which is what the first two movies did. There are a few twists, not too spectacular, but that makes it a little more endearing. This movie takes you through the lives of people much more than the other two did, and its very interesting that this movie strayed from the clich of most modern movies in which all the heroes are married family men- in fact, even the father figure is a stepfather (and he's not even demonized-how did they dare do this?) A must for iconoclastic sorts, outsiders, and outcasts. "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable!","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was definitely excited for some more Jurassic Park so my anticipation for the second sequel was pleasant. It is exactly what I expected &#150; less plot and more dinosaur action! There is nothing great or spectacular about JP3 but it is a credible improvement on 'The Lost World JP2'. It is jam packed with action, fast paced chases and features some new Dino's having a go at man meat. It remains interesting by presenting humor all the way through, and the writers produced some nail-biting situations that kept me on the edge of my seat. It doesn't take itself seriously and there is also no lack in the technical department- quality special effects, good editing and a short runtime which is fitting. It made me laugh, it made me jump. 'Jurassic Park III' is modest & undemanding entertainment that I found a lot of fun to watch. Having Grant back in the film was a welcome delight and I am looking forward to the fourth installment in 2008.Best bit Realising its a bird cage&#133; "},{"Title":"Well, yeah, it was silly, but somewhat enjoyable","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurrassic Park 3 is kind of a rip off of Jurrassic Park 1, it's just going back to the island for another adventure. I also thought the CGI effects were also more unrealistic than the first. Why is it that it seems that the older CGI films have better effects than today's CGI effects? D But anyways, in some way I think I did enjoy this film. I thought the character development when well and the story made sense. It wasn't just like Let's get back on the island, they had a purpose that made sense. So I would recommend this film, especially if you want to complete the series. It isn't a bad movie, this is probably the better sequel.6/10 "},{"Title":"Its a good movie its more easy going then the other","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" its more easy going then the other two, little more funny and to be honest i like it, the first movie was great really giving you all new world of dinosaur's i didn't like the second one because i don't like dinosaurs in city unrealistic the 3rd ON i did like a lot of action really giving you the constant filling of thrill and excitement, so i liked the movie a lot.So if you like some comedy and action you must like this movie i like Dr,grant since he comes back in the 3rd part he rules i hope to see him in 4th as well.Other cast was grate as well.Put something did bother me when Dr grant found the kid he wasn't happy to see him he was all alone and yet show no emotion at all its like he new there gonna find him if i was on his position i would scream because a human found me and he didn't and its not logical at all.There was some other mistakes put this was the biggest one of all.Put despite ala the mistakes in script the movie is good with a lot of action and if you like action your gonna like this movie) "},{"Title":"Jurassic park 3........ sucks!!!!!!!!!11","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, this movie is one of the worst ever made. They should'v stopped making Jurassic park movies right after the second movie. The effects in this one are terrible, The raptors look so stupid, the actors suck except for Sam Niel, The new dinos suck, stupid Spinosaurs! Worst dino ever, The action was lame also. I saw this in the theaters with excitement. 30 minutes into the movie; I dropped my popcorn and left! Bad! Was this movie Bad? Yes! The worst movie of 2001. If the scary movies were making fun of a movie, I hope they pick this one!! What a bad movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I just hope they make Jurassic park 4.If they did, It won't make any money at all, they have the worst director of all time. Joe Johnston? What other stupid has he made? I don't know because his movies barely make it! "},{"Title":"Interesting...","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have never actually used the term it's good in isolation until this moment.After much hunting, I came across the Jurassic Park box-set for a reasonable price, and naturally had to buy it- the films have been a favourite of mine since I had to be taken out of the cinema when I saw the first one...Jurassic Park III I felt was too... Hollywood. Not enough real life situations (Eric, not matter how good a Boy Scout he was, would NOT have been able to survive on a dinosaur-filled island for 8 weeks), and far too much in the way of 'overacting' (if that's possible). Ta Leoni annoyed me a lot in this film- SOMEONE STOP HER SCREAMING. The typical Hollywood end didn't appeal much, but still... it is American. Watching most of the mercenaries die in the first few minutes wasn't particularly appealing- where's the psychological element of waiting for them to get picked off??? Come on! Also, the noises the dinosaurs made... poor, to say the least. The first film had amazing, floor-shivering roars, and genuinely scary snarls and squeaks. This film obviously employed some guy making snarly noises into a voice disguiser for a phone. However, the bad points are few and far between... the only other one I can really think of is the end. It felt far too rushed, as if the film crew just realised that they had 5 left in the piggy bank- Hang on, guys- we're about to hit the red- take 6, and call it a wrap.These bad points aren't enough to condemn what is essentially an enjoyable, and intelligent, film. A fair amount of the dialogue is fairly snappy, but not in places where it would be inappropriate. You've got to love some of the prophetic fallacy! The first encounter of the raptors also made me smile... mainly because I was waiting for Ta Leoni's character to get what she deserved. The fight scenes, dinosaur between dinosaur, were awesome. I still think that killing the original anti-hero of the first film is an unforgivable act, especially as the science books say that the killer is inferior, but re-using the same villains is wearing- as many horror films have proved...What I prefer about this (macabre as it sounds) is that you actually get to see people being eaten. The Lost World relied too heavily upon the psychologically effective blood-in-the- water (a good way to cut down on special effects by pouring a lot of red food dye into the water...). So it's refreshing, at least. The scene with the plane is also very good- atmospheric? Just a bit! The raptors also manage to create genuine suspense, and the way they are portrayed is chilling. I was also a fan of the large birds ;).In isolation, this film is a definite 7 out of 10- some bad points, but nowhere near enough to turn it into trash. Compared to the other 2... well, it can't hold a candle to the first one, but comes close to the second one. Roll on Jurassic Park IV, but do spare a thought for Jurassic Park III, and give it a go! "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just like the dismal Lost World, this one fails to recapture the classic spirit of the first Jurassic Park. It's in fact disappointingly short too - 90 minutes compared to the 120 minute length of the first two films. AGAIN, they go to the island and AGAIN fight dinosaurs (including a ridiculous new one). It's same old, same old. Also, the score by Don Davis is much too tame - he does try to recapture John Williams' music of the first and second films but just can't do as great a job (Don Davis FYI is a great composer though having done a wonderful job on the Matrix trilogy). I know there will be a Jurassic Park IV and I hope Steven Spielberg will have more of a hand in it than he did with this one (he didn't direct this one). 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unfairly Bashed","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems that for almost every movie made recently, someone is going to say, This is the worst movie EVER! And I can understand some disappointment if you compare JPIII to the first two.Plot holes, some bad acting, occasional weak ideologue, sure.But some of the criticism is downright funny I just can't believe that a satellite phone would be able to survive after being eaten by a dinosaur! Meditate on the irony of that statement for a few seconds. to be fair though, unlike a cellphone, a satphone will not work without being able to see the satellite and would not ring in a dino's stomachOverall, this is a fun movie. Decent plot, decent acting, plenty of suspense. And it you don't look too closely seeking flaws or making comparisons, you'll probably enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A little less conversation, a little more action!","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third Jurassic Park film is a decent film but it lacks certain elements to make it a very good film. The most crucial thing is Spielberg's directorial touch. Joe Johnston is not nearly as skilled a film maker as Spielberg and it is clearly felt. Johnston has a pretty good flair for the action scenes but the emotional, human based scenes are severely lacking. Luckily Spielberg is still a producer on the film allowing him to have some influence on the final product.Acting wise the film has taken a step down from the two previous films. Spielberg put a lot of effort into making all characters seem well rounded in both of the previous films in the series but this approach seems to have been abandoned somewhat for the third film. Sam Neill is a welcome return and even though his character is nowhere near as developed in the first film he still produces the best performance by far in the film. William H. Macy is decent but not the best I've seen from him. He is, however, adequate. Ta Leoni is more stiff in her acting. Even though I usually like her, her performance in this film seems somewhat forced and not completely believable. Where the film truly suffers is with the characters of Billy and Eric (played by Alessandro Nivola and Trevor Morgan). Neither of the characters are believable. Especially not Eric who apparently has survived for 8 weeks on an island inhabited by hungry dinosaurs. This is preposterous to say the least as Trevor Morgan comes off as being a spoiled brat rather than a Rambo-like survivor. The fact that he survived for 8 weeks is casually explained with him being hard to ground when he was younger(!). I mean, how ridiculous can you get.The film isn't bad, however, and has many entertaining sequences. The effects have naturally improved and the dinosaurs look more realistic than ever before. New concepts have been added to some of the species. Like, for instance, a row of feathers on top of the male raptors heads. As with the previous films an incredible attention has been paid to the details and this provides for a high level of credibility that these creatures might actually exist. Some scenes really had my blood pumping like in the previous films and this is where Johnston proves his worth. The best scene is undoubtedly a battle between a tyrannosaurus and the new addition the spinosaurus which is even larger than the tyrannosaurus. This scene I can watch again and again. Even though I prefer the tyrannosaurus as a symbol for the films I think it is appropriate that a new, fresh dinosaur was used.The moral aspect is not as clear in this film as it was in the previous film and is only ever mentioned in one particular scene and it seems clear that the film was just made to prove how far the level of effects had progressed and the film proved that they have progressed pretty far. Conclusionary Jurassic Park III is not as good as neither of the previous in the series but it is entertaining and worth a look if only for the effects sake.6/10 "}{"Title":"Not bad; but ultimately pointless","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I came into this movie not knowing what to expect. Over the years I have found myself becoming something of a Jurassic Park fanatic for some unknown reason, but after The Lost World I was cautious as to what Jurassic Park III could bring to the table.What I like about this movie is it doesn't try to overachieve It knows it's role and plays to that. We are thrown back onto Jurassic Park Site B through a transparent plot that only serves as a small bridge to what the viewers came to see Dinosaurs. From the minute they land on the island, it's one dinosaur encounter after another in rapid fire succession. Just as our characters get out of one hairy situation, they find themselves smack dab in the face of another danger, usually in less than five minutes. The movie rarely lets up in this regard.While some might argue that this leaves little room for character development, it does manage to eek out some amusing lines For example, throughout all of the original Jurassic Park, Alan Grant was not the type of person who likes kids. Slowly, over the course of the film, he starts to become attached to Lex and Tim (the two children). Here, in Jurassic Park III, Grant finally finds a kid with whom he can identify with. But, ultimately, the plot goes nowhere; you can practically pick every character who dies within 10 minutes. There is a very clear line between who's an important character and who isn't.Luckily for us, at 90 minutes, the movie doesn't wear your patience very thin. By the time When Dinosaurs Attack!! starts to get old, the credits aren't far off. What we are left with is a harmless movie that has it's fun moments, and for the moments that *aren't* fun, they're at least much better than a lot of the cringe-worthy sequences we had to endure in The Lost World. Thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Ruined the first movie for me","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I rate this a 7 because the movie ruined the first movie for me. At the end of the first movie they show that Dr. Grant and Ellie have resolved their issues about children and leave you with that one positive thing. In the third movie they show that Ellie has married and had children with someone else and Dr. Grant is still alone. They also show her looking at him and she obviously still feels for him. Therefore ruining the idea that they had grown closer through this perilous adventure. Which to me was a huge disappointment to find out they had separated. He over came his problem with children so what ruined it? And what is Dr. Grant supposed to do seeing as he is still hung up on this woman. I am a sucker for a happy ending but when it comes down to it this man is not taken seriously professionally anymore and has no family and goes through hell twice. I mean yeah Ellie has children and a husband but that has to be painful to have to see someone you love(d) and all of that and not be able to be with them. I cried over the fact that Dr. Grant ends up alone and without a family and Ellie has her family but obviously still feels something for him. "},{"Title":"More of the same stuff","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While i did find the original Jurassic Park to be both entertaining and fascinating, i never perceived it as a masterpiece. Rather it's more a display in movie magic, what computers allow us to do. Because of this i have no real masterpiece-expectations on any of the sequels either. And this is somewhat entertaining, which might be enough.The main problem with this movie is the fact that the whole concept of rampaging dinosaurs is becoming a bit old. We have seen it in two movies before this one, and nothing indicated that this would be any different compared to the first two installments. And that was also the fact. More or less we are treated to 1,5 hours of people running and screaming with dinosaurs on their tail.I don't know if it's a good thing that Sam Neill is back. Granted, nobody can look as stunned as he does every time he sees something strange. But otherwise he doesn't feel very energetic about the whole thing. The one that really stands out in the cast is Tea Leoni though. She is abominable. She runs through the forest screaming at the top of her lungs. If i were in the movie i would crack her over the head and leave her for dead before the dinosaurs got a chance to...All in all i guess this is entertaining enough. But mostly it should appeal to the fans of the first two movies. It has little new to offer, mostly it's just a repetition of things we are already familiar with. But if more of the same stuff is what you're looking for, this might be your thing. I rate it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable build up ruined by non ending","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 isn't a terrible film. Having said that it contains virtually no plot or decent acting and yet is still one of the most enjoyable action sci fi films out there. That is of course assuming you are a dinosaur nut otherwise why else would you be reading this? I don't really follow the plots in these films but even to me the severe lack of any decent narrative stuck out like a Spinosaurus sail. It makes up for it in spades with some memorable set pieces such as the huge T Rex and Spinosaurus fight. The Rex looses which in the JP world could be described as a huge twist. Then there is the creepiness of the bird cage. The decision to make the raptors in to some sort of ultra brainy super villain didn't sit well with me. I didn't like the conversation bit right at the end one bit. There is sci fi, and then there is taking sci fi into the realms of the ridiculous. I've never really liked the focus on the raptors though. The T Rex was always the star of the show as far as I was concerned.On the point of the ending. WTF? They walk out on the beach and BANG! Film over, just like that. I couldn't believe it. Its like they ran out of money or script paper and just decided to leave it hoping no one would notice. With a proper ending (or any ending at all) this would have gotten an 8 of me. As it stands though..... "},{"Title":"Great effects, great sound, and nothing else...","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to the movie theater with my friends to see JP3, and we all went out of the theater really disappointed.The movie it's pointless. The plot has no sense at all. Alan Grant said something like this There's absolutely nothing that can make me going back to that island, and 10 minutes later he is already there. The group finds the parachute and suddenly a dead body drops from the tree and it's still attached to the parachute why is he dead? why the boy isn't? May be a pteranodon o something like it, killed him before he got out of the parachute...please!!!The raptors are worse with all that stupidity of they were smarter than primates... They could talk to each other. OK, If they are so smart how is it that they couldnt killed that boy? And the last scene, I can't understand why they put that scene Just imagine the greatest effects of all time by ILM,the animatronics from Stan W., at least they could`ve had a big action sequence to bring the movie a decent and  ending.But noooooo...They have to put a very boring,non-exciting scene with the raptors trying to get their eggs.How is it possible that an action movie could end like that? I don't know.It sound like i hate the movie but i don`t -It has its moments like the pteranodon sequence, the battle of the T-REX AND THE SPINOSAURUS, and the plane crash.Other good things about this movie (and i mean it) are the outstanding special effects by ILM (I COULDN'T POSSIBLY FORGET THE BATTLE BETWEEN T-REX AND SPIN..) and the sound effects...beyond that, it is really boring and nothing special.I hope that they took more seriously JP4, and bring the story a worth seeing ending with a great story and more ACTION because JP3 doesn't have the action I was expecting.i give it an 8, and i`m being very considerate. "},{"Title":"Spielberg finally kept his promise, and the result is reasonably worth it.","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steven Spielberg once said that he would produce the sequel to Jurassic Park, but that he wouldn't direct it; he went back on his word with The Lost World Jurassic Park (or as I like to call it, The Lost Plot), but when it came time for Jurassic Park III he did indeed settle for executive producer duties, leaving directing in the reins of Joe Johnston... which is why I avoided seeing this in cinemas. Okay, he did direct Honey, I Shrunk The Kids but he also did The Rocketeer and Jumanji, which doesn't bode well for a director of popcorn entertainment.Jurassic Park III is, therefore, something of a surprise; in terms of plot the script by Peter Buchman, Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor makes the previous movies seem like a Robert Ludlum book, but we also avoid one of the biggest flaws of the two earlier movies - Jurassic Park was a third over before it got going, and The Lost World Jurassic Park took an entire hour (i.e. up to the overlong sequence with the cliff) before it took flight... a problem that Hook also had, which suggests that his detour into grown-up movies gave him time to get his pacing problems over with. That or get better scripts. But this time the movie has an abbreviated running time, which means that there's no real room for messing about - it knows the audience has come to see people in danger from dinosaurs, and it delivers.Johnston's no Spielberg in terms of building tension or sustaining action scenes (it doesn't really build to a climax), but the movie's got enough sincere performances and excitement, along with some nice moments of humour, to help you accept that ultimately it doesn't mean that much. Not that it's supposed to, but you do like to get something extra from your movies - this is certainly better than the second sequel, but lacks the impact of the original.Incidentally, since this movie - like the second sequel - takes place on the second island and not in Jurassic Park itself, the movie should really be called The Lost World II Jurassic Park, no? "},{"Title":"Third times a charm...","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first one was good... the second was tiresome and, well, daft. The third one however is a film that is tough to beat.The 'saurs are fabbily put together and sometimes take your breathe away when you see how much details goes into making them. This does take a little bit of passion away from the plot though. It does seem to be a little dry and dense at times... and the acting... well... lets just say it could be a little bit more, err, less-dramatic.Jusrassic Park 3 is a nice movie to watch with a few friends when you have a little booze and a few ciggies to go around. I wouldn't go out of my way to see it though... rent the first one instead... its better.5 flaps out of ten. "},{"Title":"Its OK","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not as good as the original, but a lot better than number 2, but it is way too short. Just as I was getting into the film when it ended. It lasted only 1 hour 20 minutes.I hope that will be it, no more sequel please.  "},{"Title":"Turok","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The director of JP3 could've done well to consult with a few scientists to get a more balanced view of prehistoric zoology.The biggest flaw with it has to be the T-Rex. First off, all the T-Rex's screen time is used for hunting, with maximum blood-gushing and healthy roaring. Why can't we see the T-Rex do something else? Like courtship, migration, sleep, having a bowel movement, reproduction, slipping on wet grass and sliding face down a hill, etc.This movie showed its ignorance in showing the Tyrannosaurus as nothing more than a killer. It also fails to show understanding for the role of the predator in the symbiosis of the biosphere.Second, it is the height of human conceit that the director would portray a T-Rex as frantically hunting down an irritating band of mechanized apes that are 1/1000 of his size. Imagine the energy expended in following the humans all day, for a potential reward that would nowhere near replace the food expended in the hunt.Hopefully Spielberg will return for the last directorship of the strange zoo he created. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's not that Jurassic Park 3 is a bad movie... it's just not a very good one. Following in a series that went from chilling to campy, JP3 tries very hard to match it's predecessors, but ends up being just another forgettable action movie.To be fair, you can't put the blame on JP3. The very premise of this franchise is, well, extinct. In 1993, when the original Jurassic Park came out, people were on the edge of their seats for one simple reason - this looked like actual dinosaurs, interacting with humans. Nothing like it had ever been seen before. 1997's sequel tried to compensate for its lack of originality by being ultra-violent. This third installment has no new tricks up its sleeve. As a result, instead of being properly terrified, the audience thinks to itself, Hey, the dinosaurs are back. Cool.JP3 compensates for that familiarity by simply adding more dinosaurs. Running a half an hour shorter than the first two, this film still manages to pack in more dino-bang for your buck than both of the originals. The special effects are still first rate, and you'll never be bored by it, but when you think about it, the entire idea seems rather prehistoric.(**/****) "}{"Title":"Actually, it is a walk in the park...","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I already wrote my comments about this film, but they were inadequate for what I really feel about this movie.  So here I go again.Jurassic Park was most definitely one of the greatest movies ever made.  It combined the enthralling special effects of Steven Spielberg, the creative genius of Stan Winston, the writing of the talented Michael Crichton, and the excellent themes of John Williams.  In other words, it was very near perfection.The Lost World was a flop.  And Jurassic Park III is obviously an attempt to get the series back into gear.When I first started watching the movie, I didn't feel the same excitement that the first one brought.  Quite possibly because of the new director.  Or maybe Don Davis' disgusting themes.  Or perhaps it was just because it tried to hard to look like the first one.  But somehow I felt that Jurassic Park III was separated from the other two, that Alan Grant was totally different.  We didn't even get to see Mr. Hammond.The special effects aren't as great as its predecessors.  The T-Rex is barely believable; something just looks wrong with it.  The spinosaurus is nothing compared to the sheer magnificence of the T-Rex in the first movie.  It just doesn't have the power to drop your jaw, most likely because it has a lame entrance and is not much different from the T-Rex anyway.The actors do really well, I think.  Sam Neill remains one of my favorites, and Alan Grant has also been a favorite character of mine for a long time.The concept of going back to Isla Sorna and finding something new (the spinosaurus) is kind of weird.  It doesn't even seem like the same island as it was on The Lost World.  The compound is not the same, and the raptors look different.  One thing I do like, however, is that this movie is a little brighter.  In The Lost World, it was almost always night, making it a very dark movie.  This one wasn't so nasty.  But the first one had the perfect balance, combining both day and night.  This one is too bright.The plot is obviously not one of Crichton's.  Unfortunately, this movie is not based on one of his books.  However, that may be a good thing, considering how badly The Lost World was ripped apart in the conversion from writing to screen.  But it's easily discerned as not Crichton's work.Don Davis' music is simply awful.  He attempts to re-use the main themes in the exact same spots they were used in Jurassic Park, which didn't fly well with me.  They needed John Williams in there.  I have never liked Don Davis since his performance in the Matrix, and he certainly didn't do well here.  His music is kind of screechy, lacking any themes other than Williams' originals.But Jurassic Park III is a little more like the first one, which makes it better than The Lost World.  I enjoyed the thrill ride (although extremely predictable) and expect to see better things when Jurassic Park IV is released.Despite my hard opinion of this movie, I actually enjoyed it and would recommend it to any thrill lover, especially those who are fond of the Jurassic Park series. "},{"Title":"I actually liked this one the best.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know it didn't do as well and it seems people didn't like it as much, but I found it more entertaining than the previous two.  It had the most action, it was shorter, and there weren't 500 shots of people looking at the dinosaurs in wonder (my god Steven Spielberg is so overrated, though I am not saying his movies aren't good).  This one is about a group that goes to the island to try and find a missing kid.  Much more fun than the previous two as we get thrust into the action rather fast.  I like Sam Neil being back rather than Goldberg and thankfully there is no don't kill the innocent dinosaur who just slaughtered an entire neighborhood theme in this one either.  All and all a fast and fun flick. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 is a pretty interesting movie.  I mean same thing as other Jurassic Park movies.  Monster dinosaurs break loose and attack people horribly.  The acting is really good in this one.  A lot of big name stars and there characters are very good.  Tea Leoni and William H. Macy are perfect as the divorced parents who are looking for there son Trevor Morgan who is lost on the island for eight weeks.  He hardly gets a scratch on him for eight weeks but the other characters are badly cut up just in a few hours.  The other cast members are excellent and fill there parts well.Overall the entire movie was an edge of your seat thriller from beginning to end.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Horrido!  (Mondo Spoilers)","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know, there's times I feel like I could take a digital movie camera and make a better movie on my own than the multi-million dollar garbage Hollywood spews forth every few weeks.  In the case of Jurassic Park III I could include my pet cat chasing mice and have more realistic thrills and chills than this glob of phlegm.First the goodIt is *slightly* better than Part II, but mostly because Sam Neill was somehow talked into starring again.  Neill's charisma goes far but can't save a rancid turkey.  Indeed throughout he seems to have an expression on his face like I liked this better the first time.And now the badSpoilers!  Spoilers!  Spoilers!  You've been warned!We go from setup to stuck on the island in about ten minutes flat, and the gore is substantially reduced--not that I want to see lots of gore but things seem a bit too tidy.How on earth could a restricted island full of dangerous dinos even let a boat get close enough to go parasailing and take pictures?  I guess nobody bothers to patrol the place and they keep people out on the honor system.Landing on an island of dinosaurs and first thing you do is start shouting on a loudspeaker to the jungle?  Riiiiiiight.Tea Leoni, who was so likeable in Deep Impact makes the screaming heroine of fifties horror flicks look positively macho with her overblown wailing, in particular when they find the dead guy in the parachute.  Her, and everyone else except for Sam Neill acts like a blithering idiot.  I wondered if they hadn't tried to make this as a comedy first but decided mid-stride to go serious.Finding a twelve year old who'd somehow learned to live and survive on an island full of dinosaurs like a mini-commando, yet instantly acts like a kid on cue, is about as contrived and phony as you can get.The blinking dino eats the phone and you can still hear it ringing when it's ten FEET inside it's belly?  Give me a break!The special effects aren't as good as Part I, (What, eight or nine years later?) and the obligatory it's wonderful to be seeing Dinos moment is contrived and phony.The Pteranodons fly the coop in full view of several armed helicopters (because somebody literally didn't lock the door) and the response is They're probably going to explore, it's a big world?  Huh?  How about STOP THEM!I have to say I admire Sam Neil for making it through this mess and not jumping into a Raptor pit to prevent his character reappearing in yet more sequels, but otherwise this symbolizes the notion in Hollywood of movies being franchises rather than entertainment or even -perish the thought- original. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park The Action Movie","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit I had reservations. The suspiciously short running time, the well-publicised criticisms by one principle actor made during production, and the lack of Steven Spielberg in the directors chair or John Williams handling the score... All these aspects left me wondering if the film was going to fall flat on its face. I need not have worried. The plot mechanics may have been a little contrived in how Alan Grant is actually coerced back into risking his life on an island of dinosaurs once more, but once there... Director Joe Johnson dispenses with any suspense-laden build-up, instead delivering just one exciting set piece after another, with barely a pause for breath. The cast are all excellent, particularly Sam Neill and William H. Macy, and also Trevor Morgan as the boy, Eric. Don Davis took John Williams' original themes and gave them a new appeal, as well as seamlessly integrating his own music into the score. The visual effects, whether it's Stan Winston's live-action dinosaurs or the CG creations at ILM, are superb, and continue to enthrall despite a certain familiarity, although the new dinosaurs, particularly the stunning Spinosaurus, are a welcome addition and well-realised. But the most important thing about Jurassic Park III is that not only is it a good second sequel, but that it stands in its own right as a fine action movie, without leaning heavily on the first two films in the franchise. For that alone, Joe Johnson should be commended.  "},{"Title":"Good popcorn movie that pretends to be nothing more.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoy popcorn movies for the most part, I just don't understand why the director has to go out and make it seem more than it really is. Fortunately, for Jurassic Park III, director Joe Johnston could make a popcorn movie and have it be exactly that. Johnston has always been good with that. There is almost no film by Johnston that wasn't entertaining. However, I disagree that JP3 was actually darker and more involved than the previous two movies, like previews and articles depicted. I wasn't expecting Jurassic Park III to surpass the wonder of the first one, and I wasn't expecting it to be as disappointing (the Lost World was still pretty good) as the second one.As a fan of all of the Jurassic Park movies, I could say that this had the nicest and yet quickest pacing. It also had the best special effects of the three. One thing I've noticed is that the first two took place mostly in the dark, especially when there are special effects. Now, you actually get to see the texture of the dinosaurs. The dinosaurs in JP3 tend to have more color, thanks to Industrial Light & Magic and visual effects supervisor Jim Mitchell.One thing that the third installment lacks are likable characters, with the exception of Sam Neill as Alan Grant. New characters aren't as humorous, but this could be because of the abscence of director Steven Spielberg. And even Joe Johnston has the potential to put humor in his characters to make them a little bit more likable.Overall, JP3 was a good addition to the Jurassic Park franchise. I can guarantee that there will be more movies. Hopefully Steven Spielberg will return as producer, because if he doesn't, then Jurassic Park will end up like Batman when Tim Burton left. "},{"Title":"Did they run out of video tape?","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit the Jurassic Park films are not really my cup of tea which which will become obvious to anyone reading this review but what were they thinking about when they made this drivel? Obviously not a lot! They special affect are average in fact they are worse than the original film and the story is nothing short of pathetic. The question that first springs to mind is did Sam Neil and William H Macey actually read the script? I cant blame them for doing the film because it is extremly short and hardly involves any acting to speak of.Why not take the money and run? One thing is for sure if there is going to be a Jurassic park 4 I will be the one running a mile. Dont bother. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The worst Jurassic Park but that is not a bad thing","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS This is the worse Jurassic Park film. That definitely not mean it's a bad film. If you were hoping for this to be the best Jurassic Park well you hoped for too much.Others thought it was brilliant! Come on! It is a sequel but not a follow up. That is a bad thing about the storyline. The lost world is my favourite film because it continued on from Jurassic Park, this film has nothing to do with The lost world!Where did the Spinosaurus (the dino with thing on its back) turn up from? Did just magically appear? How come we didn't see it in other films?Oh and when that T-rex was killed by the Spinosaurus, would the mate of the T-rex not have killed the Spinosaurus? In the lost world the T-rex went after Sarah and Nick for taking the baby T-rex.I should stop bad mouthing the best film of 2001. Any LOTR fans wanna argue? This was the best film this year!The special effects were good at parts and terrible at others. One of the good parts was when the Pteranadons (flying reptiles) attacked Billy. They looked real! The Spinosaurus well, you could make something more real looking in Paint!Oh and it never explained what happened to Billy between getting attacked and ending up at the coast!This is a good film and the action was great but a different predator for JP 4. Please!!!!! The Spinosaurus was crap, how about a Giganothosaurus(biggest carnivorous dino) or T-rex?Another thing how could the Spinosaurus break down a fence but not 2 smaller doors?This is the greatest film of 2001 and I'm hoping Joe Johnston doesn't make 4 but another by Speilberg would be welcomed by me. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"As good as the original","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although many sequels fall short of excitement of the movies that spawned them, Jurassic Park III is as thrilling as the original.At first glance the Kirbys (Ta Leoni and William Macy) seem to play the requisite Stupid Couple whose adventurous spirit is responsible for the plight of the entire plane, which is stranded on Isla Sorna - the second dinosaur island.  It turns out that they are really no longer married, but desperate to find their son Eric and the man he was with, Ben Hildebrand, Mrs. Kirby's new love interest.  In the opening scene Ben and Eric are taking an illegal parasailing tour of the island, when the pilots of the boat disappear in the fog.  Ben and Eric, of course, get stranded on the island and require rescuing.JP3 brings back some of the cast from the original movie, and I was glad to see returning performances from Sam Neill (Alan Grant) and Laura Dern, (Ellie Degler) although Ellie's role is little more than a bit part.  The sardonically humorous Jeff Goldblum (as Ian Malcolm) is missing, as is Richard Attenborough (as the park's conceptionist John Hammond) but they were included in JP2.These performances combine to tell the tale of a family and its guides who must constantly evade a large, unexpected predator as well as a persistent pack of raptors which seem unusually bent on catching the party.  The third group of dinosaur enemies comes from the air, as for the first time the reptiles take wing in Jurassic Park.Overall this isn't a film that I'd expect to sweep the Oscars, but it is worth viewing a few times.  I rated it 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Great flick!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gave this film a rating of 8.5 out of 10 (although only an 8 shows up).  An 8 in my rating is considered great.  A 9 is excellent and a 10 is excellent and a classic. There are only a couple of movies I give 10's to so consider my rating in that sense.From the start I liked the way the movie was filled with suspense and stomach wrenching scenes.  It had a good balance of highly volatile scenes and some calming, slow your heart down scenes.  The balance is set for an action movie so there are a lot more suspenseful scenes than slower ones.It's not easy finding a good plot that will bring us back to the island where the dinosaurs were created.  There had to be a real reason to go back and something different to see when we got there.  Jurassic III filled the bill.The special effects were terrific!  I watched The Making of Jurassic Park III after seeing the movie and found myself admiring it even more.  The work that went into it was astounding in order to give us, the audience, the feeling that what we were watching was real.  Make sure you watch the bonus material if you get the DVD.This could be my favorite of the three Jurassic Park movies.  I know I can watch if more than a couple of times without getting sick of it.  Jurassic Park I was real good but II was kind of lame.  This one was a surprise at how good it was.  Who knows...maybe IV will be just as much of a surprise.  That's right - them bird things...The Generic Critic "}{"Title":"cool!!!!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this one better than The Lost World. No it wasnt as good as the first. No movie will ever beat the first. But I did love this one. The dinos looked really cool. The whole time I was in suspence. This had more action than The lost World. I really dont have anything bad to say about this one. The acting was good too. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves the first one or likes a good adventure flick. "},{"Title":"an improvement","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is never quite as good as you want it to be, but it has one important thing that the Lost World didn't suspense. Jurassic Park III has a fairly weak story and lacks logic at times, but it provides some great action and thrills. It also has a surprisingly good sense of humor. Joe Johnston is no Spielberg, but he does a pretty good job as his successor. The film is faulted, but he does a good job covering it up with many chase scenes. The film rarely takes a breath. Overall, JPIII is an improvement over LW, though it still can't hold a candle to the original. What can? 3/4 "},{"Title":"One big beautiful special effect.","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know if I would suggest renting this movie unless you have a really big screen, or like cheesy movies in general.It is a stupid movie that is absolutely stunning visually and well crafted as far as suspense and action sequences. I would have only given it an 7, but its combined score is lower than it ought to be... I would watch it again in the theater. "},{"Title":"Here be dragons...","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is ultimately a pleasant surprise in a generally disappointing summer. It is not exactly high art nor is it hugely memorable. But it is generally fairly entertaining and much better than we had reason to expect after the lumbering pea-brained monstrosity that was The Lost World. Odd, as that was a Spielberg venture while this one is directed by the relatively unknown Joe Johnston.One real criticism The end is sudden and botched. It's as if the director lost either all inspiration or ran out of money.No classic then and not even as good as the original, but not bad, largely thanks to the pterodactyls and presence of Tea Leoni and the Mighty William H Macy.  "},{"Title":"A dinosauria fan's perspective","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First, upfront, this is a positive review.When one rates a movie one often has the following elements in mind the storyline, characters, acting, directing, cinematography, music score, and special effects. There may be other things but these appear to be the main ones that reviewers tend to focus and rate a movie on.Thus, taking all these elements together into consideration how does this movie rate? Well, strictly, put it doesn't - neither did the other Jurassic park movies - nor should they - because the movies weren't written or directed to reach a high level of each of those elements. If one element was focused on - its special effects, in bringing dinosaurian to `life'. The movie was created to entertain the audience in order to appease the masses in order to return a reasonable profit margin. The whole focus I think with movies like these is to purely entertain people who want to spend an hour or two away from reality, to use their imagination to transfer themselves into the realm of sci-fi fantasy. I believe that's what Jurassic Park movies are, sci-fi fantasy. Not strictly horror or a monster movie because these so-called `monsters' happen to be based on fact (fossilized bones). The first Jurassic Park movie did very well because it was the first, to put dinosaurs on screen (the most realistic to date), with very state of art special effects. Thus, Its becomes very difficult to pique the same amount of interest in sequels, to do something very different. Its not that the first Jurassic Park was that much superior in storyline, but its storyline is inherently more in-depth because sequels tend to play off an established storyline rather then create a whole new world.If you are person who can get lost in a world of imagination then all three movies a very effective, and all three bring out the main characters of the movies, the dinosaurs. Whether one is better than the other, its matter of personal expectation and perception. For movies like these actors are very important but in-depth characterization need not be. They are not the focus even though they do bring out the storyline. Personally, I liked the third one the best. The reason why is I didn't go into the movie theatre with an expectation to see a flawless storyline. Plus, I made the mistake of reading the books first, and thus, had the expectation of going in expecting an onslaught of scientific facts (which drew me into the book the first place).If you think long and hard enough, all movies that have ever been made has had at least some flaws, gaps of logic, or inaccuracies in them because the movie averages around 1 to 3 hours long, and like a plan or strategy cant possible take into account every possible or scenario or element. Therefore, plot holes are inherent in all movies. Thus, in my opinion criticism regarding plot holes is pretty much redundant.Why did I go see this movie then? Because I'm a movie buff and a dinosaur fan. I just wanted to see somebody's perspective of what they think dinosaurs would be like if they were alive today. Frankly speaking, all three movies have a lot of inaccuracies and wild speculation in regards to dinosauria. And frankly speaking, that's okay, because these are not educational documentaries. And if you want to be educated on things dinosauria then read something from Jack Horner, Robert Bakker, David Norman, Thomas Holtz, or the like.However, having enjoyed the movie and the depiction of dinosaurian, I do have some comments on what I would liked to have seen done more in the movie. It would have been nice if the directors and screenwriters were more accurate with dinosaur facts. Instead taking Hollywood liberties with the facts, they could have taken more liberties with speculation of current dinosaurian paleontology instead.For example in Jurassic Park I velociraptors were far too big (at least twice the size - perhaps more based on the deinonychus) in the account of fossils sizes found with this species, Brachiosaurs did not chew like a cow (their jaw structure would not have allowed those movements); Lost World, stegosauria had their back plates in two parallel rows rather than a line of alternating plates (across two rows), pachycephalosaurus would have had severe head damage banging into that vehicle like that  (its skull is actually shown to be porous and fragile under strain); Jurassic Park III the tyrannosaurus should have made a least some damage to the spinosaurus if not killed it, when it bit into its neck (esp. with the expected power of  its powerful jaws).  I could go on with the inaccuracies, but you get the point.I instead would have liked to see speculation on the connection between birds and dinosaurs (esp. dromaeosaurids) and have seen colourful theropods with feathers on them, and perhaps vast difference between male and female. And maybe shown some species start to evolve into birds.  It would also have been good to see more of the speculated paternal instincts of some dinosaur species like the hadrosauridae or some theoropods (esp. nesting rituals), or the defense strategy of ceratopsians against predators (moving into a circle) If they created a park with flying reptiles like the pteranodons why not also include the sea reptiles like plesiosaurs.But like I said, this isn't made to educate. Overall, I enjoyed this movie, and I liked them all.  "},{"Title":"About as intelligent as most dinosaurs","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw the trailers for JP3, I was admittedly skeptical as to whether or not it could live up to its two predecessors.  Directed by Steven Spielberg, those films looked at the dinosaurs from a scientific point of view in terms of the dialogue.  In essence, a viewer could learn about dinosaur patterns and behavior through the script while at the same time being wowed by cutting edge special effects and nail-biting suspense.  Sadly, this trend does not continue with the third (and hopefully final) installment of the trilogy.  The action sequences are very impressive, so if the audience wants nothing more than a stranded rescue team outrunning exotic-looking beasts which are attempting to devour them, then this is their lucky day.  Unfortunately, I was geared for a complex thriller that followed and developed the characters more deeply, and explained the capabilities of the monsters more than this.  Best advice...wait for the video "},{"Title":"Great inclusion to JP3","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The key in todays Hollywood productions is to accept it for what it's worth. Every movie has a downside to it, but being a movie watcher you just have to accept the good parts. Accept differences, and accept sequels. Whereas you should accept it being a bit not well done, as it's a sequel. Though, my opinion, number one and three were the only ones I could watch over and over again. JP1 was the best, but the meaner dinosaurs set the score in 3. Number 2 really wasn't to interesting at all. Number 3 lacked a little script but it wasn't dodgy acting and if you're a fan of scary creatures it should be great! Just accept it for what it is.*MINOR SPOILER* The Barney the dinosaur scenes spoilt a bit of the unique feeling in the movie!!!You'll always have annoying characters, mother was very annoying for the first hour. Overall... I'd give JP3 8/10, JP1 9/10, JP2 2/10 "},{"Title":"The latest but not the greatest Jurassic Park","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The biggest problem with this installment of Jurassic Park, for me, is the shattering of the romantic idea that Tyrannosaurus Rex was the guv'ner of the dinosaurs. Step forward Spinosaurus - not half as terrifying by a long shot.Aside from this, the plot is thin, and the once stunning dinosaurs are no longer the attraction - after all, there has been Dragonheart, Lost World, Godzilla and others that have made this sort of technology mainstream.The way Neill's character gets involved with the dinosaurs again is also weakly implemented, and the evolution of the Velociraptor makes it look silly - they are just not as deadly as they were in the other two movies.Sam Neill is a reliable as ever, and it is a shame his considerable talents have been rather let down by the rest of the package.This is not a bad movie, and as ever, the animatronic and CG dinosaurs look as real as they come, but it just is not as good as the other two.I would rate this 6/10. "},{"Title":"For a Few Dinos More","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sam Neil returns.  The movie is short.That right there summarizes all of the positive aspects of this entire 'film'.  Action-packed?  yes.  Meaningful?  hell no.  Dinosaurs still cool? not this time.This plotless romp through the jungle does not need to be seen to be understood.  It can be described in well less than 25 words with ease. Cast flees through dinosaur infested island to escape.  If I were to say more I might be forced to us the word lame situations and poor supporting acting in access so I won't even start.There is one scene that really hits upon what this film is all about.  It is early in the show so it won't really spoil anything.  Macy's character, a rich guy apparently, is trying to motivate Dr. Grant to go with him back to the island.  Macy pulls out his check book and says Tell me, what's it gonna take?  They script writers must have been present when the cast was brought on board because I imagine a similar conversation being told to each actor/actress.  Tell me, what's it gonna take to put you in cardboard-thin roles in our sad excuse for a script?Unlike the original don't expect to get too attached to the characters.  My comment about they shallowness is hardly a joke.  When they die, unlike the first JP, I could hardly care.  It is however a slight improvement over The Lost World where there were more bit-roles getting eaten than I could count.My final complaint lies with the guest-stars of this movie, the dinos.  In the first movie the raptors were more ambiguous.  They were new and scary, the perfect combination for an enemy. They were hunters, silent trackers and killers.  In JPThe Lost World they've decided that their Rambo-esque lifestyle had been overused in the first movie.  So the raptors were demoted to packs of wolves attacking deer-like humans.  But this lamer way of portraying those pesky raptors is changed again in the 3rd film.  Neil opens the film by discussing about how smart he thinks the raptors are.  This right off is a bad sign.  It turns out he's right (surprise!) and they're the most smart monsters that has ever been brought to life.  Perhaps too smart. I was happy when the beasts could open doors, but now we have them speaking German?  I think we might have noticed this behavior in the first couple movies.  But I guess Spielberg overlooked the fact that the Raptors talked amongst themselves about 90% of the time.  If they had I can now see what Bob Peck was getting at when he said that one raptor had killed some of the other raptors.  I was itching to kill them after they had finished their first couple of screeching speeches.Don't expect the quality of the first movie nor the intricate, yet dumb,attempt of the second.  JPIII is an action film, and nothing else, a genre that I hope we'll grow out of before I'm feeding worms. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable LITTLE movie.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** The characters in this are all likeable, Grant having resolved his issue about kids is married to Ellie with a son who calls him the dinosaur man. His popularity is suffering as is his funding and he has an assistant now who handles the dig so that he has family time and press conference time and scholar speech time. His theories now seem to fall on barren soil because as a scholar said any scientist who wants to study or discover anything can just finagle a trip to the island. Grant is firm in the hypothesese that the dinosaurs on the island are nothing more than genetically engineered monstersA chance to improve his financial stance comes when two thrill seekers show up and ask for him to guide a strictly air-borne observation of the island for thier anniversary, offering that they can write all kinds of numbers on a check and ask what will it take for his assistance. Anyone doubting that even wild dinosaurs could drag him back there should atleast see this set up in play before making a pronouncement. He agrees, perhaps a little longing for a second look at some Pre Hi giants played a part aswell. Rather than try to break the news up front about thier true intentions the couple and thier three 'professionals' simply ignore his attempts at narrating the tour and prepare for landing, finally seeing red he leaves his seat demanding YOU CAN'T LAND THIS PLANE! before one of the goons thumps him from behind.The story moves a bullet a gate from that point. Some successfull humour is scattered throughout the movie and it never seems to take itself quite seriously but at the same time it never goes spoof. It is almost heartbreaking for a dino divotee to see Trex get it's kneck broken by a solar powered scavenger that they have turned into some bi-ped crocodile. One thing that is also annoying is that now they have added some hind-neck hair to preserve a bird-like appeal with the raptors, that's fine for the individual movie except that the raptors have now changed pattern, form and size three times. Lost World's justification for the change was that what we were seeing was the males of the species, Nublars original inhabitants were all female. I don't know what they saw to justify walking into such a wall as that of breaking continuity with the species in part 3.With the original movie Spielberg was advised by the experts that Terranodons were not capable of the kind of aggressive manueuverability that they wanted for a climactic helicopter attack, it was also cut from The Lost World but here they have gone and used the fiction for an aviery action sequence, Terranodons are taking flight with human beings in thier claws which would according to experts not have been capable of. The ending is hardly an opening for a sequel concidering what a dull movie would spring from it, mind you the basic idea is about the only place a self-respecting sequel could go (this one comes close but doesn't really fit the bill). I have also heard people say that a dinosaur in the movie is completely fictional which is completely not true, they are all existing fossils being used in the 'size matters' school of creature feature. Viewers will note early on a small exchange between Grant and his pal noting that Spinosaurus was not on any of Ingens lists, concidering they could have got away with slotting Spiny in it's speculation as to why they drew attention to it but here's something to note. In the original, watch closely when Nedry is in the storage lab and note the names you can read as he fills up his pressure pack can, you will see Metriachanthosaurus (Met-ree-uh-canth-o-saurus) which is an earlier and smaller version of Spinosaurus (they are both in the Spinosaur family).This after seeing it seems small as a movie, not so much brief but just concise. If creature features are your gig, this one is a very traditional form of one and well worth seeing, also if it's some lavish dino action and thrills that your after look no further, it will bate your appetite until the inevitable JP4 arrives.7/10 "}{"Title":"Gimme More DINOS!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I didn't know what to expect when I first sat down before the movie started. Being a dinosaur fan since i was 5 years old, I loved the original Jurassic Park. However, I was disappointed with the second and out of loyalty, forced myself to like JP2. But this time I told myself, I am going to be totally unbiased and judge the movie not because of my fascination for dinosaurs, but on its own entertaining merits.When I had finished watching Jurassic Park III, all I could say was.. AWESOME! Being only 95 minutes long, it got straight to the point (dinosaurs) and there never was a dull or boring moment. (Although at the start of the movie there was the anticipation of seeing the dinos again). I thought good ol' Sam Neill was great and it was good to see Laura Dern again but the most impressive member of the cast was the Spinosaurus. He was an excellent villain! He had to be since there were no Nedry's or Ludlow's to worry about. I was saddened to see the demise of the T-Rex, but then again, they had to show the power of the spino and how better to demonstrate this than by getting spino to destroy the rex. (I thought it was a lucky punch though... err.. bite).The Pterandon's looked so real and the raptors were in great shape as always, however there were times when I thought the brachiosaurs weren't organic looking enough and too digital looking (like the ones in Disney's Dinosaur) especially during the episode by the river.Bottom line is, great movie but not as good as the first. That is only due to the fact that we are familiar with seeing dinosaurs at the movies already. And who cares about story loopsholes and the easy to understand story line? All I care about are the dinosaurs7/10 "},{"Title":"film + raptor = PERFECT (well nearly)","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *** SPOILERS ***As one of the biggest fans of the JP series I have been awaiting this film for at least a year (probally since 26th May 1997) and after 2 less than impressive theatrical trailers I finally got around to seeing this film despite the hype being far less than it was for the previous sequel.So was it worth the wait? DEFINITELY.The film moves at a brilliant pace and with the exception of 2 scenes in particular the film is a perfect example of how this type of film should be made, the long awaited Pterodon scene has been adapted from the token flying dinosaur scene that appeared in the first book, into on of the most thrilling scenes filmed, one that easily rivals the trailer sequence from Lost World.Top marks also go to the very welcome new dino, the Spinosaurus, the idea of a constant nemesis who turns up at the worst possible moments kept me on the edge throughout the whole film with the cell phone dial becoming as dark and ominous as the JAWS theme (see the film, you'll know what I mean). The scene with the emergency take off is absoulutely thrilling with an amazing first glimpse of the spino.As for the raptors, they please as always, the scene with the raptor head in the glass tank is brilliant and it's nice to finally see some real good running shots of them (no long grass here this time).So what stops it getting a ten, 2 things, first the ending was far to abrupt (compared to Lost World's) which is a shame because it had potential (driving the spino back at the last moment with gunfire as it bursts from the trees and destroys a chopper, now that would look cool).The other problem is the Talking Raptor Dream Sequence, like the ending this may have looked good on paper but unfortunately it didn't translate well onto the screen and is the only part of the film that doesn't suit the tone of the JP films.Apart from that the film is a brilliant action thriller and with its combo of great acting, brilliant effects and cool dinos, JP3 is a welcome addition to the JP series.Bring on part 4 "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie was my second favorite Jurassic Park movie.It has a great story.It was better than the second, but not better than the first.Alan Grant and his assistant Billy have been invited to give a rich couple Paul and Amanda Kirby a tour of Jurassic Park.But what Alan does not know it is a rescue mission for there 13 year old son.And Paul is not rich he just owns a hardware store.The plane crashes into a hungry Spinosaurus that eats the two pilots.Now the crew must find Eric Paul and Amanda alive, and the trick is they must survie themselves.See the movie it was great.I saw it two times.This movie has got it all see it.    "},{"Title":"Exciting, but slightly flawed","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved Jurassic Park. And Jurassic Park II. Therefore I was, naturally, looking forward immensely to Jurassic Park III. And I wasn't disappointed. At least, not at first. This movie is, like the two before it, an exilirating roller-coaster-ride that keeps you on your toes (or rather at the edge of your seat) for almost the entire length of the movie.Except for mainly two things (Spoiler-alert!);Firstly, the new, REALLY big dino, that chases them on two occasions is of course very intimidating. But the second time, when they escape it through the fence and it then crashes through this really really BIG and STRONG fence I thought Ooooh! Woow! Great. But why oh why is it that it then can't break down a, in comparison, weak little steel door on a tiny little building? Weird.Secondly - it feels like suddenly the budget for CGI was completely cut. I am talking, of course, about the ending. I was hoping for a clarification of what monster devoured the people on the boat in the very beginning, but no such luck. They make it to the beach, loads of army men storm in (the tention builds and builds) and then it's over. Instead of giving us a climactic finale, they just....make it. A bit sad.Nevertheless, a movie worth seeing, if for nothing else amazing SFX and CGI, and of course to see a T-Rex get it's butt kicked. "},{"Title":"fun mindless entertainment","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you want to see people running and screaming while dinosaurs chase them this is your movie.  Don't think just, sit back and enjoy the terror.The dinosaurs are fantastic.  The pteradons are menacing and not the cute little guys you loved on the Flintstones.  A true treat for dino fans.  "},{"Title":"all i can say is nice.....","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i expected the sfx to be better then jp2 but when i saw it i was dissapointed.it seemed they wanted to much dino's in it.in 1 and 2 it was just a few dino's.they where mostly robots.very scary real life robots.in part 3 it was cg.a little fake when you loke closely to the colors.to bad.and yet again the dino's use only the bad people for lunche.and the good characters ? well if they would have been eaten i wouldn't care except for sam neill from jp1.the humor was nice though.and again the story was rubbish,it's just one of the long line of  dissaponting summer movies. the best but still somewhat dissapointing "},{"Title":"Really a surprise!!!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***********SOME SPOILERS************Jurassic Park III was a pleasant surprise for me. I found The Lost World was stupid and boring, so I didnt expect a lot for this third episode. But I was wrong... Jurassic Park III has more action, more thrills and more surprises than TLW by far! I really like the flying dinosaurs scene and its always a pleasure to see the Velociraptors in action.And, of course, bringing back Sam Neill and Laura Dern to the serie was a really good decision... There characters are more interesting than Jeff Golblungs Malcolm, and Sam Neill is an excelent actor! In contrast, I found Tea Leoni and William H. Macy -specially Leoni- deserve to end eaten by the dinosaurs. And I think Alessandro Nivola is a real discovery. I really like his acting, and I hope to see his character, Billy, in Jurassic Park IV!!! Alongside Neill and Dern, of course.People say the movie is short... Well, I think it has the right length for this kind of fun-film... In these days, many films have the problem of being TOO long. They say the ending is bad. Its no good, I agree. But the end of Jurassic Park was not better (Remember? The T-REX appears suddenly, eats the Velociraptor and allows humans to run to the helicopter and... thats it). They say there are holes in the plot... I dont agree The script is simple but very effective. Some things are predictable or unbelievable? Yes... but this is an adventure film for just entertainment, not a quality film!!! Its worth the seeing.   "},{"Title":"Not quite the same.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know I was a bit surprised that Steven Spielberg didn't direct this installment of Jurassic Park. I thought that this series was his little pet project (no pun intended) and that he would have liked to have been heavily involved in the making and direction of all of them. Having said that I wasn't disappointed with what I saw but it definitely lacked the `Spielberg' feel. I guess in a way making sequels becomes infinitely harder to do as the surprise element is gone and it's especially true of the Jurassic Park series. Prior to the first movie, no had ever seen a dinosaur on screen so realistically portrayed and that element created a buzz. The subsequent movies had that `been there, done that' feel so where do you go from there? In this case (and Lost World) it means more dinosaurs, more gruesome scenes and more running, which isn't bad as long as you're not expecting anything more. This installment brings back Alan Grant (Sam Neil) with a bit of a cameo from Laura Dern. Other than that, the rest of the cast is basically new. The movie revolves around Grant being persuaded (promise of huge funding for his digs) by a couple to be their `dinosaur expert' on an alleged vacation fly-by of Isla Sorna (the island from the Lost World). Reluctantly Grant complies, mostly for monetary reasons, and he goes on this supposed fly-by with his research aid. Little does he know, the couple (played by Tea Leoni and William H. Macy) have plans of rescuing their young son who about a 2 weeks prior crash-landed while parasailing near the island and hasn't been heard from since. Grant soon discovers that he's been duped into something he has absolutely no interest in doing and basically does what he can to get off the island as quickly as he can. His morals kick in and he does the right thing but reluctantly. The storyline is there and was basically well told. Sam Neill has always been a superb actor and he does a very good job here but for some reason or other I felt it wasn't quite up to his level in the first movie. It might have something to do that he's really nothing more than a baby sitter to a bunch of ignorant city folk and if I were in his shoes would have left these people to fend for themselves if they displayed the level of ignorance they did. William H. Macy has always been a good actor and there really isn't a lot you can say negative about his performance, however, I've never been a big fan of Tea Leoni and she really doesn't do anything here for me. She portrays the distraught mother in search of her lost child but comes across dumber than a stick. Who in their right mind, knowing that they're on an island full of vicious prehistoric animals the size of large buildings, goes crashing through the forest aimlessly yelling?? Any sane person would never do that, no matter how distraught they were. Self-preservation would be the first instinct to kick in, especially after surviving a crash landing and a beating from a large vicious dinosaur. While I wasn't real fond of some of the human actors, the dinosaurs were pretty darn good. The special effects were quite well done and they didn't rely completely on CGI. The mechanic dinosaurs held their own and in a lot of ways made the scenes more real as the actors had something to work off of. I particularly liked the one scene where the mighty T-Rex fought the Spinosaur; something we really haven't seen in the other two movies and it gives us a bit of a possible look at what living back then would really be like. Overall, I liked it and would recommend it as a matinee but like I said in the beginning, it doesn't have that `Spielberg' feel to it even though he produced it.   "},{"Title":"Pure entertainment!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's got dinosaurs, it's got action, it's got nerve, what more do you need? On top of that, it's got some pretty good acting (and some *not* quite so good - shit happens) and some great music in the style of the original music. Deduct a couple of points for a terrible ending for what is otherwise a quite good and effective story, and you end up with a purely entertaining movie, worthy of my vote for 7/10. It's better than Jurassic Park II, and it's better than most of the other movies released this summer. See it! "},{"Title":"Delivers on what it promises","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I expected I would be taking the angle of the many negative comments about Jurassic Park III - and for the most part I can't disagree. The story is thin, there is very little build up of suspense, the ending is perfunctory, etc. etc. But unlike some many movies today which have such pretensions of grandeur, e.g. the awful  Mummy II, Planet of the Apes, to name two, Jurassic Park III really has no aim of being  a great science fiction story;  I beleive it was designed to be nothing but an adrenalin rush, and on that it delivers. The special effects are amazing, some of the dinosaur scenes really freaky and startling, the lighting, the entire look of the film, quite wonderful. The plot was improbable and illogical, but at least there was some humor, a minimum of sentiment, and at least the characters didn't annoy me.In a way, Jurassic Park is like one of the mindless monster movies of the 50's., updated to today's technology. No, Jurassic Park III is not a great movie, but it was a lot more honest and enjoyable than a lot of what I have seen this year. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as many people think here at imdb!!!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When i read the reviews here at imdb i was a bit surprised. I didnt expect that many negative reviews. Ok the movie didnt have me at the edge of my seat, but i truly believe that it doesnt deserve to be described as trash.In my opinion the story isnt that bad at all. Obviously they had to find a way of placing some people on one of the dinosaur islands and i think the way this happens is quite good. ( If you want to see a movie based upon a great story go watch the others - a ghost story with Nicole Kidman )The acting is pretty good throughout the whole film and especially Sam Neill and Duchovny wife Tea Leonie come up with a fine performance. Only Mr. Kurby seems to be in the wrong film. I liked his role in Boogie Nights, but since that film i have to laugh every time i see him. I just cant take him seriously anymore -)Another thing many people dislike is that the T-Rex isnt part of the cast anymore. Well thats not too bad a thing. We already saw the Rex in the first two movies. As far as i am concerned that is enough. And i do think that he was replaced by some dinosaurs who were worth watching as well.There is plenty of action and the movie is defintely not too long.( 1 h 25 min. )But i have to admit that there are facts which separate J.P.III from very good movies. The dialogues are really bad and after the first 30 minutes the characters are basically running away all the time. I think they were running even more than good ol arnie and his friends in Running Man did.The story starts off alright, but isnt developed during ther movie. And the end is absolutely horrible!!! I had a good laugh at that. Since i compose music myself i was disappointed by the score. Mr. Williams created such a great score for the first movie. Now some other guy is doing a remix of it. you do get to hear the theme from time to time, but it is always a bit different then the original one. That is a shame.So all in all i give   7/10.  "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park III should have been The Lost World","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS ALERT I was really devastated after walking out of the theatre that this film was so &#145;good'. I mean I knew JP III could not be much worse than The Lost World (what the heck did Crichton think when he wrote that book??? Probably &#145;If the first part was such a success and I would get that kind of money for a sequel I should come up with some more dino &#150; crap!'). And that was what he did. But the screen writers here actually came up with a pretty good concept.OK not all was good in this film. Michael Jeter (Udesky) was terribly cheesy (SPIOLERS AHEAD!!!) and I was terribly glad that my feeling he would die soon came true quickly. (SPOILERS END!!!) The rest of the cast was pretty OK with the exception of Laura Dern (Ellie) and Sam Neill (Dr. ALAN GRANT). Bringin those two back was a much better move than bringing Goldblum back, cause let's be honest Dern and Neill outplay Goldblum with their eyes closed and their hands behind their back. Those two are just great.In addition to that there were a few surprises in this movie (at least for me). (SPOILERS AHEAD!!!) Like in the beginning with Ellie and Alan, when I thought they were married but they were not. Or when I thought the chord to which the the paraglide was connected would break, (the zooming in on the chord gave me that impression), but it did not! (SPOILERS END).Another good thing about this movie were the effects. OK they were not as groundbreaking as in the original but they were good. The new dinosaurs all looked good. The fighting scenes were good (although not very bloody (TOO BAD)). I really like the Pteranodons (big dinosaur birds) they had in this film they were great. Just as the direction by Joe Johnston. I mean he created a good film with some really cool shots and even 2 scenes that reminded me of the original Jurassic Park. The ending scene and the scene with the boat and the herd of dinosaurs in the end. Those were really scenes that made this film surpass the stupid rip &#150; off Lost World (I leave the Jurassic Park part out on purpose). Better actors in leading or supporting roles and more epic scenes. Though as complimenting as I might be now, there were bad things too. Like in the ending, the way everyone was &#145;rescued'. Way too fictional and overblown. But the ending shots made up for that.After the huge success of Jurassic Park (over 900 Million dollars worldwide), The Lost World (over 600 Million dollars worldwide) and this one (which will probably pull about 410 Million Dollars Worldwide) there is no doubt there will be a fourth installment. I do not need it, but I will watch it (probably) if I like the Trailer, but only under one condition. Bring back Sam Neill and Laura Dern and please let them share more time together on &#150; screen. THANKS (for NOTHING???)!!!! I HOPE NOT!7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but better than the second","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I put off paying out a small fortune to see this one in the theater, and actually groaned when I first heard about its production in the first place. But my kids prevailed upon me, and I forked out nearly $20 at the box office. I honestly didn't believe that after JP-2 Hollywood could retread the same basic plot again, namely crazed Dinos chasing humans. However, this serial film is one of the few that I've seen that hasn't been more absurd than its predecessor, two exceptions were the Star Trek and Star Wars series. As a rule, most multi-sequels don't follow an intelligent formula and rely on cheap thrills or laughs to get by. JP-3 is actually fairly original, and viewers can catch on quickly even if they've never seen the first or second installments. It's got a fair number of frights and shrieks, and of course at least one idiot who you actually want to see get eaten whole. I didn't think it was as violent or gory as the first two and the language was milder, so younger kids may not have a problem with it. Overall it was far from great, but it wasn't bad at all. "},{"Title":"One amazing dinosaur movie!!!The more species the merrier )","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steven Spielberg is still the best when it comes to dinosaurs. It makes you really scream!!! With the first two installments of Jurassic Parks, it seems that the third version is predictable but more horrifying! The more the species coming up the merrier! Each species has its own ability to prey humans, and that's one very, very scary! Good frightening machine Mr. Johnston! ILM has perfected the visual effects...more fleshy dino action! Amazing! "},{"Title":"Fast paced ride back to the island of the dinosaurs","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw it, the number one movie for me this summer, I was a little worried about it since it was the third movie of the series. Nevertheless, do not worry because this is a good movie.  It's better than the second, (The Lost World) which I also liked, but still a ton of fun to watch repeatedly.  No real bad guys but a few easily solved problems between characters that is fit perfectly into the story.  It is mostly just a run though the island trying to survive until they can find help.  A missing half hour could have been used to make a much better ending but besides that a great movie to pass some time.  I gave it a score of 7/10 but with a better ending it would of got a 8 or 9. "},{"Title":"Much better...","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It seemed during this movie that the makers of JP3 were trying to expunge all memory of JP2 from the audience's collective memory. Aside from a brief mention at the beginning, the San Diego T-Rex fiasco was avoided, and instead JP3 focuses where it should A jungle-island with lots of big dinosaurs chasing little people. And it sure is fun!No analyzation of the directing, because it's not really anything to be noted (which is good, don't distract from the dinos). No analyzation of the acting, because with Neill, Leoni and Macy, you know you're gonna get good performances in roles that don't require much else. No analyzation of the plot, because it simply doesn't exist.JP3 holds true more to the originals' flare of just sitting back and enjoying the dinosaurs. Granted, the original truly is a horror/thriller classic, with great acting/directing/plot, some truly memorable scenes, and an idea that had never been done in such a way before. But the novelty is gone, and Spielberg and Co. realized that inventing new places for dinos to roam just didn't work. So back to the basics. Jurasic Park III isn't a classic movie of course. It certainly isn't as good as the original. But it is much better than the second one (Much like the Scream trilogy the 3d is done in a self-parody type of style that makes it much more enjoyable to watch). So give it a watch, but don't analyze it, please, because it just isn't that kind of flick (although I must say the end is just so incredibly tacked-on and off the wall).7/10 "},{"Title":"Good film, bad ending.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sam Neill is one of the best actors in existance and he even manages to out do his performance in the original film. The other acting is still pretty good, although there isn't actualy as much acting needed in this film as there is in the other two Jurassic Park films. The begging isn't quite as smooth as it was in the originals either, but then the action really gets going and that's when the good stuff starts. A bird cage with the humans on the inside and the birds on the outside is an interesting idea, and the 95 minute run time seems like a perfect length to show all the stuff the film has to offer. There is no wasted run time here, but things arn't rushed either. Unfortunatly the ending lets the entire film down. On the strength of Dr. Grant saying his wife's name not only does she guess exactly where he is, but she, a civilian, manages to get what looks like the entire Navy and Air Force over to site B during the last 10 minutes of the film! Only the ending lets it down, but tit lets it down a lot. 3 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Most definitley best of all!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"       Jurassic Park 3 is without a doubt the best out of the entire trilogy.  The visual and audio effects have never been better.  I am happy that they brought back the original cast Jeff Goldblums performance in The Lost World sucked.  The plot was excellent however it does seem like everytime a Jurassic Park film comes out we are seeing the same movie over and over again. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good and fun, though less acurate, entry in the great Dino Series.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *Warning Contains Spoilers*Here we are at entry number three in the fun, and often critically maligned, Jurassic Park series.  And though this may be the least scientifically accurate one, it is still a great, short blast of fun.Following the legendary Jurassic Park and the critically panned The Lost World Jurasssic Park (my personal favorite in the series), Joe Johnston directs this short, quickly paced, and very fun dinosaur movie.  With an okay premise, simple and understandable characters, and the always excellent presence of Sam Neil and William H. Macy, Johnston directs the movie like a good old fashioned Ray Harryhausen film.The story takes place after Isla Sorna (Site B) has been made public, and the world knows dinosaurs are now alive and well.  And of course, like anything interesting and extremely dangerous, stupid tourists want to see them!  Such is the case when the son (Trevor Morgan) of a divorced couple (Macy and Tea Leoni) goes sailing around Isla Nublar with his mom's new boyfriend.  Naturally, as is the case of anyone going near dinosaurs or trying to videotape Godzilla, they end up getting stranded on the island. Talk about bang for your buck.Enter Alan Grant.  Still digging in the hot Bad Lands for fossils, he's strapped for grant money.  So Macy and Leoni ask him to be a tour guide while they fly over Site B, never mentioning their true intentions of landing and looking for their son.So, despite the best of common sense from Grant, the plane lands, is attacked, and you've got a few really unlucky people on the worst place in the world.The film moves quickly, and is about 20-30 minutes shorter than the previous two.  I preffered the more dramatic aspects of the series, but I loved the atmosphere of quick adventure and fun this movie brings.  It works in a Ray Harryhausen kind of way.As a dinosaur enthusiast, I'm also glad to see more dinosaurs (though I still love T-Rex more than anything but Allosaurus).  We get Pteranodons (NOT pterodactyls!), a quick cameo of what I'm pretty sure is a Ceratasaurus, and the well hyped Spinosaurus.The scenes with these dinosaurs are excellent (even though the Ceratosaurus bit is really just a joke).  The Pteranodons attack, the Spinosaurus's introduction and finale, all are very tense and executed well on screen.However, there are, naturally, some setbacks.  And if any of you say plot holes and characterization, go watch American Beauty.  This is a dinosaur action movie damnit, not a serious drama!The main problem for me is that the suspense is somewhat killed when a 40 foot long dinosaur can't catch up to a group of mindlessly scrabbling humans.  That's what, among other things, I loved about the Lost World lots more dinosaur food.  They manage to stay far ahead of the Spinosaurus (except on water), and it loses its thrill.  Luckily, this doesn't happen in any scene with the pteranodons and the velociraptors.Which, however, is another problem.  Although the T-Rex is traded in for the Spinosaurus, the velociraptors are abundent, which is the problem.  We've seen plenty of the velociraptors in the previous two, and trying to make them more intelligent and altering their looks for this outing just doesn't cut it.  I would suggest more of the aforemention ceratosaurus.But my big complaints is really just nit-picking scientific details, so its nothing big.  The fact is that this movie is really quite less acurate to common theories on dinosaurs than the previous two.  For one thing, i doubt a Pteranodon would go after something so large as a human when its mouth is designed to catch fish, or feed an healthy teenager to its young.And for the hyped up Spino vs. T-Rex fight, the Rex would've one easily. While the Spino is bigger than the Rex, its only by about 4 feet in length. And while the Spino did have a longer head and bigger hands, it was much more lightly built than a Rex or even an allosaurus.  Its teeth weren't designed for taking down large, struggling prey, its jaws were weakers, and the Spinosaurus's trademark spine is a giant weakness.  It would have been easily damaged during a fight with any large prey.  The Rex was more muscular, had teeth and a jaw designed to crush bone, binocular vision, excellent sense of smell, and a brain twice the size of the Spinosaurs, Acrocanthosaurus, or Giganotasaurus.  Spino was just there because it looked cool.Still, the fight was cool, but not up to anything Ray Harryhausen has done.Overall, this is a well, but not excellently, made diosaur action movie. And just the words Dinosaur Movie make me want to see it again.  I'd give it 3 1/2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *Spoliers*Ok so we started with a T-Rex added a few raptors and volia we got a Spinesaurus,I generally enjoyed the film it was really good but it was incredibly short!!!! It wasn't as well written as the first or second (Another filmScream 1,2 and 3) but it was Okish.Sam Neill was very good in the first one,I think his character was a little Child-Hattish and a little non-believer in basically anything (If my rambling doesn't make much sense excuse it I'm only 13)The Kirbys were ummmm...What can I say? Paul Kirby is a very smart liar and schemer while Amanda is a mother looking for her lost son,They had very underwritten characters with no depth (My fav.Character has to be Billy Brennan (dunno how thats spelt),He was stupid but if you watched the film as many times as I did you will relise that he stole the eggs to get money for the dig,He did save Eric and risked his life to do it! Anyway I'm a big Alessandro Nivola fan so thats where all this is coming from )I do think it could have been better with like it being  on Isla Sorna so it could have been more beliveable,I agree with my friends with the fact that Amamda Kirby couldn't have been any stupider or Billy any braver(well they accually said cuter),It was a very well cast film9/10 "}{"Title":"...better then the 2nd","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No sequel can surpass the original...we all know that,but Jurassic Park III brought some competion to the original.  Of course The Lost World Jurassic Park (Jurassic Park II) wasn't as good as the first one, but I'll admit that the 3rd installment of Jurassic Park III was much better then the 2nd one. So just because you didn't like the 2nd one, don't rule out Jurassic Park III, because it does pack a mean punch...and goes way beyond the second JP installment. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Enjoyable","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's classic summer escapism. Put your brain in neutral, lean back and enjoy the ride. I went expecting something about on a par with JP II, but this was much better in my opinion. The cast was uniformly good, Sam Neill can't make a bad film, William H. Macy and Tea Leoni play very sympathetic characters, and even the people you might not like particularly, i.e. the hired help that Macy and Leoni brought along, are likable characters. It was all a little like a ride through the Haunted House at the amusement park, you know when the scares are coming and roughly what they're going to be, but you enjoy it all the same.  "},{"Title":"One of the Summer's Few Saviors","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** Once upon a time, in 1993, there was a movie called Jurassic Park. It stunned worldwide audiences with its amazing special effects, suspense, and very dark atmosphere. It quickly became one of the most succesful films in the world. A sequel was definitely inevitable...Then, in 1997, The Lost World Jurassic Park was released. It was a big disappointment, because the characters were mainly flat, boring and uninteresting. People craved for more, and the franchise lay dormant and silent for a while, no word coming out whether or not there will be a third installment in the mega franchise...Come 2001. A THIRD movie is released, entitled  Jurassic Park 3. It was one of the few chosen saving graces of this summer season, and it does its job with an energetic passion.Jurassic Park 3 had one of the biggest July openings ever, raking in $19 million in its first day. Although it basically had a nonexistent plot, JP3 was saved by its dark atmosphere, bloody deaths, aggressive leading dinosaur, and tension-wracked suspense.JP3's plot is simple. A divorced couple, hire Dr.  No force on earth or heaven could get me to return on that island, Grant and his assistant Billy Brennan to look for their son on Isla Sorna. You'll later learn that the Kirbys, as the couple is called, had to trick Grant and Billy by offering them a blank check. They also aren't billionaires. Anyway, things go wrong as the film's new bad guy, the Spinosaurus, attacks them aggressively. He even kills the T-Rex just because he wants to chase them!They now have to get out of the island and, in the process, rescue the Kirby's son, Eric.JP3 had very good graphics. This is also one of the more positive aspects of the film. The Spino-Rex Fight was done perfectly, but I wish it was extended. It was only 30 seconds long, and I think audiences need a more elaborate fight to see.Overall, Jurassic Park 3 is a great summer blockbuster that's worth your dollar. One of the summer's few saving graces.********.5/********** "},{"Title":"Not as good as i suspected","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As usual Steven Speilbergs special effects are terrific but it seemed a lot shorter than i thought it would be.The acting could be done a little better.When they're trapped by the raptors or any of the dinosaurs they could have acted a little more scared than they did. "},{"Title":"Forget Lost World","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this world of sequels and sequels of sequels Jurassic Park III has gone back to its true roots.  If Spielberg had intended to do a REAL sequel to Jurassic Park, this should have been the one he made first.  We can all be assured that Lost WorldJurassic Park will soon be lost in the shuffle as more begin to see the humor and originality of this timeless story.  Sure, its hard to look at the dinosaurs with the same sense of awe that we had in 1993, but this time, there is a real story to watch with the dinosaurs playing second characters to the returning hero Dr. Alan Grant.  Filled with subtle (and not so subtle) humor, this is the one that everyone will think of as the legitimate sequel to Jurassic Park.  Take the family and enjoy. Its worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"JP3 bettar than the 2nd worst than the first!!!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought JP3 was a great movie! But there are many things that are not filled in. For example I noticed that the third movie was more like the second book than the second movie was!!! Then there were the plot holes. What is with that Spinosaurus suddenly getting on the island?? I also saw some other dinos that shouldn't be there! When I first heard of the movie, everyone was saying it was a whole new island with new dinosaurs on it! And I don't get the raptors either. The reason they put the spinosaurus in there is because everyone was getting tired of the T-Rex. But what about the raptors? I think everyone is getting tired of them too! Why couldn't they be replaced with something like Deinonychus. And what is with the makeover they got? Wierd! The first and second movie both focused on herbivores as well as carnivores. Though the carnivores were in there more dinos such as Brachiosaurus, Triceratops, Gallimimus, Stegosaurus, Compsognathus, Parasaurolophus, and pachycephalosaurus got their deserved attention. In the third all you see of herbivores is just them running, and grazing. Yes I know they don't eat meat, but herbivores are still fascinating. And no names are mentioned of them. Okay maybe the Brachiosaurus and Triceratops get a tiny mention in the beginning but apart from that... All in all it was okay, but hopefully the 4th will be a spielsburg creation because a good series is going to waste without hiM! I give this move a 7. (for the record I gave the first a 9 and the 2nd a 6) "},{"Title":"Yathrib  & Matteo Comments","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We think that JP III is a very good film, with very good special effects made by computer, so the dinosaurs look real. Thanks for listening to us ramble Matteo and Yathrib. "},{"Title":"Action!!!!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see the movie yesterday and i must say it had a lot of action.The movie kept you clue to your seat,it seem that if you would leave your seat you may have miss a important part of the movie.There was a few times it made me jump,Everything about this movie was well done.If there be a Jurassic Park 4 i hope its just as good if not better. "},{"Title":"Best part from the first book.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The flying dinosaur and the elaborate cages Hammond created for them, was one of the best parts of the original book.  I missed it in the first movie, but thought this was a great presentation of the dire circumstances in which Grant finds himself.  Top notch acting in this one with a great cast.  Yes it was on the short side, but the story was set well, progressed within reason, and then took us for a ride.  Good product and much more enjoyable than Mummy or Tomb Raider. Now, for JP 4, they've got to incorporate the invisible dinasaurs from the second book! Joe Johnson is not Speilberg, but this has that music as character bent that Speilberg always uses. "},{"Title":"More of the same...","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was curious to see what new storylines they would use in this the third outing of Dr. Grant and co.  It was predictable drivel with the usual chase scenes and canon fodder being eaten by T-Rex etc...Have you heard all this before?  Thought so!6/10 for effects "}{"Title":"Good, especially for a third installment.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JPIII was much better than JPII, but no sequel can ever live up to the original.  The movie had great action and suspense.  Some interesting plot twists and great effects.  I don't recall any foul language, therefore it can be enjoyed by all.  The only problem I had with it was that Tea Leoni appeared to be bored the entire movie.  She never expressed much emotion or passion.  Otherwise a great film. "},{"Title":"ONE HELL OF A RIDE","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I cant understand why anyone didnt like this movie.Its a popcorn movie.Thats all.Theres not suppose to be any real character developement or real intelligent story.If you ask me,there was more character development in this movie than the first one.I hated the second movie.The basic plot of this was Man vs. Dino.The dialogue was funny at times and the pacing was excellent.If you ask me, this is what a real dino movie is all about. I think the only reason everyone prefers the JP1 was because its was the first of its kind and Spielberg did it.I wasnt expecting much from this but I was surprised how well it turned out.Well done Mr.Johnson "},{"Title":"A Logical Progression from I & II","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The story is an honest follow-up to the first two films, given human nature and government snafus.  The film allows for the passage of time, the current robust research (some of which can be attributed to the JP phenomenon), and the unfolding knowledge gained in real time since JPI.Undoubtedly, some of the film's harsher critics have not seen this film; they place characters in the wrong plot line or location, and they completely overlook a few fine satiric comments on pop culture and modern conveniences.  Over all, this movie is filled with high emotions, terrific effects, and  a cast doing a good job of portraying real people in an extreme situation. "},{"Title":"My, what big claws you have, and what a long snout you have, and what a large fin you have.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Why are people picking this movie apart. It's got dinosaurs, and their eating people, right? Isn't that what you want to see it for?It's just a movie, folks. Like i wrote in the first sequel's review, it has what a sci-fi/horror flick needs, so see it for great effects, some thrills, people being eaten by huge dinosaurs, and a whole lot of chasing.The only problem I had with this movie was the abrubt ending, it was kind of anti-climactic, but aside from that, the dino's were there, so don't be so harsh to such a simple, no-brainer movie. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Fairly entertaining summer movie. A lot better than part 2.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***Warning Possible Spoilers*** This movie seems they took some of the actions sequences from the first book that didn't make it into the first movie, and they put it in Jurrassic Park 3. While the plot isn't too good, the movie is pretty entertaining. I heard that the movie was the darkest and most violent in the series, but after seeing it, I hardly agree. I think the first is the most violent (and darkest for what the series is). I expected to just see dinosaurs chasing, fighting eachother, and eating people... but it almost seemed like they didn't have enough of that. Well... there was a lot of chasing, but in terms of eating people or anything else, the movie was a letdown. The hyped up Spinosaurus vs. T-Rex fight was a disappointment, and was about 15 seconds long. I expected the Spinosaurus to be truly frightening... to dwarf the T-Rex in comparison of being scary and mean... and although he did cause some suspense, he didn't gather up nearly enough to compare to the first JP. I don't know... maybe the effect has worn off after 2 movies. Or maybe it was the cell phone thing that killed the element of suprise. There also wasn't enough extras to be eaten. While the Spinosaurus, Raptors, and Pterodactyles were good FX, everything else seemed to need work.I actually liked all the characters with the exception of Tea Leoni, who was extremely annoying. I was at a point where I wanted to see her get chomped. I blame it mostly on the writers.Despite all the negative aspects I've mentioned, the movie is entertaining in being more of a tv pilot than an epic summer action. It was like this week on JP the series, we find out that the raptors can talk to eachother.I still give it a 6.5, or 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Take a little from the book, and the other Two Movies And...","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  PRESTO  DINO DNA.The Good No time to catch your breath, think of a plot or care about what's gonna happen next because the maddening pace is cheetah speed. Clever ploy (not plot) getting Grant to Isla Sorna. Bill, Sam and Tea turn in good performances.  It's not too hard to run in a jungle and scream loudly. It's a obstacle course movie. Plane set to Jungle set to Site B compound set with new dino spinosaur in hot pursuit.  Loved when Spino killed Rex. The fight was too cool. Goes without saying the CGI magic was seamless. What more could us dino fans want? The Bad It would have been nice to think new breeds have been created in the years following JP1 -- meaning they mutated on the island, or became different somehow.  I wanted a bit of a mystery -- something else going on under the general chase theme.  No youngster from today's high tech, spoiled up-bringing, would be able to survive 8 minutes on Isla Sorna - let alone 8 weeks. I would like to have seen Billy's theft of the eggs developed further.  Why didn't they make him a bad guy, you know an undercover henchman from Bison Laboratories. So I guess I wanted a twist.The Ugly Boy -- it was short.  I could almost hear Ian's line from JP1.  Faster, you must go faster.  Oh and the phone schtick. GIMMIE A BREAK!!!Loved it.  Great summer Movie with tons of butter on top. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable B-movie","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I  walked out of the theater to JP3 last week and got exactly what I wanted entertainment. There are many reviews out there criticizing this film for its lack of plot and character development, but that's nitpicking. The simple fact is that Jurassic Park 3 is a fun film. It's no work of art, just a good, thrilling 90-minute ride that delivers all the goods.The second sequel has Dr. Grant going along with a divorced couple to find their son, who has disappeared somewhere in Isla Sorna, an island populated by dinosaurs. They crash land their plane and the inevitable dinosaur carnage ensues, with all of the minor supporting characters getting eaten very quickly. The surviving group soon has to battle vicious raptors (who can now communicate with each other, in order to set up elaborate traps for the human victims) and battle with the gigantic Spinosaur, who is even more deadly than the T-Rex. As you could probably tell from the summary, the film doesn't waste too much time with plot. It goes full bore into the action and doesn't let up. The most exciting sequence in the film is when the group stumbles into a giant birdcage for pteranodons. This part of the film is very intense, and the flying dinosaurs are truly menacing. Another highlight of the film was the Spinosaur, a huge and frightening dino that provides for some tense scenes. Sam Neill returning as Alan Grant helped, and they don't turn his character into a soppy mess as they did with Ian Malcolm in The Lost World. One other thing I appreciated was that the kid didn't turn out to be some obnoxious plot device, like the girl in Lost World. You actually like the kid.Let us now compare two movies JP3 and Tomb Raider. Both films have the same apparent distaste for plotting and story, and both films have several plot holes and confusing moments. The only difference is that Tomb Raider was boring as all hell, and Jurassic Park 3 was exciting. This is the way to make a summer movie. I could harp on and on about the inconsistencies in the script or the flaws in the plot, but I don't need to because the action scenes pay off, and I was entertained. And that's all that matters.  "},{"Title":"an all new hit!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was amazing. I have been a huge fan of the other two and was very excited to see JP3. I noticed a couple of things about it. One thing that sticks in my mind was that I thought it was very short, not much over an hour. But don't let that discourage you cause it was one of the most action packed hours ever. The action never stopped and everytime the characters thought they were in the clear, something else came up to keep viewers on the edge of their seats. There were numerous new dinos to look at and study as well as new characters, Dr. Grant and Ellie being the only familiar ones. I thought the movie was well done, and almost left it open for a fourth (which may be pushing it). So if you haven't gone to see it yet...go! Even if you haven't seen the other two, you didn't really need to...although I highly recommend them. With new characters, dinos, peril, and surprises JP3 is a hit! "},{"Title":"Dinos look amazing, but too much of a been there done that feeling.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I admit that the dinosaurs looked cool. But does the dino franchise have to do the same thing over and over. Bunch of people came to rescue someone, instead they get stranded on the island. But i gladly say this was better than the second one. The Spinosaurus vs T-Rex fight is alone to pay for the movie. Lots of thrills, but the raptors looks horrible, make them look a bit realistic, where are these feathers coming from?. But this is better than some of the other summer offerings. There is no character development, but who cares, it's supposed to be a popcorn movie, if you decide to make a 4th one, make it something new, dinos try and invade Earth or something, don't create another island. The acting department is saved by Sam Neil and William H. Macy, although i think they both were wasted in this movie and Tea Leoni is horribly annoying, you find yourself rooting for the dinos to eat her. But if you just want to go see an action packed movie, filled with amazing dinosaurs check this one out. I give this movie 7/10. "},{"Title":"A bit short but other wise Dino-mite (yeah I know it's a stupid joke)","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is only 91 minutes, I thought it would stink, but it was sweet. There was no preaching like the first one, or weird plots like the second one. Here's the plot in a nutshell they need to get the **** off the island before they get killed, that makes it cool, so you can sit back watch some people run from some sweet looking dinos. Speaking of dinos, there is a SWEET fight between the T-Rex and the Spinosaurus, well worth the price of admission, and their is an interesting new development with the raptors, and FINALLY there was a flying dinosaur in this movie, I forgot what the name of it was, but they were sweet. My only complaint was that the ending was all-of-a-sudden, it was like BOOM! it's over, lights on get out, nothing more to see here. Other than a OK ending, this movie is chock full of kick-butt action scenes, and recovers the thrill of the first one, without the boring stuff inbetween, a nice sit-back-and-enjoy movie.  "}{"Title":"Amazing - but","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Another Jurassic Park but this time not directed by Steven Spielberg but by Joe Johnston who credits include the Star Wars series as an effects illustrator & director of Honey I Shrunk the Kids & TV programs.The story gets off a little slow, probably because most people just want to see the dinosaurs but when you do see them - WOW!!!!!.As each incarnation of Jurassic Parks come along the dinosaurs take up more & more screen time, probably about 80% of the film. Raptors hunting the people on the island down and the Pteranodons (the flying ones) are fantastic and their many scenes are ones not to be missed.The film is a lot darker than the others with more blood being spilt, with the dinosaurs killing each other, but this gives you a great insight on how they acted when they where alive.But, (*** if you haven't seen it yet don't read this part ***) what happened at the end. Actually, what happened to the end. He gets the phone, makes a call and the army turns up. No massive climax, no edge-of-your-seat ending, the sun comes up and the army are there to save them.Apart from that it's a fantastic film and fits in with the trilogy well, Joe Johnston has done us proud and i'm sure there will be another one - can't wait "},{"Title":"WOW!  Think Dino Crisis The Movie.  A few Spoilers, BUT NOTHING MAJOR.  This is pure entertainment!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man, I really wasn't expecting this.  Like most sane people, I loved the first Jurassic Park.  And, also like most sane people, I didn't care for the second. It was a real shame they screwed that up because the book was so good.  Eh, I'll save that rant for another review.  But, when I was going into Jurassic Park 3, I wasn't expecting much.  I knew the story would be about as flat as paper and the characters would suck.  Well, I was right.Ask yourself, what was wrong with JP2?  I'll tell you.  The movie had too many characters with too many motives and had a plot with a hundred pointless turns.  The thing that made Jurassic Park work so well was the situation.  A bunch of people in a theme park attacked by the attractions.  The added plus was the attractions were dinosaurs.  The second movie has a bunch of people going to another island for no real reason.  Okay, there was reason, but it was still stupid.This is where JP3 comes in.  Grant does not want to go to the island.  In fact, he's kidnapped (which is the only good plot twist in this movie).  Once the movies gets to the island, a giant chase sequence begins.  I heavily enjoyed this movie because it showed us more dinosaurs with less plot.  The Lost World tried to camouflage the stupid situation with a complex plot.  But Jurassic Park III never tries that.  It knows how stupid it is.  Basically here's the movie People get on the island, dinosaurs chase people, people get off the island.  Oh come on, you know there is a happy ending.  I won't tell you who lives and dies though.The fun of this movie is not the plot; it's the TERRIFIC dinosaur action.  This movie takes a more realistic look at the dinosaurs and a scarier one too.  The special effects are amazing.  One of the greatest scenes in the movie happens in the beginning when a T-Rex (everyone's favorite carnivore) gets into a fight with a Spinosaur (a much bigger dinosaur I have never heard of).  The camera moves around the fighting beasts in a handheld shot, panning 360 degrees.  I must say, I was worried about ILM with the Mummy Returns's crappy special effects, but they have REALLY redeemed themselves now.  The Pterodactyl sequences are equally amazing.So, in conclusion, this is not a movie for you Film Scholar people who think Brazil and Dark City are the greatest movies ever made.  This isn't for you hip writers who think David Mamet is God.  This is for the average Joe who wants to see some Dinosaurs eat some people.  I am a huge action movie fan, and let me tell you, this movie has some of the most breathtaking action sequences I have ever seen.  I have two sides to me the film side and the movie side.  The film side is the guy who likes Mamet, David Fincher, and other artistic stuff.  The movie guy loves good popcorn movies.  Believe it or not, they were both impressed with JP3.  The film guy was amazed at the camera work and special effects work while the movie guy was just impressed by the cool dinos. Sure the beginning and ending suck.  Sure it has an unbelievable plot twist (it involves the kid, but I'm not telling you what it is).  Sure the dialog is horrible and the characters (other than Grant) are stupid.  But the whole movie isn't made for these things.  It is made to impress you with cool dino action.  I was also impressed how the movie manages to make fun of itself and it's predecessors.  Several satirical jokes are made that I found rather amusing.  So, in final conclusion, if you don't like this movie, well, you're no fun. Oh, PS this isn't a kids movie, folks.  I know JP and JP2 were family friendly, but this one isn't.  The dinosaurs are extremely realistic, so just think about that.  Real dinosaurs aren't like Barney; they're monsters and I can guarantee your kid (5 yr to 10 yr) will be scarred for life if you take him into this.  This is more of a horror movie than an adventure movie. There were several small girls in my theater when I saw this, and boy-howdie did they cry and moan, Are the dinos coming back!?  Don't let them come back mommy!.  Oh, and don't take them to AI either.  "},{"Title":"Chomp Champ III","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the JP that shoulda followed the first one. That second one--Lost World-had me throwing things at my TV screen while I was vcr'ing it a couple years ago. What a boring piece of **it that one was. JPIII is Much MUCH better. And here's why...Couple Semi SPOILERS below!!  Sticks to Big Dinos chasing stoopid people through the jungle.It scares you.It doesn't let up.It is a cartoon and it Knows it.You gotta love the running cell phone gag.You gotta prefer Sam Neill to Jeff Goldblum, though I do like JG...Some folks get killed who prob. deserve it.Some folk getaway who you were Sure wouldn't.And of course everyone is made of rubber, can fall 150 feet, bounce off everything in sight, survive, get attacked by all manner of nasty beasties, live, etc.Hadda like the OverNight Delivery/Search and Rescue Team that turned up on the beaches like THAT at the end. Yup. Right there with Rambo showing up on a treelimb with an M-60 and giving it to the Spino right THERE with a flame thrower for good measure, as far's credibility goes.But who cares? It's FUN. It's Not meant to be a documentary.If you go see this, think 'Last Dinosaur', 'Gwangi' and 'JPI's best parts without the filler' and you will get what you pay for. I enjoyed it.*** outta ****. Check it out. "},{"Title":"The JP II that should have been.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JURASSIC PARK is one of my all-time favorite movies. THE LOST WORLD JURASSIC PARK infuriated me in MANY ways with it's bad casting, bad characters, PC pushing, and terrible ending. JURASSIC PARK III, however, was a very pleasant surprise. It is the JURASSIC PARK II that should have been.It IS, of course, not as good as JP, but then again there is NO way any sequel could be. There is NO way you can break the ground twice. JP was a ground-breaking movie. You just cannot do that again, no matter how great the effects are this time around (which they ARE better than JP). JP III DOES follow up the first one in ways the second movie didn't. Allan Grant is back. He was my favorite character in the first one so having him back makes this one (unlike TLWJP) feel like a Jurassic Park movie. The sense of awe is back briefly with the initial fly-over of Isla Sorna and when the group is on the river. What is also back is the JP Theme by John Williams. TLWJP DID have the JP Theme for a few seconds after the John Hammond scene and in the end credits, but it needed it throughout, like JP III. One of the big reasons the first one was so good was because of the music, which (like Spielberg's directing) I feel Mr. Williams was very off in the second movie. Seeing the pteranadons FINALLY make an appearance in a JP movie (they were in the original book) was VERY good. YES, they WERE REAL creatures, though NOT actually dinosaurs. It was also great to see the Spinosaurus (also a REAL creature). I'm glad to see someone FINALLY showing that there were carnivorous dinosaurs OTHER than T-rex. Ellie Sattler was also good to see back. I liked her purpose in the movie as Allan's guardian-type. I WAS sad to see that she and Grant were not together, though. I feel the only problem with this movie was it's length (which I've noticed MANY other people had a problem with). The film DID seem a tad rushed in a few places, but I think it's all-around fine. What we really want to see in a JP movie are the dinosaurs, not build-up and resolution. Let's not fool ourselves. TLWJP and JP III ARE action movies. I don't believe the first one should be put in the action genre, but second two should and that's OK. Again, what do we expect? And, again, you can't break the ground twice.One question, though When Erik says to Grant Billy was right, what in the world was he talking about? What was Billy right about? They never say. Oh, well. Not important, I guess.Overall I give JP 10/10, TLWJP a 2/10, and JP III an 8-9/10. JP III is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Not what you think","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see this movie mostly to make fun of it and to see why anyone would possibly want to go back to those islands.  I was pleasantly surprised...It has a viable plot, the dino's are better than ever, and scared me out of my seat. "},{"Title":"Third time is the charm","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to be the best of the three jurassic park movies. I went to see this thinking it can't beat Lost world but i was wrong. This movie gives us what we want Dinosaurs, this has much more dino action than the last two and it is even more stunt action and gripping than before "},{"Title":"Back to basics","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This quick paced movie does its job.  It ends with the audience wanting more.  The second film dragged out to the point where it got boring and ridiculous.  This one had very few slow parts and rolled along nicely.  It was very intense in parts, like the first movie but yet seemed very original.  The plot was a little weak but who expected anything else.  It was exactly what it was suppose to be, fun to watch and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Better than 2 but a far cry from JP1","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Had a very scary opening scene but after that  is too fast.Only thing JP2 had better was a climatic scene in San Diego which was more corny than scary. In JP3spoiler warning there is not such a scene, the only major scene i thought was good was right after they crash on the island in the beginning . The movie is rather short ,I clocked at about 90 minutes and its wrapped up rather abruptly  ,i think Steven Spielberg not being behind the camera this time and just producing the film made a big difference in it being a 7/10 instead of a 10/10 in my scale.The director is rather an unknown and doesnt have that touch that spielberg made great in JP1. Still I would see it again with friends just to watch the amazing CGI effects on the dinosaurs. The plot and characters do ok but not enough to hold most of the movie up ,still good entertainment and a few scares. i recommend it but dont expect a JP1 feel if you havent seen it yet. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly, the worlds worst movie.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I mean, even the credits were horrible. Theres gonna be spoilers, so if you dont want to hear anything about the movie, stop reading now. The movie makes no sense, dinosaurs talking....HA. Tea Leoni, HA. What was she thinking, my husband made a dinosaur movie, maybe I should. HA. I could understand William H Macy being involved, all those low bud. Coen brothers movies must be affecting how many zeros are in his bank account, and Sam Neil, WTF. BUT THE BIGGEST TRAVESTY, the writers. The team that wrote one of the best recent movies, ELECTION wrote this? I mean, the lost world was horrible, but this should have been straight to video, like the little mermaid 2. "},{"Title":"Have no fear, III is here.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To understand how I view J.P.III you really have to know my thoughts on J.P.I. How many times have you gone to a movie and had a life altering experience? It didn't actually change my life, but it certainly altered my perspective on technology. When I went to J.P.I in the summer of 1993, those were real dinosaurs up there on the screen. Of course, I knew they were really just movie magic, but that night it was mighty easy to believe in magic. My favorite thing about J.P.I was the sensitivity portrayed between the key characters. The Allen Grant character interacting with Laura Dern, and especially with the kids. Then they had sarcastic Jeff Goldblum playing against the sensitivity, which made him very funny and enjoyable to watch. But, make no mistake about it. It was the heart in that movie that made it so wonderful. A few years later, J.P.II came along. What was that all about? Spielberg went with the sarcasm of Goldblum to make the movie work. What was he thinking? You figure a person like Spielberg knows what he's doing, and then you find out he may well have been flying blind after all. So, what's good about J.P.III? The monsters are good, especially the flying ones. The sense of humor is pretty good. Allen Grant exudes the sensitivity that is so important to make these J.P. movies work. Macy is the bomb. I & II have wonderful characters. What's wrong with III? I think they really missed the boat with the fear factor. In J.P.I, everyone on the island understood what a tremendously scary situation they were in, and they convinced me! It was not the scary dinosaurs that invoked the terror in me, it was the terror I felt from the human characters. In J.P.III it was just wrong that, unless there was a dinosaur breathing in their face, most the characters seemed oblivious to their dire situation. My son said the movie wasn't scary. Well, no wonder he felt that way when even the participants seemed to think they were merely hiking through a boy scout camp, unless they happened upon a monster. Ad to this that Tea Leoni was miscast, and you have my only gripes. But, all-in-all, this movie was very fun and worthy for you to be exited to see.      "}{"Title":"Decent Timekiller","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III obviously doesn't live up to the original, but in judging it on the Jaws 2 model of a formula story that just delievers some fun with a couple of the characters returning, it succeeds quite well.   It is certainly infinitely better than The Lost World which sank heavily under a weight of boring pretentiousness, as well as a thoroughly irritating cast.    Probably the best moment of JPIII comes with the one reference to the absent Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) who was the centerpiece of the Lost World.  The dismissive remarks of young Eric about how preachy Malcolm's book on the dinosaurs was, which meets the approval of the returning Alan Grant (Sam Neill) is a beautiful in-joke puncturing of the hot-air balloons that weighed down Lost World.    In JPIII, the filmmakers wisely decided to just give us some fun for an hour and a half, and I was overall impressed. "},{"Title":"Has anyone told James Cameron?","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILERS*OK, here's the plot... Survivor of a terrible monster encounter is tricked into going back to reface the same creatures on a rescue mission, accompanied by 'hardcore' soldier types. On arriving, the overly confident soldiers are wiped out and our hero is forced to lead the mission to safety. Along the way, they pick up a kid who has survived there for weeks; are almost betrayed by a greedy party member; and have to rescue the kid from a nest full of the critters. There's even a final battle involving a loading machine (What else would you classify a crane as? ;-) ).Am I the only person who sees an 'Aliens' rewrite here? "},{"Title":"Superb popcorn entertainment","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Essentially, Jurassic Park III was inevitable from the time Jurassic Park and its inferior sequel, The Lost World, made more than $1 billion worldwide. What wasn't inevitable was that it would be any good. Thankfully, new director Joe Johnston has stepped into Uncle Steve's shoes to deliver a popcorn movie of the very highest calibre.The plot is at a bare minimum. A little kid and his step-dad go missing after hang-gliding over Isla Sorna, the island of dinos that we saw in The Lost World. Obviously, folks Tea Leoni and William H. Macy have not resigned themselves to the fact that their son has become dino food in the eight weeks they haven't seen him, and con Alan Grant (Sam Neill, reprising his role from the original Jurassic Park) into giving them a guided tour as they fly over the island. As you would expect, not everything goes to plan and the passengers are left to fend for themselves on an island crawling with nasty dinosaurs - more variety than ever before.Leaving out dragging plot which blighted The Lost World, Johnston has pulled out all the stops to deliver thrill after thrill as the ragtag bunch of characters try to get off the island alive. Essentially, the movie is a 1 and a half hour string of dinosaur set-pieces, with raptors, pteradons (winged things) and spinosaurs thrown into the mix, as well as some breathtaking landscapes and seamless special effects. What Johnston has achieved is no longer a special effect - these dinosaurs are real. They look real, move realistically and fight realistically. For once, you cannot differentiate between CGI and the real thing.William H. Macy and Sam Neill are superb in their roles as dorky, worried father and smooth, calm palaentologist, and elevate an otherwise average script to something much better. Tea Leoni is annoying as usual and survives one too many scrapes for my liking, but her son gives an irritation-free performance. The ending is a little convenient and the movie ends a bit abruptly, leaving you to wonder what happened to the last 20 minutes, but it allows you not to think about it too much and simply enjoy a 90-minute pure thrill ride. "},{"Title":"Doesn't disappoint, but doesn't fulfil.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a huge fan of the franchise, I have to say firstly that JP3 does not disappoint. It has just enough to make it a worthwhile film. Sam Neil is fantastic as is William H. Macy, the rest of the cast isn't awful either. The spinosaurus was a fantastic addition and most of the effects were phenomenal. The plot was engaging..... but something was missing.Another user commented that hollywood seems to see only as far as the bank and I would share this view. Watching JP3 reminded me in many respects of tomb raider. Every event we witnessed seemed a token of what could and maybe should have happened. Like tomb raider, JP3 comes across as nothing more than an extended trailer! The raptor plot was barely explored, events and characters from the previous two films were whispered in passing, the t-rex made one scene and that merely served to assert the dominance of the spino. Worst of all, the subversive intellectual plot lines from the first two dropped for an extremely cheesy and unnecessary family values plot saved only by Macy's convincing but strained performance.Apparently there were numerous re-writes of the script. It is easy to imagine that there was once perhaps a purely intellectual script and a purely adventure script. JP3 comes across as an incomplete amalgamation of the two, desperately trying to offer interesting twists (like where did the spino come from since it wasn't on Ingens list and why did no one come across it in the lost world?) but failing to deliver and instead offering up a platter of short scenes to the fidgety and easily bored MTV generation that make up the target audience. "},{"Title":"Good, but the weakest in the series","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The latest Jurassic Park film is good, but not great.  The second one wasn't great either, but it was better than this.  JP III totally lacks the suspense of the first two (the first is one of the most edge-of-your-seat films ever), and very many elements of it are borrowed from other movies. Having just seen it about half an hour ago, I can recall one thing that came from the first JP, two things that came from the second, something out of Alien, and of course, a little Godzilla here and there.  Now of course, the special effects are fabulous.  Everything in JPIII looks great (with the possible exception of Tea Leoni's boring hairstyle.)   Yet at the same time, I came home from the theater and looked up spinosaurus and pteranadon in the dictionary to make sure these were real animals that actually lived on earth once.  They were, but somehow these things looked like something made up for a movie (not to mention the bit about the velociraptors being able to talk to each other and possibly be smarter than dolphins or even us.)  These things may indeed be factual based on all current paleontological research, but I think it was safer to use average-intelligence velociraptors, and T-Rexes and other familiar species that don't appear quite so... mythological.  Despite the great CGI effects, I somehow felt from time to time like I was watching a dinosaur movie from the 1960s.   I appreciated all the actors; I'm glad Sam Neill was back, and I wish Laura Dern had had a bigger role.  The newcomers did well (but heaven forbid that children young enough for Sesame Street should see this movie and witness Mr. Noodle getting mauled by a raptor!)  There is also virtually no profanity, which is a definite plus.  The absence of Jeff Goldblum makes this JP a lot less funny that the others, but there are a few very clever humorous moments. But the plot is rather uninspired, disjointed, and the movie is amazingly short.  It's eye candy and excitement, but no real thrills, at least compared to the other two.  And then there's that abrupt ending.  It left me saying to myself, Is that it?  This is not good for a movie with Jurassic Park in its title. Spielberg didn't direct this one, and I think it shows. Maybe III is simply enough, or maybe if there's a IV (which I'm sure there will be), we should hope that Spielberg directs it, and hope for a better story and two full hours to tell it. "},{"Title":"lots of really good action from beginning to end,must see 'popcorn' film this summer, weak plot thou.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP1 had story little action,JP2 had a bit of both,JP3 has very good effects, but aside from a bunch of people running in the jungle i didn't get the plot, also more people could have been eaten. however nice touches with connecting all three stories,more witty and better jokes than the other two... better than the rest of the action movies this summer  "},{"Title":"Definitely Worth the Price of Admission!!!!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had anticipated this film since I first heard of it beginning production back in 1999.  It did not let me down.  Ignore other  reviewers and go see this film!  Academy award winning plot? Nope.  Academy award winning special effects? YES!!!  The dinosaurs are the stars!  (Not faulting the actors who were VERY believable in their parts) This film ENTERTAINS! that's exactly what it is supposed to do.  I'm going again AND I will purchase it on DVD the minute it becomes available.  I refuse to give anything away, you need to see it with your own eyes.  But I will say the pteronadon sequence alone is worth it!!  Now go!!!  It's a perfect summer movie experience!!  "},{"Title":"better then the second but not the first","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  jp3 was good,great and spensful. The first is still the best. But the first is always the best in every movie they make. I do say that jp3 was alot better then jp2. Jp2 was just not my movie. I guess because the original cast was not there. jp3 had a lot more action. They were being chased all the time by dinosaurs. What a good movie 10/10 "},{"Title":"Before seeing this movie look at the title... Jurassic Park tells you about dinosaurs, III tells you what too expect!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot is simple, a team, led by Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neil from the original movie, Jurassic Park), goes on a plane to Isla Sorna overlooking the island and basically a guided tour! But before you can say Incredible plot twist the plane is stranded with a 40 foot dinosaur chasing them! They're alone and there 'aint any way of getting off - not only this they are stranded with a bunch of dinosaurs! All this takes place in the first 20 minutes! Diving straight into the plot, the characters become more involved and there are a few hidden closets revealed... as well as a crazy dinosaur hunt! The plot is quite unique compared to the first two. Although many people may assume there is no special and fun content to JPIII, there is! It may have it's similarities to it's predecessors but there is much more too this sequel including new species, new ideas and new fears! It has the same element of making the hairs stand up on the back of your neck however JPIII can also be distinguished by it's good character development, it's brilliant plot and it's excellent acting. Jurassic Park III may not have the same thrills and scares as the first yet definitely gives the second a beating! I thoroughly enjoyed the movie - not just comparing it to the first two but as a singular movie! It may not have the Speilberg touch as did the first one yet definitely has a little extra spice of it's own, donated by Joe Johnston! I give it 8 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Better than Lost World","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP-1 was excellent, JP-2 simply pathetic, JP-3 not as good as JP-1 but much much much better than JP-3. I had  issues with the way it starts introducing the characters, in particular William.H.Macy and Tea Leoni, also the way Macy introduces himself to Sam Neill, I felt was kind of corny and the final issue I had was the way the movie ends, with an additional 10 minutes maybe these guys might have been able to make the ending a lot more exciting than it is.The presence of Sam Neill and Laura Dern, kind of brings nostalgia to the JP-1, good action scenes, good humor, overall a nice entertainer. On a scale of 1-10, a healthy 7. "}{"Title":"This movie aims to please. And it did.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie. Like it or not, this movie is more of a sequel to Jurassic Park than the Lost World ever could be.This movie is definitely not a yawn. If anything there are too many action scenes close together at the same time. But you know what? Even though lots of things in the movie will not make sense (most critic that bashes this movie knows that) what's inside the action scenes do make sense and that's what counts. The actors were great. The same you don't mess with mother nature idea still works and there are more thing adds to that. (when The Lost World almost looses that whole idea)I am not happy with the way most dinosaur are computerize which makes them seem a little bit fake. But the raptors aren't computerize and they look and move like a real lizard. The scientists still disagree with how them raptors should behave, but at this point those things are just opinions.One of the thing I truly love the most (a little bit of spoilers) is that T-Rex is no longer the big bad dino. There is a new bigger and more powerful than T-Rex and its fighting scene with T-Rex is just amazing (whose the victor of the fight you should probably can all ready guess. But if you still don't know then I guess I can't ruin it for you.) And another very neat thing is that the big dinosaur happens to ate a cell phone at one point in the movie. After that, everytime when the heroes heard the cell phone rings that means the big guy is coming. >A silly yet genius little replacement to the water being vibrate from the first one.To conclude, this movie is silly, but it's a genius thinking kind of silly. It's a very enjoyable movie and I love it. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun...but why so short?","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic 3 was probably the movie I was most anticipating this year. Even more so now that none of the big blockbusters so far have really blown me away. That said, Jurassic 3 came very close to being the first movie of the summer that didn't disappoint. Not surprisingly there were great fx, but I also really enjoyed the human characters (Sam Neill was especially good in a role he could have phoned in if he felt like it). The only major flaw was that it was so short (barely 90 min compared to 2 hours for the first two). When the credits star rolling there's a sense that someone forgot to tag on another 15 or 20 minutes to the thing. But, that said, what we have here is a tight, theme park ride of a summer popcorn movie. Plus there's flying dinosaurs, what more could you ask for?  "},{"Title":"not as corny as expected.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was actually a good movie.  Everyone I talked to expected it to be pretty corny, and i have to say I agreed with them.  But now, I must say it was actually pretty good.  It's WAY better than The Lost World, and I commend Joe Johnson for taking the big role of director, having to fill Spielberg's shoes.  It was filled with action, so if you want a good action movie, this is the one to go see.  I really don't recommend it for children though.  There were quite a few kids there when I saw it, and i really don't think it was appropriate for young children to see.  There is blood and violence, and they should wait till they are older to see it.  Other than that, it was a very well written and directed movie.  And I must say that Alessandro Nivola is a very good actor, and very cute ). "},{"Title":"JP -> I love it  TLW -> I like it  JPIII -> I LOVE IT","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is great and impressive. Everything is great, but not their character.  This movie hasn't really focus on each character in this movie. The movie ends with weak characters.  But it didn't really bother me at all.The story line seems interesting and simple.  This time the movie seems to focus on humans not dinosaurs. In JP - humans got the control over the dinosaurs. In TLW &#150; humans chase the dinosaurs. Now in JPIII &#150; humans look for a human. OF COURSE those three movies got the dinosaurs chasing the humans.  I think it's cool and also I'm very impressive with this story since I heard that the script wasn't actually done during making this movie.The common opinions from the audience are `TOO SHORT' This movie only lasted for 102 minutes.  To be honest the story did squeeze into 102 min.  Fast paced and lots of things happening to keep your heart thumping. The action begins after 10 minutes from the beginning. This movie also have new dinosaurs, it also got the audience's attentions. The dinosaurs' evolution showed very clearly.  I love it.  This movie show more dinosaurs' intelligent. WOW!! If they're still on this god's green planet. Humans will become extinct!!!  I do recommend you all to watch this movie, because it's fun to watch. Nothing to think hard or figure something out during the movie. "},{"Title":"If you liked 1 & 2, you're gonna LOVE 3!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a ride!I have looked forward to this movie for months....but that usuallymakes a movie fall short for me...never quite living up to myexpectations.  Such was not the case with Jurassic 3....there wereno slow spots, it's action followed by thrills at every turn! "},{"Title":"Good, old-JP fun.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP3 has more in common with the original movie than the second.  I liked that.  It also showed tons of improvements in the ways the dinosaurs did their thing, and also the dinosaurs looked a little bit better.  The action was played out pretty well and seemed very creative.  I gave it a 9 because of the plot it just didn't seem to natural or realistic as the first but it was still good enough. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but still worth watching","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The special effects were outstanding.  It was nearly impossible to tell what was real and what wasn't.  The plot was not that great, but the action was good, and the effects were well done.  This is not as good as the first one, but it is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece? No. Fun? Yes.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't want to sound like the average joe of a dwindling society of mindless movie watchers, but i am a big fan of the jurassic park idea. When the first movie came out i was barely hitting puberty, but ever since, i could rely on the movie for an escape to the fantasy world that Spielberg took our imaginations a step further, into the mysteries of the land of the dinosaur.  Despite some far fetched factual fallacies, overall Jurassic Park III, was a fun filled film.  (i'm kinda tired right now so bear with me)  I thought the humor was cute, and although the plotline and scenes of dramatic irony were simple, the movie did its job to entertain.  This movie was not made to achieve greatness as an overall masterpiece film, this movie was made to entertain.  After all, what more can you expect from a Jurassic Park movie? "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, it's not as visionary as Jurassic Park, and it doesn't have the science vs. nature debates that made its predecessors better. But it's a lot of fun. Sure, there are some odd moments, and the very ending is just atrocious, but it's a fun monster movie. I was reminded of ANACONDA. Again, it's a matter of taste, but I rather enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"Easily the Best of the Three","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The major downfall of Jurassic Park & The Lost World were that they focused far too much on a story that was weak at best.  Let's face it, when people go to a dinosaur movie, what do they want to see?  Dinosaurs fighting people & eachother.  The first one seemed to have little of that element compared to the second, which incidently had the worst story of all.Simply put, Jurassic Park III is a dinosaur movie.  Lots of action, lots of dinosaurs, special effects which are top of the line, and just plain fun to watch.  In fact, Jurassic Park III only had enough story to put the people on the island.  This is to its credit.  I give Jurassic Park III, 9 out of 10 stars.  What can I say, I just had a darn good time while I was watching it.  "}{"Title":"A worthier sequel than JP2","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the start, returning Alan Grant to the story makes the movie farbetter. Briefly mentioning the second film, JP3 is really more of asequel to the first film, and retains the spirit of that film a lot moreclosely. Not only is the story much tighter, but JP3 takes itself andits subjectmatter seriously, sparing us the embarrassment of the wholeSan Diego episode in the second film. Director Joe Johnston wrings somenice moments with mostly new dinosaurs; there's a sense that they wantedthis one to be different, and they succeeded. While it's unlikelythefirst film will never be topped, this sequel is an excellent attempt.Based on this, a fourth film would be j "},{"Title":"Lots of Fun","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There isn't a serious moment in this movie, which is much to its credit.  Now that Spielberg has passed the franchise on to more devious, less fixated minds than his own, the sense of real play and a welcome nastiness pervades the story, the characters, and even the kids.  How nice it was to go to a film from the Spielberg factory and discover the presence of odious children.  I enjoyed the film far more than either of its tedious, talky predecessors.  The film is as light weight as a meringue, but, Hey!  It's summer.  What do you want? "},{"Title":"It's the same old thing, but it's still fun.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Joe Johnston doesn't quite have the same flair of building suspense that Steven Spielberg does, but then, who does? Jurassic Park III has less plot than either of it's predecessors, and the ending comes on too suddenly. But still, Johnston does a very capable job creating one of the most fun adventure films of the summer. It's great to see Sam Neill and Laura Dern reprise their roles from the original, and William H. Macy adds a lot. It has a lot of flaws, but for those of us who are huge fans, Jurassic Park III is a great thrill ride movie. "},{"Title":"Spino is quite a Dino...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a very entertaining movie. I wouldn't say it has the scope of the first, and not as intense as the second, but it's very good movie in it's own right. Some good humor, and one of the best one on one battles ever. Only bummer is that's it's a bit short, could have gone on longer. 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Satisfying and good fun","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had been looking forward to this film for a while. I remember about two years ago the theatre I work at got the poster for it...wow, has it been that long? Well at first I laughed at the idea, I admit, A third Jurassic Park?! Come on! But then as time went on and I saw footage, I was very impressed. And now, after watching a sneak preview of it at my work tonight, I still am impressed. The sequences with the dinosaurs are effective and jolting. The raptors are truly as awesome as ever. The new spinosaurus is also quite scary, and the pteranodons are WICKED. The scenes with them are truly new and something not seen before. Showing the young boy attacked by the baby pteranodons was freaky and makes you shiver. My favorite scenes will always be those involving the raptors, because they are the most vicious and therefore the most satisfying in these kinds of movies. My only complaint - which is very small - is that this film didn't have ENOUGH chase scenes. It had a lot, it's true, and all of them were very impressive, but I still left feeling like there should have been MORE, LONGER chase and strategy scenes. Scenes like in Lost World where Ian is fighting a raptor off in the car while Sarah and Kelly are digging away in the barn, then Ian races from the car into the glass room, the raptor jumps through, Ian races into the barn and fends off another one...Scenes like this where it was nonstop Watch out!..WATCH OUT! OH!! WATCH OUT!! True, the raptor scenes in Jurassic 3 were the best in the film, where Alan stands, turns around and comes FACE TO FACE with one, and then suddenly he's surrounded. That's the good stuff! And it needed more! Of course I'm not dissatisfied with the final film, it just would have been EVEN better with more. ANd Laura Dern was a pleasure to see as always. She reminds me ALOT of a past girlfriend I used to have - they look almost EXACTLY alike. Speaking of her, interesting fact, her brother came to visit the set in Hawaii and disappeared. They never found his body and he's presumed dead. At least, that's what's reported on IMDb. Interesting and chilling. Anyway, the film was good fun, and I'll be seeing it many a more time, as well as buying to add to my JP collection. Well worth a look. "},{"Title":"it's summer, it's dinosaurs, it's what we want","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just a quick  finally, a summer movie with SOME payoff here from corn country.  How anyone is so jaded as to not have fun with 94 minutes of dinosaurs is beyond me.  Is the end abrupt? Yes.  Did I care? No.  I understand that A.I. is the only film that will ask us to think this summer, but this is the only one of the 'blockbusters' that didn't make me wretch so far this year. One sixteenth of a brain was enough. "},{"Title":"Not that Bad!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was really hyped up to see this film as i really liked the first two! I'll start by saying you can tell it's not Spielberg directing, but notherless Johnston's done a good job.....except for that ending! You can't help but feel the projectionist has missed a reel out! Anyway it has some good moments, the fog scene, the mobile constantly going off I thought was very clever. I t was also nice to see Neill and Dern back! If only they could have got Goldblum and Dickie too! What a treat that would have been! It's alot darker than the other two and a litlle more violent! But seeing the film through  a child's eyes you cant help but love it! "},{"Title":"Just try the pterodactyls","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alright, do i even need to say it?  It's something i'm sure you have already heard before NO this isn't as good as Jurassic Park.  NO this isn't Spielberg and Chrichton anymore.  NO it doesn't have a moving storyline, nor complex character development. Did you really expect it to?I'll admit I'm a bit of a movie elitist, often looking down on my friends when they jet off on a Friday night to see the brand new blockbuster. And they look down on me when i try and convince them that subtitles aren't all that bad.  But i was excited about this movie.  I was excited because i had no expectations whatsoever (after The Lost World, who could?).  No, wait, i did have one expectation i wanted to see dinosaurs run amok and eat people. If you go to the theater expecting that, i promise you won't be disappointed.  Let's face it folks, Jurassic Park is dead.  With the first film an action film icon, and the second one the butt of all sequel jokes, Joe Johnston had quite a job ahead of him.  How could a director pit his action scenes up against the same man who did Jaws, Raiders of the Lost Ark, and Jurassic Park?  It's impossible.  So instead of going to this film and constantly comparing every nuance to Chrichton's dinos, or Spielberg's directing, just relax, pop a few Valium, and watch dinos attack things and munch on people. I did, and i came away feeling ok.I enjoyed the pterodactyl scene very much, it was probably the best action sequence in the film.  Johnston manages to orchestrate some suspense while at the same time introducing a new dinosaur that doesn't try to out do the others.  That was the reason the new Spinosaurus lacks some chutzpah, because he's just a meaner T-Rex with a different snout.  Ah, but flying dinosaurs we haven't dealt with yet. There's several lighter moments which actually don't hurt the film, as well as a handful of references to the past two films which keeps the fans interested.  True, the plot's thin, as well as the characters, but Alan Grant (Sam Neill) is a much more enjoyable (and believable) protagonist than The Lost World's Ian Malcom (Jeff Goldblum).  I would say that a rugged paleontologist has a better reason to be facing off against dinos than a quirky mathmatician.So if you're dead set on spending the afternoon watching something intellectually stimulating and though provoking, better not see this movie. But if your eyes have started to hurt from subtitles, and you've had a strange desire to see large lizards create panic and terror, then this is the movie for you.  Remember, no expectations, and there will be no regrets. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some would make you believe, just not destined to blow an intelligent viewer away.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It should be stated up front, I kind of liked Jurassic Park III. It has more efficient action than the first, and there is no lack of sensible thought like the second film seemed to feature. Its just a good old time at the movies, when films like Pearl Harbor and The Mummy Returns fail to deliver the goods. It has alright acting from such notable actors like Sam Neil to the always dependable William H. Macy, and the screenplay from the writers of Election never fail to deliver jokes that should at least elicit a smile from an audience member(I especially liked the use of Barney the Purple dinosaur for one crucial scene, and the location of a certain sattelite phone that won't stop beeping.) There is also a scene featuring Pteradons that for my money excedes the Dog warriors of Anubis scene in The Mummy Returns. So if your're looking for something fun see crammed in among all the crap thats invaded the theatres this summer, try out Jurassic Park III. Its not that bad. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park without Speilberg?","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hmm, how to describe JP3. In relation to the other two, its not as good. The films main two flaws are that its far more cheesy than the other two and that theres hardly any suspense. New dinosaurs just suddenly appear with no celebration or anything. Its an all out running film, which is probably why the film is so short. Only about 90 minutes. The story is pretty much the same as The Lost World, with a team being assembled to go to Site B to rescue someone, but ending up being chased by all sorts of dino's, on land, sea and air. On a positive note, Sam Neill returns as Dr.Grant, which helps move on the trilogy. The effects are brilliant, much better than The Lost World (which I thought were actually worse than JP's),and you can really see where all the moneys gone. But all the special effects in the world can't really make up for the cheesy and un-original script, average directing and a predictable plot. The climax is also a huge let down. But, all that aside, JP3 is an enjoyable romp through familiar ground with some amusing moments, but is just lacking that Speilberg touch which made the other two so enjoyable... "}{"Title":"short adrenaline ride","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is pure hollywood action adventure with a bad plot and mediocre acting expect for sam neeil, the action sequences are really entertaining in this movie and the dinasaurs are better animated then in jurassic park and the lost world, but the script really sucked and i think william h macy and tea leoni both did a bad job and they didnt seem to fit in this movie as the couple lookin for their lost son,tea leoni was just annoying and william h macy was like a bystander in the whole movie but usually he does a good job in ex. fargo,,sam neeil as alan grant is one thing why i went to see this one, hes like indiana jones battling dinosaurs and did perform well,,it was a real dissapointment he didnt was in lost world also the best parts in this flm must be the awesome fightning sequence with the spinosaurus and the t-rex, that is all u will see of the famous t rex in this movie but the spinosaurus are a good replacement which will not dissapoint u, hes a crazy sonofbitch  of course this sequel are not better than spielbergs master piece jurassic park, but its much better than lost world which really sucked ,i give this one a 7 of 10  "},{"Title":"Another Dinosaur Movie","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie is basically the same as all the others.  First the oh-ah, then the running and screaming.  (who didn't see that one coming?)  The dinosaurs in this one seem to be more realistic with technologies help no doubt. The movie is more intense than the other two.  It keeps you at the edge of your seat for the majority of the movie.  It's as predictable as the other two but I give it two thumbs up.  If you like Jurassic Park, you'll like Jurassic Park 3. "},{"Title":"give this movie a break...","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, first of all, it seems as though the comments I'm hearing about this movie are all very negative - saying it's not believable, it's predictable, etc.  Well, let's remind ourselves for a minute that it is about dinosaurs! They don't exist anymore and they never will - it's just a movie, people!! Sorry, I had to get that off my chest...anyway, it all boils down to entertainment.  I was completely entertained by this movie.  It was definitely better than the second JP, but not as exciting as the first one -- but then, of course, we had no idea what we were in for.  Sure JP3 is predictable and cheesy at times, but look at the visual effects and the suspenseful aspects of the movie.  This is a movie you should go to just to sit back and enjoy...don't nitpick every little thing that you think is way too far-fetched!  It's far-fetched to even think that this could happen in the first place!  That's why it's a movie.  It's suppose to be fun and entertaining and this film is both.  Just keep that in mind. "},{"Title":"short and to the point","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It ain't Hamlet. But you weren't expecting to see Hamlet. When you go to see a JP movie, you are going to experience excitement both visceral and visual...and this third installment delivers these very well. In fact, it betters the first two installments in that it a) gets right into the story without a lot of character-developing preamble, b) gives some of its dino characters more intriguing motivation than we're REALLY hungry and c) dispenses with some of the dry, textbook-like dialogue on unrelated chaos theory and they shouldn't'a done this debate. Yes, the storyline veers, unstreamlined from one danger to the next, and yes, science is pushed again to the side in favor of bigger dinos who can do more dino-damage and pterosaurs who can fly off with humans who in reality would be twice their own weight. But so what?  It was unmitigated fun...and that pretty much IS what you would go to see a JP movie for. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as what some people have said...","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Do they break new ground on plot development,not really, but they do add interesting aspects to the veloceraptors, introduce new dinosaurs and generally take us on a 90 minute thrill ride.Overall worth the price of admission. The introduction to new dinosaurs otherwise absent in the previous movies are a welcome addition and alone worth seeing. The acting was fine. C'mon look at the cast... Sam Neil is a class act, William Macy is very good as well. The young man in it, i believe his name is Alessandro Nivola, did a great job. So be prepared to suspend disbelief and enjoy the movie for what it is. A damn good adventure story. I mean really, it's not supposed to be the sequel to War and Peace. Its Jurassic Park ;) "},{"Title":"What a ride!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a knock-out!!!! Action, action and action! Jurassic Park 3 is the kind of film you'll want to see again and again.Efficiently directed by Joe Johnston and starring Sam Neill, Ta Leoni and William H. Macy, Jurassic Park 3 will give you the chills.This is certainly the darker movie of the Jurassic saga. Although a little shorter than its predecessors, this installment is paced so well that you won't even realize the shortness of JP3. Again, if you're up to a thrilling action flick this year, Jurassic Park 3 is a movie for you. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Exciting horror film!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How did this film get by with a PG rating?! It's really gruesome in some points, there is even more action and scares than before! It's quite like a slasher film in the way it's made up but instead of a knife wielding maniac after you it's all sorts of creatures! See this film for yourselves it's great! I thought it was going to be totally pants because where could they go with it? Well I think it goes just in the right direction. It's a tour-de-force of action with the small bits in between to help with the story development. It had me curling up inside with tension! The beginning I accept was a little slow but then so was The Lost World when it was setting up the actual going to the island but as soon as they are there the action is full on! Sure it may not be totally intellectually stimulating but who cares!? It's a horror movie that some how has a kids rating and I'm sure will give many prepubescent nightmares for years to come. Good one! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Almost as good as The Lost World","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite the poor reputation of this film it is quite enjoyable. Personally I enjoyed this movie for all the reasons most other people seem to despise. The direction, story, and risks. The raptors are advertised intelligent in the this film, making it a large point to note they're ability to communicate. And evidence supports in favor that deinonychus, which has to be what the Jurassic Park movies are portraying as velociraptors, were capable of this. Furthermore I believe it's the first time one of the dinosaurs were actually a main character. An argument could be made about that but personally I believe a true main character has to show intelligence and emotion. The iconic T-Rex in the previous films was just an animal, a supporting character at best, which is okay and it was entertaining. Speaking of, dispatching Tyrannosaurus was bold, daring, and took on a lot of criticism but I think it paid off, making room for a real predator. Acting was decent and the plot was fine, despite taking major fire from a lot of people. All and all a good film, don't let poor ratings shy you away, this film is definitely fun. My theory, just because it wasn't exactly the same thing people wanted to burn its reputation and found reason not to like it that just aren't there. This film is almost just as good as the Lost World and is a nice addition to the Jurassic franchise so if you haven't seen it, its worth a look. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park Lite","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III is an improvement over the second film even if it isn't nearly as groundbreaking as the original. This film follows Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) who reprises his role from the first film this time to provide a tour of Isla Sorna for wealthy couple Paul (William H. Macy) and Amanda Kirby (Tea Leoni). Needless to say, a series of unfortunate events happen. JP III doesn't match the original in tension and suspense. The characters are also all either underdeveloped, meat for dinosaurs or returning favourites.It is however better than it's immediate predecessor due to the fact that it is around half an hour shorter. The action in this film is leaner and meaner than the previous one. There are a few moments of great action within the midst of standard ones. JP III is a mindless summer popcorn flick. Instead of trying to be bigger and better than the first, this just aims to entertain... and does exactly that. "},{"Title":"A high quality ending to a great trilogy!","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am shocked to see how many people didn't enjoy this film but that's purists for you. Let's be clear, there are absolutely NO bad films in the Jurassic Park trilogy. I had it in my head at least one of them was terrible but I think it's just expectations vs. reality.JP3 is a great piece of popcorn adventure cinema. The plot by now is complete formula and lacks the absolute magic of the original film but then again so did The Lost World so it's hard to blame it for that. I actually think the film overall is better than the Lost World although TLW tops it on suspense moments. The film rips along with plenty of visual action and new dinosaurs as well as our old friends the raptors. Joe Johnstone is an experienced director at these sort of films and he delivers 100% on this movie plus it's great to see the return of Sam Neil and a brief appearance by Laura Dern too.I don't know what more to say. It'll never have the same impact as the first film but the pacing is great, it's entertaining and it kept my attention throughout and I think it's a fine conclusion to a great series. "}{"Title":"Very good","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another very good movie in the series. Sam Neill is back as Doctor Grant. He is tricked into going on a supposed airplane tour of the island he vowed never to return too,by a married couple who are actually trying to find their son who has been lost and may have ended up on the island. He not only made it to the island but he has managed to survive from all the predators, big and small. Laura Dern has basically a cameo when there is a call to her home where she is not only married but has a young child. Doctor Grant manages to get a call through to her house. The phone is answered by her kid who repeats a garbled message to his mom. Being a typical Mom she figures it out and calls in support for the remaining survivors. I enjoyed this movie but I did miss Jeff Golblum in this one. "},{"Title":"Triple the Terror, Triple the Excitement!","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Reviewed on the basis of watching on video 12 years after release)Plot Allan Grant accompanies a rescue team onto Isla Sorna to look for a lost kid. But soon after they land on the island, their plane gets destroyed in an accident. Will they find the boy; and more importantly will they be able to safely get off this dangerous island?Review After directing the first two blockbusters of this money- spinning franchise, Steven Spielberg decided to hand over the reigns to his protg Joe Johnston for the third installment. Neither was Michael Crichton commissioned to write another novel to form the basic premise of this film. Although his unforgettable themes are still present, but even the maestro John Williams also vacated his place. So, does the magic diminish? Certainly not!'Jurassic Park III' is clearly intended to be just a terror experience; which could be the reason for Spielberg opting out, who generally specializes in life-altering cinematic creations. Yet, considering 'The Lost World' had failed to meet his towering standards; JPIII with less expectation doesn't do badly at all. The scenario here is grimmer; the arrivers fewer and less resourceful and the time spent on the island the maximum. All this contributes into building a sense of heightened danger making it the most terrifying film of this franchise.JPIII has a running time of just 90 minutes; unlike its prequels which were nearly 130 minutes long. Although that severely cuts down on the fun; it's still better than TLW where not much happened despite a longer duration. At least to compensate for it, the real 'fun' (struggle for survival) begins much earlier than the previous two. Due to its length the story never gets the scope to expand and clearly the script isn't the strength of this flick; unlike the prequels. That's the difference between adapting a literary work and manufacturing a screenplay.Although the script borrows some of the many unused sequences from Crichton's previous novels, why couldn't the run-time be extended by incorporating more such scenes is beyond me. There are a couple of doubts in the plot; but those aren't gaping loopholes like in TLW.One interesting aspect of this franchise has been the discussions among the central characters which are often as engaging as the thrills. JPIII doesn't disappoint on this front either, as there are quite a few engrossing conversations among the leads often laced with the characteristic humor. Ironically,one of the main points of interest in this film was the intelligence of Raptors. But disappointingly the Raptors hardly inject the same amount of terror this time. With the T- Rex only making a cameo appearance, two of the most feared dinosaurs of the franchise hardly create an impression here.But impression is certainly created by the newcomers and previous side- players. The Spinosaurus replaces the T-Rex as the chief-terrorist of this film. Not only does it vanquish a T-Rex to assert its superiority; it swoops down on its prey to crash the visitors flight and then literally crushes it into a piece of log, it breaks through a wooden fence and even swims underwater to wreck the survivors' boat. Needless to say all these sequences are nerve-wracking! But special mention has to be made of the Pteranodon which till now only featured in the concluding scene of the two prequels. Even here it repeats its act by soaring into the clouds to create the most beautiful ending of this franchise. But it also finally gets the opportunity to show its 'talent' in the terrific bird-cage sequence. It's easily the highlight of this film.But more than the dinosaurs, the heart & soul of JPIII is the one & only Sam Neill as Allan Grant, who was sorely missed in TLW. Returning eight years after he stole our hearts in Jurassic Park; he looks a bit aged but still retaining the same old charm and aura of dependability. Wearing his trade-mark hat he delivers some of the funniest lines with a straight face; and with the same expression he stands composed in the face of extreme danger. With his large eyes which speak volumes, he scans not only the hidden dangers present in the surroundings but also the hidden truths in the human minds. He once again becomes the epitome of dependence, the lone hope for the survivors to escape these creatures. This was exactly what Jeff Goldblum, as Ian Malcolm lacked in TLW. Neill single-handedly raises the bar a few notches for this film; as without him there are doubts if this film would have worked at all. Trevor Morgan as Eric, who reminds of a certain Daniel Radcliff, impresses by putting in a performance more matured than his age.JPIII would always remain special to me, as despite being the last film of the franchise till date, it was the first film of the trilogy which I had the fortune to witness. Watching captivated in a theatre, I still remember the sequences which had captured my imagination some 12 years back. Ironically, the dream sequence in the plane was my first introduction with a dinosaur sending a momentary chill down my spine! But the sight of 'real' dinosaurs scurrying in herds beneath the plane generated a gasp of 'dinosaurs!' from my wide-opened mouth. Similarly, the scene of the Spinosaurus staring from the woods, with the ring-tone of a satellite phone in the backdrop; made for a really eerie feeling. Last but not the least, the spectacle of the herds of Brachiosaurus staring down from the skies, remains my favorite scene from the film; just like the similar classic sequence from JP.'Jurassic Park III' as a cinematic experience doesn't come anywhere near 'Jurassic Park'. But as a terror movie it certainly fulfills its objectives better than 'The Lost World'. Only one request to the makers of 'Jurassic Park 4'; please get Sam Neill back, even if he is 66 at that time! "},{"Title":"Good movie! Very good dinosaurs! It deserves to be seen!","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My note for the movie is7/10(good).I really enjoyed the third part of Jurassic Park trilogy!!! The makers of the movie made very good dinosaurs! My favourite dinosaur in the movie was the Spinosaurus (I think). The Spinosaurus was very well represented,very powerful and PERHAPS better than the T-Rex that dominated the two first parts of the film! It was enjoyable, really, although I didn't find it VERY GOOD. But it is OK.The Spinosaurus acted very well in the film and it is the best dino movie that I have ever seen in Jurassic Park.I also realized that the Raptors changed a little bit of colour. It must have been done on purpose.But really, I can't believe that they can make such good animals.WARNING it contains some blood!I thing you could be allowed to see it, at the moment that it doesn't scare you. They made such a huge spino and when you see it you must be like AMAZED!The Spino was the key to my happiness of enjoying the film.My favourite part of the movie was when the T-Rex had a battle against the Spino and it was very well done too.It is the best scene!I really wonder if there will be a Jurassic Park 4. It is still mystery.Anyway there is the actor Sam Neill who plays Dr.Grant again.I wonder why he was playing in the first one and the second time in the third one. Why wasn't he playing in the next part for example? There must be a reason. But anyway Jurassic ParkIII is still a succese for me!!! I really recommend it for the ones who love dino movies. CONGRATULATION for the film! I hope you enjoyed reading my review and I also hope that you found it interesting!P.S there might be some mistakes in my review but it is normal because I am a learner in English.Thank you for reading my review! (an asperger review) "},{"Title":"Although refreshingly providing more of what was in the first and less of what was in the second, the film falls between the pair of them.","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III is the Jurassic Park movie as made by the director of Jumanji. In saying as such, we mean to point out that rather than enchanted monkeys on motorbikes popping up here and there to cause strife, Raptors capable of educated guesses are the ingredients; rather than late-19th Century Big Game hunter Van Pelt appearing here and there for the odd skirmish, an extraordinarily large dinosaur in the form of a Spinosaurus comes along at varying times to cause havoc and serious damage. The first one worked well as a pot boiling thriller, especially when all the electronics went off and we essentially saw mankind stripped bare of its modernity thus thrust back into a primitive state of existence wherein it was forced into confronting a very real, albeit prehistoric, threat of dinosaurs. Toss in an ample slice of characterisation involving its lead and his forced exposure to dealing with his pet hate, that of kids, as well as having to battle against a would-be romance between an apparent rival and the woman he's dating, and you had something which worked to a decent level on the array of strands it headed down.The second veered off and away from the beaten path too much and for too long to actually enjoy, with the third bringing it right back down to Earth in its providing a director, in Joe Johnston, whose ability to deal with causality driven monsters/beasties/threats/episodic chaos is proved, sees him do the business with a film set on a tropical dystopia following an array of people ill equipped to deal with what they're facing. There are no superfluous company-come-conglomerates takeover sub plots; there are no city-set Godzilla homages, nor indeed are there too many characters to get busy depicting.As was with the second film, we open with a child and their relative where they ought not be &#x96; enjoying themselves in the vicinity of a dinosaur infested island somewhere in Central America. Here is the, by now, obligatory sequence featuring the dinosaurs misbehaving at the bereft of a bystander; the film's first instance of it neatly syncing up with 1993's Jurassic Park in its refusing to show the beasts but getting across their threat via a young boy named Erik (Morgan) and his foster-father's illegal parasailing ride over restricted waters. The ride goes wrong, and both Erik and the guardian end up crash landing on the nearby island populated by the very dinosaurs they sought to catch a glimpse of whilst riding high in the skies. Cut to a number of weeks later, and Sam Neill's Alan Grant is still good friends with Laura Dern's character from the first film. Neill makes a welcome return as the film's lead; as its anchorman, his low tone and worn features pleasingly replacing that of Goldblum's sardonic put-downs; monosyllabic understatements and generally neurotic presence driving the last.Grant is the last of his dying breed, and continues to dig for fossils as well as speak publicly on an array of issues linked to his practise, in spite of the fact events from the first two films dog his career reiterating a real resentment to what he was caught up in. With money to fund these digs and fossil extractions in short supply, enter William H. Macy's businessman Paul Kirby, with his wife Amanda (Leoni) in tow, and a proposition which would see Grant come out with a large cash sum if he were to take them close to where that Central American island from the first dinosaurs are.Things take a change for the worse from here on in, with ulterior motives possessed by the Kirby's and their mercenaries becoming clearer &#x96; one question we ask ourselves is as to why the Kirby's appear to take Grant out in the evening, with the proposition in mind, to a seedy looking pool hall/diner bar establishment when they're seemingly a lot richer. The party of around half a dozen, as well as Alessandro Nivola's character Billy - a good friend of Grant's, end up stranded on an island once upon a time more inclined to dinosaurs as a means of experimentation than entertainment; an array of new beasts and improved older ones propping up the means for conflict. Trueer intentions for being there rear up in the form of the reveal that Erik is the Kirby's son, Grant more interested in getting off the island and home than anything else but there is room for meagre characterisation in the form of the fact the Kirby's are actually estranged and here find time to get back together; Billy gets a shot at redemption after he makes some poor decisions of his own and there is pleasing room for Grant to revisit his child orientated prejudices from the first film when he gets to bond with Erik before anyone else and discovers what good company he actually is.The film is ultimately mere spectacle, something driven by an engine of episodic causality and often fun action. Much was once made of the Spinosaurus &#x96; I recall DVD extras going on and on at length about its design; the thing a huge dinosaur unlike any other and the chief foil to that of the characters getting away safely. There is a poignant early instance of the Spinosaurus coming face to face with and fighting the T-Rex, with the 2001 vintage eventually overcoming both the classes of '93 and'97; but is the film any better because of the Spinosaurus' presence? Would it be any better or worse had it just been the T-Rex popping up here and there like before? Irregardless, dressing up old models is the farthest one feels one can go in criticising it because it is a good, clean honest crack and is difficult to get as riled about as one did about The Lost World. "},{"Title":"Why complain?","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my vote for the whole series. Considering the oh so lame movie offerings since the first JP I found this entire series very entertaining and definitely worth watching, if only for the excellent story premise and cinematography. #1 was clearly the best because it didn't talk down to the audience and demanded attention. The second and third in the series took a little too much for granted, too inclined to lean on the proved, successful moments of the first and so not innovative in any way. Yet, there are more high points than low points, and they are each excellent examples of the film-maker's craft. They all carry you away to a whole different plane, professionally and enjoyably, and apart from Avatar and a few other exceptions like LOTR,early Harry Potters, perhaps a couple I haven't named, few other movie series have been as well constructed. Michael Crichton's imagination lives on beyond him. "},{"Title":"Should have been more than an underrated potboiler","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spielberg bailed. He was too busy bringing AI Artificial Intelligence to the screen. Joe Johnston, a more than capable director himself, stepped in delivered a decent timewaster, but failed to give us anything new and didn't even bother to attempt an epic.Above and beyond all things, what cripples Jurassic Park 3 the most is the brief running time. The film fades out at the 84-minute mark, which is just unacceptable. The previous films were epics and both clocked in at over 2 hours. Why on earth did Universal take their biggest franchise at the time and cut it down to this? It beggars belief. The film feels like a TV pilot more than it does a cinematic event.Strange since the budget was $30 million higher than Jurassic Park in 1993. But the effects have improved drastically in that 8 year gap. I was never too keen or impressed with the CGI in the first film. The dinosaurs just didn't look right, but if you dared to criticize the film at the time you would have been shouted down.A lot of story concepts came and went before they, unimaginatively, settled on a same again scenario with yet another extended chase on Isla Sorna. Some of the scenes are even recycled unused sequences that never made the final script edit in the first two. At least they brought back Sam Neill as Alan Grant and had a small role for Laura Dern. William H. Macy provides great support too. It's good to see him do action for a change. And the kid in this one is far, far, far less aggravating than those annoying brats in the original film.John Williams didn't return, instead leaving the scoring chore Don Davis who made an adequate, if hardly memorable, attempt. All the good stuff is Williams' themes from the other movies. And since he made a few themes for this one I will assume that any noteworthy cues within were actually Williams' contributions, and not Davis', who I have never really liked.The action IS brilliantly done though, and the Spinosaurus, the new villain is quite scary. But just as it builds up to a big showdown,the film just...stops. What were they thinking? There's no payoff, no defining money shot. It just ends! That is my biggest problem with JP3. The familiar plot, and the lack of originality are forgivable, but rolling the credits at 84 minutes is a joke.I still recommend it for the action, sound design and effects alone. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park III","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first Jurassic Park (1993) was such a spectacle that sequels were inevitable. The Lost World Jurassic Park was a disappointment, however, and so is the third installment in the series, the pithily titled Jurassic Park III. Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill), survivor of the first adventure, has continued his career as a paleontologist and reluctantly agrees to be a guide for Paul and Amanda Kirby (William H. Macy and Ta Leoni), a couple who wishes to make a trip to the dinosaur island and promise to fund Grant's researches if he comes along. It turns out they have more on their minds than just a sightseeing trip; much to Grant's chagrin. Of course, the members of the team consisting of Grant, the Kirbys, a few mercenaries and a young paleontologist named Billy Brennan (Alessandro Nivola) get stuck on the island and have to fight for their lives to make it to the coast and call for help.At first it looks like Jurassic Park III could be a pretty decent movie Dr. Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern) from the first movie is featured in a small role and there are no annoying kids squeaking all the time (at first, that is...). Unfortunately the movie soon becomes pretty much what I feared it would be running and screaming in the dark with no sense of amazement or adventure. The story doesn't waste much time for character development or pondering the justification of gene technology and just jumps straight into action. Well, action can be very entertainment when done right, but here it is nothing that wasn't already done better in the first films of the series &#x96; the sense of adventure is missing. The dinosaur effects aren't as amazing as in the first Jurassic Park (or at least they don't feel like that anymore), although the addition of Pteranodons and communicating Velociraptors is a cool idea even if the scenes aren't ultimately as exciting as they sound like. Maybe the most effective moment in the film is the sudden appearance of a Spinosaurus after a cell phone ringtone is heard faintly in its direction &#x96; more such moments of astonishment would have been needed to make the film a good adventure.While there are enjoyable things to be found in Jurassic Park III, such as the majestic score music (even though the best musical themes are recycled from the first movie) and the charisma of Sam Neill in the lead role, they just aren't enough to make the movie a truly worthy sequel to the first JP. The Lost World wasn't great either but at least it had the fun finale on the streets of San Diego, and whereas JP3 lacks such a climax, it may entertain action-adventure fans who accept the fact that it can't be as good as the original. Watch it if you liked The Lost World; otherwise, don't get your hopes up. "},{"Title":"An Unnecessary Sequel","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What happens when you remove Michael Crichton and Steven Spielberg from the Jurassic Park series? You get a mediocre adventure film like JP3. In my opinion, this movie didn't really need to be made. I feel it's existence actually taints the reputation of one of my favorite movie franchises; it's one of the most unnecessary sequels since 1989's The Fly II. This movie finds Alan Grant (Sam Neill) convinced by a suspicious married couple into taking them on a guided tour over Isla Sorna but their true motivations soon lead to the group becoming stranded on the island.The movie has a good cast but it doesn't seem to do it any good. Sam Neill reprises his role as Alan Grant from the first film but his performance almost seems wasted here. William H. Macy and Tea Leoni play Paul and Amanda Kirby, the married couple who convince Grant to lead them. Seriously, why is Macy wasting his time in this movie? I've got more respect for him; I like him as an actor and he deserves better than a lame/pointless sequel. Leoni REALLY got on my nerves. From the start, I was hoping to see her become dinner for the raptors if it meant I wouldn't have to listen to her screeching any longer. Michael Jeter, another actor I enjoy, is wasted in a minor role as the organizer of the expedition. With so many good actors in this film, I should've enjoyed it a bit more...As usual with the JP series, the dinosaurs look fantastic for the most part. I did find it kind of odd that somewhere between the first two movies and this one, the dinosaurs all seemed to evolve with colorful party patterns on their skin. The movie continues to introduce more and more dinosaurs, which I don't understand. How can different dinosaurs appear on the island with each visit? Is it really possible that the gatherer team from the first trip to Isla Sorna wouldn't have seen an ankylosaur? Or the spinosaurus? I refuse to believe that Malcolm's team could've wandered through the island as much as they did and NOT found this raging dinosaur...especially since he appears to be EVERYWHERE. Although, I did enjoy the addition of the pteranodons to the mix.The movie never really explains the spinosaur's sudden appearance other than an offhand comment from Grant claiming that it was one of InGen's secrets. I hate the idea of the spinosaur, if only because I feel it was brought in because director Joe Johnston wanted to make his JP film bigger than the previous. So, to outdo the previous two films and make his movie more extreme, he mysteriously brings in this spinosaurus and even throws in a battle between the spinosaurus and a tyrannosaurus so he can show the audience, See! My dinosaurs BIGGER and SCARIER than your T-Rex!. I was let down with the concept from the spinosaur's first appearance.JP3 isn't a BAD film, it's just menial. There is nothing special about it. The cast, while it has it's share of good actors, feels wasted on a lame story. There were more than a couple instances when I felt the story was weakened the unexplained incident in the opening, the escape from the island, and the fate of Grant's assistant, Billy Brennan (Alessandro Nivola). It's a story with enough plot holes and frustration that I felt it single-handedly killed a franchise. "},{"Title":"Same Story, More Money for Steven","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The second one was a mixture between Jurassic Park and King Kong and this third part is a mixture between JP, Tarzan and a us marine promotional video.In the next movie, velociraptors will play in a national football league, as long as we now that they can speak. They will build a multinational empire that will return the world the sauria dominion. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't call this a movie","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing the first two Jurassic Park movies and deeply enjoying them, I was suprised to find that I hated this one.  It's hard to describe how much it was lacking.  But I'll do my best.I wouldn' classify this as a movie, so much as a theme park ride.  You're riding along and then BANG!!!  There's a dinosaur.  You are just barely able to narrowly escape but then OH NO!!!  WHAT'S THIS???  MORE DINOSAURS!!!  AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!  Whatever shall we do???  I KNOW!  Let's try to escape again!  Phew, it worked.  Good plan guys.  BUT WAIT!   I hear something!  Could it be?  YES!  It's more dinosaurs!   AHHHHHHHH...Does that sound like a movie or a rollercoaster?  Some may call it non-stop thrills.  But I don't go to a movie looking for non-stop thrills.  I go to the theatre to see something that intrigues me.  That stands out in its own unique way.  To see something that delivers a message.  That get's into philosophy and study of man on some level even if it's just a comedy or an action flick.  I want something with an actual plot.  And not a predictable one--not one where you know exactly when the dinosaurs are gonna strike and exactly how the humans will escape.  I want something that keeps me on my toes but also touches my heart. That teaches you a lesson that you never knew before or never thought about it in that way before.  And a movie with depth.  That gets into depth about each individual character.  And you see the person that the actor is portraying and relate with him or disagree with him.This is what was so great about the first movie.  All of these things.  The comedy...and the drama.  The questions and the morals about life itself that it left the viewers to think about even after the movie was over.  The conflicts between the different characters, the perspectives of each person compared and contrasted.  The first movie took science fiction and took it to levels no other movie had before.  And it was truly a classic.Jurassic Park 3, however, was extremely shallow with no subplots, no character development.  Nothing but people running away from dinosaurs.   "}{"Title":"I wouldn't call this a movie","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing the first two Jurassic Park movies and deeply enjoying them, I was suprised to find that I hated this one.  It's hard to describe how much it was lacking.  But I'll do my best.I wouldn' classify this as a movie, so much as a theme park ride.  You're riding along and then BANG!!!  There's a dinosaur.  You are just barely able to narrowly escape but then OH NO!!!  WHAT'S THIS???  MORE DINOSAURS!!!  AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!  Whatever shall we do???  I KNOW!  Let's try to escape again!  Phew, it worked.  Good plan guys.  BUT WAIT!   I hear something!  Could it be?  YES!  It's more dinosaurs!   AHHHHHHHH...Does that sound like a movie or a rollercoaster?  Some may call it non-stop thrills.  But I don't go to a movie looking for non-stop thrills.  I go to the theatre to see something that intrigues me.  That stands out in its own unique way.  To see something that delivers a message.  That get's into philosophy and study of man on some level even if it's just a comedy or an action flick.  I want something with an actuall plot.  And not a predictable one--not one where you know exactly when the dinosaurs are gonna strike and exactly how the humans will escape.  I want something that keeps me on my toes but also touches my heart. That teaches you a lesson that you never knew before or never thought about it in that way before.  And a movie with depth.  That gets into depth about each individual character.  And you see the person that the actor is protraying and relate with him or disagree with him.This is what was so great about the first movie.  All of these things.  The comedy...and the drama.  The questions and the morals about life itself that it left the viewers to think about even after the movie was over.  The conflicts between the different characters, the perspectives of each person compared and contrasted.  The first movie took science fiction and took it to levels no other movie had before.  And it was truly a classic.Jurassic Park 3, however, was extremely shallow with no subplots, no character development.  Nothing but people running away from dinosaurs.   "},{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This must be one of the most expensive bad movies ever made. Not only is it not remotely scary, its boring, badly acted and insults the intelligence of the audience by making zero effort in providing a believable story premise. For example the parents of the missing boy elaborately dupe Sam Neils character into helping them because the feel he's an expert, even though he has never been to SITE B. And Sam Neil goes along without first waiting for the big cheque he recieved to clear. These are simple plot details that needed to be accounted for. OK so the dinosaurs look good but there is nothing more. Do yourself a favour get some popcorn and rent the first two movies again. "},{"Title":"The Weakest Instalment In The Jurassic Park Film Series","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third instalment in the Jurassic Park franchise is also the weakest chapter of the three for it brings nothing new to the table, is incompetent in every aspect when compared to its predecessors and also happens to be the first film in the series to be not directed by Steven Spielberg which ultimately takes away the wizardry that was present in the first two films.Following the events of Jurassic Park & The Lost World, the story of Jurassic Park III brings back Dr. Alan Grant who along with his assistant is tricked by a seemingly wealthy couple for an aerial tour over Isla Sorna but when the plane deliberately lands on the island, Grant finds that he is there for a different reason and is stuck there indefinitely when their plane is attacked by a new creature.Directed by Joe Johnston, Jurassic Park III is nothing more than a theme-park ride for kids for the plot is way too simple, action itself is very limited, not a single character features an interesting arc, the story is too short & most of it is simply dull. Johnston's direction is very mediocre here for the film completely lacks the excitement of its predecessors, which were skilfully helmed by Spielberg.The technical aspects are polished to an extent but despite the advancement in technology over the years, it appears quite inferior to the previous chapters. Production design team continues to impress with their well-detailed set pieces, Cinematography encapsulates the film with similar ambiance of its predecessors yet the usual intensity is deeply missing this time & Editing isn't up to the mark either.Despite its 93 minutes of runtime, the story becomes static at various moments & since the character arc is nearly non-existent, it doesn't help the cause either. The film also removes the mighty T-Rex from the central position it held in the series so far, going for Spinosaurus this time which never really looks intimidating enough. The raptors are as vicious as ever, feature a slightly modified design but their behaviour is much exaggerated.Coming to the performances, the cast comprises of Sam Neill, William H. Macy, Ta Leoni & others, and all of them are as lifeless as their respective characters. Even the dinosaurs are lacking the magnetic screen presence they had in the earlier chapters for Spinosaurus isn't a worthy successor to T-Rex, Raptors are actually close to speaking in human dialects plus the sequence involving Pteranodons is possibly the only cool stuff in the picture.On an overall scale, Jurassic Park III is an unrefined, unnecessary & uninspired continuation of the saga that shouldn't have been disturbed in the first place. While the die-hard fans of the original & dinosaur aficionados might find something redeemable here, there's simply no denying that most of it is a boring ride. Lacking the creativity, imagination & wonderment of its predecessors, Jurassic Park III is a highly inferior sequel that brings its uncooked meal in an already degrading package. "},{"Title":"Oh dear...........","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I myself am a huge fan of the original Jurassic Park. Its sense of awe and wonder, and of course the velociraptors are what mad me love the first film. Obviously I was excited at the prospect of there being a third film, but when I saw it in the cinema I couldn't be more disappointed. Firstly, the whole feel of the film was different from the first two, simply because the direction duties went to Joe Johnston, an amateur compared with Steven Spielberg.Secondly, despite what many critics have said, I felt that the dinosaurs in this movie were no where near as realistic as those used in the original two films. In fact, the person I was with leaned over and said to me quite plainly, 'They look fake'! The dinosaurs didn't look frightening and lacked any real menace/danger that was so evident in the first film.Thirdly, the film's emphasis on humour, such as the mobile phone scene, just pulled the whole movie franchise down a level. In my opinion, the Jurassic Park films worked much better with less lame, stupid humour, and with more subtle, witty comments, which were provided by Jeff Goldblum in the first two films.I have to admit, the plot in this film is weak, and the ending is completely bizarre, and just ends up making the film one complete huge joke. As one critic said, it makes the first two films look like examples of 'epic and classic filmaking'. Quite right so. For anyone interested in seeing this film, I warn you to STAY AWAY, and watch only the other two in the trilogy, as, quite frankly, this is an example of how a sequel should not be made. "},{"Title":"We waited four years for this disaster!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't believe that we all waited four years after THE LOST WORLD to see this movie. What a disappointment it was! It's no wonder that the script wasn't finished when the film was being made. It just throws action at the audience, and treats us like we are dumb. I was worried when I heard that Spielburgh wouldn't be taking over the reigns of this project. However, I thought that Joe Johnston would be a good director to take over the project, what with his great film OCTOBER SKY. But that wasn't the case.  "},{"Title":"Stupid, stupid film which doesn't deserve a coherent review","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What was the point! Did someone simply  decided to turn up the stupid meter!?  What can you not put down in regards  to this film. First of all, the plot was  downright annoying, and the movie  moved along like a sorry video game.  Maybe its time to put the money they  used to make this film and put it into  another project. I also love the big  inconsistency with the new `evil'  dinosaur. They made it sound like  they had known about it for years  when it had only been discovered  two years earlier in real time. What  a waste of time and effort.  "},{"Title":"To far","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a fan of the Jurassic park movies but this is utter garbage. Many of my friends who have seen this movie agree that it is poorly written and too short. Most of them blame it on the movie not being directed by Spielberg but I think its because the movie was not written by Michael Crichton. He wrote both of the other Jurassic park movies and other blockbusters such as Congo and Rising sun, he also wrote ER (the most successful TV series in history). With all respect for Peter Buchman the movies plot and script are insane, most of the main parts of the movie are unrealistic and stupid. Hollywood should have realised that adding another Jurassic park would be over using the idea. And from what I've heard another sequel is planed even after all the problems this one had. People have to realise that the idea has been stretched to far. "},{"Title":"EGH!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Good God! How could u think that this movie is better than the second? I mean, i'll admit that the second film was a bit of a different look into the Jurassic Park senario, but honestly this film was much worse!! For one thing, it's the shortest film i've ever sat through! You would think that since the first two films were quite long, that this film would be just as long. The whole idea about giving the raptors their eggs was pathetic! The REAL idea of going to the island at all was really dumb. And also... this movie is not directed by Spielberg! The first two films were! I really expected the third time to be a charm! Obviously it wasn't! What a disappointment! Please avoid this one! "},{"Title":"worst of the three dino movies","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first JP was a great story and great special effects, the second JP was less story and just as great special effects, the third JP has almost no story and the special effects are dull dull dull, JP three is stuff we have seen before and done much better. It is a shame they could not wait for a third JP movie to be made when they had a better script. 5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it couldn't get any worse&#133;","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The original Jurassic Park, released in 1993, was a classic. It featured a stellar cast, good writing, groundbreaking special effects and an inspiring theme from John Williams. Which made it all the more surprising that the sequel &#150; The Lost World &#150; could be so poor. Mediocre acting, poor writing, irritating new characters and one of the most ridiculous plot twists in the history of cinema. However, even with all that, it is still far superior to this insipid instalment &#150; hopefully the last of the series.It is hard to pinpoint exactly where the problem lies. Rarely has a film combined such awful writing, acting and directing. The writing, however, stands out as the worst part of this film. It is astonishingly dull and monotonous &#150; there is an incredibly dull exchange of dialogue, then there are some noises, then everyone runs around for a while. Repeat for two hours. The scenes between Tea Leoni and William H. Macy are particularly insipid, with writing that would be more at place in a particularly bad daytime soap, and acting to match. It's possible to laugh at first, but it becomes very painful after a while. There comes a point where you just hope the dinosaurs are going to eat them all, but you know exactly who will survive from the very beginning. As for the dinosaurs setting traps and so forth &#150; it's almost on a par with a T-Rex wandering through suburbia without attracting any attention.The acting...pedestrian at best, just plain awful at every other time. Neil at least tries to give some effort, but when most of his scenes consist of grunting &#145;Run' (cue a lot of noise and running), there really isn't much he can do. At least Trevor Morgan isn't too awful for a screen kid, and the scene with the son of Laura Dern was pretty amusing. Speaking of which, was that really Dern? Either the makeup department has had a day off, or there was a really weird camera angle there.The direction, which was poor in the second film (from Spielberg, of all people), has certainly not improved. The long zoom-in for every 'dramatic' line (ie. 'run') may have its place in a TV show, but it is unacceptable for a major film. It's cheesy and simply looks bad. For examples, look at pretty much any shot of Sam Neil. Furthermore, there is very little to distinguish any of the assorted running scenes, so that they just become a dull, indistinguishable lump. Compare this to the very distinct scenes in the original film, and you can see just how far the series has fallen down.Perhaps the final scene sums up the problems of this film best &#150; an abrupt, meaningless end, with the usual insipid exchange between Leoni and Macy, and a hideous butchering of John Williams's beautiful original theme, which sounds as if it is being played at double speed.In all, it's dull, predictable and ultimately painful to watch. We can only hope that this is the last of the series, but, as this film demonstrates, the lure of money is often far too powerful. It certainly seems to be more important than producing a quality film.   "}{"Title":"Not even a good DVD demo","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rented this at Blockbuster, and to my surprise, it came in a pan and scan format with rather mediocre picture quality. Also, the sound level dropped drastically during certain points in the movie.Perhaps the version available for purchase is better. But the movie itself is a total waste of 90 minutes for anyone over 12 years old. I enjoyed the first two parts of the series, but this one is abyssmal. See other reviews for negative comments, all of which I agree with. "},{"Title":"Jurassic pork? Does anyone else smell bacon?","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What happened to this series? It became way too commercial when it was turned a franchise...This movie tries to be a better film than it actually was in it inception...With mindblowing special FX, some trademark Speilberg close calls and a bevy of new dinos this film does it's best to scare the audience......But that's very hard when you don't care about any of the characters....I spent the entire expanse of the 90 minute running time wanting everyone except Sam Neil to emerge later on in the movie as dino droppings....This fast buck sequel had no real story to fit in it's 90 minute running time..Even Spielberg himself took a backseat to the production as an executive producer on the film...JP4 is on the way..I think the wise move would to rent it rather than see it in it's theatrical run...LANGUAGE-3-Very little..VIOLENCE/GORE-5-PG13 Violence and goreSEX/NUDITY-0-NoneSCARES-8-Some very well done close callsTotal movie score-2 stars "},{"Title":"very disappointing","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alright I'm not a picky guy but I was very disappointed with this movie. It had a horrible story and to be quite honest the action scenes weren't too good, I'm not sure how much they spent on this movie but they had to spend a lot more on the first 2 cause they didn't do a lot with this one. Plus the movie is 1 hour and 24 minutes long, kind of short. The acting isn't that great and I'm about tired of seeing kids in these kinds of movies never dying what's up with that? Hardly any deaths and only 1 small explosion, beware of this god awful movie "},{"Title":"For God's Sake Don't Come Back To Jurassic Park!","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once again the entire film is based on big dinosaurs going Boo! and eating people. Only having seen it happen before, there is actually very little scary about this.  Are we honestly supposed to quake as Spinosaurus Egypticus comes into shot heralded by a mobile phone ringtone? I am sorry, I find that about as scary as the kid who plays Laura Dern's son. Less perhaps because it made me laugh so much. Sam Neil, I hate to say it but this may be the biggest mistake of your career, after the first JP I honestly respected you and thought you were going to be huge . . . Event Horizon went someway to confirming you were every bit as good as you had promised.  And then this.  The script seems as deep and involving as a four frame cartoon in a kids magazine. It is unimaginative, awfully executed and an insult to anyone watching it.  I had been told it was good so was looking forward to it.My favourite bit was the way the dialogue seemed to have been written by primates and I am sorry but I cannto see where it was scary. The first one was - Raptor's throwing themselves against doors and making bang! noises is scary. But raptor's getting together and discussing the latest episode of their favourite prehistoric soap opera is farcical.  What are you saying? asks Grant. If you have the innate ability to speak raptor - as Grant miraculously gains in the worst scene of all time - you would see one is inviting the other for some tea. Yes Joshua, wait there presently will you, I would just like to take a bite out of this man's skull. Oh Sebastian you are so vulgar, my scones are getting hard. The best part was hearing the classic film score signalling the end of the film. But by that point I was crying so hard that I didn't care.If there are two types of kids - ones who want to be astronauts and ones who want to be astronomers, then there must be two types of film. Ones which are good, and ones which are not good. This film falls into the second category and, unlike the main cast who survive a plane crash with no more than a bruised forehead, this film grazes its bum very badly. I hope they dont' release JP4, or if they do, that they take the time to make it good. Or at least better. Please. Pretty please?  "},{"Title":"You know they gave up on this one...","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was appalled by the lack of effort on the part of the filmmakers to at least challenge themselves a bit. Instead, what you get with Jurassic Park 3 is a pointless trick played on the unsuspecting movie goers (even though you should have seen it coming) by the greedy executives who wanted to milk the last drops of the Jurassic Park franchise. First of all, it's not even a Spielberg film anymore (he had the right idea not to get involved creatively), which would explain the lack of good imagery and a sense of adventure, as was apparent in the original Jurassic Park and even upheld quite a bit in The Lost World. But here we just get a pathetic hour and a half of senseless action with very little imagery. You would think that the advances in digital technology could make the visual effects better, but they somehow look less believable than the original, which suggests that very little attention was paid to the quality of the movie.And then there was the plot, or the lack of one. We all know that Jurassic Park is a big title for modern audiences, but there is a lot more to a movie than just selling the name. It almost seems as though the movie was bad on purpose, just because the producers knew that they could get away with it and still make money. That is how sad the film industry has become. Don't you as an audience member want something more than just a quick put together of random effects? Don't you want to be really entertained instead of just being fooled into it? I mean, why did it take three writers to write this story? What did they do, take turns writing a half hour each?Even the blockbuster films from just a few years before seem like quality movies now when compared to today's garbage. Movies like the original Jurassic Park and Independence Day can at least be remembered as difinitive blockbusters. But what we've had recently with Jurassic Park 3 and The Mummy Returns is just annoying garbage that no one will even remember by the end of this year.Then there are those who would argue that this is suppose to be a popcorn summer blockbuster and can stand behind the excuse of not having to be an actual quality movie. But let me tell you, in its respective genre, a summer blockbuster can still be a good summer blockbuster or a bad summer blockbuster. Just because it will undoubtedly make money doesn't mean that it can't be good. Wouldn't you rather have a good-entertaining movie as a opposed to a forgettable-entertaining movie? Or else we're all going to look back on this someday and say, Damn, I can't remember any movies that I liked that year. Because even if you liked Jurassic Park 3 now (which means that you are in dire need of a good film), I guarantee that you would choose not to sit through it again years from now.My solution to this headache, or my suggestion to those who disagree with me, is to go back and watch the original Jurassic Park. That is what a real action-adventure blockbuster should be. Made by a director with the capabilities of capturing daring images that will enhance the viewing experience, instead of assuming that the half-ass digital effects will do the job. Or better yet, see something like Star Wars or Indiana Jones again, and then you'll realize what an actual disgrace Jurassic Park 3 is to the blockbuster genre. Probably the only thing worse than this movie is knowing that it is part of a franchise that was once respectable and cool. But as far as I'm concerned, I will never consider Jurassic Park 3 as part of my Jurassic Park collection. "},{"Title":"Dino Doo Doo","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One reviewer talks about what great special effects this movie has.  Well, you know what, everything these days is about special effects.  Unfortunately, computer generated images have become so much a part of us, that maybe some people are crying out for a story. When I sat down to see the first movie, my breath was taken away.  The dinosaurs were the best I had ever seen put on film.  When those brachiosaurs reach up to eat the leaves, I was phenomenal.  The cool thing about this movie was that it was as much about what the scientists were doing as about the dinosaurs.  The main point in this movie is to see how many people can be chomped down in an hour and a half.  The motivations of the actors, the whole kidnapping thing, is so contrived as to be embarrassing.  William Macy and Tia Lioni (Tia the frantic) are about as wooden as the trees housing the Pteranodons.  Poor Sam Neill.  He must have got a lot of money to do this clunker.  I think the stupidest thing, however, is the betrayal of the young scientist. Granted, he was careless, but then to be berated, and then be idiotic enough to sacrifice himself to save face, is so manipulative as to be laughable.  I won't throw a spoiler at the ending.  Suffice it to say that the escape is dependent on one of the most incredible deus ex machinas in the history of filmdom.  Somehow, I knew this movie wasn't going to be up to the others, but I had no idea it would be so bad.  "},{"Title":"Zzzzzz","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh dear. Apparently, I have to write a minimum of 4 lines for this review.This is lazy, lazy film-making in the extreme.Whoever did this ought to be thoroughly ashamed of themse...ah, I can't be bothered either. "},{"Title":"a perfect how to end a successful story in a disaster","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the first Jurassic Park, everyone is amazed, you see things in a original context... When The Lost World becomes on the big screen, people want to be amazed again, but they already encouter some little boring details. Than, the disaster becames reality... this movie is a perfect example of making things worse than they already were after The Lost World... The audience isnt amazed again, everyone is bored and you really regret that you ever wanted to see this... Dont watch it... you want go to it! "},{"Title":"That's it, no more cheap sequels please!!!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know which of the two sequels to the very good Jurassic Park is the weakest, but they are both bad in their own special way... While the second one was incredibly long, stupid and even had the guts to end the movie on an terribly cheesy dino in the city sequence, this third movie in the franchise is a completely illogical and very boring movie. The good part of it is it is so short, you don't suffer as long as during the second one. And no dinosaur ends up in a city this time. But this movie is the kind of sequel which, to make any sense to a human being, requires the viewer to have such a bad memory that he doesn't ask why, oh why some dinosaurs have changed so much since the first two movies. I am of course talking about the stupid raptors which, while they had been terrifying in the first one, have becomes ridiculous. Why are some raptors growing mohawks? Is there a punk trend on this island? Since when do these animals communicate so well between each other? And most important of all (SPOILER WARNING, although spoiling something so stupid isn't exactly spoiling, isn't it)why do these fierce and violent creature now seem pretty nice in their own prehistoric way, since they now forgive people who steal their eggs?(END OF SPOILER, although you must agree that there wasn't much to spoil since it is stupid anyway...). Apart from that, what could I say. I always preffered Jeff Goldblum's Ian Malcolm to to Sam Neill's Doctor Grant, so that makes a few points to add to the weak score The Lost World has... Still, since there is no dinosaur in the city, Jurassic Park 3 gains a few points on that. Anyway, both movies are awful so let's make this a tie match in this clash of the bad movies. Now let's never make another Jurassic Park movie, okay?30% "},{"Title":"Stan Winston save the day","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THANK YOU, Stan Winston ~ for your magnificent dinosaurs.  And, Sam Neill for your performance.  As for the rest...what a disaster.  Tea Leona did a great Lucille Ball comedy routine with the rest of her castmates playing along as Ricky, Fred and Ethel ~ all on a Wonderful World of Disney virtual, amusement park ride.  As a friend asked me later, didja have a good nap? HUH, WHAT?  'Scuse me, was I drooling? "}{"Title":"Third step DOWN the entertainment ladder","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  These actors must be laughing all the way to the bank. To pull a third movie out of the sleeve after the second one was a flop (imho) has got to be a waste of time and money. The animaions in this one are ok (some new stuff/creatures, but not as revolutionary as the ones in the first movie), but the plot stinks. The foul stench of let's boil some soup on this old rock, and squeeze a penny or two out of the fans that didn't scram after the second movie. Stash your brain away before viewing or you'll be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"I had trouble sittig through this movie.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought Jurassic Park III was not good.  I thought that some of the dinosaurs in some parts looked fake.  It actually in some parts brought tears to my eyes because it was so bad.  I was so excited to see it because the Jurassic Park movies are my favorite. But this I thought was bad.  I also thought the story line was stupid. "},{"Title":"I had trouble sittig through this movie.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought Jurassic Park III was not good.  I thought that some of the dinosaurs in some parts looked fake.  It actually in some parts brought tears to my eyes because it was so bad.  I was so excited to see it because the Jurassic Park movies are my favorite. But this I thought was bad.  I also thought the story line was stupid. "},{"Title":"The summer of 2001 continues....","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw Jurassic Park at the local cinema when I was 12 years old. Needless to say, I loved it at the time. And even when I saw it again recently it worked for me. Jurassic Park may not be up there with Raiders of the Lost Ark or Aliens, it's still reasonably solid entertainment. I thought The Lost World was a complete dud. One of the reasons I wasn't really that interested in a third instalment of the series. When Spielberg hired Joe Johnston (I hated Jumanji) to fill the director's chair my interest almost much died completely. Almost, because I did decide to go see it.And for the umpteenth time this summer I was disappointed. The first twenty minutes are character exposition (read cardboard exposition) scenes. A lot has been made of the film's short running time. The strange thing is, it doesn't feel that short. Those first scenes are so badly written (I doubt if there's a single worthwhile line of dialogue throughout, actually) you'll think you've been sitting in the theatre for an entire hour. After that I thought the movie would pick up, but after five good minutes the pace dropped again and it becomes one of those tedious 'wait-for-the-action' type films. Worst of all is what the screenwriters have chosen to fill the action gaps with dull character interplay, rather unbelievable (and completely unnecessary) revelations about the raptors and even the introduction of the obligatory kid (a device which has been over- and misused after Aliens). On top of that there doesn't seem to be any effort on Johnston's part to keep the tension sustained between attacks.Now, you could just chalk a lot of the un-amazingness up to over-exposure to CG dinosaurs, with the BBC's Walking With Dinosaurs and Disney's Dinosaur (a project which really should have been made silent and by Paul Verhoeven) having been released since The Lost World. But that's not it. The set-pieces here play more like traditional action sequences without requiring the audience to go 'ooh' and 'aah' at the latest in virtual vermin (although there still are a couple of those shots slotted in). So lack of wonder isn't the problem. What is? Try rushed editing, shocks that don't shock and no suspense whatsoever. I can take bad dialogue, a downright stupid storyline and cardboard characters in a summer blockbuster, but I do expect the set-pieces to be either ultracool or nerve-wrecking. Here only two, maybe three scenes approach some form of excitement.And it's with two of these (a crash/ Spinosaurus attack and a dinosaur fight) that the movie, 20 minutes in, seems to be breaking stride. If only Joe Johnston managed to keep it up for the rest of the time. Any other points left to discus? Well, the ending sucks, I hate the way the climactic attack is intercut, you'll see who the victims and survivors are within seconds, the humour mostly misses the mark and at times the CG dinosaurs are below par. Then there's the acting; seldom was a cast this uncharismatic. You can actually read the dollar signs in Sam Neill's and William H. Macy's eyes (otherwise fine actors) and Tea Leoni is so terrible you'll want her to be eaten as soon as possible.In short An extremely formulaic, very badly written sequel. In fact, the short running time is the only thing that makes it reasonable watchable. Now THAT'S praise!Rating 4/10   "},{"Title":"CG Dino's make up for lack of plot and dialogue?","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was one of the movies that I had been looking forward to this summer. In retrospect, I cannot imagine why.  There is very little of this Jurassic Park that had not been tried in the previous two.  Sure, they tossed in a few new interesting dinosaurs.  They also used Sam Neil, an actor that often catches my interest.  Unfortunately, it seems that the dinosaurs have a better dialogue than the actors.  The first few scenes without the prehistoric actors are almost too painful to watch.  Even the visual effects have some weak points, which include the obvious use of blue screens and the silhouette of a helicopter in one of the other scenes.  The music is very similar to a few other films I have seen... Jurassic Park and JP The Lost World.  The plot is rather simple, people get stuck on the island and try to escape without being eaten, much like the first two.  At the end of the film, I was actually angry for having been duped into buying tickets and wasting my time.  My girlfriend was mad at me for dragging her to this movie.  I had to take her out to a nice dinner (another dent in my budget) to make her stop whining.  Yes, it was really that bad. "},{"Title":"Plot? No thanks...","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this may feature even more realistic dinosaurs the plot (if one can call it that) was pathetic and obviously just an excuse to get them back on the island. Very few of the jump scenes were even very startling, the only thing frightening about this movie is that I payed full price to see it! "},{"Title":"Dinosaurs are extinct...Jurassic Park should be, too","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At some time, I'd like to remember a good action movie without having to remember its countless watered-down sequels.  Unfortunately, I saw the second and third Jurassic Parks and was equally unimpressed with both.  This one's a stinker.  I can't even fathom why they made another one after how bad the Lost World was.  Stay home. Good special effects hardly make up for a hollow plot. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Makes The Lost World look good","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the film in which we learn that velociraptors are smarter than primates.  Please!!  The raptors as portrayed in the first film possessed intelligence far beyond their cranial capacity, but I suspended my disbelief and simply enjoyed a fine piece of movie-making.  I failed to do that in Part III.  The silly plot of this film was a very flimsy excuse to get Sam Neill et al. back amongst the dinosaurs, which this time around were rather more unconvincing than they had been in the original Jurassic Park.  The Spinosaurus and the raptors were no longer animals - they were movie monsters.  And this film showed as much respect for realism as the majority of monster movies.  Spinosaurus, an animal about which scientists know very little, was given a fish-eater's skull but with bone-crushing T-rex-like teeth.  Worse than that, it lacked the spark of life that Spielberg's dinosaurs seemed to possess.  And that, I think was the crux of the problem - Spielberg's deft touch was absent.  Okay, so The Lost World was a pretty poor offering ... but it did have its moments, and compared to Part III it suddenly doesn't seem so bad.The saving grace of this film was, in my opinion, the pteranodons.  They were new and different, and unlike the Spinosaurus they were very convincing.  Their first appearance was genuinely scary, and for me was the highlight of the film.The cast was okay.  Sam Neill is always value for money, and William H Macy is, I am convinced, incapable of giving a bad performance.  But they all suffered from having to recite uninspired dialogue and do the very stupid things that the 'plot' demanded of them.  Apparently they threw out the original script at the start of the shoot and made it up (practically) as they went along.  It's hard to imagine how the original story could have been worse than the final product.Still, it was high energy entertainment, and at under 90 minutes did not outstay its welcome.  Recommended for the undiscerning.Jurassic Park 8/10 Jurassic Park The Lost World 5/10 Jurassic Park III 4/10 "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just got back from a matinee showing in a packed house... third row from the front and have a stiff neck. Perfect spot for being in the middle of the fight scene between the TRex and the Spinosaurus (was there actually ever such a beast?). The pterodactyl flying scenes were pretty good that close up, too. I went with the kids - maybe dragged by the kids - with low expectations. After the disappointing 'Lost World', I was expecting the series to end; put out of its misery. But I was surprised. I thought the 'human contingent' performed adequately for what is intended to be a cloned dinosaur action movie... I mean the computer graphics are really what this series is about. Let's not kid ourselves with high expectations in the character development dept. It was good to have Dr. Grant back, as well as Dr. Sattler (albeit briefly). I enjoyed William Macy's character. If folks were looking for some comic relief, he offered some; maybe no guffaws, but some warm-hearted moments. And okay, maybe the plotline was thin, but after the cloning aspect is played out in the first movie, what do you do? Get some people onto the island(s) and have them cavort with the dinosaurs, big and small, meat-eating and herbivores. There's not a lot you can do with the set-up to begin with. This movie did as well, indeed better, than expected.  "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a major Speilberg as well as dinosaur as well as sci-fi fan. This movie was absolutely not worth doing. I am very disappointed that Speilberg's name is even on the roster as Exec Producer. The story-line was week, the music uninspiring, the effects were o.k., but nothing new in this movie. They could done so much more, like marine dinosaurs and such. My little girl loved it, she loves anything with dinosaurs in it. This reminds me of Blair Witch II, a complete waste of time, and moreover, a slap in the face to the ingenuity of the original. Hollywood, please, we are intelligent enough to know when you are merely trying to milk the last few dollars out of our pockets. You are capable of great movies that are worth our time and money. Please stop making sequels that are just for the sake of making a few extra bucks. "}{"Title":"They taught dinosaurs to pick pockets","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had been looking forward to this movie since Lost World came out.  It didn't bother me that Lost World wasn't as intellectual as the original, and here, I was just hoping for a good monster movie.  It was all about Dinosaurs eat people.  However, it was disappointing even on that level.For starters, there were not enough people to eat, and while I'll keep it a secret how many people get eaten, it was not enough.  Also, while there was no shortage of variety in the dinosaur community, there were not nearly enough dinosaurs.  And many dinosaurs, like the spikey-back-and-has-a-club-on-its-tail-osaurus, just made cameos and didn't do much considering how cool they are.(START SPOILERS) Then there were the Pterodactyls.  The figures I've read put their body weight at about 15 pounds, while the movie made them look closer to 300.  Worse, they didn't get to eat anybody, or even splatter them on the rocks by dropping them from high up.  There was no ending to the movie, either, it was just, all of the sudden, credits.  (END SPOILERS)  I'm left wondering if the edition I saw was missing 40 minutes of film.My only conclusion can be that they taught the Pterodactyls to stick their long beaks stealthily into your pockets and get your $7.  Go rent the Carnosaur series; at least you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest times at the movies has turned into Anaconda.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How sad it is when a film as wonderful as Jurassic Park slowly nosedives into hackneyed and mediocre territory throughout its franchise. The newest sequel, Jurassic Park III, has given no thought to characters, a story, or pretty much a script, and instead relies on non-stop dinosaur action, which is neither thrilling nor very interesting to watch. The dinosaurs seemed to look incredibly fake compared to the 1993 technology, after 7 years of CGI advancements, it only gives you more of the feeling that the film was pumped out for the summer relying only on its name. The introduction of a pterodactyl does not a great movie make.Go see Shrek again. "},{"Title":"Save the Dinos, not the movie!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Did people expect Jurassic Park 3 to be full of surprises?  Not one moment of it is worth it.  Many elements could easily scare people out of the movies...and it's not the dinos!  Tea Leoni...I think she's a great actress, but I'm sorry to say that this time she reached the bottom line.  I wonder if she happened to strain a vocal chord while shooting the movie....Laura Dern...she's ok, but why not be more noticeable in the movie, maybe exchange smart dialogs with Sam Neil.  Alessandro Nivola - have you ever heard of something called facial expression?  Fellings, emotions.....he's got to work harder on that! Sam Neil, no big deal.  The soundtrack...got to change that record, or you get tired of it.  My applause goes to William H. Macy, a talented actor who I've never seen playing a bad role....unfortunately he can't save the movie, nor can the well computer-created dinosaurs. "},{"Title":"walkin in the park","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an intense ride. The spinosauraus (if that is how you spellit) is absolutely scary and intense. The only thing i didn't like about it is there was not enough of the t-rex one scene that really stinks.But the flying dinosaurs make up for it they are cool too. The kid trevor morgan does a pretty good job for a child, cause you rarely see a child do good in a movie (proving it STAR WARS episode one.) I am so glad it wasn't that gruesome except the blood on the plane windows, but still it is a lot less blood than the first two. And another bad thing is the raptors are too smart, in this movie it makes the raptors look smarter than the humans, no offense to those humans. Overall this is a great movie 9/10 which is very good. I gave the lost world 6/10 and the first jurassic park 10/10. GO SEE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Bad","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just amazing...amazing that they went ahead and made this movie.  The person I feel really bad for, though, is Michael Crichton - the poor guy has his name in the credits of this ridiculous trash.  I went in expecting very little and got just that.To begin, the entire movie looked like it was patched together from modifying certain scenes in the original Jurassic Park.  There's nothing innovative about the special effects, and the characters spend the entire movie screaming and running.  The only saving grace in this movie is a decent scene in a giant bird cage.  That's the only thing stopping me from giving this a 1.2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Kinda good, worth watchin","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The new JP is kinda good, and worth watchin.It has sum good action scenes in it, and the special effects are good also (tho i like the JP1 se's more). Tho the story of this movie is a lil bit weak (Dr Grant and sum other peepz are goin to an island to pick up billy, who isn't dead yet when they arive). Another weakness in this movie is that it is very very short, and that there are only like 2 hot action scenes in this movie (Last 1 with the flyin dinosaurs was kinda good) "},{"Title":"Extremely Disappointing","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this last weekend in New York. A friend of mine got me in to a Private screening because he knew how much of a fan I was of The Jurassic Park films. I was so glad to see it early but now I kind of wish I didn't because this one was really bad. No suspense, no story, and it's not even scary. I was disappointed that Sam Neill (Who Plays Alan Grant) was not in the Lost World, so I was glad to know that he was in the new one. But now after this mess, I hope he had stayed away. There is nothing new about this film that has not already been touch a pond in the last two, and it was too short to boot. It even lacks the charm and heart (Not to mention intelligence) of the last two films. Tea Leoni is just too annoying to watch, and William H Macy Is too good an actor to end up in this crap of a film (the comments he made a few months ago about this film is right on target.). The new dinosaur (Spinosaur) Looks good from a far but closed up, The Spinosaur looks really fake. The raptors are more of a joke than a threat, there is a scent with them that is too stupid to believe, and you end up laughing more than gasping. It makes you wish That Jeff Golbulum was in this film, so he can make fun of it. The Pterodactyls scent is in fact the only decent thing in this disaster of a film. To make a long Story short (and Hopefully save you some money in the process) Don't waste your time. If you want to see a Dinosaur film, rent the first one, or even the second. (It's not as bad as some people may want you to believe, it's actually a good follow up) But stay away from this one. It's really that bad.  "},{"Title":"A mix of good and bad with a lot of bad","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of people claim that JP-3 is better than JP-2 but that's just rubbish. If have'nt watched this movie already and want to, you'd better see it with an open mind. If you expect something on the lines of JP-1 and JP-2, you're gonna puke. The story is mostly nonexistent and the acting is mostly crap. However, the environs are pretty nice and atmospheric and there are a few good moments. However, the seriousness has been kicked with a lot of comical elements thrown and extremely and utterly stupid moves like making the Velociraptors talk! CGI wherver used, looks utterly fake and crap. CGI should have been kept minimal. After JP-1 and 2, its totally unbelievable to see fake CGI dinos being used. Watch this movie for pure entertainment but no great appreciation. "},{"Title":"A waste of money and time","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILERS*  *SPOILERS*  *SPOILERS*Before I will say something about Jurassic Park III, I would like to say few things about the first 2 movies. Jurassic Park from 1993 was not a very good movie. It was very predictable and you could see in advance who was going to die and who was going to stay alive.In short it was a little boring,(and the book was even worse). And yet it wasn't a total disaster. There is at least one scene that became a classic which everyone copies ever since and it has some idea's which if they were more developed the film would be better. The Lost World Jurassic Park was a much more entertaining film, largely thanks to the decision to take the T-Rex to the big city. It was done in such a fun and I saw it as a parody to than upcoming Godzilla(and when Godzilla was finally out,it proved to be the worse of the 2 films).So now we reach our current film and there is no good words about it. It is simply a bad movie. I have a theory about JP3. Spielberg didn't want to make it. He didn't think he have anything new to say and he was busy with 2 other,more important, projects(A.I. and Minority Report). Universal studios wanted a third sequel so eventually Spielberg agreed making the film but retain the title of executive producer(which meant that he get some percentage of the profits, but has nothing to say on the film).To show you how bad the film is, here some guiding points for watching it1. If a child disappears in the first act of the film he will show up later on the film, managing, miraculously, to survive a place where adults are having hard time to survive.2.If the parents of the child are divorced, by the end of the film, they will get back together. The father will prove himself to be worthy of the woman love and admiration. (This is suppose to be and action movie and we get a film which reinforce the value of the American family.Yack!!!).3. If one of the good guys do something bad, that he shouldn't have done he will redeem himself and will get the chance to be only badly wounded instead of getting killed.Beside the written above, the film is a re-hearse of idea's from the first 2 movies. The idea that the dinosaurs are intelligent creatures was use in the first film. The idea that they are very paternal was use in the second one. The second idea is put against the human angel. The dinosaurs are portrait as more caring for their offspring(even the unborn), than the human ones.Joe Johnston, the director, can't handle an action film. He has made all the wrong decisions in directing the film(and it should be mentioned here that Jumanji,one of his previous work,suffered from the same problems)and it looked like he tried to copy someone else instead of trying to be original. The ending of the film, beside been a re-shot of the first film, show a lack of judgment from all people involved. If the flying dinosaurs(and I can't pronounce their name) are so dangerous why even let them leave the island? Only the screenwriters and the producers know.The only 2 good things in the movie, which helped the movie get a 3 out of 10 from me instead the 1 out of 10 it deserved, were the special effects, which should not be surprise and Sam Neill whose dry tone was on the verge of been cynic. A tone which said Yes, I've been there and yes it's a repeat, but I get so much money so why the hell not to do it.In short. This is film to be avoided. It is waste time and a waste of money. Both should be spent somewhere else. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a huge fan of both the original Jurassic Park and the surprisingly satisfying sequel, The Lost World.  This film doesn't even come close. First of all, it is not directed by Steven Speilberg, and it shows.  The film lacks the scare factor produced by the first two (which, although I own both and have seen both at least twenty times each, still scare me).  There is no climax.  Unless perhaps, I fell asleep and missed it, but I highly doubt it, because the plot seemed relatively okay.  The climax is just another five minute supposed-to-be-scary scene.  Bad.  Finally, the special effects are still extremely wonderful, but this film is trying to exist only on that, and that will not be enough.  Hello?!?  These breathing dinosaurs in the 20 and 21st centuries have been done twice before, do you still expect us to be surprised by it?I give it a 4 out of 10, because it was mildly amusing and there were some times when I caught myself laughing out loud, and it was meant to be a summer blockbuster.  It should only be taken at face value. "}{"Title":"Weak, very weak","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this flick without having many expectations.  I just wanted to see the dinos eat people.  But even so, I was highly disappointed.  And even more disappointed to see that IMDB users have given this installment a higher rating than The Lost World.  TLW was certainly not the movie its former was, JP, but it excels way above JP III.  Of course, TLW had its moments where I thought, what the heck was Speilburg thinking, like the entire raptor sequence, which includes an utterly stupid segment in which Malcolm's daughter decides to fling about the building with the skills of an olympic gymnist and kick a  giant raptor out the window, it looks as ridiculous as it sounds.  Even though it veered greatly from Crichton's vision the TLW still has Speilburgs touch, it feels like one of his films and is highly underrated, the T-Rex trailer sequence is great.  Back to JP III, it has plot holes (the teradactyls were supposedly locked in the huge birdcage correct?  Then how did people on the boat get killed at the first, and why did they not fly towards land to begin with?  Also, the reason for coming back to the island was lame, they musta thought this one up over night.  The script doesn't make you care about the characters so of course I didnt care when they were killed.  And I'm probably alone here but I thought the dinosaurs looked more real in the first one. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing...about what I expected.","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The original Jurassic Park was a wonderful film.  The special effects remain some of the most realistic I've seen and the acting was good.  As is usually the case with sequels, the quality dropped off considerably in The Lost World...and plummets to the bottom of the barrel in this third installment. Taken at face value, the dinosaur effects by Stan Winston were excellent. I only wish they had taken as much care with the script as they did with the effects.  I realize the dinosaurs are the stars but it would have been nice to have at least a plausible plot line.  I thought Sam Neil did an okay job as the lead.  William Macy is a terrific actor but the script didn't give him a whole lot to work with.  Tea Leone...well, I still wonder how in the world she can find work as an actress.  For me, the highlight of the film was the cameo by Laura Dern.  I enjoyed her role in the original and her brief appearance int JP3 was a very pleasant surprise.  At least she was smart enough to stay away from the island!!If you are satisfied with seeing some new and exciting dinosaurs and little else...you won't be let down.  If you are looking for something that builds on the exciting original premise of dinosaurs living among us...you may be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Pure Crap","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dinosaurs are one of those creatures that are  just made to be in movies...the problem is that  we insist on having people for them to eat.  If I  had my way, all the people would be taken out of  this horrific third installment that goes even  deeper into the bowels of movie-dome than the  second one.  The plot (roughly  Grant gets  suckered onto island, plane crashes, grant gets  off of island...raptors can talk) is presented  with no more finesse than a list of short  sketches.   The movie had more promise than I think most  of the Jurassic Park movies.  Special effects had  advanced to a point where created Dinosaurs was  no longer a major budgetary outlay, and much more  is known about cloning.  Yet all of those avenues  where left un-explored.  Grant wonders at one  point makes you wonder what else In-Gen was  doing here.  Yeah it does kind of make you  wonder...too bad you'll never find out because  we're too busy inserted cheesy dialogue into this  already predictable movie.   It seems that every line a character utters  is another No, this is what happens when you  play god, You're no better than the people who  made this Island, or the ever popular, Run!!  and I'll be here waiting for you. And those of you who don't care about plot,  and characters and are perfectly happy to witness  dinosaurs, well...it's only a little over an hour  and none of the money shots are particularly  exciting.  Mediocre at best.  Plus the movie  blows its wad way too early with the T-Rex,  Spinosouraus (does this even exist?) battle  scene.  Leaving the rest of the movie with a dry  anti-climatic empty feeling. There is only one type of person that I  would recommend this movie for.  Someone who  watches a lot of soap operas and has ADD.  A soap  opera fan will probably find the plot perfectly  ok, and only someone on ADD will appreciate the  rate at which this movie climaxes. Instead of seeing this movie, go to your  friends house with the best stereo system and  watch the Jurassic Park (the original) DVD.  I  promise you'll be more entertained... "},{"Title":"A heart-shatteringly devastating tale of a trilogy that was ruined by the third film.","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" We all have distinctive moments in our pasts where we remember being truly terrified for the first time, and mine can be summed up in two words; Velociraptors. Kitchen. To date Jurassic Park remains my favourite movie of all time, no questions asked. The sequel? Flawed, yet brilliant, replacing the serious, moody Sam Neil with Jeff Goldblums' goofy, pessimistic Ian Malcolm and introducing INGEN as more of a relentlessly capitalistic corporation than just John Hammond and his smug-yet-blundering team of scientists meant that The Lost World was far enough removed from the original to lean more towards the action genre than the sci-fi/horror that came before, successfully expanding on a fantastic idea. Now, at some point I'm going to have to mention the film in question, as much as it pains me, so here goes.It's laughable. By now the entire planet knows about the Park, yet no government organisation has made any attempts to do anything about, no INGENesque investors have attempted to profit from the islands, the world has conveniently forgotten all about it (conveniently allowing the standard foolish tourists that such second-rate, they're-coming-to-get- you films need, access to a large collection of assorted predators). While a film about a theme park full of genetically engineered dinosaurs is not exactly what you'd call realistic, the idea that the world would do nothing about it is not ridiculous, it's just bloody stupid.So where next? Well, we've done a T-rex, a spitty-thing and 3 Raptors (JP1) We've done 2 T-rexes, a baby T-rex, a pack of Raptors in the long grass and these weird, tiny little dinosaurs who you could blatantly smash to pieces with a small stick, yet still manage to eat the bad guy from The Big Lebowski (JP2)... Oh! I know we'll bring in this BIG dude to ruin the t-rex's party, introduce the Pterosaur cage from the first book, and lets give the raptors their own language -therefore enhancing their level of evil- make them smaller and give them a few feathers!! Even though they're allegedly the same as the animals in JP2. And Dr. Grant also mentions in the movie how the Spinosaurus was not on InGen's list of dinosaurs, it was a top secret experiment that was hidden from the public (convenient!).So as we have established, this is a film built on a relic of an amazing idea for a film, it hurts me personally to know that because of it two of my favourite films will never join the great trilogies of my generation, and if the rant above doesn't dissuade you from wasting your time on this lurching Frankenstein, then maybe this will; It is an admirable goal and a daunting task to try and emulate the work of a great director like Spielberg, and in no way does any aspect of this film match up to what has gone before it, but not only that, it also makes no attempts to expand any more than JP2 already did, it lacks creativity, the acting is poor -the return of Sam Neil does nothing to draw the viewer away from the awfully-stereotypical drone of the hired guns there to supply a bit of fodder for the dinos- and the climax of the film is -quite frankly- a bit of an anticlimax. All in all I would rather this film be scrubbed from the annals of history and the whisper of its very name made punishable by death. The worst part? They're bringing out another one. "},{"Title":"A huge disappointment. I wish Spielberg had directed it!","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie does not carry the torch from the two previous installments. What Spielberg originally set out to do, was to make the dinosaurs appear as animals, and not as monsters/Gozilla. I feel that this, the 3rd installment, directed by Joe Johnston, does exactly what Spielberg tried to avoid - it portrays the dinosaurs as monsters. This simply kills the movie for me.Also the story is too hollow, and there's a lack of character development. Something that also really annoys me is how unrealistic some of the scenes are. The guy hanging from a tree in a parachute,is first of all still hanging there after 8 weeks even though he definitely isn't out of reach of some of the dinosaurs. Secondly, he is a totally clean skeleton with no flesh or skin; again this is after only 8 weeks. "},{"Title":"Utter rubbish","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic park has fallen a long way since the original blockbuster. I feel very sorry for the actors who starred in this atrocity, Sam Neill especially.Pointless rescue plot which essentially involves the characters getting chased from point A to point B to point C while being chased by assorted reptiles.The dinosaurs were no more or less remarkable compared to similar special effects heavy films.I expect that this movie has killed the franchise, which is a little sad.To fill in my submission, I'm apparently required to use a minimum of ten lines. Ideally, I'd like to fill in that extra space with profanity. Seriously people, don't waste your time on this void of celluloid. Go and read a book, or even a comic, I don't really care. Watch Jurassic Park III at your peril, and don't say I didn't warn you. Filth of this magnitude is merely another shameful example of American Cinema at its worst. "},{"Title":"A Major Disappointment","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III journeys Dr. Alan Grant after being persuaded by a wealthy businessman to conduct an aerial tour of Isla Sorna, InGen's second site for a failed Jurassic Park experiment, he discovers the true reason for his invitation. A tragic accident maroons the party of seven, and they must attempt to escape with their lives. Third Times The Charm! No, no it's not. Here we are given the third installment in the Jurassic series directed by Joe Johnston, who brought us Honey, I Shrunk The Kids, The Rocketeer, Jumanji, The Pagemaster and many other pretty good ones but this one right is where something went in a complete different direction. Shorter runtime than any other of the Jurassic park films, we are still handled a outrageous Dinosaurs but this time with no eagerness. The only robust thing I found redeeming in this film is seeing Sam Neil reprise his role as Alan Grant, he's mostly the only sturdy thing that held this film together. Other characters in this I found obnoxious are the roles played by William H. Macy & Ta Leoni, two greats talents that are given such irksome characters that give off vibes for you to start perceiving for throughout, they just manipulated Alan and we need to start being sympathetic towards them? No thank you. If you were expecting enticing dinosaur fun, you expected.......wrong, there is a fight between a T-Rex and a Spinosaurus that lasts about 20, 25 seconds which altogether is really discouraging and a complete misspend. The dinosaurs aren't even amusing in this, the writers made them really treacherous and solemn and instead of the magnificent use of animatronics in the past, we are given fully functioned CGI dinosaurs that are so evidently that it's not even funny. When those end credits pop up on the screen, you distinguish that you have just sat through a hour and a half of full disappointment. There is so much silliness as well that do not make any actual sense but can make just chuckle a little bit, I won't go deep into detail but just trust me on this. Overall, Jurassic Parks III exceeds to point from unlikable characters to where a lot doesn't seem to make sense. Sam Neil was only reason why I stuck all the way through and he surely was the only character I enjoyed! "},{"Title":"Velociraptor speaks and has a nice voice too","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rushed into production without a finished script, this hack job of terrible characters and bad writing, had a rewrite by Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor and I could only imagine the quality of the script before it got in their hands. Why this island hasn't been bombed to smithereens when flying dinosaurs could wreck havoc on nearby civilization is absurd enough - but this is more like a monster island from a 1950's schlock movie where creatures attack from around any corner and sky. The threadbare plot involves an irritating divorced couple played by a very annoying Ta Leoni and William H Macy looking for their son who is lost on the island. They convinced Sam Neill's character to help, yet end up basically kidnapping the man, because he's the last thread connecting this stinker to the first Jurassic film - not that he's really the best man for the job. Leoni's character is nails on the chalkboard horrible and Jurassic Park III is basically just a bunch of dino chases and attacks stitched together by a script that was made up as they went along. At least it's mercifully short. A dream scene involving a velociraptor saying Alan is the stuff of bad movie gold, unfortunately that's about 5 seconds long and the rest of the film is just obnoxious. "},{"Title":"A dinosaur attack film that brings nothing new","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III is a perfect example of a film that finally brings down the entire series. Jurassic Park and The Lost World excelled at the premise of dinosaurs on an island and then along comes Jurassic Park III to cause the film, let alone the entire franchise, to go down the drain. Within this film are fatal mistakes that destroys the movie as a whole.The film is just a dinosaur attack film. Yes, The Lost World is like that too, but Jurassic Park III can not even do what its predecessor did to make it work on some note. The Lost World had the herbivores also be dangerous. Jurassic Park III made it so the carnivores are dangerous and the herbivores are friendly to humans. With that in place, the humans go running through herds of dinosaurs that are actually just as dangerous as the raptors that are chasing them. To add to the annoyance of the dinosaur attack film, the first thing that happens when the group settles down is that plane is attacked and two people are eaten by the Spinosaurus.Nothing new is added to the film. The entire reason there is a film is because someone got stuck on the island and the group goes to rescue them. If I recall correctly, that is the same reason there was a plot in The Lost World. Even minor moments are stolen from the other films like Billy has a lucky bag, same as Sarah. The plane crashes because of the main dinosaur, the trailers are destroyed by the main dinosaur. And so on. Actually, the nothing new thing is a lie. They had new dinosaurs and new dinosaurs attack. They redid the raptors, replaced the T-Rex with the Spinosaurus, and added Pteranodons as another dinosaur to attack. The writers spent little time working on an original story that was not done in the previous movie and instead spent time adding and changing the dinosaurs.The film is poorly written, complete with comical and one dimensional characters, dinosaurs that bring nothing interesting, and has no tension because there are no twists on who will make it or what the dinosaurs or the characters are going to do. All in all, Jurassic Park III is the worst film of the Jurassic Park franchise and a bad movie altogether. "},{"Title":"Just forget this one ever happened","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This installment doesn't have what it takes to carry on the Jurassic Park name. It's like this movie was just a quick cash in without any effort put into it. The plot just seemed lazy, a movie can be simple and yet good, but that doesn't apply to this movie. Watching this movie was like watching some sort of corny children's movie or a live action cartoon. The whole direction is not just corny, but it just doesn't make much sense. I mean watching this flick as a kid I thought it was Meh just okay. But watching it now, not just because of the lack of good cinematography or CGI. I think the only actually decent part about this movie was that it has the return of Sam Neill as Dr. Alan Grant. Even the last remaining survivors weren't even that likable, and some even detestable. Despite the film trying to make them into comic relief. Overall, this is a bland adventure movie. It's somewhat watchable, but really disappointing for a Jurassic Park movie.3.8/10 "}{"Title":"A great guilty pleasure.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, there's not a lot of character development, and there's not even a lot of plot (We're in the middle of the island, let's get to the shore), but let's be honest...you're not really going to see JP3 for character development, are you?Honestly, Jurassic Park III surprised me because I thought I'd hate the people a lot more (as in JP2), but director Joe Johnstone treats all of the characters pretty much as filler to get us to the next dino chase scene.  God bless him for that.The dialogue is neither brilliant nor teeth-clenchingly stupid; it's merely adequate to move the simple plot along.  Don't expect to be enriched intellectually after leaving, but damn if I didn't have a good time!  In a summer full of movies pretending to be more than they are, it's refreshing to see something like JP3 that is satisfied with just providing 90 minutes of cheap thrills.  It may not be great, but at least it's honest. "},{"Title":"They're Back...","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  	The dinosaurs are back and they're bigger and better than ever, in this third installment that expands the series that began in 1993, and it still awe-inspiring in it's grandeur and size.  `Jurassic Park III,' directed by Joe Johnston, reunites Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) with his old friends the raptors, when some contrived circumstances land him back on the island (actually, the second island this time around) and he has a chance-- however unwelcomed-- to discover even more about these magnificent beasts, including the intelligence level of the raptors that he always suspected but could never prove.  And before it's over, he'll know a lot more, but at a price he'd rather exchange for ignorance than pay if he had it to do over again.	As far as Grant is concerned, Jurassic Park is history and something he'd just as soon forget.  And he definitely had no intention of ever going near one of those islands again, but just as the funding for his archeologic dig is about to dry up, a man named Paul Kirby (William H. Macy) shows up with deep pockets and a willing checkbook.  It seems that Kirby and his wife, Amanda (Tea Leoni) are adventure seekers, and for their wedding anniversary they've received permission from the Costa Rican government for a low fly-by over Isla Sorna, where the products of InGen are still thriving and roaming about freely.  They want Grant along as a kind of tour guide, and though his instincts tell him not to do it, he reluctantly agrees for the sake of his dig.  And after all, it's just a simple fly-by and they won't really be getting close to the island at all.  But we all know better than that, don't we?  Soon Grant and the Kirbys, along with their pilot and two other gentlemen, are winging their way toward the land that Grant wishes Time would've forgot.	The plot is fairly simple and straightforward, the cast is great, the special effects are outstanding, and Johnston keeps it all on track and moving right along.  Most importantly, it's fun and exciting, with just enough tension to keep you going until the end.  It's a far cry from the original `Jurassic Park,' but that is to be expected; there's no way to recapture that special sense of wonder evoked by that very first glimpse of the island and those dinosaurs, and that's what really separates the original from the sequels.  You can only discover something once, and after that it becomes a matter of simply pursuing more of the same.  But it's kind of like discovering chocolate cake; that first time is great, even something special, but it doesn't mean you don't enjoy it just as much the next time around, especially if it's good cake.	Malcom is sorely missed in this one, but it's good to see Dr. Grant back, and Sam Neill slips comfortably back into the role as if he never left, picking right up where he left off without missing a beat.  And Macy can always be counted upon to deliver a solid performance, no matter what role he's playing; he's simply one of the best character actors in the business, and he does an excellent job of bringing Kirby to life here.  Tea Leoni is also a welcome addition to the `JP' family, and though this part is hardly a stretch for her as an actor, she makes her character believable, and she and Macy work very well together.	The supporting cast includes Michael Jeter (Udesky), Alessandro Nivola (Billy), Trevor Morgan (Eric), John Diehl (Cooper), Bruce A. Young (Nash) and Laura Dern (Dr. Ellie Sattler).  This isn't a film that purports to be insightful or anything more than what it is, which is good, solid entertainment.  But like space shuttles and Moon walks, `Jurassic Park III' is a big movie that is bound to be taken for granted to a certain extent, which is kind of a shame.  Because from Steven Spielberg, who started it all, right on down through all the rest of the cast, crew, technicians (or perhaps we should call them `magicians') and all of the rest who contributed to the monumental task of bringing this film to the screen, they did a flawless job and made it look easy.  This may be pure entertainment, but it's also art in it's purest form, and the filmmakers responsible should be acknowledged for their achievement.  Contrary to what many may think, those dinosaurs didn't put themselves up there on the screen.  And a film like this is nothing less than a tribute to talent, dedication and craftsmanship-- and without a doubt, it's what the magic of the movies is really all about.  I rate this one 8/10.     	  "},{"Title":"We went to it in spite of the bad press and loved it.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We went knowing that the plot was we land and dinosaurs try to eat us!.It is thrilling to see the real life dinos!  How can people not get immersed in the feeling of Oh my god, I'm gonna die!?Some did die.  Heroics and scares abounded.  We were glad the movie lasted no longer than it did.This had some of our favorite actors also  Neill, Leoni, Macy, Jeter and Dern.How the extinct creatures were portrayed is anyone's guess, and I support the movie's version.Now if Hollywood or England would make a Tarzan or Jungle Book with real actors and computer generated animals - we'd go in a heart beat. "},{"Title":"Entertaining family adventure fare - just the right dosage from director Joe Johnston","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JURASSIC PARK 3 is a decent entertaining ride, family fun movie. Just because Steven Spielberg directed the previous two Jurassic Park adventures, this one being directed by Joe Johnston (October Sky 1999, Jumanji 1995, The Rocketeer 1991) raises the curiosity of how good/fun it can be. Under the 'simply wanted to see it' motivation, I found suspense, thrills, drama and action for teenagers, parents, faithful Jurassic Park followers (Sam Neill's back, and Laura Dern briefly appears), and just about for everyone who wants to be entertained and enjoys survival storylines. (We are reminded that Sam was not in The Lost World JP2.)Welcome to Isla Sorna - JP3. It is one continuous adventurous ride, with no overlong drawn out action sequences. There are plenty of cliffhangers to keep your adrenaline going for an hour and 33 mins. Subliminally it felt longer - it was well edited, with not a moment wasted, providing just the right amount of 'breathing' segments along the way to let you pick up little details/clues in following the story. You may say it's a tidy script there's not a line of dialog that was trivial. There are reasons why each key character is there and why something's said, and amidst all the adventurous urgencies with the effective menacing Stan Winston's dino-creatures, you'll click and realize it was no passing remark that was uttered earlier by Tea Leoni as Mom, William H. Macy as Dad, Trevor Morgan as Eric the son, or Alessandro Nivola's Billy, assistant to Sam Neill's Dr. Grant. Even the brief scene of the little boy (as the son of Laura Dern) pausing in front of a TV screen provided a 'close encounter' suspenseful moment. Hm.There are fleeting reminders of Hitchcock's The Birds, jungle aura of Tarzan flicks, a rescue moment from Gold Diggers The Secret of Bear Mountain, and Rob Cohen's Dragonheart. The camera's everywhere right on the water surface, high up in the air, close-up on faces, down amidst the jungle and trees, bringing us to previous Jurassic Park locales, going underwater, struggling along on a half-capsized boat during an eventful downpour&#133; The indispensable sound effects, and additional new music by Don Davis (along with reprise of John William's original JP theme) rounded off the excitement from this Universal Pictures and Amblin Entertainment adventure fare.  "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park - The Ride The Movie","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  PLOT Things go wrong as paleontologists are conned by couple into helping them find their missing son, trapped amongst dinosaurs on restricted island.REVIEW Third installment of the lucrative, entertaining, but creatively limp film franchise is not nearly as good as the first movie, but a slight improvement over the second. Sam Niell, who deserves to be a bigger star than he is, is the film's anchor as he returns as paleontologist and reluctant action hero Dr. Alan Grant. William H. Macy and Alessandro Nivola also give good performances, although this film really doesn't have anything in the way of character development. As directed by Joe Johnston, Jurassic Park III is as efficient and effective as a Raptor attack, cramming a lot of thrills, laughs, and wonders into the 90 minute running time. The victim of constant script revisions, the story seems to have been left behind in previous drafts and on the editing room floor, but the shallow plot serves well as a gateway into a prehistoric world, filled with new and intriguing dinosaurs, without any pretense. I was left wanting more, and this movie deserves a special edition with extra footage, but that is probably better than wanting less. The film also scores points for parodying movies of this type, and is a shameless example of cinema as amusement park ride in its purest form, although the finale chickens out in the end.  A simple, good ol' fashioned matinee monster movie, but you won't be left with much to ponder on the way out of the theatre. "},{"Title":"If it's a B-Movie then it isn't as fun as it should have been.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This, unlike the other Jurassic Park movies actually plays it more like a B-Movie more then anything else. I started with this point to demonstrate the diversity on which one between 2 and 3 are the worst ones. Do you like something trying something, aiming high and failing or something that aims lower and on it's merits fails. In all honesty though, I think I prefer this one while the second one just padded itself out, trying to be the grand epic story that the first one was while this?... It's a bit better.The plot is that Alan Grant is still studying Dinosaurs and is approached by a wealthy man to go into the island from the second movie to just sight see with his wife. Grant refuses but then accepts thanks to his money. On the island they find out that he isn't rich and the reason why they're doing this is to find their lost son who was on a boat ride dumb enough to go into a quarantined zone, thanks to the last movie.The biggest weakness with this movie is that while it does try to be more like a B-Movie I don't think it takes that many advantages with it, I mean it's Jurassic Park - It's not like people won't flock to it. It just kind of sits there when I can name hundreds of other B-Movies that manage to be more entertaining and memorable with less then a quarter of this movie's budget.With the fun out of it that just leads to me seeing too many plot holes in the movie, even more then the last one. My favourite bad part of this movie is at the end where on the helicopter they see Pterodactyls flying in the distance and Grant says they're looking for new nesting grounds while the whimsical music plays... That's not whimsical, that's terrifying and how did they get out of the bird cage anyway? It's just stuff like noticing that that really detracts from the enjoyment of what is essentially a turn off your brain experience.Although the rest is actually pretty good. I mean sure the effects aren't that good, the characters are bland and there is almost no reason for this to be made at all, but this is meant to be played up like a B-Movie. It doesn't succeed at that but it isn't trying to be grand and epic like The Lost World.The problem at the end of the day is that somehow it tries to get away from being as fun as it could have been. It just sits there in some kind of mediocrity trying to either be a B-Movie and take itself seriously while never achieving either. The best thing I can say is that it is much better then the second one, but so far - the first one is still my favourite. "},{"Title":"On this island there is no such thing as safe.","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a third time, dinosaurs terrorize people. This time, the people stumble across Site B (from the second movie), finding it a derelict place overrun by prehistoric wildlife, including bigger, badder, and smarter creatures.There are a few good thrills to be had with Jurassic Park III. At this point, the special effects have been refined to look sharper and move smoother, and there are still some huge animatronics being employed. Thus, you get a lot of good-looking dinosaurs running loose chasing people all over the island. This includes the epic Spinosaurous, which makes its introduction by fighting and defeating a T-Rex in mortal combat. There are also raptors everywhere, which use more cunning than before to hunt down their prey. On top of that, there's also some Pteranodons in a giant bird cage (from a scene that was in the original novel but never used before). The dinosaur action is modestly satisfying and pretty fun.Unfortunately, the story leaves much to be desired. It is great to see Dr. Grant returning as the protagonist (and Dr. Sattler in a smaller role), but he winds up being surrounded by a bunch of the dumbest dorks imaginable. The whole plot revolves around an estranged and dippy couple that lost their son; they go so far as tricking and manipulating Grant and his protg to the island. Once they all finally get there, it's just one dumb move after another, followed by lots of running and screaming. The film becomes a bit more endearing with the chase scenes, and the characters' human sides become apparent, but there are still some dumb things that happen that ruin all creditability (including watching a smartphone travel through a dinosaur's digestive system and somehow work underwater to relay an unintelligible message that somehow prompts the military to show up in the end...yeah right). Of all the faults with this film, however, the one thing that's always bothered me the most is that there's nothing new involved; it's just another island adventure with little connection to previous events, and nowhere else to go. The movie doesn't advance the arc of the series at all (though I haven't seen Jurassic World just yet, I have a feeling you can skip this one no problem), so it comes off as a mere throwaway adventure.This film has good-looking photography, including some decent POV shots. Editing is solid. Sam Neill is as fun to watch as ever. Laura Dern is barely in the movie; what little screen time she has is fine and dandy. William H. Macey and Ta Leoni are excellent at playing the dippiest characters imaginable; Trevor Morgan does a fine job in his role; all the mercenary characters are fun to watch, and everybody else is just peachy. Writing is pretty weak, and there's hardly any dialogue that stands out. This production uses decent-looking sets, props, costumes, locales, and special effects. Music rehashes all the old themes.This film has its share of cool action, and it often tries to recapture the same sense of wonder and whimsey that made the first film endearing. However, the plot doesn't hold much water, the characters are frustrating, and the whole movie doesn't leave as much of a lasting impact as the last two.3/5 (Experience Average | Story Marginal | Film Pretty Good) "},{"Title":"Return to the island","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" History is crazy when you look back on things, in 2001 I remember being so pumped for another film in the Jurassic Park series I saw this one in theaters with my brother. The film had me on the edge of my seat during the scenes with the DinosaursBut looking back on it the film did hurt the series that we know and love. For one thing it is directed by Joe Johnson. He just didn't seem to fit the role of director. That's like replacing your best Quarterback for a second string QB just won't work. Plus the film took out the beloved Tyrannosaurus Rex with in seconds just to bring in a new dinosaur Spinosaurus? I mean all Jurassic Park fans know that The T-Rex is the flagship Dinosaur along with the Raptors and you can't have a film like this without the other.There is just so many wrongs it's hard to pick up the rights in this film but I will share my thoughts on the good.The plot of the film is center around Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) along with his partner on the dig site he was working on Billy Brennan (Alessandro Nivola) were ask to their guide as they fly over Isla Sorna Site B with Paul Kirby (William H Macy) and his wife Amanda Kirby (Ta Leoni) however things are not what they appear to be as they also accomplish by three mercenaries Mr.Udesky (Michael Jeter) Cooper (John Diehl) and M.B.Nash (Bruce A.Young). The Kirbys have a real hidden agenda their real intentions was to have Dr.Grant help them find their son Eric (Trevor Morgan) who was lost on the island due to a accident. However two of the mercenaries are killed by the Spinosaurus as their only way of escaping their plane crashed as then destroyed by the Spinosaurus.To make matters worse they are also chase by Velociraptors. So pretty much most of the film is spend with the characters being chased and running away from the Dinosaurs like a game of cat and mouseWhat's another knock on the film is that the relationship between Dr.Grant and Dr.Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern) is no longer the same as it was in the first film that really show case one of the red flags for the film, I mean I would have love to see Ellie and Alan still together but no they just ruin that relationship for us.Another bone I have to pick about this film is that the effects for the Dinosaurs are just a let down the first two were far superior while there are a few effects for the Dinosaurs like the Pteranodon scene that has good effects. Also the film is only 90 minutes long making it the shortest film of the Jurassic Park movies which is another knock on the film.The good I like is that Sam's performance shows how he was meant to play Dr.Alan Grant only he could be that character no one else. Laura returning as Ellie was better than nothing. Also there are some tense movements in the film like I love the scene the Raptor was pretending to be inside the glass tube when he really was behind it I love how well that was build so that is one plus I can give for the film.Also the setting of the island looks more swamp. The music once again matches the story of the film as you can always count on Jurassic Park to make some of the best music in a motion pictureThe plot was interesting despite some knocks, Just wish Alan and Ellie were still together that is one thing that could have made the film better. Overall I will consider Jurassic Park 3 a mix bag I'm giving the rating I give because I love Jurassic Park it just this film could have been better if it wasn't being rush I give Jurassic Park 3 an 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Bad, But Not as Terrible as I Thought It Would Be","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The aspect of Jurassic Park III that I liked is the fact that Dr. Alan Grant is restored as the protagonist in this installment, making for a more intriguing focus than when Goldblum was the protagonist of The Lost World. While there are a good amount of elements I disliked in this film, I thought I was going to enjoy it even less than I did. I set my expectations super low for a film I vaguely remember seeing around the time it was released, which means I haven't seen the film in roughly 14 years.Just like in The Lost World, I can't believe how idiotic some of the characters were in this film. In The Lost World it was the old man who was extremely dumb sending people into danger again after being responsible for the tragedy at Jurassic Park, and now Kirby is the idiot for tricking Dr. Grant and his sidekick Billy into helping him rescue his son on the second island on which InGen was creating dinosaurs. It is brave of him as a father, but all the arrangements he made were stupid - Dr. Grant is a dinosaur expert, not the head of a rescue squad, the mercenaries Kirby hired weren't really mercenaries, and of course everybody except Grant, Kirby and his family, and Billy, are killed.What doesn't make too much sense is that Kirby couldn't convince the U.S. embassy to help rescue his son, yet Ellie (Laura Dern) is able to convince the navy and marines to rescue Grant and everyone still alive on the island after one phone call from Grant.This movie reminds me of a shorter version of Saving Private Ryan in a way, but these people are risking their lives for one boy, not one soldier, which creates a different emotional connection than Saving Private Ryan.The quality of the film just doesn't seem to match up to the original 2 - the CGI is overused in this one and looks worse than the CGI of the first 2, and the robotic dinosaurs are utilized less, which kind of breaks the illusion of the movie. The writing is bad (by the way, what was Alexander Payne doing co-writing this movie? that was a strange credit to see) with dialogue about driving 5 miles under the speed limit intending to be meaningful (I'm not joking, it's that bad) and we lack dialogue as well as the theme of the ethics of recreating dinosaurs overall except for one instance when Grant says this is playing God, referring to what InGen was doing.The movie held my interest at times, but it was a fairly bad 3rd installment for this movie franchise. Let's see if Jurassic World starring Chris Pratt will surprise me. "},{"Title":"Not the best plot, but filled in the holes from The Lost World","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The characters went to several locations that the characters in TLW went to, such as the giant hatchery, visited in the second novel. That and many other areas weren't shown in the second movie. This also showed the dinosaurs unmentioned in The Lost World, like Ceratosaurus, Spinosaurus, and the Pteranodons. I felt the entire basis of the movie was on just rescuing a person, but didn't seen as luring as JP and TLW. This didn't have the best story but had many interesting concepts. They should have shown what happened to Ian Malcom. They also could have shown what happened to InGen. I hope Jurassic World fills in the holes from before Jurassic Park, the future of InGen, and the dinosaurs' fates. "}{"Title":"Excitement replaced by Excrement.","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After Charles Darwin, Richard Owen, Louis Leakey, E.O. Wilson, Stephen Jay Gould, Richard Dawkins, Robert Bakker, Jack Horner and thousands of other paleontologists whose names we shall sadly never know, broke their backs formulating the knowledge that allowed us to comprehend the Dinosauria... JURASSIC PARK III takes those decades of learning - and gives us Running and Screaming a lot.Totally lost the plot; the corporations and marketers and unevolved apes who call themselves filmmakers have forgotten what made dinosaurs such a wonder in the first place. It wasn't Running and Screaming From Them. The majesty, the mystery, the alienness of dinosaurs to current fauna; the thought-provoking concept that all the dinosaurs we know of are actually more successful as a species than Man, having thrived for millions of years (while homo sapiens has been in recognizable form only 100,000 - some say even less after viewing Rob Schneider movies); the fact that at their reign, certain dinosaur species were the largest animals on Earth; the foods they ate, their herd habits; the fact they were NOT REPTILES but a sub-Group of Archosaurs; the fact they are more closely related to birds than reptiles or mammals - all these things make dinosaurs intriguing and wondrous.But JURASSIC PARK III has Running and Screaming.Sam Neill is once again Dr. Alan Grant (remember him? From JURASSIC PARK, 1993, sensibly sidestepping THE LOST WORLD, then insensibly stepping in it with this one) is tricked onto that OTHER island with the dinosaurs - Isla Sorna? Isla Nublar? - who cares? When does the Running and Screaming Express leave? Only two subplots are worth mentioning in this film - that of the velociraptors' communicative abilities (through noises made via an air chamber in their skulls); and the heartbreaking fallout between Grant and his student sidekick (young, muscular, blonde Allesandro Nivola, one-upping Jeff Goldblum as The Sexyboy).All the rest is Running and Screaming.William H. Macy is the same old worry-wart poindexter, surprisingly matched with a smoking' ex-wife, Tea Leoni - both looking for their son (Trevor Morgan) on the island. Don't even ask how the plot got him there - suffice to say, it was ridiculous wrapped in stupid and blow-dried by idiotic. Michael Jeter is the faux mercenary, quickly becoming the William H. Macy of B-Actors. Laura Dern makes an interesting cameo as Ellie Satler, Grant's gf from JURASSIC PARK. She is married to someone else. Bitch.Sam Neill has a great authoritative role, and his delivery is always fun We haven't landed yet! Mr. Kirby, tell her to stop doing that. If I lose you, it's just me and the tourists. The feature saurian (meaning the One That Does The Most Chasing of the Running and Screaming People) is a Spinosaurus, bigger than a t-rex, with a sail like Dimetrodon (even more believable than those glued-on sails on 1950s iguanas) and with hands that actually work. Early on, we are treated to the Ali-Frasier of Dinosaur ringside - the Spino versus the Tyranno. There can be only one. Because the effects department complained.For effects adrenalin, for believability of the dinosaurs, this movie is unbeatable. That's why it still scores in high mediocre. I don't mind seeing all the dinosaurs - it's what the movie turns them into that vexes me. I'm terribly vexed. They are simply Things To Run From. The few seconds of wonder come in barely noticeable snatches (where John Williams's majestic theme would try and manipulate us into sharing the moment).When I was a kid watching all those stop-motion movies (JASON AND THE ARGONAUTS, BEAST FROM 20,000 FATHOMS, VALLEY OF GWANGI) and those stinkers with iguanas with glued-on sails (KING DINOSAUR, THE LOST WORLD 1960), I was always aching to snatch a glimpse of something prehistoric - invariably there would never be enough prehistoric stuff (and the cave women never slipped nipple out of their furs). And when we did see the feature creatures, it was disappointing at best, as they were on a rear projection or interacting very suspiciously unrealistically with the actors.So I'm envious of kids today who get served up movies like JP III; kids who are here for the same reason I was there back then - for the Running and Screaming! And see lots of prehistoric creatures in grand interaction with people.But back to the subplots When Grant finds out that the entirely-likable Billy has stolen some raptor eggs (for the best research intentions and funding), he belittles him so thoroughly that we feel Billy's humiliation like a hot flush. And we understand why Billy would later sacrifice himself. We wish we could see Grant retract his scathing derogation, but we don't.The science of dinosaur communication, appearance and habits has grown exponentially concurrently with the JURASSIC PARK films. Subsequently, the velociraptors in the films have evolved from from being dull brown to sporting rudimentary feathers and various colors; in JURASSIC PARK they simply roared, now in JP III, they're honking and yipping all over the place like chicks at a slumber party - intelligence greater than primates.  I say, old chap, that's all dashed interesting - but - shouldn't the original DNA have brought out those characteristics in the very first cloned dinosaurs (in JURASSIC PARK)? Just because WE'VE discovered it only now doesn't mean that they weren't always like that - their DNA should have reflected that! Yes, fans, I have indisputably proved that JURASSIC PARK is Only A Movie! I forgot to mention the Running and Screaming.Last scene shows pteranodons flying out over the ocean, the kid asking, Where do you think they're going? To JURASSIC PARK IV, of course. "},{"Title":"Worst then the first, better then the second","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Jurassic Park is my all time favorite movie, and the second one is a big guilty pleasure. But unlike the second one, I actually consider Jurassic Park III a descent movie. Flawed yes, but it isn't really bad.The main problem is that it's just completely pointless. This was the only Jurassic Park Novel not based on a book, so was there any point in adabting it. It's also a little too kid friendly, almost like it was dumbed down a bit for a wider audience even though it's PG-13. Some of the CGI didn't age well at all, and Joe Johnson's direction isn't nearly as good as Steven Spielbergs. Pretty much every other problem is nitpicking.Now the fact that this isn't based on a book actually makes this better than The Lost World. That film didn't have anything to do with the book it was based on except for the basic plot of going to another island of dinosaurs. This film actually has a few elements from the second book that weren't in the last movie. The action scenes are pretty entertaining. I like the characters. Sam Niell is a better lead than Malcolm. It's just a short fun movie.Jurassic Park III is flawed, definitely. It isn't nearly as good as the first one, but I found it to be an enjoyable flick. "},{"Title":"Adrenaline rush that redeems series","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A worried mother and father recruit dinosaur expert Dr. Alan Grant (Neill) into helping finding their missing son who disappeared in Isla Sorna, a dinosaur inhabited island.The renowned success of Steven Spielberg's first Jurassic Park lives on today through its literal dynamic of action adventure and taking an ancient collection of creatures and encoding it into a modern society, which was brilliant. Sadly the Lost World diminished the respect of the first through conventional action sequences and atrocious array of protagonists and when this third number was scheduled for release in 2001 the word cash cow may have been uttered, and whilst this is true, there is redemption.The opening sequence sees a man and a young lad paragliding near to Isla Sorna and after a bizarre fog shot they must let go of their rope and are soon flying into the island. From there the plot brings back a few familiar faces in Sam Neill's excellent Alan Grant and some new protagonists which are quite flimsy. William H Macy is the unlikely hero, Alessandro Nivola is the aspiring learner whilst Tea Leoni is cringe worthy as an exasperated mother.Thankfully the different personalities match up in a blissfully tantalizing plot that introduces us to a Spinosaurus, pterodactyls and less compys. The problem with the second film was in fact the dinosaurs, too much action and trying to capitalise on the established usage of the first. Jurassic Park was brilliant because of their minimal screen time, less was most certainly more and that principal is close to being matched here.Perhaps the Spinosaurus is used too frequently but bar that the extensive plotting of the other action montages are great. The raptor trap was brilliantly staged and I challenge anyone to admit they weren't a little scared when we saw the raptor in the centre.Jumanji director Joe Johnston manages to effectively generate adrenaline through such well used shots during the dinosaur attacks but the tension is further mounted through the anticipation. He is very aware of the characters on the island and makes them isolated and with such dark lighting and negative protagonists this generates a fast moving plot that justifies its specified genre.The score has improved since the last film as has the dialogue and scripting in general. There is no terrible humour more sweet jibes at others whilst the romantic intention between Macy and Leoni is initially corny this fades into desperation to find their lost son.This is a fully packed adrenaline rush that is easy to watch and redeems the failure of the previous release and is a fine way to round off the series. Talks of a fourth release are still just talks and since author Michael Crichton passed away in late 2008 it is arguably best to leave the work on a high which captured his marvellous concept and generated some great big blockbusters that can be watched over and over again. "},{"Title":"When dinosaurs wreck face!","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the first JP movie I saw in theaters(but i grew up with the first two on VHS) and saw it twice in theaters. This movie was freaking awesome! Many people complain the rehash of the JP storyline, but it works very well. The dinosaurs were scary in this movie and brings back the thrill of the JP movies that Lost World(though very good) just simply didn't do. This movie may be as scary as the original, if not scarier. The acting in this movie, other than Sam Neil, is crap. And that is what lowers this movie's score. The spinosaurus wrecks t-rex's face in this film, and the pterodactyls make their 2nd appearance in a JP film(at the end of Lost World their first). The raptors which are the most terrifying creature in the series, is at its peak! Take a view because you are in for one hell of a ride. "},{"Title":"Great special effects and nostalgia can only carry a film so lackluster so far...","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Jurassic Park was a film held together by good pacing, good cinematography, convincing actors, and of course the unfair advantage of being one of the first films to showcase photo realistic CGI effects. The film was hardly a masterpiece (the story and some of the characters were fairly unrealistic, many easy-to-notice and major bloopers), but the films finer points over powered the weaknesses.Jurassic Park was basically a special effects demonstration, but a well crafted one. With that said, Jurassic Park III has more in common with its predecessor than many would give it credit for. However, JP III lacks the fore mentioned finer points that made the original work. The acting is flat, quite flat. Even Jurassic Park veteran Sam Neil, who gave a solid performance as the charter Alan Grant in the first film, is stiff in his acting this time around. The other issue is the film's pace. Jurassic Park had suspenseful timing. It would build up tension and then release it at well chosen moments. Jurassic Park III tries to just throw dinosaur themed action at you as fast as it can, without effectively building up the moment. As for the story, well it is actually pretty lame. It is a sad excuse for a sequel plot.The cinematography in Jurassic Park III isn't poorly done, but it can't compare to the cleverness of Jurassic Park's constantly iconic and dramatically chosen points of view. Not all in this movie is bad. The dinosaurs themselves don't disappoint. If anyone in Jurassic Park III should be nominated for best actor, it should be one of its CGI or animatronic cast members who are actually more convincing than the flesh and blood human cast. There are moments when it is a real challenge to tell apart the late Stan Winston's practical dinosaurs from Industrail Light and Magic's CGI ones. It is a pure delight to watch the roaring, hissing, winged, and clawed creatures interact with the scenery, fight, and destroy on the screen. If only they could tear apart the lame story and dull characters in the process... "},{"Title":"Munch Popcorn and Turn Off Your Brain For a While","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A decidedly odd couple with ulterior motives convince Dr. Alan Grant to go to Isla Sorna (the second InGen dinosaur lab.), resulting in an unexpected landing...and unexpected new inhabitants on the island.This movie is not overly original since it is just more of the same running from dinosaurs. But, if you liked it the first two times you may well like it again. I will admit the scenery was better this time, the terrain covered much more exciting. And after watching the horrible CGI in Snakes on a Plane, it is nice to see a film made by people who could make convincing digital creatures over ten years ago. Still not as good as the original dinosaurs, but the budget and a tighter schedule are likely to blame for that. Why are these people not working on all the other really bad films?I guess Jeff Goldblum had to pull out of this film because of a leg injury. That makes me sad, because Ian Malcolm is by far the best character in the series. Instead, there is a brief exchange between Sam Neill and a kid about Malcolm's books being preachy. For shame. Preachy or not, Malcolm was the only one who really knew what was going on.This film gave me exactly what I expected dinosaurs. Pretty much the same thing I expect from Jurassic Park 4 dinosaurs and Keira Knightley. "},{"Title":"Another walk in the park","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 The hardest part about continuing a franchise over an extended period of time is maintaining that every instalment seem familiar enough that it can still capitalise on the success of earlier films in the franchise, and yet still seem fresh and different enough for audiences to maintain interest. One way to change the focus a bit would be to hire a new director for a new creative outlook on the project, as was done by Spielberg-appointed Joe Johnston. The poor man must have had an enormous amount of pressure on him to not destroy the world Spielberg had so masterfully created in the first two films in the series. Johnston indeed doesn't tank the series here, but he is certainly no Steven Spielberg, and so the overall quality of the film falls, as would be expected. Johnston seems adept at picking up where Spielberg left off, and it is clear that effort is being shown to continually push the envelope in terms of special effects and constant thrills and tension. Indeed, not a minute has passed since the humans landing on it before they are already attacked and people start to die. This is one of the main flaws in Jurassic Park 3 - it continues the non-stop thrills theme the first two demonstrated, but seems a bit more blatant in doing so. The incessant action, while enjoyable seems a bit too unrealistic and staged to be entirely enjoyable. Even the huge action setpiece of T-Rex versus new enormous predatorial dinosaur Spinosaurus, which exhilarating and highly enjoyable seems ridiculously gratuitous, which subtracts from the fun somewhat. And I find it hard to understand how with such excellent dinosaur special effects, a destroyed plane after a crash can look so much like cardboard...All in all, it seems like all the best moments in Jurassic Park 3 are ones that we've already seen countless times before. It's still all fun, but not executed nearly as well as in the Spielberg films, so one feels as if one might as well be watching one of the earlier movies. The sequence in the tyrannodon bird-cage is the exception - thrilling, breathless, tense and wonderfully executed, it is easily the high point of the movie. However, there are still decent performances present in Jurassic Park 3 Sam Niel gives the film his all, reprising his gruff palaeontologist character Alan Grant from the first film, he is easily the highlight of this one. William H. Macy and Ta Loni are believable as parents, frantic to find their lost son, and have excellent chemistry with each other, though both come off as annoying quite often during the movie, and it is of course nice to see a tiny appearance from Laura Dern, also reprising her character from the first Jurassic Park movie. She and Sam Niel still show superb chemistry, and it's a shame her part wasn't larger in this movie. So all in all, Jurassic Park 3 is an entertaining enough movie, but still falls short of echoing the quality of the first two films. All the best moments are ones we've already seen many times before in the earlier two movies, in which they were executed better. Still, JP3 seems a valiant attempt by all concerned, if fraught with too many cheesy moments and unbelievable situations to be entirely credible. Still an entertaining way to pas the time, but when in doubt, see either of the first two - they are much stronger and more entertaining films, and in the end, JP3 just seems like a weaker relapse of them.-6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Spoiled ROTTEN!","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just watched this movie again for the umpteenth time, as I get psyched up for Peter Jackson's KING KONG this December. In JPIII I get to pretend that I am like Ray Harryhausen at 13 in 1933, at Graumann's Chinese Theater in Hollywood, mesmerized by Max Steiner, awed by O'Brien, delighted by Delgado - filled with that childhood-verging-on adolescent sense of wonder - like I don't want my childhood ever to end. In JPII I get to do that as often as I like. And I like. I like to pretend now and then, even at the tender age of 55. I pretending to be 13; I like watching grown men in rubber suits running around on a miniature jungle or city set pretending to be dinosaurs as much as I like the idea of grown men hiding behind the fake scenery, running a one thousand horsepower hydraulic Spinosaur. I like the idea of a lone effects genius spending half of his professional career moving a puppet or two painstakingly, thoughtfully, irrevocably - for one frame of film at a time in a small studio on a tabletop in front of a projection screen, so that millions of people can have their childhoods preserved.... Sure any thirteen year old knows how it's done. Any thirteen year old in 2005 knows fantasy from reality, and most kids are creating their own stories in Playstation and XBox or on their own thousand-dollar personal computers every day. I've done it myself on a great interstellar planetoid called HALO. But how many of us can pretend? Pretend to have our youth back, even for 92 minutes? But that's the whole point. We are SPOILED ROTTEN! JPIII did ninth best in America in 2001 in domestic box office grosses. In the year of Harry Potter, The Fellowship of the Ring, Shrek, Monsters, Inc., Rush Hour 2, The Mummy Returns, Pearl Harbor and Ocean's 11, it's a wonder the third installment beat the Burton blockbuster remake of Planet of the Apes! There was so much up there on the screen that year that it was clearly a case of sensory overload and limited funds. In fifty years, the JP franchise will still be holding its own up there with the best of 'em; there will always be those like me willing to suspend our disbelief for a few precious moments and allow ourselves to be transported, spoiled rotten, into lost worlds. "},{"Title":"A Lack of Directing Style","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The overall feel of the third Jurassic Park movie is relatively low-grade, without Spielberg directing. Spielberg has the ability to create blockbuster action sequences like in Jurassic Park 1 & 2 or Raiders of the Lost Ark or Saving Private Ryan. This movie lacked that style. Most of all this movie lacked coherency because of shoddy post-production editing (probably because they went over-budget). I could give numerous examples of this throughout the entire film's running time.The story lacked suspense, and became quite improbable at times. The characters apart from Dr. Grant were very uninteresting.My rating Spinosaurus 10/10 the rest eaten by editing 0/10. "},{"Title":"An average summer movie","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP1 is still the best of these movies, because it's a classic, but what I enjoyed about this one was that unlike the other JP-Movies, they didn't come up with the whole moral deal, again.(Oh, you can't manipulate nature, blah, blah, blah). There was still some in it, but there was way more action than in the first, too. I wouldn't go to see a forth installment, because I think in this one they they already copied themselves and except for new dinosaurs there isn't much they haven't done yet!! Still, I enjoyed it, but it was just a usual summer blockbuster "}{"Title":"The One Rotten Egg","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It has been a little less than a month since I've seen Jurassic Park 3 and I must say that it is possibly the most disappointing sequel ever and the only rotten egg of the JP series.  There are two things that all moviegoers will agree with me.  First of all, it's two predecessors have scripts ten billion times better than this one,in fact, this is the weakest of all time. Secondly, you never realize how badly you miss a director's style until it's gone.  Action in any film is never bad, it's only that there wasn't enough or there was too much.  The style is evident when the action isn't taking place.  Any scene that doesn't contain action in this movie feels disjointed and pointless.  The script can be blamed for this.  For such a short movie (92 minutes) it sure took a long time before the film moved to the island.  I had heard that it was short and thought that the film should not take too long to get to the island, but it did.  Running time is the second worst thing in this movie.  I wanted it to be longer, but only if it were a better movie.  In the end, action saved this movie a little as well as Sam Neill and Alessandro Nivola.  (2 of 4 stars) "},{"Title":"I don't like it at all!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot is very, very thin with many inconsistencies and illogical events (why would a dinosaur chase a couple of snacks all across an island that is swarming with bigger and more tastier food?). Ok, the dinosaurs are well animated but hey... they probably had the models from the last two movies lying around... If your a fan you probably don't care, but if you like any quality at all you better not go see this thing. "},{"Title":"Once again, a letdown....","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It truly crushed me once the end credits rolled at Jurassic Park III's conclusion.  I was almost befuddled as to what my eyes had just witnessed. Were the dinosaurs good?  Yes, of course, it's expected nowadays in film, but after Star Wars Episode I TPM, I refused to agree with the rest of the population is thinking modern film relies and most times consists solely of big time CGI, special FX, and what-not.  I refused to conform to society's view on the modern film-- action/adventure film that is.  But, damn, when the credits rolled, I looked to my wife, her cousin, and her husband and we all kind of said in unison, What was that?  Pathetic.  I've never gone to the movies and left the theater with a feeling of confusion, like an everyday sucker.  I feel like my wallet was stolen and had just received news that my two dogs had died.  What the hell is that!?  You don't feel that way after a film.  That spinosaur or whatever it's called was great, mean, nasty actually, and ruthless... a true villian.  Allen Grant, what's his name? Sam Neill, right?  He's great, too... except for the end.... Jesus, how cheezy can you be!  Of course I won't ruin it for those who have not witnessed the 2 hour and some minute MASSACRE, but ... my goodness, you can make a film like that, but by all means, please wipe it up with toilet paper and let it sail down the toilet.  Jurassic Park III is pathetic. SFX? Great, but who cares, people want to see a plot, feel for the characters, and enjoy the adventure along the way.   Don't go see it, you'll hate yourself afterwards.PS  I gave it a 5.  Jeez, I don't know why, maybe just for the dinosaurs. Gosh, how pathetic.... "},{"Title":"Average monster movie with a ludicrous ending","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III differs from its predecessors in that it's just a straight-forward no-nonsense monster movie. There's lots of action and plenty of dinosaur attacks to keep you interested. The pteradactyl scenes are especially strong.Now the negatives. Some of the characters are pretty annoying which isn't always bad in a monster movie. It makes it all the more enjoyable seeing those characters get munched. Unfortunately, (SPOILER ALERT) some of the characters who should have been eaten, specifically William Macy and Tea Leoni, somehow survive. (END OF SPOILER ALERT) All that said, the ending was one of the worst I have ever seen. Other than the fact that it was totally far-fateched and sudden, it also had the misfortune of being unintentionally hilarious. (ANOTHER SPOILER) When I saw that guy in the suit standing on the beach I almost broke out laughing. I honestly thought he was going to try to sell Dr. Grant some life insurance.Overall, I can't recommend this movie. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The Positive, The Negative, The Bottom Line","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Positive  At least Spielberg's name wasn't shamed by this film. Somewhat entertaining, if you enjoy laughing at pure cheese.The Negative Poor lines.  Poor effects.  Very very predictable.The Bottom Line This movie is best served when extremely bored, and you didn't pay the rental cost. "},{"Title":"Eh, it's a sequal.  But it's a fun one!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are a few scenes I don't know if I buy in JPIII, and a plot hole or two big enough for a brachiosaur to squeeze through.  But I kind of expected this because, well, it's a sequal!  The original is practically a classic (really, you'd be hard pressed to find a more entertaining dinosaur movie withought having to go back quite a ways).  It'd take a heck of an effort to outdo the first Jurassic Park.  Part Three is okay, though, and it's a lot more fun that Part Two (well, I admit I still loved the finale where our beloved heroine finds herself and her son lost in Urban Hell and reacts accordingly; I am referring, of course, to the T.Rex).  It's a fun popcorn flick, and I like how Dr. Grant and the Queen Raptor finally got to have a last standoff that doesn't end in anyone getting mauled.However, I think we can all agree that the finale to this entry is totally ludicrous.  Expect to say, WHAT?!? "},{"Title":"I rooted for the Dinosaurs","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When making this movie, the director had to decide whether it was going to be a childrens movie or an adult one.  He took the third option and never decided. This movie lacked excitement and consistancy.  The beasts looked great and that was fun, but nothing else worked for me.   Action scenes took you to a point that would have been fun, but then they remembered it was also a kids movie so they stopped the scene before it could get hot.SPOILER WARNING!!!!The movie got so bad, that toward the end, I turned to the guy next to me, woke him up and said 10 bucks says they 'cut a deal' with the dinosaurs. They did. I mean, I know you don't make realism a goal when you make a movie about dinosaurs, but please, the child surviving in some kind of truck for weeks...why, oh why do this??  "},{"Title":"If you can survive the boredom you can survive anything","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All right, lets get one thing straight. Joe Johnston wrecked a perfectly good series. It was not thrilling, exciting, or entertaining. They should have waited for Speilberg to get the time to direct it because he would have done an outstanding job. Although he did executive produce it, but he couldn't get the time off from directing Artificial Intellagence, and executive produce Evolution and Shrek. You can't blame him though for trying. But you sure can blame Johnston for everything that happened wrong. Which was all ninety minutes of the film. I heard somewhere that William H. Macy didn't even like his role and he just did it for the money. Well good thing Jeff Goldblum didn't bother with this mess. (Well just think of all the messes he has gone through his life. This wouldn't be any surprise if he had done it.) And another thing is that the graphics are not very good in this one. And there is two new dinosaurs in this one. One of them is bigger than the tyranasaures and you don't get to find out his name. Plus all he is is a tyranasaures with a fin on the back. And you only see him in one scene which stinks and you don't even see the tyranasaures in the film. Plus the scene with tyranasaurus with a fim only lasts for about a minute and that is all for him. The second dinasaor to jump in this junk is the tarydactol. Now he has a longer scene than the tyranasaures with the fin. And it is also a better scene. They have to cross this bridge and on the other side the tarydactol comes and takes the boy to the nest and the bid goes back and forth getting people. Well they soon get out of that mess minus one person. Anyways you know when the movies over when they play that music and there on a plane ride home. Just like the first one. Remember in the first one Allan looks out his window and there is a bird. Well in this one there is a group of tarydactols flying by. Anyways I give this movie a four out of ten. Not for the stupidity but for the graphics which weren't much. So this is a pretty good mark. And the graphics are even better in the second film. Well if you want to see a really bad movie to top off the night. This hunk of junk fits perfectly. "},{"Title":"They pushed this too far","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was not at all impressive. The original, which is certainly the best of the three, was amazing the story was creative, the special effects ground breaking, and horribly suspenseful. This threequel is none of the above. The story is old, the special effects so-so, and incredibly predictable. While the acting is very good, with Sam Niel and William H. Macy giving great performances and Tea Leoni giving a not half-bad one, it does little to make up for the poor storyline and cheesy dialogue.It does have a few good points, such as the new dinosaurs and a few funny scenes and lines. If you enjoyed the first one as much as I did, you will not like this one. But it is worth seeing, don't get me wrong. I didn't like it, but you might.  "},{"Title":"They pushed this too far","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was not at all impressive. The original, which is certainly the best of the three, was amazing the story was creative, the special effects ground breaking, and horribly suspenseful. This threequel is none of the above. The story is old, the special effects so-so, and incredibly predictable. While the acting is very good, with Sam Niel and William H. Macy giving great performances and Tea Leoni giving a not half-bad one, it does little to make up for the poor storyline and cheesy dialogue.It does have a few good points, such as the new dinosaurs and a few funny scenes and lines. If you enjoyed the first one as much as I did, you will not like this one. But it is worth seeing, don't get me wrong. I didn't like it, but you might.  "}{"Title":"Silly story, unreal people,not entertaining, not for children","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One dinasour chase after another. One becomes numb. One wonders why Dr. Grant would ever come back to this place. If you are into dinasours, however, great movie to watch dinasours. Problem is that while scientists can reconstruct dinasour structures, much of the behavioral patterns are pure speculation which is one of the shortcomings of this movie and of the dinasour specials on the Discovery Channel. We know what they looked like, we know where they lived, and everything else is guess work. This movie gives dinasours an intelligence level that is not justified. This is not a children's movie not only because of the gore but because it misleads them about dinasours. That is a shame because it is children that have the greatest interest in dinasours. "},{"Title":"Godzilla Park","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Joe Johnston took over the Jurassic franchise from Steven Spielberg with this third installment.  The beasties this time around have learned to talk.  Sam Neil returns as Dr. Alan Grant - the paleontologist expert who discovers that those cunning raptors are the second smartest species on the planet.  Although you would not know it from the script, humans are still the most intelligent.  As with The Lost World, the first sequel, this movie revolves around another rescue mission.  This time William H. Macy and Tea Leoni play bickering parents carelessly drawn to the Costa Rican island where the dinosaurs still live (for some reason) to find their son who crash landed there.  The island is supposedly quarantined, but the boy hand glides over it, before loosing control and getting stranded.  Macy and Leoni are terrible in this film.  How they managed to convince Sam Neil's character to return to the island after his ordeal is ridiculous.  The effects are very good.  The dinosaurs give great performances, but the power of CGI creatures is loosing its luster.  Joe Johnston and team concox a new Spinosaurus carnivore, even more powerful than the blood thirsty T-Rex.  This new monster is like something out of Godzilla.  The filmmakers seem to believe that a bigger dinosaur with sharper teeth will bring new thrills to the audience, but there are very few thrills at all.  Flying Pteranodons attack the group in countless scenes of near death escapes.  There  is no character development, except for Macy and Leoni, who somehow find time to reconcile their dysfunctional marriage on the romantic Jurassic island (yes that is sarcasm).  The climax is so unbelievably ridiculous, that you will roll your eyes.  All I have to say is that no cell phone would work after traveling through the stomach acids of a dinosaur and coming out the other end.  Final rating = 4.0/10 "},{"Title":"Dino overdose","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Want to see dinosaurs re-unite a family? After seeing the movie it felt like most of the scenes were out of place and added just to keep the viewer interest. Having seen JP 1 and 2 this is definitely not worth your time and money just to see the dinosaurs roar and terrorize human beings. As for the family emotion and stuff it is below average. "},{"Title":"No Surprises Here","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, I confess. I was rooting for the dinosaurs. I wanted Tea Leoni's character to get eaten so badly that...well, never mind.  There is nothing surprising or terrifying about the movie. The people who are destined to be dino fodder practically have a neon T (for TOAST!) emblazoned on their chests. The whole movie stretches the bounds of plausibility past the snapping point.  Okay, I'll buy an island full of chompy, growly dinosaurs...I'll even buy that someone would be so stupid as to let their son parasail around it, after all there are some REALLY stupid people in the world. But I don't buy that a man who barely escaped dinos once would go back for any amount of money. He KNOWS there are flying dinos, right? Oh, wait...maybe he didn't...maybe all that talk about bird behavior in the first Jurassic Park was just him blowing smoke. Ya think?Go see this movie is you don't mind a few B movie thrills and chills.  "},{"Title":"Extremely disappointing **possible spoilers**","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After witnessing the brilliant creativity, action-packed first movie, the considerably worse second movie, and now this movie, I now realize why everyone despises sequels and their follow-ups. The third volume of the dinosaur thriller really is quite disappointing. Even though I wasn't expecting much out of it, as I've heard the second and third movies are usually really bad compared to their predecessor, I still came out saying, That doesn't deserve to be a movie.One factor which I think played a part for why I didn't like it as much as the first two was the switch in direction. Steven Spielburg gave the reins to his production cohort, Joe Johnston. Now, while Johnston did a fairly good job for someone who was taking over a large movie franchise empire, there was too much riding on this movie that even Spielburg could fix to make perfect. But, I think the final outcome would have been considerably better than Johnston's version. No offense to Joe Johnston.Another fact was the lack of plot. Not only was there no creative genius theory as there was in the first one, this movie had no real plot. Unless you call two divorced people looking for their son on Isla Sorna and getting involved with dinosaurs a plot. The movie was just non-stop action. Which is ok if you like that kind of stuff. But for me, I need a method behind the madness type of influence. I can't just see lots of running around, lots of dinosaur chases, and lots of worried faces and expect to walk out of the theater with a satisfied grin. Perfect example The Matrix. There is a lot of heavy metal warfare, lots of chase scenes and action, but the movie really has great theoretical support from Andy and Larry (Wachowski), who came up with the mind behind it. I think they could have expanded upon the fact that the dinosaurs can talk to each other, thus drawing out the creative genius portion of the movie.I was very disappointed with this movie. Minimal action, practically no deaths, and a thin plot line. Hopefully Jurassic Park IV will be better. <rolleyes> "},{"Title":"Just barely worth watching...but only once ***spoiler warning***","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***spoiler warning***This film, though ridiculous, manages to be entertaining.  The trick is to check your brain at the door and not expect anything but to be entertained. The film just barely manages to do this, so it might be worth your time.Having said that, I still feel compelled to spew my thoughts about this movie and what bothered me about it...Will there never be a good CGI dinosaur movie?  The 1st JP was solid and stands the test of time.  And the characters aren't nearly as annoying as in its sequels; in some respects, they're even likeable. Still, it's not particularly great.  JPII was execrable (although the dinosaurs were still amazing.  Disney's DINOSAUR was similarly awful, with its awful, cloying, talking dinosaurs.  And then there's JPIII...JPIII is better than TLW JPII, but still displays the same annoying character-types, though III does the audience a favor and gives us less of them, so it gets points there.  The body count is also surprisingly slight at 3, so there's none of the excessive carnage of II.  But anyway, on to the thing that bothers me about this film basically, it's the fact of all these aggressive dinosaurs.  I can understand the raptors pursuing the humans; they're just the right size and easy to run down.  But what about the Spinosaurus, the upstart to T-Rex (in the franchise, anyway; I don't know where it stands on the evolutionary timeline)?  This thing is absolutely hell-bent on devouring these tiny tidbits that would barely serve as an appetizer.  At one point, it smashes through a thick iron and concrete fence to pursue them.  Either it really, really, hates humans, for some reason, or really likes how they taste, but no creature would expend such a tremendous amount of energy for any good-sized prey animal, let alone such a paltry payoff as a couple of humans (no matter how good they taste).  Especially not when there are large herds of large, meaty, herbivorous dinosaurs everywhere.  They certainly wouldn't risk injury by smashing through a fortified gate.Then there are the Pterodactyls.  These also are tremendously aggressive, viciously attacking the humans as if they're their normal prey.  Not only do these things strike me as being far too vicious, they also seem way too big (and the mechanical models used for close-ups of their faces don't look all that real).If it looks like I'm over-analzying this film, I'm sorry.  I know how that annoys some people.  But if one can't express one's opinion, however trivial, on a forum like this, what can one do?  I also know that this film is geared for nothing but entertainment; a big, loud, comic-book thrill ride.  But is that all this genre is going to be?  Big, loud, toothsome dinosaurs chasing loud, stupid, uninteresting humans?  If so, I'll have to say this is the last ride for me.By the way, I left one CGI dino movie off the list above and that's the 3-D IMAX film T-Rex Back to the Cretaceous.  The T-Rex scenes are awesome in that movie but also, unfortunately, very scant, which I'm assuming is because of budget constraints.  Most of the movie deals with a paleontologist and his daughter.  Still, it doesn't have to do with dinos doggedly pursuing people and it's worth watching for the amazing 3-D effect. "},{"Title":"Some more trivial carping","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***WARNING contains spoilers, over-analysis of film and various geeky dino details***I already commented on this movie, but, having left some things uncommented on, I couldn't resist depositing another 2.The Players.  There've been a lot of comments about how much of a thrill ride this movie is, but I'm not so sure...  Isn't it only a thrill if you care at all about any of the characters?  Tea Leoni does what I'd thought impossible upstage Julianne Moore in the category of Annoying Character.The Plot.  Not much to report there.  It's more like an excuse to get the action going. (I think the plot is familiar by now to anyone reading up on this movie, so I'll proceed with that in mind) Again, why should we care about anybody stupid enough to send their kid parasailing off the coast of an island teeming with aggressive dinos?  Or mindless enough to shout at full volume right after being attacked by a dino said to be larger than T-Rex (actually just longer).  More dumbness the man who accompanies the kid onto the island (and saves his life) is reduced to a skeleton and never mentioned again.  Tea Leoni gets entangled with this skeleton and after screaming her fool head off and running off into the jungle still screaming (again, with several carnivorous dinosaurs lurking about) but is otherwise remarkable unbroken up about it, considering it was her boyfriend.  Anyway, the skeleton is nearly picked clean, but the boy's parents are somehow absolutely certain he's alive.  Of course he is, but the fact that he does puts a severe strain on the suspension of disbelief.  How clever and resourceful would he be without leftover supplies such as gas grenades? When asked how he collected a beaker full of T-Rex pee (to scare off other dinosaurs), the boy replies You don't want to know.  Um, actually, I kind of would, but dumb as this movie is, I don't expect an answer.  You're just expected to believe this kid could survive for 8 weeks on a hostile jungle island on nothing more than candy bars.  Right.  Sure.The Spinosaurus.  One reviewer commented about how much cooler it would have been if the Spino fought the T-Rex at the end of the film.  I couldn't agree more.   Actually, I was kind of upset that the T-Rex's neck got snapped I was expecting a rematch between the two and maybe have the Rex save the day (sort of like in the first movie).  Perhaps they could have the Spino chase away the raptors and the T-Rex confront the Spino.  But no.  The ball was dropped and all we got was the the frigging army showing up at the island to save the day (BOOOOOO!  HISSSSS).  Probably the most anti-climactic ending ever seen.  Anyway, this Spino creature is described on the JPIII's very website as being primarily a fish-eater and that its teeth were conical, whereas the T-Rex's teeth had cutting edges. Really, which do you think would win in a fight?  Frankly, I think the T-Rex would reduce the Spino to mincemeat.  T-Rex is still king. "},{"Title":"Special effects rule this movie.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was special effects pure and simple. SPOILERS  The plot was so rushed that I didn't care about the characters at all.  Basically, it was cheese.  I can't imagine anyone acting like the mother and father in that movie did. Whoever would let their child go parasailing near such a dangerous area is an idiot.   I was so surprised at the spunky little boy who overcame such harsh odds (muffled laughter is surpressed at this remark).   It was a play on Newt from Aliens...who was portrayed more realistically. The real kicker was that he was a fan of Dr. Grant's books...just like the little boy out of the first movie.  And who was shocked that Grant's assistant lived? Oh, and how did Ellie get the navy and the marines out to the island at the end of the movie?  She must have some BIG connections in her little hum drum life. Sigh...the movie was certaintly full of such HUGE plot holes.  At least the FX's were spectacular.  "},{"Title":"pretty bad sequel","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not as bad as Home Alone 3 or Crocodile Dundee 2, but pretty mediocre. Don't pay more than $2.00 to see it.  -) Very predictable, and a soundtrack from earlier Jurassic Parks. Good dinosaurs, true. "},{"Title":"Pretty paint-by-number dinosaurs","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everything one would expect from a second sequel to JP -- formulaic story, zero wit, and state-of-the-art dinos.  Few films in the history of cinema have relied more on idiotic coincidence than JP3 does, the surest sign of braindead, lazy scripting.  Two-dimensional characters, walkthrough performances, and an entire plot that can be described in 10 words.  What a mess, by any standard of filmmaking.  Beautiful dinosaurs though and that's why people will see this film, why I saw it.  It's just a shame that a movie with a real budget can't do better  with the other elements that make a film. "}{"Title":"wasted time","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this was a huge letdown.  i convinced myself with the readdition of sam neil that this movie would be excellent like the first.  instead i was left with a movie that went nowhere and was obviously made just to show off technology and to make more money for the company.  the fact that they are considering a fourth installment is ridiculous.  the characters were all lame this time around.  william h macy and sam neil are all wasted talent in this movie. my main objection with the movie is where is the big finale with the spinosaures.  nothing even remotely close to a big war happened.  it just ended leaving me so unsatisfied.  with a huge deal being made about the spinosaures, i thought they would make this thing a vicious bad-ass but in the end it was a dinosaur that ran and that was it.  i say no to another jurassic park.  some movies just dont need anymore sequals "},{"Title":"Such a shame","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just more of the same, with improvements only in the CGI department.  For me this fits into the shallow blockbuster group, where it could have been so much more.  How about a change of atmosphere for JP IV guys?  Make it longer, moodier, and get some real suspense, rather than just OH the ladder gave way all of a sudden.  OH a monster appears out of nowhere.  (yawns) 5/10 "},{"Title":"What the hell were they thinking?","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw this with the knowledge that Spielberg did not direct this one and it shows, but the script is the real villian in this film. The stupid para-sailing opening didn't leave me wanting more or expecting any either. It was nice to see Dr. Grant back on this sequel and his character was the only one I was interested in. William H. Macy and Tea Loni just did not belong here and bored me. Anyway besides a weak script, the dinosaurs are half the time digital ones that just don't seem to thrill me. They made a big mistake with this one and it only makes me appreciate the first one even more. "},{"Title":"A parody of the first film","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is Joe Johnston's term paper on the Jurassic Park saga. He scavenges both the book and movie versions of Jurassic Park and the Lost World and attempts to piece together an intelligible work to submit to Professor Spielberg.  Unfortunately, Johnston's interest in the subject matter is obviously limited to box office profits. It would be nice to see a film that was bold enough to portray dinosaurs as the awe-inspiring, radically unique creatures of yestereon that made my childhood visits to the museum so exciting (Disney's Animated Dinosaur does not count).  Instead, JP III surrenders to the terrible lizard image by portraying the dinos once again as ever-hungry disaster machines.  And the plot is so tiring.  How many times can Hollywood writers get a bunch of people on an island to get eaten by dinosaurs?  Oops, was that a spoiler?  With the attention to detail afforded to this film, that is about as close as you get to a spoiler. Even the special effects that were synonymous with the first film are laughable in this installment.  The only potentially visually intriguing scene in the entire movie was plagued by dinos that seemed to have been constructed at Jim Henson's Creature Shop.  And don't count on Sam Neill or William H. Macy to save the day (even though they most certainly do on Isla Sorna). Neill's once firm Dr. Grant is now goofy and stumbling.  Macy might have been good, had he not been paired with Tea Leoni.  Leoni is most certainly eye candy, which may be why she was cast, but she is very unconvincing as Macy's on-screen wife.  The couple is creepy at best.  Alessandro Nivola's is predictable playing the generic Billy Brennan who seems to be Dr. Grant's understudy/adopted child.  And last, but definitely least, Laura Dern makes a small appearance to explain why she isn't in most of the movie and to remind us it is better to stay at home than to get eaten by dinosaurs.  The only oddly suspenseful aspect of the movie was that I never knew who was going to die next, simply because any of them could have died and it wouldn't have made the slightest bit of difference.  GO DINOSAURS!!  "},{"Title":"da!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Geez... this was such a disappointing flick!  I wanted to just go home and sleep.  The dinosaurs were more realistic in this film but the story was just awful!  Oooohhhh.... a kid gets stuck on the island, his parents go get him.... a few people die.... and the ending--- oh my how desperate can they get!!!!!   My little nephew has a better imagination!  I HOPE they leave it at JP 3 and don't even attempt another!  I am shocked the rating has gotten past a 5 star! "},{"Title":"An o.k. movie.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before Jurassic Park 3 began I was excited.  The first installment of the trilogy is a classic and the lost world had its good points so I was hyped to see the third.  It looked promising but i was sad it wasn't Speilberg.The trailer made me even more excited.  The movie looked action packed.  The movie was mediocre and like the second one it had its good points.  But two things upset me.  First of all the movie was way to short.  I believe it was around 90 min. and it went by really fast.  Near the end of the movie my brothers friend leaned over and said, their is only 20 min. left and the movie seemed like it just started.  Another problem with the movie were the trailers and t.v. spots.  They ruined the whole movie.  They gave away every scene, there was nothing i wasn't expecting.  The trailers hooked me to the movie but they then made me dislike it.  A giving 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Give us some credit!!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Without the wonderful special effects of this film, I would have rated it a 2!  A silly plot with annoying people, I was almost hoping more of the cast would become dinosaur fodder, so that less time would be spent on badly written dialogue and more time would be spent on dinosaurs!The ending leaves much to be desired, and many parts of the movie treat the audience as having very little intelligence.  The ending was way too neat, and it seemed as if the movie had run out of funds, and had to make an abrupt ending in order to stay on budget.  As much as I loved the original Jurassic Park (JP III makes many references to this movie), I didn't connect with any characters in this movie save Dr. Grant.  Sam Neill was good in JP III, but he was unfortunately the only human bright spot. This is worth seeing just for the effects alone, but don't expect too much more! "},{"Title":"By far the worst of the trilogy","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was expecting something far more gripping than what I saw. The first 5 minutes held some hope for the entire movie, however it got worse immediately after.    The sad thing is, I like Sam Neill in this character. He is the 'Indiana Jones' of Paleontology, which I am sure is no mistake given the first film's creator. In fact, there is a classic 'Indy' scene in this one which made me smile when I recognized it! (Hint his hat).Other than Laura Dern showing her navel, it was pretty tame. "},{"Title":"Good SFX, weak Story","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was really, really disappointed by this wreck of a movie. So many great actors, such splendid SFX-work and such a weak script. In Jurassic Park III, they used all the left-overs from the original novel Dino Park, they couldn't stick into the first film. No character development and no real link to the second film. Is it really that hard to make a quality-sequel these days? Even with such a strong product?The effects on the other hand blew me away, mostly, that is... Some of the dinosaurs look so real, I wondered, where they bred them...  "},{"Title":"It Could Be Worse","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At 92 minutes, it's a very tight, compact mindless movie.  A great escape if you're looking for couch-potato entertainment.  The dialog that moves the plot along is a bit painful, but do you really know what you'd say if you were running from a Raptor?  I only wish they had put more people on the plane so there would be more for the dinosaurs to munch on. "}{"Title":"Where's Spielberg when you need him.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's easy to see Spielberg didn't direct Jurassic Park 3, he was too busy with A.I. Although he helped with it, you'll notice from the start that the dinosaurs themselves are the biggest disappointment in the movie. You wouldn't think the 3rd movie would improve on the realistic look of the dinosaurs, but overall, they just didn't mix in well with the live action. The plastic looking flesh is accompanied by an overuse of colors. They simply don't look like reptiles.The movie did have it's moments. The short, but massive fight between the short lived T-Rex and the new reptile in town was an awesome scene. Sam Neil saved the acting department and it was good to see him reprise his role as the palentoligist.I think screen writers are running out of ideas, as Jurassic Park 3's storyline is certainly lacking. There simply is no sustinance.Even if you love dinosaurs, Jurassic Park III won't satisfy your cravings. This dino movie is more of a dino dud. Let's hope Spielberg directs the 4th. "},{"Title":"Great effects, predictable story.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I could have told you what the story line would have been before walking into the theater.  People trapped, chased around for an hour then rescued at the last minute. Great effects, predictable story. "},{"Title":"I can't believe they still make movies this bad!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would like to start off by saying how much I loved and enjoyed the first two movies. They were wonderfully fun and extremely excellent. This one, however, was worse than almost anything I have ever seen, especially in comparison. Nearly every aspect suffered from some severe disorder poor direction, bad acting, awful script, yada yada yada. it was however, enjoyable. In fact, I laughed and giggled and chuckled my way through out the picture. It put me in a good mood, which is a wonderful thing..only it sucked something awful. It's really a shame, because it just had so much going for it..so many possibilities. There's no valid reason for the crap this film showcased. It's a mystery, really. Why do people continue to make movies this wretched? "},{"Title":"And I thought the second one was bad","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whoa, what a bad movie. This just goes over the lines of stupidity. Script was horrible and it just tells you that it was written by someone who did not even care about good Jurassic Park idea. Special effects were ok, nothing great.  I just don't understand why would anyone produce such a bad movie.  Lame action and bad dialogue just blew it. If you like Jurassic park don't see this movie. It's a waste of 90 minutes, go see something else, something more intelligent.  This movie is for people who don't care about good story. If you are smart, go see something else.  "},{"Title":"Lacks Luster, Connections","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this movie does not live up to the first film, it passes the second and does not bore the audience. The action in the movie provides interest to move the audience to keep watching, but the sequences are not that great. The directing was there, but it did not provide the audience with good pictures and awesome action moves. Joe Johnston did not do his job too well, from the standpoint of a director/actor. The characters lacked development, and Sam Neill relied too heavily on his previous character in JP 1. William H. Macy and Michael Jeter held the acting together. In addition, some plot devices worked to confuse the audience and become unreal. The overall movie was a cut-and-paste project using parts from the two novels by Michael Crichton and assorted pop culture plot devices. Also, the element of theme and what the viewer takes home were absent. There were no universal truths, life lessons, or developments in the characters and their environment. I am disappointed that Steven Spielberg attached his name to this production without fixing these basic errors. It was an action movie, not a film in the Jurassic Park series, and any twelve-year old will like it. "},{"Title":"Lacks Luster, Connections","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this movie does not live up to the first film, it passes the second and does not bore the audience. The action in the movie provides interest to move the audience to keep watching, but the sequences are not that great. The directing was there, but it did not provide the audience with good pictures and awesome action moves. Joe Johnston did not do his job too well, from the standpoint of a director/actor. The characters lacked development, and Sam Neill relied too heavily on his previous character in JP 1. William H. Macy and Michael Jeter held the acting together. In addition, some plot devices worked to confuse the audience and become unreal. The overall movie was a cut-and-paste project using parts from the two novels by Michael Crichton and assorted pop culture plot devices. Also, the element of theme and what the viewer takes home were absent. There were no universal truths, life lessons, or developments in the characters and their environment. I am disappointed that Steven Spielberg attached his name to this production without fixing these basic errors. It was an action movie, not a film in the Jurassic Park series, and any twelve-year old will like it. "},{"Title":"Disappointing and choppy","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought the movie was disappointing and choppy. It could have done a lot better with Spielburg as the director. Scenes were not very climatic and especially the end was not very climatic, almost seemed put together at the last minute kind of end. I think the dinosaurs looked better in the first one, not because of technology but because Spielburg directed the film in a way that even when you didn't see the dinosaurs you were terrified! The spinosaurus was not that terrifying and the velociraptors disappointed me. I thought they were going to be shown as ruthless and intelligent. But they were way off from even the velociraptors in other movies. The scenes also seemed choppy and didn't really add to the story line. If you took all the island scenes and mixed them up you would have gotten the same story set up. This movie sacrificed movie plot for the special dinosaur effects (which are only impressive if used correctly - which they were not). Too much was told to the audience instead of being shown by scenes and subtleness. I don't like the part where allen grant and Ellie were in their kitchen and all of a sudden allen has a revelation that he explains in detail which gives away all suspense that people might have. I mean would have been so bad that Grant find out about the velociraptors abilities in the park along with the moviewatchers? I mean we all know they are bad and vicious from the first movie, so that wasn't needed to drive the point that these are bad creatures that will kill. It just would have been a terrifying moment for the audience to find out that the velociraptors are talking to each other and they can communicate attack patterns. Also the camera work was shaky in some of the birdcage scenes. You never knew what was going on and therefore didn't really feel any danger for the characters. Also there was very little doubt that the characters weren't going to make it out of there alive. I mean I pretty much guessed who was going to die almost right away... "},{"Title":"Bland and unsatisfying","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"            While vacationing with his stepfather in Costa Rica, Twelveyear-old Eric Kirby (Trevor Morgan) is stranded on the island of IslaSorna (Jurassic Park Site B) during a boating accident.Desperate to find him, Eric's divorced parents, Paul and Amanda,come together to organize a rescue mission with paleontologistAlan Grant as their unwitting guide. But the mission is poorlyplanned and things go wrong almost immediately, stranding theKirbys and their rescue team on the island as well. Thoughunprepared for the dangers ahead of them, they must somehowfind Eric and get off Isla Sorna alive.          If you can believe for a moment that a 12-year-old mightcould survive on a dinosaur infested island for 8 weeks (that's howmuch time lapses between his accident and the rescue mission),the set-up for Jurassic Park III is pretty good. Unfortunately, thestory deteriorates rapidly after that, jumping from one mediocredinosaur scene to another. At a mere 85 minutes in length,director Joe Johnston rushes us through interesting plot devices(a replicated raptor vocal bone, for one), focusing instead on theeasy and obvious (like a satellite phone). And, of course, there'sthe family story, which manages to resolve itself without any effortwhatsoever.           For the most part, the characters are as flat as the paper theywere written on (the Raptors have more personality!). Fineperformances by William H. Macy (Paul Kirby) and Michael Jeter(Udesky) do bring a little life to the screen, but given the material,it's not enough to help this movie. In fact, every bit of depth theyprovide is destroyed by Sam Neill (reprising his role as Dr. AlanGrant), Ta Leoni (Amanda Kirby) and Alessandro Nivola (Billy),who largely perform as if reading straight off the script.          Jurassic Park III isn't a complete failure, but it's definitelybland and unsatisfying. After a solid first act, the chopped up actionsequences and rather abrupt ending that follow make it feelunbalanced and unfinished. Sure, the dinosaurs are cool to lookat, but that's about all this movie has to offer. "},{"Title":"30 minutes too short","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There were so many red herrings introduced (T-Rex urine, huge guns, etc), but none of them were employed in the movie. Morever, there didn't seem to be a third act or even a climax. This movie felt like it ended 30 minutes too soon - and at 90 minutes, it seems definitely way too short.Nice to see a cameo by Laura Dern, though. Great action, but were was the final battle with the Spineosaurus? And what a lame ending concerning the velociraptors. If I were the screenwriter, I'd have the raptors, after taking the eggs, become vicious again. The group takes out the T-Rex urine, and splashes it all over the raptors. The raptors become confused, when suddenly the Spineosaurus, smelling the urine, comes and battles the raptors. The group makes a dash for the sea, where the Spineosaurus races after them. The army then battles the giant creature.THAT'S an ending! "},{"Title":"They must end the FRANCHISE, please!!!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JPIII is one of the worst films put out this summer.  I understand that this year hasn't been great for movies, but JPIII reaches a career low.  Not only is the dialogue, acting, and plot complete garbage, but it disgraces a franchise that used to be good.  I laughed after seeing this film, because I could not believe that someone gave money to make this hideous sequel.  I won't get into the plot, because I'll start laughing.  I'll end this review with one tidbit, this movie has the worst ending I've seen in a long time.  The only thing that saves this movie are neat looking dinosaurs that haven't been see before.  -----**C+ "}{"Title":"Dino Fighting - Actors were unneeded","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a film about fighting Dino's and sometimes the catch a man, but nothing more, could be a documentary, would it be like this it would be a interesting story.But since there is the Title Jurassic Park - it's not a documentary, Sam Neil & Co are running, the Dino's chase them. Some really really really kitschy trashy scences... but if you don't think about it it's funny.The first part was good, the second ('Godzilla') trash this one is ok.Ah... and i hate this american end - i felt a touch of independence 'PATRIOTIC AMERICAN' day in this movie... like most out of this country. Why do they do this??? This is a question to you americans, do you see it like me and feel annoyed or doesn't it attract your attention anyhow and in no way? - I can't believe this could be!Dave "},{"Title":"Well, it's better than 2","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  But that's not saying much.While watching this movie, I found myself liking it. However, about halfway through, and for the rest of the film, I found it lacking something, and it was hard to pin down exactly what.After a night of reflection, I realized what it was. The first film had depth. The first film had wonder. It had character. I'm not talking about the characters, I'm talking about the film itself. JP2, and to a lesser extent this movie, were far more concerned showing you as many different types of dinosaurs fighting in different ways than showing you the wonder and majesty of these animals. They tried to make a movie that was the last half of JP1, without the first half (Which many people hated. As a dinosaur lover since before I can remember, I loved it) and they ended up with a dozen or so strung together scenes with no reason behind why they were strung together.Or maybe the glamour is gone the third time around. In any case, if you plan on seeing this movie, and you have not seen JP1 or JP2, I suggest you go rent them first, and after seeing them, remember that this one is much more like 2 than it is 1. If you are planning on seeing this and have seen the first 2, rent 1 again, pop some Microwave popcorn, and enjoy a good dinosaur movie instead. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park is now no more than an old fossil,","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film stinks of cheap Hollywood exploitation. It is a truly dreadful movie with a limp script, bored actors, hackneyed pacing and lack of any true content, surprise or interest. And this is what is so wrong with Hollywood these days. Rather than take a chance with something new & exciting, they stick to formula and squeeze a few more quid out of the movie-public.I can only imagine Sam Neil, Macey & Leone were really hardup for cash when they took on this load of rubbish, because it certainly hasn't done much for their acting abilities or street cred.There is nothing to commend in this movie, in fact it looks positively dated right from the outset. Movies like Shrek, Final Fantasy & Lord Of The Rings, are what people are (or will be) gunning for, as storylines & 4th generation cgi become more intelligent & subtle.JP3 lacks all these qualities and is now becoming an embarrassment. I get the impression its going to go the Jaws route, with a franchise of JP sequels  such as JP-3D, JP - This Time Its Personal, JP Bites Back!!!They should've killed the golden goose after JP1 and let the fans remember the original in a more redeeming light, rather than having it hauled down & smeared with its bastard off-spring.This film is pants!!*/***** "},{"Title":"As Stupid as the Lost World.","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 (2001) Dir Joe Johnston / Cast Sam Neill, William H. Macy, Tea Leoni, Michael Jeter, Trevor Morgan Every bit as witless and stupid as The Lost World Jurassic Park with only the prehistoric effects to compliment. Sam Neill returns from the original film and approached by a married couple who will donate a large sum of money to his research if he will give them a flight tour over the island of Jurassic Park. He kindly declines but this only gets him knocked out and forced. They really needed his help in finding their son who had become stranded on the island. Soon enough nameless characters are attacked and devoured by carnivores because the studios view it as entertainment. This all ends on a pleasant note without any mention of those who were eaten. Director Joe Johnston of Jumanji fame does his best. Neill was appealing in the first film but here his role is mere cardboard. William H. Macy and Tea Leoni are embarrassing as the couple. Both are capable actors going way beneath their talent. Trevor Morgan plays their son who is about as bad as any kid who wanders away from their parents at the mall. Then there is the countless folks who basically play dinosaur fast food. Jurassic Park was a visual achievement landmark that engaged our prehistoric expectations. This second sequel is nothing more than pointless big budget garbage that should never have been made. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"A Nice Recovery from The Lost World","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I finally got around to watching Jurassic Park III, the third installment of the franchise which I had never seen until this summer. I watched the first two a couple of months ago in preparation for Jurassic World, but got side railed before getting to this movie.The upside of this third chapter in the franchise is that it is a huge improvement over The Lost World, which I found to be hackneyed and grotesque, not to mention the final thirty minutes of that film being just very strange.JP3 on the other hand sticks to the formula that made the original a hit. The entire tale revolves around an ill-gotten trip to the island of the first film, where dinosaurs now roam free. The script has its good moments, and Sam Neil's reprisal of the lead role from the first film is a plus.That said, the problem with these movies is that once you've seen the first one, you've kind of seen them all. The basic plot is that there's a terrible problem where a group of people are being chased by dinosaurs. Some people get eaten. Some don't. Role the credits.And so, I've given this film 6/10 stars, midway in between my rating for its two predecessors. It's not a bad movie--it's just a bit overdone. "},{"Title":"This is a stupid movie.","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As it neither can count on the innovation-factor of the first title nor the success-couple Spielberg/Crichton, it has to prove as a passable action movie. And fails.The characters behave hilariously and laughable throughout this movie. People run around screaming and shouting (sometimes even with a megaphone) through a supposedly Dino-filled island, yet the Dino's only once in a while seem to be willing listen. My guess is they were scared by the terrible characterizations and the bad acting.But then again, the actual heroes of the movie are the dinosaurs. Yes, we see more of them, at least more variation. Finally the biggest land-living carnivore makes his appearance. So what? He doesn't even manage to snack a handful people, which is embarrassing in connection with the ludicrous actions of the humans. And taken that the main plot is about a boy living for several weeks under those creatures, i salute to the director/writers for making the Dino's look this stupid (beside the obvious aliens-ripoff-idea).The movie simply jumps around between stereotypical oh it's so close i don't think they'll make it-action-scenes, oh my god, this is an abomination of nature-Sam Neil and long and boring character scenes without ever making anything look interesting. If Dino's keep on reappearing like this, then i'm happy they're gone. "},{"Title":"Horrible!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Amateur, stupid, childish, vein. The only thing I did expect of this movie to provide to me is nice dinosaurs and even in that it fails. Unlike the first and second movies, the dinosaurs here are not wild animals, but evil monsters that want to kill people. Even the visual effects are bad - they don't look at all real, you can notice exactly when it's computer-animated and when it's not. Oh, yeah, and the acting is lousy, the editing is horrible, the music is annoying (I hate it when there's music all the time, and the very same) and the whole script is very very bad. The Lost World wasn't very smart also, but it was professional, it was well made. This one - oh, please. It's lousy.  .   "},{"Title":"Jurassic bites!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Abysmally awful sequel to the original Jurassic Park.  Both Michael Crighton and Stephen Spielberg must be furious at the deterioration of the series, based on the poor quality of this sequel...just go back and watch the brilliance of the first JP. Even JP II was better than this, and that's not saying much. If not for Sam Neill's involvement this time around, I'd have dismissed this one entirely.  He's the only character I had any sympathy and admiration for, every other major character in the movie added nothing to the film.  I especially kept praying that Tea Leoni's character would get eaten messily by the Spinosaurus throughout the film.  Her constant screaming and whining was just annoying. Whatever happened to the smart and CAPABLE female character? Tea's character could take a lesson from Julianne Moore's character in JP II, now there was a tough lady.  William Macy's character was too one dimensional and I couldn't understand why he still loved Tea's character.  She's a shrew! The son was pretty self reliant, but a little too smart alecky.  It was nice to see Laura Dern turn up in this movie, but her role is miniscule and is an utter waste of her talent.It is obvious right from the beginning of the movie that the script was being worked out as it was being filming, which may be okay for other movies, but is inexucusable for this one. There are so many plot holes and inconsistencies, it's pitiful.  I found the climax to be a bit hard to swallow, and a tremendous let down (like most of the film itself). Too deux ex machina for me. *WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD!!*My real problem with the end of the movie is that it contradicts everything the previous JP films have set up. There's simply no way that the raptors would let the group go just because Sam emits a cry for help on that dinosaur artifact. Tea's character stole the raptors' eggs (why?), the raptors know this, and the raptors have not shown to be merciful in either of the previous films. Based upon their previous behavioral patterns, the raptors would have attacked the humans and at least killed and eaten a few of them (let them start with Tea's character).The raptors' behavior in the climax makes them look stupid, which forever tarnishes their reputation as fearsome and intelligent creatures.  You could actually say that for most of the dinosaurs in the movie, from T-Rex to Spinosarus to the Pterodactyls.  Apparently the Pterodactyls are just like modern birds, since the ones in this movie fly right beside the rescue helicopters at the end, presumably towards the mainlands (why don't they attack the humans in the helicopters?).And how did Laura Dern's character know where the hell the group was to be able to alert what appears to be the entire US Armed Forces to rescue them? Sam's character doesn't mention anything to her about locations in his desperate, too brief, and half inaudible distress call, there are tons of islands in the area, and the rescue parties get there faster than Speedy Gonzales. Finally, why couldn't the stupid parents do the same thing in the beginning after their son's disappearance and avoid this catastrophe of a movie from ever happening?!!?   "},{"Title":"A very unintelligent movie.  Grant, first you wait for the check to clear...","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steven Spielberg was executive producer.  What's the point?  There were no opening credits.Saving grace - the puppetmaster God himself, Stan Winston.  His talent is unsurpassed and undeniable incredible dinosaurs from start to finish.  But this is also the man who brought us the imagery of Jurassic Park 1, Jurassic Park 2, The Terminator, Terminator 2, Aliens as well as  Predator (so how can we expect anything-less-than-fascinating creature effects to a point past realism, creeping toward nightmare inducing).  Mr Winston, you are an asset to the industry and I thank you for your contribution to cinema and my imagination.Now back to our regularly scheduled movie review.  Which movie, you ask? The one suffering from massive coincidental syndrome?  Yeah, that's the one.Mystery Science Yourassic Park 3,000 --- pure crap.  Not provoking.  Not thoughtful.  Dense fun from a rather ignorant writer, but I won't mention his name.  The fable is pathetic and stupid.  A low-level quality story lacking an absorbing resurrection usually desirable in sequels.   JP means fun masochism, not shovelful-ed ingredients of look dinosaur run escape relax (repeat cycle).Come on, what am I stupid?  Dinosaurs in embryonic, liquid-filled chambers and kids surviving weeks alone in lonely, violent environments (can you say Newt from Aliens?).  Idiotic conceptions with probability.  Everything is laid out so smooooothly, and always on schedule.  How boring.It's not funny.  At least not humor for an intelligent person.  Overall, this movie was not written by an intelligent person and isn't geared to entertain an intelligent person.  It's just dumb at this point.  The Jurassic Park franchise is alive and well due to clever pioneers, but in the wrong hands it's an ugly nothing.  The not-as-glamorous, not-as-interesting, paler, thinner, extracted little brother of the original.The setting is murky, misty, green and stinky.  HORRIBLE sense of location. You just don't know where the characters are or where they're coming from. No internal philosophy with the haunting unpredictability when the dinosaurs emerge from the great unseen of the lush forest.  The  all-Caucasian cast are in this hazardous, venomous environment but don't realize the potential of their horror.  They are out in the open and not panicking because there is no dino-scene scheduled at this time - and they know it.  In a good movie, nobody EVER knows.  It's in the fear of the mystery that we become enveloped; it's then when our imaginations create the uncreatable and we get our delicious terror.  Fear of the unknown, fear of what's out there --- THAT is good cinema.  But not now.  Not here.  Not in JP3.  Nothing new. Nothing fun.  Only a dissolved concept in a dead movie not even a ghost of the first.  Not even worth remembering.  I wish I never saw it.  My idea of what JP3 was going to be before going was more interesting than any of the regurgitated impetuosity that the movie actually was.  It sucked.Jurassic Park 3, you are extinct.  2 stillborn raptors out of 10. "},{"Title":"the worst jurassic park episode ever!!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was awfully bad and boring. The story was very ordinary and the flying dinosaurs weren't as scary as I expected.I brought my 9 year old cousin and he thought that movie wasn't scary at all.I hope there won't be any more Jurassic Park episode. "}{"Title":"JP3 is a shame to the series","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm gonna make this short and sweet.Whenever sequels are made from a book-based film, and are not written by the author, the usually are terrible.Jurassic Park III lacks the intellectual content and well-written story that the Original Jurassic Park had. It jumps from scene to scene with little story to go along with the mindless action.Five minutes into the scene where the crew lands on the island, they are attacked by a Spinosaurus and that scence lasts too long as well. The first Jurassic Park scared you more in the scene where the T-Rex first attacks the Ford Explorer because it has so much non-action leading up to it that gets the suspense up; first the power goes out, then the Fords stop, then the T-Rex comes out, then the T-Rex attacks. In JP3, this is not the case. The plane lands, a guy gets eaten, the plane tries to take off, and crashes, and the dinosaur attacks the people. It all happens too fast. Sure, it has more action than JP 1, but there is little story to it.Joe Johston's directing is not as good as speilberg's, either, this shows with the lousy special effects.JP III is a shame to the name because the original was such a classic. Basically I disapprove of this story because A. Barely any story B. Michael Chriton didn't write it in any way C. Speilberg did not direct.The only good Jurassic Park movie, as far as storyline goes, is the original.Don't waste your money on this one, wait till it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"Flogging a dead dinosaur...........","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh dear, Oh dear, poor old Sam Neill must need to pay the rent rather urgently if he has to make this type of rubbish to keep himself in the style to which he is accustomed. This movie stinks worse than the dino do-do which features prominently in this, the most inane of the three J.P movies (to date!). William H Macy simply recreated his fargo persona to play the tile salesman and as for the rest of the cast? well, Its nice to be nice so I wont comment on their atrocious performances. The Velociraptors stole the show (such as it was) and the storyline of family get-togetherness, be it dumb midwesterners, Raptors or Pterodactyls was really cliched. Still, what was I expecting? Crime and Punishment? A stinker, a real stinker! "},{"Title":"Worse than Jaws IV","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unfortunatly, JP3 is a pretty routine attempt at a sequel.  With the exception of the Pterodactyls (which were pretty cool I must admit), all the new elements (talking raptors, the spinosaurus) were pretty lame.  I mean honestly, we're supposed to believe that raptors would take revenge on the humans for stealing the eggs???  Even the setting was lame.  Rather than running through the jungles of Isla Sorna (which has already been done in Lost World), wouldn't it be a lot cooler to go exploring through the wreck of the first island?Besides that, this movie had no atmosphere to it.  We were shipped off to the island five minutes into the movie, with no buildup or even an attempt at anything besides a vague attempt at a storyline.  And once we are on the island, the dinosaurs don't create any feelings for the viewers.  There is no sense of awe (as in the first film) or menace (as in The Lost World).  Its just another movie monster, and for some reason the intangible magic that the first two films had is gone.Once the action begins it all takes place during DAYTIME too.  I read a previous comment on these message boards that said The Lost World left them feeling visually cheated.  I thought the pacing and cinematography in that film created a very eerie, threatening effect that was missing in this film. Imagine the T-rex scene from the first film occuring during the day, and it would have much less of an impact.  The rain, the darkness, the dilating pupils of the T-rex...all these elements just made everything seem that much scarier and REAL. "},{"Title":"Not as brilliant as the first...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 lacked the sort of plot that the first two did. In fact I think that it was way too short. Just as I got comfortable with the characters and what was happening in the movie, it ended! In my opinion I think that it could have been alot better. "},{"Title":"Another typical predictable movie","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, another sequel, with less ideas, a little bit improved CG and some blood to scare children. There isn't much to it, unfortunately. In the first 10 minutes of the movie you know what is going to happen until the end of it. But there is one good thing, why I didn't give it a 1, the end comes quickly, so you don't have to suffer too much in front of it. That's just my impression about this movie. I know of people that liked it, but I really prefer unpredictability. I when you can enjoy every part of the movie, not just the first 10 minutes, before it becomes a screen saver. "},{"Title":"Not worth your time","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Basicly, this is Jurassic Park I, with an even thinner story. The movies story is as basic and predictable as they come. A bit of love, a familiar face, all that you'd expect.There's also a mighty number of inaccuracies in the movie. Dinosaurs slam their way trough four inch steel bars, designed to withstand them, without any problem, but are then avoided by running into a small, half-collapsed building, which resists the dinosaurs' attempts to enter.But even if you put your brain on standby, and just watch the pretty pictures, you'll notice they aren't particulary pretty. In fact they're no better than the first Jurassic Park. That one was good in it's time, but nowadays computer animation is a lot better usually. Seems Amblin isn't quite capable of keeping up. The close up dinos aren't so bad, but it seems there have been some mighty budget cuts on scenes with many dinos. The big herds move awkwardly, and seems to stand in front of the landscape rather than in it.Altogether you get an utterly predictable movie, without even the occasional moment of tension the first film provided, and without any great images worth mentioning. Don't waste your time on this one.Rated 2/10 "},{"Title":"Oh no!!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok i enjoyed the first two Jurassic Park films very much, but when this one came to town i fell over dead. The effects are terrible. The acting is poor. The action sequences aren't nearly as exciting or as clever made as in the first two films. And the idea of convincing Grant (Sam Neill) to go back to the island for money is pitiful! What a dumb idea. I definitely suggest to avoid this movie and focus on Jurassic Park and The Lost World Jurassic Park II. Avoid this one for sure. "},{"Title":"Waste of time!!!!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What complete trash. There are plot holes big enough to drive Mack trucks through here. The terrible story, stereotypical characters, cheesy lines and scenes (Dr. Grants raptor dream!)and awful, typical foreshadowing make this one of the worst movies i have ever had to sit through. The only saving grace is that i didn't have to pay to see it. Sorry, not even ILM special effects or a pre-existing John Williams score could save this one. When Spielberg leaves a project every one should know to stay away!!! "},{"Title":"A total bore","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a classic case of the idiot plot. Because you'd have to be an idiot to buy into it. Absolutely no tension or suspense and a mediocre reworking of John Williams' music in all the wrong spots. This is a rip off folks stay away at all costs. "},{"Title":"This movie doesn't make a lot of sense. (Contains a few spoilers, if you haven't seen the movie, I wouldn't recommend reading this)","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie starts out with, what i think, is a stupid plot for a Jurassic Park movie. A kid gets stranded on the island and his parents trick Dr. Alan Grant to help them look for their son. As the movie rolls on, new dinosaurs are discovered which makes no sense at all. Ingen had a certain list which Dr. Grant mentions, and certain dinosaurs which they see are not on this list. I expected this to be explained, how these dinosaurs came to be. Eventually the movie ends and nothing is explained. I was very surprised considering that this is a Jurassic Park movie. How could they not take time to explain anything? Another problem with this movie is the fact that it is only about an hour and 21-22 minutes, extremely short, don't you think so? The other 2 movies were each about 2 hours and 5 minutes. Another big thing, this is a Jurassic Park movie lets not forget, and the creators go and invent a dinosaur called the Spinosaurus. How can they invent a dinosaur for a Jurassic Park movie? Another stupid thing. I must say though that this dinosaur was incredible. 10 times more intelligent than the T Rex. I was dumbfounded when the T Rex went down in the fight between the Spinosaurus and the T Rex. One last thing, in the end of The Lost World, they show a few flying dinosaurs flying freely, then in this one, they show a giant bird cage which is never mentioned in the either of the previous movies, and wasnt site B just a place to nurture the baby dinosaurs? Why would they have built a whole bird cage for baby dinosaurs? And then not build the same thing on the original island. The writer of this movie should have thought this through more and most of all, Michael Crichton should have written a book for it, or it should not have been made, and they should have stuck with David Koepp as the screenplay writer. I think the movie would have been much better had he written it. But i must say there were some great scenes in this movie, but all in all, id say it was pretty bad. "}{"Title":"If you liked Mission Impossible 2...","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Then you will probably like this as they both follow the familiar Hollywood routine. Theres no story for either, and its pure action.JP series has headed downward since its peak with the original, JP2 wasnt very good, and JP3 is just plain terrible. The story is laughable in its stupidity, and the acting throughout the film is consistantly bad except for Sam Neil's which is on par with his previous performance.I cant say stay away from this movie enough. It wasnt true to the original one bit and the plotline is absolutely rediculous. Youd think they would learn from the complete failure of JP2 but they didnt, and it shows.The ending is the worst part of all. Not only is it absolutely crazy, it has to be the dumbest ending for a movie that I have seen in a long while. Theres absolutely NO WAY that the ending would EVER happen in real life, and it was the final nail in the coffin for this abysmal film. "},{"Title":"What a load of","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (May contain Spoilers)I consider myself a rarity - an adult who actually enjoyed both previous Jurassic Park movies.  However, I cannot condone this farce of a film and pray that people will be able to read this before wasting their hard-earned money on such tripe.Let's get the pro's out of the way first the effects were impressive (even more improvement on the first two films) and the sounds were good.  Sorry, but that's about it.I won't waste time talking about the wafer-thin plot or the sporadic action sequences as I'm sure somebody who hated this film more than me will love to list the many faults in these areas.  I will say this however if any part of you thought either of the first two were just dino-chasing farces then DO NOT go see this film.  The scriptwriters who worked on this almost non-existent storyline should be shot.  The film was so unoriginal too; most of the scenes and ideas were pulled straight from other successes - look out for Indiana Jones and Alien 3 in particular.I won't even start on the end.  The least you expect from a film like this is an impressive action-sequence to finish it off.  I simply couldn't believe it when the credits started rolling.  What?  That's it?!I'll leave anyone who's had the misfortune to watch this astronomic disappointment with a couple of questions The camp on the island would have been around 10 years max.  How come then is it decaying and falling to pieces like old balser wood? Why did Tea Leoni and Sam Neil (a once respected actor) ever put their names on a film like this?Not the worst film I've ever seen, but it comes close. "},{"Title":"This film is just abusive to my brain.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It could be that I've seen too many roller-coaster ride movies lately, but this movie wasn't worth the $6 ticket.   Terribly written, badly acted (Tea Leoni had one line ERIC! -- and I learned to hate Laura Dern's work in JP1), and absolutely unengaging on any level. The visual effects were a minor redemption, but don't float this sinking rock of a film. There are two scenes in the film that make me think this film was written for young boys  the fight between a T-Rex and the superpredator called Spineosaurus -- and the appearance, and sudden disappearance or compys that did nothing but hop around for a second before the scene ended. If you feel like being abused by mindless filmmaking, feel free. "},{"Title":"shamelessly cashing the check","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tedious, cliche, soulless, insulting to the audience.  This is just the beginning.  If ever a film has simply followed the basic Hollywood equation for how to make money without really trying it's this.  From characters inserted simply to have a body count, a totally out of context explosion, to bringing someone back from the dead.  At no point was the movie ahead of the audience, well written, or innovative.  No one questions the technical expertise displayed here, but it's beginning to seem as if we've reached a point where screenplay and actors are used simply to construct a venue for the newest special effects.  The only good thing that can be said about this movie is at least it's not Hollow Man. "},{"Title":"One Simple Word Horrible","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Jurassic Park III' is bad.  Very bad.  So bad, in fact, that there's little, if anything, that can be salvaged out of this rancid film that could remotely be considered good.  Sure, it'll make its money . . . in fact, it'll probably make enough to ensure a `JP4' (shudder) . . . but if you're considering going to see this movie, I'd strongly advise you not to go.  In fact, I'll beg you not to go.  Please.  This is easily one of the worst films released in 2001.  The ill-advised plot of `JP3' is as follows  Doctor Alan Grant (Sam Neill), desperate for funding on a dinosaur dig, accepts a strange offer from a wealthy couple, Paul and Amanda Kirby (William H. Macy and Tea Leoni) - take them on an aerial tour of the original Jurassic Park island, and receive unlimited funding for his research efforts.  Since he only expects to have to fly over the island, he's abruptly surprised when his plane actually lands on the island.  It turns out that the couple's fourteen-year old son Eric (Trevor Morgan) is lost somewhere on the island, and they need to find and rescue their precious child.  Of course, the plane gets wasted by dinosaurs shortly after touchdown, so now Dr. Grant, the Kirbys, and the rest of the plane's crew must fight for survival as they find themselves being hunted by the ravenous dinosaurs, who, according to Dr. Grant, may be smarter than most scientists ever thought possible . ..On paper, this might have seemed like a good idea, but on screen, it's utterly preposterous and stupid.  The story is so thin, it's almost embarrassing.  Every line uttered in this film is essential to moving along the main plot.  It sounds like the actors were given Cliff's Notes instead of a script.  While there's something to be said for economy in dialogue, `JP3' pushed it to the point of being ridiculous.  (The line `Did you hear something?' - which must have been uttered at least five times during this film - is apparently code for `A dinosaur will be jumping out of the shadows in the next ten seconds.')  There's no real reason given to care about anyone in this film; the fact that they're trapped with vicious dinosaurs is apparently supposed to be reason enough.  Since the characters are stupid enough to bring most of their miseries upon themselves, though, it's difficult to feel sorry for them.The behavior of the characters is ludicrous.  `Jurassic Park Island' is apparently infamous for being filled with vicious, man-eating dinosaurs - so, what does Amanda (Tea Leoni) do the instant the plane lands on the island?  She goes stomping into the wilderness - away from the rest of the group - armed with ONLY A BULLHORN, SCREAMING HER SON'S NAME AND SIGNALLING EVERY DINOSAUR ON THE ISLAND THAT A HUMAN SNACK HAS ARRIVED!!! There's at least two dozen other examples of this scattered throughout the film, examples of pure, abject stupidity on the part of the characters.  Dr. Grant keeps muttering at various points during the movie (just in case the audience missed it the first six thousand times it gets mentioned) that the dinosaurs must be smart . . . well, yes and no, Dr Grant.  The dinosaurs in this film are indeed relatively smart in comparison to the humans in this film, but only because the humans are such thick-skulled dimwits.  Brain-damaged field mice would be considered smart in comparison to the  humans in this film.Even in terms of just being a fun, dumb movie, `JP3' fails appallingly . . . all thanks to director Joe Johnston.  It's hard to imagine that somebody with a big budget and ILM-created dinosaurs could possibly make a boring movie . . . but Joe Johnston does just that.  Flat, dull, and unimaginative describe the action scenes involving the dinosaurs in `JP3'.  (And the scenes without the dinosaurs are pure Sominex.)  Dinosaurs pretty much just waltz into the appropriate scenes and start attacking people - there's virtually no attempt to build tension or to try to deliver maximum tension or impact with the creatures.  It's as though the audience is supposed to just sit back and marvel at how impressive-looking the dinosaurs are, and that should be exciting enough . . . here's a newsflash, Mr. Johnston.  It's not.   For a big budget, special effects-laden film, this is possibly one of the least visually impressive movies ever made.I genuinely feel sorry for Sam Neill and William H. Macy - on screen, they almost look apologetic for the terrible lines they have to deliver.  They try to put in some good performances, and they must be given credit for trying . . . but considering the garbage they're working with, it's no surprise that they can't pull it off.  As for Tea Leoni . . . good gravy, who told her she could act?  Every line she utters is pure crap - hammy, unbelievable, and delivered with such uncertainty, I became convinced she was reading off of a badly shaking TelePrompter.  I've seen worse performances . . . but they're usually in `direct to video' releases.  Did nobody else audition for this part?  Horrendous.`Jurassic Park' and `The Lost World' weren't exactly great films, but they were fun and entertaining, and possessed a certain sense of wonder and fear that made them worth watching.  `JP3' possesses none of the above positive criteria.  It does, however, possess the ability to inspire loathing and nausea from its abysmal direction and pitifully sparse, rotten screenplay.  To put it mildly, `JP3' stinks like an overflowing port-o-john.  The movie's a bad, bad joke. Grade D-  "},{"Title":"Not at all thrilling, and very predictable.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I entered the theater to watch Jurassic Park III, I was not expecting to see a movie that matched up to the original, but I certainly did not expect something this atrocious!  Okay, I disagree with everyone who says this is better than The Lost World.  I am not saying that The Lost World was good, but it had its moments.  When the trailer was hanging off the cliff and the girl was pressed against the breaking glass, that was a tense and exciting moment.  During this third installment, i was never tense nor excited.  I was never on the edge of my seat.  SMALL SPOILER  They never kill anyone you know anything about, let alone care about.  The reason Deep Blue Sea was so good is because Samuel L. Jackson as well as almost everyone else gets gobbled up.  A reason Jurassic Park III was so bad is because of all the people who died, I can't remember what any of them look like.Also, at one point I thought i saw a black rope going down to Sam Neill's waist, and I thought, Is he about to fall?  Right then, the step broke and he slipped and started to fall but was able to hang on. Unbelievable. "},{"Title":"Even the respectable cast can't hold up the wafer thin plot","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's clear that for this film they wanted to have the story line driven by the characters. But immediately the story line causes you to dislike the new main characters. The fly-over of the island and dinosaurs below lacked any impact at all and almost looked like a cartoon. The all action entrance to the island is merely a rehash of parts from JP 1 and 2. The story-line is predictable to the point of annoyance and it's entirely unsatisfying end left me feeling cheated. This gave me with no option but to award the film 3/10!    "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw JP3 in the Sneak preview today, and I have to say, that this is the worst movie that I have seen this year. Beside of a few good camera shots there were a lot of mistakes in the movie, a stupid story and a lot of plot holes. Movie equipment was visible several times and not even the actors were convincing. "},{"Title":"Utterly Childish","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" *This review contains spoilers.*Ever wondered what Jurassic Park would look like if it were made exclusively for kids? Probably a lot like Jurassic Park III, an almost unwatchable third entry in an otherwise solid film series. Lacking the fun, suspense, and overall entertainment value of the first two films, Jurassic Park III is filled with moments of unintentional humor, tedium, and disappointment all around.Jurassic Park III begins almost identically to Jurassic Park The Lost World. A few people are enjoying their vacation a little too close to the dinosaur-infested Isla Sorna, and ends in disaster. One of these unlucky victims is an unlucky boy named Eric. Eric's divorced parents (who curiously were not with the boy at the time of this accident) are determined to go to Isla Sorna and find him, despite the dangers. They also manage to trick Dr. Alan Grant to come along with them (as well as a friend of Grant's named Billy Brennan). As expected, chaos ensues when they reach the island and there doesn't appear to be a way back home.I wonder if Jurassic Park III was initially planned as a children's film. The body count is much lower than that of the previous two films, and there's more chase scenes than actual violence. The characters seem more like cartoon characters than actual people, and the tone of the film feels more like a sitcom than a Sci-Fi action flick. Not to mention one scene that where three of the main characters are digging through dino doo, as well as an unbelievably awful dream sequence involving a talking dinosaur. My theory is further supported by Eric, the 12 year old son of the Kirbies (the couple that convinced Grant to come to the island with them) who survives on the island by himself for eight weeks and proves remarkably resourceful. This is a dramatic change from the children of the previous Jurassic Park films, but not a positive one.The fact is, the Jurassic Park films already require you to suspend your disbelief a bit, but Eric's impressive survival skills (among almost a dozen convenient escapes) pushes it all over the line.On the bright side, Jurassic Park III doesn't have a the horrendously slow beginning that the first two films had. The original film took at least an hour to really get going, and it took The Lost World a good 40 minutes. In Jurassic Park III, the chaos starts in about 20 minutes (which also shortens the overall run time to about 90 minutes). Unfortunately, the chaos isn't much more exciting than the talking in the first 20 minutes.While the first two Jurassic Park films were extremely suspenseful and unpredictable, Jurassic Park III is almost the opposite. Any and all boo moments can be seen from a mile away, meaning that successful scares are few to none. The action scenes are uninteresting and lack excitement. One scene in particular seems almost an exact copy of the dangling trailer scene from The Lost World, only much shorter, and lacking any suspense.Much of the suspense comes from the small body count. Now, there's no right way to say this part, but here goes More people needed to get eaten. I already mentioned that relatively few people get eaten, but it needs to be emphasized. Adding to my theory that this was initially supposed to be a kid's film, basically all the main characters live. At one point, it seemed Jurassic Park III might have changed it's mind and killed off a semi-important character, but we later discover the character didn't die at all (and I might add that this weak twist was also highly predictable).The entire film seems very cheap and just thrown together. The special effects, while not bad, are far less impressive (and believable) than those of the first two Jurassic Park flicks. And editing seems to be rushed as I spotted a large number of continuity issues.The acting is weak, though this has more to with the script than the actual performances. Because the characters in the film are mostly idiots (some seems unusually stupid), the actors appear to be idiots as well, which is something a film should never do. Especially irritating is Tea Leoni as Amanda Kirby, portraying the single-most stupid and annoying character in the entire Jurassic Park film series.John Williams did not score this third entry (despite his involvement with the first two), which only adds to both this film's slopped together feeling, and my ever-growing respect for the composer. However, replacement composer Don Davis does a pretty commendable job at utilizing Williams' existing themes. While Williams refrained from frequent use of the original's themes for The Lost World, Davis uses them freely and frequently. The score isn't as skilled as either of the previous entries in the series, but it's plenty of fun, and includes some very spirited arrangements of the main theme (especially at the end).Downright awful in almost every respect, Jurassic Park III isn't funny, isn't exciting, and isn't memorable. Having more in common with the Honey I Shrunk The Kid sequels than any of the Jurassic Park films, Jurassic Park III is a highly flawed and highly disappointing movie in just about every regard. And yet, this is not the end. After over a decade of being in Development Hell, Jurassic Park IV is finally getting made, which will hopefully wash out the bad taste that Jurassic Park III has left behind. "},{"Title":"Totally worthless sequel.","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III takes place 4 years after The Lost World. Dr. Alan Grant is still working on the fields. When a young boy goes missing over Site B, his parents track down Grant and tell him they want a fly over tour of the island. He reluctantly agrees for a large sum of money, but when they get there and land, he finds out that they're not rich at all, and they want him to lead them as they look for their son. Unfortunately, they don't know that there were two islands, and this is the one Alan Grant has never been to before. Jurassic Park III marks Steven Spielberg's departure from the series, and also the series' fall from grace. The acting, plot, and special effects are the worst here, and it makes you long for the crew of the first film.Steven Spielberg and Michael Crighton wanted to stick to dinosaur fact when they made the first two films, and they did a good job of that. In this movie, they try to make it look like the Velociraptors have evolved and they look more like birds now, complete with feathers sticking out of their head. They even hold intelligent conversation with each other, which makes the movie even more ridiculous. The main dinosaur of the movie switches from the T-Rex (which has only a small cameo in the film), and is now a Spinosaurus. This is another dinosaur ruined by the movie. The real Spinosaurus was 18-20 feet tall and far less vicious than the T-Rex. In this movie, it is closer to 50 feet and relentlessly stalks the people on the island. The Pterodactyl scene is so unbelievable that it makes me laugh. The whole plot of this movie is unbelievable and makes no sense. The style is different, and the dialogue is corny. This movie is a far cry from the first two films.The acting in this movie is astonishingly bad. Sam Neill was great as Alan Grant in the first film, but now he's just wooden with no emotion. William H. Macy and Tea Leoni are terrible as the parents of a missing boy. They don't show any real determination in finding him. All they do is walk around and call his name. The other actors in the film aren't even worth mentioning.The first two films were really awesome, and this movie just ruins it all by trying to be so much better that it ends up worse. This movie really is a waste of time.3/10 "}{"Title":"Doesn't  deserve to even be called 'Jurassic Park'","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw this movie I thought it was good. The normal running for cover from raptors and the 'Spino' that wasn't on InGen's list. Oooooh sounds good. But to tell you the truth, after sitting down, thinking about the REAL plot and after reading the books, it's no wonder Michael Crichton hasn't seen this movie (no lie).This idiot step-dad and his kid go para-sailing next to dino infested island and get stranded after the guy on the boat gets eaten mysteriously off the boat. So the real dad and mom drag Dr, Grant on a 'tour' get stranded (go figure) and spend two hours running for their lives after they find their sun eating 20 year old nestle crunch bars in an old truck for 8 weeks. That just didn't really do well on my list. And then Grant tries to desperately call Saddler off the island and she can't hear anything because Grant is being attacked by the spin, and yet by telepathy or maybe Spielberg called her afterward, she sends the navy air-force or army, but it was ridiculous.So the plot stunk but the scenery was off too. This is in the same spot as Jurassic Park 2 and yet looks nothing like it. And where was the spino in Jurassic Park 2? Please attack Blockbusters everywhere, and maybe together we can burn every copy and forget this terrible tragedy of a movie ever happened. OK. "},{"Title":"Throw out basic laws of ecology here.","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Does nobody see the obvious fallacies in the movies but me? All three movies take place on small islands yet the islands support huge herds of sauropods and predators. Ecologically this is absolutely impossible. Various real scientists have estimated the home range of a T rex at over 700 square miles yet here we have breeding populations of them and other predators. The sauropods populations would quickly denude the forest but here they seem to never run out of food. Neither Cricton nor Spielberg can change basic laws of science that govern biomass production and the energy pyramid. I suppose this all shows the scientific illiteracy of this country. The best science fiction is believable so where does this fit in? "},{"Title":"It's a dud.","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 1 was the best of the three. The third movie was bad bad bad bad. The Spinosaur remained unexplained. Actually, I didn't understand any of it. There was also no science at all. And The story was pointless. This movie should wind up in a bargain bin at Wal-Mart or something. After The Lost World things really went down hill. Spinosaurus is badder than Tyrannosaurus, well that's how it WAS supposed to be. I'e got four words for you. REALLY. REALLY.BAD.SEQUEL!!! "},{"Title":"A worthy addition to the series...","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of the Jurassic Park movies. I grew up with a fascination for dinosaurs, and 'Jurassic Park' came out when I was young and it blew me away. 'The Lost World' has had some bad reception with the critics... but I thought it was great (Some of the best action on film!). Now JPIII has arrived, and I was sceptical at first, but this movie is also amazing. Director, Joe Johnston, has taken Spielberg's franchise and taken it into a fresh area. With a cool cast, and with the best SFX this year (the dinosaurs are soooooo realistic), and a welcome dose of quirky humour - this has to be the best movie of the summer! (I personally hated 'Planet Of The Apes' and 'Pearl Habour')Then again this might be one of the best this year... with tough competition from 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon' and 'The Lord of the Rings  The Fellowship of the Ring'. This movie was 90 mins of pure fun. Don't expect an arthouse adventure with a sharp script... just expect to be blown away by this movie.Roll on JPIV... which I hear finally brings the dinosaurs to the mainland... can't wait! "},{"Title":"This is no Jurassic Park, but a helluva lot better than The Lost World!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"25 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are like me, and have been following everything on Jurassic Park III for the past 5 months, you've probably set your expectations pretty high, and chances are, you'll most likely be let down.  In a way, I was.  My expectations were pretty damn high for this film, but that was my own fault.  No film could have possibly lived up to those kinds of expectations.  But, the movie was everything it promised to be  A superbly crafted, action-packed, rocket of a movie.  It was fast paced, and the action hardly lets up, maybe for just a few minutes for you to catch your breath, and then you're hit right slam in the face with another dynamic action scene.  The movie is only 95 minutes long, and about 75 of those minutes are nothing but thrills and scares.  Yes, the movie is too short, but it's hardly a problem.  It leaves you wanting more and that is a sure sign of a great movie.  Just don't get your hopes up, thinking this is going to be as good as the first, because it isn't.  It is, however, a kick-ass special effects feast for all you hungry movie-goers out there with a taste for fine suspense thrillers...ok, I know that sounds chessey, but who cares.  My grade B+ "},{"Title":"It's too late for me....save yourself.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"31 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This would probably be a good film to see....provided you've already seen every other film in existence, and thoroughly explored the bellybuttons of yourself and those around you.  God, this movie was unbelievably insipid, with some of the worst (or is it nonexistent) writing ever captured on film. There is no saving grace to this film; even the animatronics are kind of lame, and it's just a complete waste of time and money.Run.  Fast.  It's beyond horrible. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Lark III","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"51 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After reading the script, I thought that there was at least a chance- however slight- that this film could be somewhat enjoyable... and it was, for the first 15 minutes. Then came one change after the next, none of which were for the better.  (I won't go into the details but trust me, the script which I read was far superior and didn't include characters who said That's a bad idea into infinitum.)  It's a real shame that such little effort was put into a film which could have been great, and could have appealed to people from every walk of life.As a screenwriter, I understand that what most people are in the market for come summer is a mindless, popcorn-munching flick to simply take them away from life's monotony.  That's fine and it's something that writers should be cognizant of... BUT there certainly is a way to make a film that is entertaining to the masses and yet not insulting to its intelligence.Jurassic Park III is nothing but a B-Creature Feature that's cliched into absurdity.  If you want to see a film and be dumber as a consequence, see this movie. "},{"Title":"Plot is too simple. Good special effects.","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"65 out of 133 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is not very good. In fact, the only things that make this film watchable, are the cinematography and the special effects. The dinosaurs look really good.But, like I said, the rest is not good at all. The acting is not spectacular (except for a few scenes) the dialogs are also not spectacular and sometimes even abominable.The plot is just an excuse to see people being attacked by dinosaurs.But, I must say, the majority of the action scenes are quite good and sometimes the film is very exciting.If you like dinosaurs, and if you don't mind a stupid script, you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Easily Best of the Three","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is far and away my favourite of the original Jurassic trilogy. I'm not sure I can say exactly why, but given the low average rating, I'd like to try.1. No Spielberg. The original JP is one of Spielberg's most indulgent messes. It suffers especially from what I call 'The Spielberg Gape,' a mechanism he abuses in many of his films having characters endlessly staring into space, in supposed Awe and Wonder. None of that in JP3.2. Likable characters. William H Macy is absolutely perfect dinosaur fodder. Only a few moments of Laura Dern's drippiness. And none at all of that idiotic 'chaotician' guy.3. Humor. Macy's line about the tricyclaplotz makes me laugh every time.4. Parachutes!5. Pure action, no detours for plot - or typical Spielbergian set-pieces.6. More dinosaurs. CG got cheaper, and we got more raptors.More than anything, though, I think it's the lack of pretensions. Unlike it's predecessors, JP3 is a B movie that knows its a B movie. There's a sense of fun that Spielberg's heavy-handed touch eliminates from the first two instalments. Not that they're bad movies, or anywhere near Spielberg's worst. But JP3 is just more entertaining.I recall a few reviewers saying all this at the time JP3 was released. I guess very few people listened. Anyway, if I had to watch one of the three Jurassic films 1,000 times, I'd pick JP3. "},{"Title":"An Improvement from Lost World, but still Nowhere near as Entertaining as the Original,","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III is a good movie with a well written storyline and a decent cast. It's probably an unpopular opinion, but i preferred this movie from the Lost World Jurassic Park, Alan Grant was one of my favourite characters from the original movie and seeing him again was a huge bonus for me, I found myself caring more for these characters, and one of my biggest problems with Lost World was that a lot of the actors weren't believable, they didn't seem like they were witnessing a real dinosaur, I feel like they accomplished that here. I think Paul and Amanda Kirby's characters were poorly written, though I do like William H. Macy and Ta Leoni's performances, they were just very strange, it didn't feel necessary to make their personality so weird and it took is away from the main part of the movie, the dinosaurs, because of how mysterious they were, also the opening scene with their son was crudely executed. The problem with the Lost World is still very much evident here, and that's simply that they're trying too hard to be as good as the original Jurassic Park and not simply being its own movie, if it would stop making reference to the first and reminding us how much better that movie was, then the series would be going on the right track. It has many shortcomings and it may be another inadequate Jurassic Park sequel, but Jurassic Park III is very fun to watch, and I would recommend it you ever see it on television, Netflix, etc., and have some time to kill. Dr Alan Grant accompanies a rich couple to the second Jurassic Park island to look for their teenage son. Best Performance Sam Neill Worst Performance John Diehl "}{"Title":"Flawed, to be sure, but not the travesty some make it out to be.","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) is back in business trying to procure the funding for future digs. He is approached by the couple Paul and Amanda Kirby (William H. Macy and Tea Leoni) to accompany them on their latest adventure. They *say* that they're a rich, affluent pair of thrill seekers who want Grant along for his expertise when they intend to go on a plane tour of Isla Sorna (the site of the second movie). As we can figure out, they're not playing it straight with him, and have another motive in mind. Predictably, the plane *does* land on the island. All Hell breaks loose as yet another gang of raptors and a particularly nightmarish menace called a spinosaur stalk our not too bright protagonists.Jurassic Park III really isn't all that bad. Of course it's going to come up short when compared to the first movie, but the filmmakers have crafted a reasonable thrill ride with a very good pace. Unlike the other movies in this series, this runs a mere 93 minutes (84 or so without the end credits), which goes to show that this kind of entertainment doesn't need to go on for very long. One understandable complaint is that the dinosaurs here don't do a lot of people munching; only a few characters get gobbled up, and you can pretty much guess who they'll be. This does manage to be somewhat intense nevertheless. It's *not* without its sillier and more annoying moments (the nightmare sequence comes to mind), and Ms. Leoni is unfortunately obliged to play the kind of twit whom we all hope and pray becomes dinosaur chow.All things considered, this is still better than the average SyFy cheese fest, if only because of the substantial major studio budget and the very talented crew. The special effects this time are variable - sometimes the dinosaurs look great, and sometimes they don't. The entire night time segment on the river is a solid set piece, and things culminate in what is a hilariously over the top resolution.Another thing giving this an edge over a more typical B movie is a cast of pros. They play the material for all that it's worth, with Neill doing a good job. Trevor Morgan is appealing as the obligatory child character Eric, and a couple of truly excellent character actors - Michael Jeter, John Diehl, Bruce A. Young, and Julio Oscar Mechoso - fill out supporting roles. Laura Dern reprises her part of Ellie Sattler in what is basically an extended cameo.Written by Peter Buchman, Alexander Payne (the director whose works include Sideways and Election) and Jim Taylor.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Um yeah, Jurassic Park 3","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has been hailed by the fans as the worst in the Jurassic park series. In my Opinion, i don't think is the worst because, this movie knows is a bad movie and a pointless sequel, it's suppose to be a b-movie. all that this movie is A kid named billy gets trap on Isla sorna and some group of people have to go there and rescue him that's it,nothing else. This movie makes the same mistake as the second not giving you one interesting character expect in this movie you have Alan grant who is more believable as a lead than Jeff goldblum in the lost world and Sam Neill still does a great job. their isn't much to talk about Jurassic park 3 is just a pointless sequel that didn't need to exist like the second one. "},{"Title":"It's Not a Classic but It's Entertaining","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III (2001)*** (out of 4) An adventurous couple (William H. Macy, Tea Leoni) talk Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) into returning to the second dinosaur location to give them a talk about the creatures there. It turns out that they have different motives and when their plane crashes on the island it's a fight for survival.JURASSIC PARK III seems to be hated by most humans but I actually enjoyed the film for what it was. Yes, it's certainly not as good as the first two movies and yes there are certainly some major flaws throughout the picture but for the most part it was entertaining from start to finish and it also manages to show off some terrific special effects and there's no question that it features a terrific cast.I'll get the flaws out of the way first. For starters, the film is way too predictable for its own good. As soon as the plane sets out you can pretty much pick who is going to live and who is going to die. As the film moves along there's actually very little suspense because you just know nothing is going to happen to certain characters. I'm going to avoid spoilers but what happens at the very end to one character was a very big joke. Another problem is that there's really not too much of a story but I'm going to give the film a minor break here because it actually falls into a B movie territory. Still, I understand why some fans might be upset that it's not an A movie.With all of that said, at just 92-minutes the film certainly goes by at a quick pace and it does feature some fun and entertaining attack sequences. Once again the special effects, a mixture of CGI and real effects, are perfectly mixed in with the actors and for my money the effects were just as good as what was seen in the previous two movies.Another plus is that we're given a terrific cast of characters and while no one delivers Oscar-quality work, they're at least fun to watch. It was great getting to see Neill return for his role and it was nice getting to see Laura Dern as well. Both Macy and Leoni handle their roles just fine as does Trevor Morgan and Alessandro Nivola.Several people have attacked the B quality of the story but to me it works as long as you don't take it too serious. In fact, it really does play out like a nice little B movie that you'd see from the 1930's or 50's. JURASSIC PARK III is certainly minor entertainment but the important thing is that it keeps you entertained. "},{"Title":"An Unexpected, Pleasant Treat","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I did not know what to think when I agreed to go with some friends years ago to see Jurassic Park III in theaters. I thought the first one was good, but slightly overrated, and that the second one was average. Over time, I've come to elevate my view on the first film. However, out of the three, it is this third film that remains my favorite.The plot is simple. Sam Neill's Dr. Grant character is lured back to the island by a couple who's kid is stranded there. The film is fast, the dialogue stays on course, there is just enough room to segue into side plots without overdoing it, and everyone seems to be rolling along. William H. Macy and Tea Leoni are fine as the couple looking for their kid, and Alessandro Nivoli is also good as Billy, Dr. Grant's protg here.The film doesn't ask you to think, but manages to keep your attention. There are plenty of dinosaurs to go round. If you want a fairly fast-paced action flick that deals with dinos, this is a good choice. "},{"Title":"An alright film for a rainy day","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So this is obviously never going to compare to the original Jurassic Park, and I don't think anything ever will. The story is a little predictable and far fetched, if not utterly ridiculous in places. And the effects are nowhere near as good as the first two films. One bonus is there is more sunlight in this film than the second so some of the action can actually be seen! But at the end of the day it's not THAT bad as some of the other reviews may claim, and is still quite fun and jumpy in places (though maybe less screaming by the woman would have been nice!) The film did have great parts to it that maybe could have been used in the first and second to give us a longer feature for those instead (and stay away from mainland cities too!) Overall, it's got dinosaurs. It's a bit of fun, and it'll pass the time on a rainy day. It's also a good starting point for kids and dino films as it's the mildest of them all. "},{"Title":"this stand's up to the trilogy test","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 like The Lost World and Jurassic Park 1 has twist and turns and is really great movie and I like it because it has new Dinosaur's and new characters but with the same sort of methodgreat Steven Spielberg thing. I'd recommend to my Friends. If you liked Jurassic Park and The Lost WorldJurassic Park 2 you'll like it. ahhhhhhhh Just go See it and Judge for yourself! "},{"Title":"Better than II, equal to I","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't like the sequel to Jurassic Park, the Lost World. It seemed to me like a movie made just to show how many ways they can show dinosaurs eating people. They came up with the action scenes and then wrote a plot around them. Jurassic Park III is excellent!! Just as good as the first one, although it lacks that initial awe of the dinosaurs that I had with the first one. The plot to this one is really good, it was very well written. Not a boring moment in it!! "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was more than I expected.  Being the 3rd in a line of sequels there's the possibility that it just out right sucks.  But I am finding that I like this one better than The Lost World.  It's all about the dinosaurs and people running away and crashes and booms and bangs and crunches... it was just plain fun! "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was more than I expected.  Being the 3rd in a line of sequels there's the possibility that it just out right sucks.  But I am finding that I like this one better than The Lost World.  It's all about the dinosaurs and people running away and crashes and booms and bangs and crunches... it was just plain fun! "},{"Title":"I would say that this third installment in the jp series is by far the best!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You would think that when a movie series reaches it's third installment it would be starting to repeat itself but with jurassic park that is definetly not the case!!! this movie has a great original plot and of course there is plenty of nail biting action!!! After seeing this movie I don't see what all the hype that surrounded tomb raider was about! compared to this, tomb raider seems as tame as the barney movie!!!! "}{"Title":"Intense and Good flick","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Jurassic Park was actually my favorite.  It had an old fashioned plot with the most modern effects.  The dinosaur action was the crispest of the 3 films.  There were some truly edge if your seat moments and we actually cared if someone survived or not.  No doubt this was a tough audience with criticism long before the movie began.There was a scene with a cell phone that actually symbolically told the hecklers where the director thinks they belong.  I believe he anticipated this.  You will have to see it to understand.If you are looking for a film that has social statements this is not it.  This is good old fashioned action with the finest in sound and visual effects.  It is also interesting.  I rank it only behind Mummy Returns this Summer.  "},{"Title":"Accomplishes what it's sets out to","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't trash this movie because it's not The Godfather or Shawshank Redemption.  This is a summer action adrenaline flick and doesn't try to be anything else.  Ok, so the story could have been better, but I didn't show up to the theatre 40 minutes before showtime so that I could hear a wonderful tale of dinos!  If I wanted that, I would have watched the Discovery channel's Walking with Dinosaurs with it's cheesy graphics.So don't sweat the small stuff, just go get a super popcorn with double butter (for an inexpensive $8.00!) and enjoy dinosaurs eating people! "},{"Title":"Don't listen to them, it was good!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a great movie! It gets right to the action and doesn't stop. The characters were good, not deep, but good. The story didn't bombard you with a science lesson or bore you, it was just action! This has been called the Aliens of the JP series and that is true. Essentially they spend the whole movie running away from small dinosaurs and one really big one, just like in Aliens. If you go to this movie expecting to see Citizen Kane or are looking for Oscar winning performances from the cast, you are an idiot! It's summertime, and it is the perfect movie for those hot days, it's just as good as any amusement park ride. Bring someone with you, buy some popcorn and have fun for ninety minutes! "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie!!!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought the movie was great.  Maybe it was a little short, and could have given a little more detail.  Then it might have been to detailed and boring. I always figured that Dr. Grant (Sam Neil) and Ellie (Laura Dern) would have been married, especially after the emotional bond after the first movie.  The new dinosaurs were a great addition to the Jurassic Park movies. The Pterydactyls, were very cool along with the Spinosaurus.  The T-Rex and Spino fight was cool but the T-Rex shoulda won.  When the group was digging in the Spino's dino-crap to find the phone, their unpleasant smell helped to fend off another dinosaur.  The raptors were great as usual. There was alot of comic relief.  Since the movie was 90 minutes, there were no boring parts...dinos all the time.  They coulda explained what happened to InGen and Ellie could have gone to the island to rescue them with a crew of people..not send the entire Marines and Navy after them.  Well, they did leave alot open in the story line, they could do JP-4 )... they have enough to make another great movie...they need to get another movie so Jeff Goldblum and Sam Neil can get together again and do something with the dinosaurs. All in all, it was a great movie! "},{"Title":"top movie can't wait for four","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" it was a excellent movie and i am very pleased with the effort put into it. i was very happy to see some new dinosaurs this time . i am sure you will keep Jurassic park going as long as possible because it is so good to watch and is very educational. i am going to find one of the last dinosaur species left on earth. it has been hiding in the deep trenches of the ocean and is a big discovery waiting to be found. it is good to see someone that is still wanting to get the truth about dinosaurs out there. you are good at your job and very smart. i will hope to be seeing Jurasic park four very soon. it will be good i know because your not just making the film your sharing it with the world and getting your perspective out. to the directors of Jurasic park. "},{"Title":"People are coming down on this way too much.","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I mean, really? What's the big deal. Dinosaurs chasing people on an island is what Jurassic Park is all about.I loved Jurassic Park 3. The dinosaurs were incredible. The RAptors were smarter, faster, and had feathers! They actually appeared as villains in this film rather than monsters. Sure Spinosaurus took T-Rex's place, but who can look at a twenty five foot tall, fifty foot long monster, running around eating people, as a bad thing in the Jurassic Park franchise? I missed the T-Rex, and hope that it gets more screen time in Jurassic Park 4. However, the Rex/Spino fight was incredible. Also, I loved the Pteranodons. I for one have been wanting to see them in each film since I left the theater in 1993, having just seen Jurassic Park.Sure, the actors could have been a bit better, and the storyline could have used some work. But hey, it's hard to come up with ways of getting people on the island. I personally would have rather seen Spielberg directing the movie though.That's my thoughts.  "},{"Title":"Best of the three JP films.","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have just seen the ITV premiere last night, after seeing this film 3 times at the cinema a while ago. I think this film is the best of the three, it includes my favourite characters such as Billie and Dr Grant, and the story line is well written. I also think the type of dinosaurs used is good and the first time i saw the film i was wrong a lot of th times i tried to guess what was going to happen. Basically I think the film is great, it is one of my favourite films and even if you didn't like the first film and the lost world, i would watch it because although the 3 films come under the same title, they are all quite different. I'm not a big fan of dinosaurs myself but the film is amazing.  "},{"Title":"Better than The Lost World","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie did not try as hard to be good; it went more for some suspense, visuals, and more dinosaurs. It didn't pretend that certain people, such as Tea Leoni's character, were supposed to be geniuses even though they weren't. And it worked. It ended up being better than Jurassic Park 2 in terms of the story and the characters. Not that huge of a plot, mind you, but it gave some things to think about without parading its great ideas too much (for example, the idea of the boy having found surviving on the island somewhat easier than surviving his family problems). If you want to see some suspense, Tea Leoni flipping out, and a flying dinosaur walking on its wings, this is it. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has spectacular visuals and special effects, incredible action, great sense of humor and great settings.  Also I love the fact that it's not too long (it never gets tiring or boring) and that it is fast paced.  It is also a HUGE improvement over the Lost World.  The plot in itself is very simple, but I'm very happy about that because who wants a movie about dinosaurs where people are talking on serious issues?  If some people need complex plots which can be cool sometimes, then movies like Jurassic Park or any action movie are not the movies to pick.  This is meant to be a fun movie full of thrills and action, and it delivers.I have seen this movie about 5 times and it's still exciting everytime I watch it.  The director Johnston is Spielberg's first choice to comeback again and direct Jurassic Park 4, which proves how he was satisfied with this one.  All I have to say is go rent it and judge for yourself, but I promise you, you will not be disappointed.  Jurassic Park 3 is a great adventure and it is exactly what entertainment should be all about.  "},{"Title":"The best ever","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While it could have been better, it was by far the best of the all movies. Then again, I'm a dinosaur fanatic and Jurassic Park obsessor. But I thought it had good dinosaur selection and about the right amount of time for each. The Rex could have had more time thought. The 1 problem was that it was only 1.5 hours long. "}{"Title":"A true Heart-Stomping Thriller!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is like none other. The Special Effects were truly amazing! The acting was great! The Suspense was awsome! I truly recomend this film to anyone who likes to sit down to an exciting heart-stomping thiller. The Jurassic Parks have always been interesting edge of your seat having you nagging for more. I rate this movie a 9/10 stars. Your missing out you gotta check this film out and all the other Jurassics. "},{"Title":"A really excellent movie! Not a Disappointment !","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not a disappointment at all, rather a surprise! The movie is really good, and has all the good special effects! It may doesn't follow that much on the main action in the previous movies, but is tremendous either way. I see all these critic reviews about the movie, but mostly it's just because they can't stand neither one of these two 1. THE DINOSAUR for example It isn't the T-rex who is the dominant, 2. it does not feature all the main characters from the last movies(I may understand this, but I wouldn't say it affects the movie, Alan Grant and his daugther is still in this), BUT they do very well anyway. All that nonsense about they hate the movie is mostly because they may not like the start of the movie, where the T-rex is overwhelmed and killed by the Spinosaur. Oh the spinosaur is a fish eater and can't beat MY FAVORITE DINOSAUR T- REX!. Now because of that they hate the movie, and the rest of the movie sucks. Srsly? I wouldn't lie about that Spinosaurus is my favorite dinosaur, but with that size it may could have been lucky? But then second of all, there's also a lot of reviews saying that they liked the first movie, but this sucks, suddenly because they think it's unrealistic. WTF. The Jurassics Park franchise is unrealistic, but is still really awesome and good. The third may has its a bit too much unrealistic moments, but if they weren't there, they would have been dead from the beginning... All these critic reviews is of course THEIR OPINION and I can't change that, but I still have to say to those who haven't seen it, TRY IT, and don't let all those reviews scare you. I think it's good, and a bit different from the other two movies, which is a plus to me. This review isn't meant as an offend to all those reviews just a recommendation, which had to be made like this, when it's surrounded by critic reviews. "},{"Title":"Listen...you hear that? The Jurassic Park series has finally started to run out of steam","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you can sum up the story of the third installment of the Jurassic Park series, it would be using two quotes that are heard continually throughout the course of the movie. Listen&#x85;you hear that? and then Run! And that will tell you the whole story. Jurassic Park III is nothing more than a creature feature. It's a high-tech creature feature like its predecessor The Lost World Jurassic Park, but unlike that film, which was energetic and fun and most certainly unlike the first movie, which was full of spectacle, Jurassic Park III is a bland creature feature. It's not a total disaster and it's not hard to sit through, but unlike the first two movies, it just does not have the zest and energy and this could be attributed to the departure of Steven Spielberg as the director.In the movie, Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) is asked by a pair of wealthy entrepreneurs (William H. Macy and Ta Leoni) to be their aerial guide as they fly over Isla Sorna, the island where genetically-engineered dinosaurs run amok. After being offered a huge paycheck, Grant agrees, and sure enough, as you'd expect, the plane crashes and the survivors are immediately running from peril from the prehistoric monsters roaming the jungles.And all that follows this is nothing but setup, and then running from the dinosaurs. Now this formula was used extensively throughout the running time of The Lost World Jurassic Park, but it was done with such efficient timing and energy that it was riveting entertainment. And the first Jurassic Park had a lot of dinosaur attacks, but what made it so special and profound was the sense of awe and majesty and wonder that Spielberg instilled into his mechanical and computer-generated creatures. The first movie had our jaws hung in awe and admiration, the second had us on a roller coast thrill ride. Jurassic Park III tries to mix a little of both of these, more the latter than the former, but in the end, it's too clich, a little tiresome, and impoverished of imagination.Nobody really expects interesting characters in a Jurassic Park film, although it would be nice to see some. So the cast is really two-dimensional in terms of personality. But we don't go to the theater to see them. We go to see the dinosaurs.So what about the big lizards of Jurassic Park III? Well, again, they're the best thing in the movie, but even they are a little watered down. Visually, they are moderately impressive. The combination of life-sized animatronics and computer-generated imagery is well-done to generate the illusion. But what these dinosaurs lack is a sense of profound presence. We don't really feel any menace or majesty about them. Even when a dinosaur is tearing a person to shreds, there isn't much impact on the audience because the dinosaurs are losing interest as well. The new dinosaur antagonist, a spinosaurus, is convincing in appearance but very dull in terms of the way it's presented whereas say the tyrannosaurus and the velociraptors of the first two movies had a lot of screen presence. The t-rex has a cameo in this movie and the raptors are over-exaggerated to the point where they become unwieldy instead of realistically scary. And the other dinosaurs? The herbivores. Completely boring. Remember the magical moment in the brachiosaur scene of the first movie? It was spine-tingling and beautiful. There is none of that in the third movie. The only dinosaurs that are given any consideration are the meat-eating predators. Because the movie is more or less relying on them to save the day, expecting the audience to believe dinosaurs to be only scary monsters.Perhaps I'm being a little too rough on Jurassic Park III. There were a few moments including a fun scene where the characters contend with a pack of pterodactyls in a giant birdcage that I really enjoyed and the movie did not overstay its welcome due to a very rapid running time. In the end, I didn't hate the movie, I just didn't think it was on the same level as its two predecessors and wasn't all that enjoyable of a movie. I hope that Universal continues to scrap plans for a fourth movie, because the Excessive Sequel Syndrome is coming into effect and the Jurassic Park series is starting to run out of steam. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park /// - Its as good as its predecessors!!! Bonus Video comment below!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"25 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was in the theater I was expecting to see Isla Sorna,the return of Dr.Grant,a cameo by Laura Dern,new and old Dinosaurs,Raptiors being more intelligent,lots of action,and The Spinosaur in action!I wasn't a bit disappointed.There were a lot of familiar dinos and there were new ones in the movie as well.There's to many to name but the Allosaurs finally makes his debut and the Terradons(the flying dinos)have a large part as well.The acting was good.Sam Neil is good as always, Tea Leoni acts her role just fine,and William H Macy is good,Alessandro Nivola is good,and Michael Jeter is good and Laura Dern is pretty good but the real star of Jurassic Park /// is the Spinosaur!Wow.This dinosaur is huge!He is bigger than the T.Rex believe it or not.He has bigger arms,a longer snout like a crocodile,a fin on his massive back and huge feet.His teeth must have been 10 inches! Watch out for the big fight between the a T.Rex and the Spinosaur!Talk about clash of the Titans! I just couldn't believe when I saw these two behemoths fight each other.I thought this huge fight was really neat.There hasn't been something like that in a movie in quite some time.You can tell the movie is directed by Joe Johnson and not Steven Spielberg but Johnson did a good job.The music is great.Its composed by Don Davis,the premier movie music composer.The JP themes composed by the legendary John Williams are there so everything is just right with the music.Many people complain since JP 1 & JP 2 were over four hours combined that JP 3 is only an hour and a half.To tell ya the truth it seemed a lot longer than that.The time factor is not a problem here.It was a bit different not seeing Richard Attenborough and Jeff Goldblum in this one.I guess there was a reason for them not being in it,I don't know but other than that Jurassic Park 3 is a very good,pleasing dinosaur movie.This is one of the best movies to come out this year and that I have seen so far.The others I recommend is The Mummy Returns and The Planet Of The Apes.I give JP /// **** out of ****!Notes When they are in the bar,listen for Randy Newman's song,Big Hat,No Cattle play in the background,I just flipped when I heard it.Look for some variation on some raptors.Some has various colors and top notches on their heads.Another thing when you read about people talking about the raptors speaking.Their not,they are communicating with each other,not talking like we do,I'D thought just I'D clear that up.Movie Nuttball's NOTEI won't tell ya what the ending is but it isn't bad.I don't know what it was but when I saw Jurassic Park 3 at a AMC Theatre,Everyone was coughing,it seemed like it was the pop corn.I don't know.Is all I know is that it was strange.Maybe its a sign that Jurassic Park IV is coming soon!Let's hope so,I can't wait)I rented Jurassic Park /// and I watch three times and I enjoyed every minute of it and then bought it! I love this movie more than ever now!The Direction of the film is very good and the special effects are superb.It was excellent when I saw this in the theater.I respect this movie more now sinceI have seen it more than once.I love the parts where Cooper and Nash and going to blow up the air plane.Another great part is when cooper goes into the jungle and attack the awesome Spinosaurus and everything goes haywire.Ooohh and I love the Spinosarus' roar!This is arguably the best of the Jurassic Park trilogy.I don't know what the big problem is why people don't like this great movie.This is one of the three movies that should have ruled the box office in MY opinion.The other two are The Mummy Returns and The Planet Of The Apes.Make sure you get all of the great action figures of Jurassic Park /// by Hasbro. "},{"Title":"Real people; real dinosaurs; real entertainment.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"40 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JPIII has some of the best dinosaur performances to ever grace the screen. These creatures aren't just cardboard cutouts.  Each variety has its own personality, and, in a rare triumph of film-making, they don't even remotely resemble people.  After all, it is tedious, annoying, and all too common, to have dinosaurs, aliens and various other monsters with human drives and emotions.  JPIII lets them be the inscrutable creatures they would have been.  And, as with the creatures, JPIII lets its people be people. There's no wise-cracking side-kick, no impossibly spunky child, no overwrought emotions.  Dr. Grant is a genuine scientist, tired and wishing he were anywhere but that island, but still capable of wonder.  The Kirbys act like normal people would under the circumstances.  Their hysterics are reserved for extreme moments and pass just as quickly, slipping back into their mundane behaviour as soon as the danger passes. There are no bigger-than-life heroes here; no comic relief.  Because of that, Jurassic Park III may have the kiss of death about it.  People wanting Die Hard action with sassy Rush Hour dialog are going to be disappointed.  JPIII doesn't follow the Hollywood mentality for stereotyping both character and action. Of course,in this era when films are critically panned for not being predictable, it seems unlikely that JPIII will be treated kindly.  But if you are bored with the clinical entertainment of Tomb Raider and Pearl Harbor or the blatant emotional manipulation of Castaway and AI you should find JPIII refreshing. Real people.  Real dinosaurs.  Real entertainment. "},{"Title":"The BEST Jurassic Park movie!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The second Jurassic Park was a noticeable dropoff from the original, partly because the story sucked, and partly because Sam Neill wasn't in it.  This time Neill returns as paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant, and this adds a whole new dimension to the film.This movie lasts less than an hour and a half, but you won't care when you see it.  Twenty minutes into the film is when everything kicks in, and it's one thrill after another, like a rollercoaster.SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILERThere's a new dinosaur in this movie, a huge crocodile-faced beast with a sail like a sailfish.  He (or she) is one bad mammajamma, and is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Jurassic forever","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ****WARNING This contains spoilers. If you haven't seen the film, and want to be surprised, don't read on.**** An adventurous film, indeed. Universal always does a good job. Its been 8 years since the disaster of Jurassic Park and 4 years since the San Diego incident in the Lost World. Dr Grant is a renowned paleontologist who is working on his theory of Raptor intelligence. He is asked by a man named Mr Kirby to take him on a tour of Isla Sorona (Site B). After their plane crashes, they are forced to survive on the island. In addition, Mr Kirby is not who he said he was. He is looking for his son Eric, who vanished on the island 8 weeks prior to the events of the film. The also learn that Ingen cloned dinosaurs that no one never knew about. They find Eric, and spend the rest of the film fighting dinos, including raptors, and surviving. Joe Johnston, the director, worked with Spielberg and was given the honor to direct JP3. 3 thumbs up to this film. "},{"Title":"Back to the basics!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When most franchises reach the third movie, you end up with a new story, new characters, new locations, bad visual effects... etc. But unlike most franchises, the Jurassic Park franchise remains intact after a lackluster first sequel (The Lost World) with Jurassic Park III. Filled with the most photo-realistic CG creations from any visual effects studio, and packed with dino-stomping action around every corner, it will leave you trying to catch your breath. Let's face it, these movies aren't aimed at being Oscar worthy, they are aimed at the audience, and making an enjoyable movie for the audience. Of course, it is a blessing to have Steven Spielberg helping you out. If he abandoned the project early on, I would have had low expectations for the movie, but his contribution is valued, and Joe Johnston's approach to the movie is perfect. Joe Johnston has breathed fresh air into a franchise which could have easily headed down the Alien, Poltergeist or Jaws films' track, but avoided it at all costs and succeeds with the most action packed Jurassic film of them all! "},{"Title":"out of this world","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i think out of all three films this is the best more action more tense scenes and more of Sam Neill. I hope that when you see it you feel the same way about it as i did i have seen it now 15 times and still can't wait to get it on DVD "},{"Title":"Best of the series so far","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me say, I love this movie. I think it's the best of the three JP movies. I've read both books, and while the first movie did an ok job of adapting the source material the second didn't even try. The movies went in their own directions, and were fine, but it always bothered me a bit that they strayed from the books in a number of ways. Well, this third movie pretty much takes all the missing pieces from the two books and slaps them together in one amazing dino fest. There aren't any drawn out lectures on why the dinos are and were a bad idea, or anything on extinction. What there are are imaginings of sequences from the books that were not in the last two movies. The pteranadon attack and the raft ride from the first book are adapted, fantastically. The new carnivore, Spinosaurus, is amazing to watch, and you forget that his sudden presence on Isla Sorna isn't explained at all. Personally in movies like that I let those things slide. The characters are as good as they need to be in a movie like this, and the end, which some people think is too abrupt, is fine as far as I'm concerned. The action is at a fever pitch, much moreso then the past two, where there were freqeunt rests between the action. All around, this movie breathes new life into the series. I hope they continue to explore new ideas and come out with a fresh and original JP4. "}{"Title":"What A Movie!!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've been a big fan of all the Jurassic Park movies, but this one blew me away ! I think it's a great film to I believe ends the Jurassic Park trilogy unless Hollywood gets greedy and decides to crank out a fourth film. The special effects aren't as magical as they used to be, but the movie does enchant with homages to Land of the Lost, The Last Dinosaur, Peter Pan and Dinosaurus. Sam O'Neil repises his role from the first movie wonderfully and convincingly, and although Tea Leoni proves to become a great actress, I still don't think she's that attractive. William H. Macy rounds out the cast with his usual style and scope, but like everyone else, they are merely co-stars to the dinosaurs themselves. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Excellent","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just wanted to see the dinosaurs on the big screen, that was my motive for seeing this film as I missed out on the others.However the film was fantastic and the whole family enjoyed it. It would be rather scary for younger children. However my kids are 10 and 12 and they enjoyed every frantic moment. The plane crash was so realistic and this movie which should definitely not be missed.      "},{"Title":"GREAT FILM!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me say that this is a film that you either like, or dislike. The thing is I think most people like it. There might be more negative reviews, but even some of the critics are liking it! Some people are having problems with it's story, it's acting, it's character development, even it's CGI!STORY What else could you have done for it. What clever idea can you do to get dinosaurs chasing and eating people. Well there isn't. So I really wouldn't dis the story line. I thought it was better, by far! Better than TLW's! ACTING We were introduced to really good actors. Sam Neill, who is certainly my fav. actor, is excellent in this film. He makes everything around him seem very believable! William H. Macy, a great actor who is really known from his great film Fargo, plays his character very well. Tea Leoni, she really hot in Family Man, plays her charater well, but has an anoying scream. But, please, is that what why we say the movie is bad? Trevor Morgon, yes he's a kid, he did well and found himself not anoying like TLW's KELLY. Not high wire gymnastic stunts! Alessandro Nivola, this guy plays in Face Off which I really don't remember seeing him in, does a great job! He made me care about his character. Micheal Jeter, Del in Green Miles; always liked him, does good too. Funniest lines are from him!CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT Ok, everybody on here seems to have a problem with it, when there really isn't. Every scene had character development up till the moment of the spinosaur. All of them had motives, and that was good. Maybe I really didn't quite get to know NASH or COOPER well enough, but they made great snack food for SPINY!CGI I hoped no one had a problem with it, cause I sure didn't! None of the dinosaurs seemed fake. Unlike in TLW, REX had some fake problems with his feet! Watch it and pause and see for your self! The rex vs. spino battle was something no ther movie ever had in history. Making it look real I mean!A problem that one of the commenters had was this Not only did Grant's wife know that they were at Isla Sorna, but sent all these troops to rescue them. Clearly he did not listen or watch anything that was said or seen in the movie. Ellie is not Grant's wife, and she is not his girlfriend. Her husband works for International relations, so he has connections! And Grant clearly said to her on the phone, SITE B, which is Isla Sorna! Other problems people are talking about is the action. How can the action suck? It was has more than any other movie. Mindless action? What's mindless about it? Basically this meets the first Jurassic Park's level or surpasses it. That was one thing Jurassic Park had missing, was not enough action. And the series was really not meant to be a Masterpiece only a thrill ride and awing movie! Nothing more, and nothing less. And I guess TLW missed something too. It missed freshness, which is what JP3 gave. TLW was just a rehash. So I give JP3 10/10!  "},{"Title":"Non-stop, action-packed thrill-ride","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of all three movies to date, this one seemed to have more action than the others, although I think the first one was the most intense and will always be one of my favourites.My greatest disappointment with the movie was that it was only about an hour and a half long, rather than about two hours for the first two.  My next greatest disappointment was that this movie left me wanting more.  There just wasn't enough time to fully develop the full potential of this storyline.  The more I think about the good parts made me feel that there could, nay should, have been more.The best part of the movie was the return of Dr. Alan Grant.  I was disappointed with the second instalment because only Ian Malcolm returned (don't get me wrong, I did enjoy Jeff Goldblum's performance, but he just wasn't the chaotician he was in the first instalment).  Kudos to Sam Neill for a bang-up performance.The special effects were awesome, and the new look for the raptors was cool.  The brief but impressive battle between the big dinosaur and the T-Rex was cool; I only wished that it lasted longer with greater detail.The only thing is that this movie should have been longer.  In that extra span of time, they (Grant and Billy) should have been briefly discussing why the appearances of the raptors changed and about how this new dinosaur came to be, one that was not included on Ingen's list.  Mutant aberrations?  Too much in-breeding?  Something to do with amphibian DNA?  It would have been nice to hear their take on it, but if they need to cut costs, why not cut out scientific discussions.Although its only been my first viewing of the movie, it seemed as though Grant and Billy were unable to catalogue the dinosaur with the spines.  There were a few guesses, but Grant dismissed them.This movie left me asking the question, Why?I do not claim to be a dinosaur expert, but I have to ask  with so many large herbivores (which may not be quite right to begin with considering the number of carnivores in such a small area), how is it that everything is so lush and green?  According to the informational documentary Walking with Dinosaurs, such herbivores take many years to grow (providing that they survive), and they eat continuously throughout the day, and even knock over the trees to the ground if they have to.Another question (although they did not dwell on it much in the movie) would be (and I hate to do this, but)...***SPOILER ALERT***  ***SPOILER ALERT***  ***SPOILER ALERT*** ...how is it that a kid at the age of 15 could survive in a land infested with carnivores for eight weeks?  Not only that, but he was hiding at the Site B compound, right smack in the middle of, if memory serves me, raptor territory.  Reading Grant's two books and Malcolm's book would not prepare anyone for the vigours of surviving a prehistoric world.  They just referred to the kid as being resourceful.  Great.  That explains everything.  He should have been a dino treat within a few days.I have other such (or similar) questions, but I will no longer bore you.  I just have a (bad) habit of over-analysing movies I really like.  In a few days, it will all be a distant memory.Despite how I feel about the negative aspects of the movie, the action and suspense were enough to cancel them out and more.  I just loved this movie, and I cannot wait to purchase it, hopefully later this year. "},{"Title":"A Breath of Fresh Air","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That's what Jurassic Park 3 is A breath of fresh air. Some people Thought after The Lost World Jurassic Park was released the Dinos were finished , But in this Dino-Thrill ride it surpasses all Doubts about this movie. It succeeds in other areas This FILM is bombed in - tension, atmosphere, lots of action, a fast pace, some decent humour and good FX Maybe the best since The Lost world Jurassic park. This movie has a new Fresh plot which does not focus on the awe of the dinosaurs or anything to realy do with Jurassic Park ; Jurassic park 3 Developes it's own Life  which could be used in many more jurassic park movies . Forget any negative reviews you might read See this movie it's fun and so exciting that you will crave for more.The original Jurassic Park novel by Michael Crichton still remains the ultimate tale - a taut, dark, action thriller crafted with both intelligence and with a dark horror style aimed purely at adults but Director Joe Johnston has done the smart move of taking the established film franchise and stripping it down/simplifying it to the darker and more suspense/action-oriented roots of the novel.Anxious to fund research for his new theory of velociraptor intelligence, renowned paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) is persuaded by a wealthy adventurer (William H. Macy) and his wife (Tea Leoni) to accompany them on an aerial tour of Isla Sorna. This infamous island, once InGen's site B, has become both a primordial breeding ground for John Hammond's magnificent creations and a magnet for thrill-seekers eager to encounter them. When a tragic accident maroons the party of seven, Grant discovers the true reason his deceptive hosts have invited him along.I hope you enjoyed my review and i give this  movie for what it's worth ****1/2  STARS  "},{"Title":"Very intense experience","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I came to the movie thinking it would be pretty good, but was totally blown away.  The digital effects are incredible.  The entire movie is an exciting adrenaline rush that always keeps you on the edge of your seat.  I would definately go to see this movie again. "},{"Title":"Excellent Adventure !!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was Awesome !! and the effects were spectacular!! even though Steven Speilberg didnt direct this one.. it was fantastic none the less..I was so glad that Sam Neill decided to do this one, and the first Jurassic Park movie and this one are the best of the series, i was kind of disappointed with the second one... but this one sure makes up for it... and whenever this movie is released on video im buying it !!I Highly recommend this movie... it deserves an 11 !!  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Summer Blockbuster","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a huge fan of Jurassic Park, my expectations hadn't spiralled out of control like the first sequel but I was no where near as disappointed as I thought I would be. I loved the Velociraptors but the Pterodactyls really stole their fierce and violent demeanour. I was also really disappointed that one key player was killed (JurassicPark fans will know who...No not Alan Grant) by the spinosaurus, but you can't have everything! Great action, surprisingly a good plot and the gore was upped a lot but if only Joe Johnston had left out the Lets get back together, family type of sub-plot and this would have been amazing....  "},{"Title":"A Perfect sequel to the first and second!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie the first day it came out and i can tell you that the theatre was packed! Everyone was excited to see it! The special effects were terrific.... i think by adding a new dinosaur made it more interesting and fun... its all action packed!! The cast was terrific including the dinosaurs. Because the dinosaurs could speak to each other this made the plot more interesting. It is one of the best movie's i have ever seen!! "},{"Title":"'Jurassic Park III' is a great family movie.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 gives a new beginning to the Jurassic Park series. Hi, my name is James Wimmer. I thought that Jurassic Park 3 was a great movie, not just for the dinosaur lover, but for the whole family. Yes, it does have blood, and I understand that parents don't want their children seeing that type of stuff, but JPIII also has good humor to it. This film is a must see film for everyone, so before you go to see Planet of the Apes go and see Jurassic Park 3. "}{"Title":"A Great Conclusion To The Jurassic Park Trilogy","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III is the best movie of the year. It is also, for me, the most anticipated movie of the summer. The plot goes like this While parasailing, a thirteen year old boy named Eric Kirby crash lands on the infamous island of Isla Sorna (InGen's Site B). Eight weeks later, his parents (Paul and Amanda Kirby) ask help from Dr. Alan Grant. Grant was on Isla Nublar when genetically created dinosaurs ran amok. Grant is now studying a theory of the intelligence of velociraptors. Paul and Amanda decieve Grant by telling him that they will sponsor his dig if he can be their guide when flying over Isla Sorna. Grant reluctantly accepts. Little does he know that Paul and Amanda are really looking for Eric. The plane crash lands on the island and three people are killed by the dinosaurs. Grant will now be able to test his theory on velociraptors first hand. Not only does the remaining party have to get Eric and get out, they also have to face horrifying creatures undisclosed by InGen.   "},{"Title":"Fantastic and exciting.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    After the somewhat disappointing LOST WORLD, the latest installment in the Jurassic Park series is a delightful surprise, and I say latest because according to the incredible success there will be at least one more movie in this series. If it's going to be as much fun as this one, I wouldn't mind a few more sequels. The Jurassic Park concept is a fresh source for many exciting stories if you just find the right spin. JP3 found it.   The movie makes sense and the plot works quite well. The relationships between the characters are quite cliche, especially the divorced couple who joins forces to rescue their child and by doing so they rekindle their love. But it works. The cast is superb and you really care for those character (in fact, it's not hard to figure out quite early on in the movie who's cannon fodder and who's going to survive).    The dinosaurs are great looking as usual, but the thrills are also exciting and original. We are even treated to a brief fight between two big dinosaurs and some new dinosaurs species that were featured in the original book, but were absent from the first two movies.   I only think that the climax could have slightly more... Er... Climatic, and considering how frightening the evil dinosaurs are, it's a bit of a shame that the movie is not really scary or gorey.    But it doesn't change the fact that the movie is an excellent thriller for people who want to see dinosaurs trying to eat people. "},{"Title":"A little shorter than the first 2, but different and all in all, very satisfying.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 is a movie about a couple who loses their son in a paragliding accident over Isla Sorna, once John Hammond's breeding site for his genetically-engineered dinosaurs.  Paul Kirby, the father, and Amanda Kirby, the mother, played by William H. Macy and Tea Leoni, hire a few mercenaries and convince famous paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant, played by Sam Neill, to accompany them on an aerial tour of Isla Sorna.  Little does Grant know that the Kirby's original intent was to land and find their son, and he doesn't find out until it's too late.  I reserved tickets for this movie, and saw it on the first day at the first showing.  Although shorter than the first two, it was a lot different, with different dinosaurs, a little more humor, and a few cool scenes from the first two books that were not in the original movies.  I waited two months for this movie to come out, and I'll tell you it was worth the wait.  It was a very good movie, definitely better than the first sequel, and although the original JP will always be better in my opinion, this one was very satisfying.  With better special effects and more action, I recommend this movie to any Jurassic Park fans who are sick of hearing about InGen.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"I was VERY pleased with this movie!!!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3Review by Joshua barkera.k.a. mr. Goodbytes.Let me just start by saying, I was VERY pleased with this movie.People that don't like this movie have a serious screw loose. It has great acting, and it gets to the point fast. The movie timing is perfect, it runs very smoothly. I don't understand why people complained about the length. It has a great mix of dinosaurs. Less deaths, which actually makes for a more suspenseful movie. You don't say `Oh, this one is going to die.' You actually FEEL for these characters. The effects are fantastic. In fact, there were only 3 small scenes that you could tell the difference between CGI and Animatronic. Sure, it doesn't have a thick plot, but the only reason JP had a plot is because it had a book to base it off of. LW tried to have a plot independent of its book, but failed. Jp3 is EXACTLY what the JP series needs. The comedy was FAR from corny like a lot of `critics' have said.I also don't understand how people think it is stupid to have dinosaurs just for the sake of showing them, but I disagree. After all, what do you think the Parasaurolophus mixed in with the Brachiosaurs were for in the original JP. Let's not forget the Gallimimus and baby Triceratops in LW. JP movies are ABOUT DINOSAURS PEOPLE!!!! Now, let's discuss the fight. This is my ONLY complaint. I think it should have lasted a little longer. The ending was fine, a lot better than the ending that was cut in my opinion. This is a great Thrill ride of a movie. I will go see it again. This is Mr. Goodbytes Signing off.  My Verdict,4 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just got back from this movie a couple of hours ago and I am still thinking about how great it is. It's a fast paced thrill ride from beginning to end. The special effects were brilliant, easily better than the first two. Okay the characters are as flat as the paper they were written on, but this is an action movie that goes so fast you don't have time for character development. The action scenes are directed very well. My only complaint was that I thought Laura Dern should be at the island with them (but that would cheat us out of a very funny scene). JP3 gets a 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Critics attack movies like this just to sound wise in the film environment, but the truth is that no one likes their cynical way of reviewing since we are not like them. I bet that most people really enjoyed the film, yet they make a bad review for the reasons I said.I will review this movie like a guy who went to see it, not a cynical guy who went to see itJP3 was better than what I expected. It gives you the most important thing a movie's gotta have, entertainment. Well, since in one way or another we all get influenced by the critics and stuff, (in this case, the stupid belief that a movie with Dinosaurs or any other fantastic animal can't win an Oscartm), don't expect a good plot... Even though Jurassic Park's one was very solid. Some people say it ain't smart because it's not innovative because there's a small group of humans trapped in an Island infested with Dinosaurs. Well, what did you expect? A depressed clown has to deal with it's interior demons while a nazi priest helps a nurse to cure the people attacked by the dinos?There are the typical born-to-have-a-horrible-death guys, only that this time in a minor proportion than in LW's. There's also the raptors, and the pteras now have way much more time on screen, which is good of course. I don't want to spoil anything else.Fans of the trilogy will be happy to hear and see some of the classic Grant way of being, Neill was like in JP, a great character. There was no bad acting IMHO, Macy, Leoni were good parents. Nivola was a good addition and a careable character (go and watch some of his movies). Jeter did a good job also, portraying the pathetic Udesky. We could have done it without Morgan, the jungle kid, but he wasn't annoying. I wonder when will we see a T-Rex eating a woman or child. Well, you really get to worry about the people in this movie.I don't know why but I couldn't imagine a JP movie, instead I imagined a Honey, I got trapped in a Dinosaur island kind of movie. Well, mr. Johnston, you really impressed me. The direction was quite effective, it had some nice shots, well used scenes and sequences, etc.The Dinos of course, didn't let me down. They were so realistic, you can see that there has been some progress since the last two movies. The new feathered ones look cool indeed. The S vs T scene was spectacular. The score had the typical songs plus some new ones.Well, to give an end to this boring review, I must say that you gotta see this movie. The chances are that you will like this problem-to-bigger problem movie, it keeps you under suspense the whole time. Too bad it's just 90 minutes long, they should have made it more epic. I bet this is gonna be one of the best of the year.I haven't seen people applauding a movie for years, but they did with this one, as well as I did. "},{"Title":"Great Dino-Time!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Reading earlier comments made by some people who have seen this film, I have to wonder if they actually saw the film at all.  Anyone who saw this film and posted a negative review obviously missed the point entirely of this picture.This is a great movie, and a worthy successor in the famous (and successful) Jurassic Park franchise.  Spielberg was not in the director's chair for this third installment (he had promised the late Stanley Kubrick that he would do A.I.) but his protege Joe Johnston (who also directed rampaging CGI animals in Jumanji) did a marvelous job and brought his own touches and techniques onto the scene, giving the series a fresh new look and feel.Despite complaints that this movie is only 90 minutes long, a lot of action is packed into that time.  The movie never felt too short, and the 92-minute time is just right.  You think it would be better to have an extra half-hour of pointless talk or meaningless action just to say that this movie is 120 minutes?  We already know the background story, so that kind of thing, present in the first two JP movies, is not needed here, and is graciously absent.If you know your dinosaur facts, then you know that the raptors are not laughable, but are actually as accurate as they have ever been, as new discoveries prove that they really did in fact have feathers and were able to communicate.  Also, accept the fact that the tyrannosaurus was not the largest carnivore.  Just because we give an animal a name that means tyrant lizard king doesn't mean it really was one, and we know that the spinosaurus seen in JP3 (which WAS a real dinosaur) was indeed larger and stronger than T-rex, as were several other carnivorous dinosaurs that aren't seen in this film.This, like JP1 and Lost World, is not a kid's movie. Don't be fooled by last year's Dinosaur that all dinosaur things are kids stuff.  JP3 is scary, violent, and intense (even moreso than the first two), and it is meant for teens and adults.  Shame on the parents who bring their preschoolers to see this movie, only to have them scream and cry throughout a few of the movie's more panicking sequences.  Send the kiddies off to see Shrek and leave this one for the age 10+ crowd.Sam Neill is back as Dr. Grant (thankfully... no offence to Jeff Goldblum's character) and Laura Dern makes a couple of (sometimes humurous) cameos.  The cast of humans are all great, and the human element - character development, etc. - is stronger than it was in the previous installments.  But the real stars are the dinosaurs.  In 1993, everyone said Wow, those movie dinosaurs look real.  With this movie, you will be saying These aren't movie dinosaurs, they ARE real.JP3 has a terrific story line and plot.  In one sentence, I would say that this is one big wonderful entertaining thrill-fest.  Not all movies have to be complicated pieces of artsy-fartsy junk filled with symbolism and iconography and complex plot twists.  Sometimes you just want to relax and be entertained by a big popcorn thriller without having to think 40 steps ahead in the action.  Jurassic Park III fills the bill perfectly, and then some. "},{"Title":"Far better than the second film. What summer audiences are dying to see! *spoilers*","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JURASSIC PARK III was most likely the biggest summer blockbuster of 2001. I saw it three times at the theater, and each time, the theater was packed. The film is a non-stop action ride. I loved it!It has been yet another four years, and Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) and his assistant, Billy (Alessandro Nivola) have just been tricked into escorting a wealthy couple (William H. Macy and Tea Leoni) to the place that Grant dreads the most. The island which is inhabited by the deadly dinosaurs. Escorted by Mr. Udesky (Michael Jeter) and his two mercenary assistants (John Deihl and Bruce A. Young) they must struggle to stay alive after a harrowing plane crash leaves them stranded.The remaining cast includes Trevor Morgan, Mark Harelik, Julio Oscar Mechoso and Laura Dern in a smaller role than the first film. Now, the action sequences are very intense and the action never seems to slow down. It holds on to you and doesn't let you go until it ends. Altogether, a vast improvement over THE LOST WORLD JURASSIC PARK. Now, it is the summer of 2002. Exactly one year later and already films are out that try to compete with this film. REIGN OF FIRE and EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS are heavy competition for the title of Summer Blockbuster of the Year. And of course, MINORITY REPORT is not far behind. But, during the summer of the year 2001, JURASSIC PARK III was the greatest action epic I had seen so far. JURASSIC PARK III gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"great action adventure which makes up for TLW entirely!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With jurassic park 3 theree are a few negative but a LOT of great positive comments to make, but i'll start at the beginning.You would think that Jurassic park 3 would just be a load of nonsense as these films just get worse and worse as they go along, but that is not entirely true. Yes the plot is a bit silly and the acting isnt super but this film is a excellent summer movie.Starring Sam Niel (jurassic park), Tea Leoni (The Family Man), William H. Macy (Fargo, Mystery Men), Michael Jeter (The Green Mile) and Alesandro Nivola (Face Off)the third in the series introduces a new director (to the series) Joe Jonston who worked on the special effects for the star wars films and directed Jumanji who adds a fresh new look at the trilogy.The plot is pretty basic Dr. Alan Grant who's work is suffering is desperete for funds for his research on raptor intelligence, so when he  comes across Paul & Amanda Kirby  who offers him a LOT of money to go towards his research if in return give's him an aeriel tour of Isla Sorner. But when they crash on the island Grant finds out it's actually a rescue mission there there for as there son is stuck on the island.This film definitely makes up for the rubbish The Lost World provided us with. The action sequences are breath taking and the special effects are the best ever this third film is one not to be missed, go see it now. "},{"Title":"Better than the second, and not a Dino-Yawn","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like the way in this one that they perceived raptors as something other than mindless killing machines that killed even when they were hungry. This one was also a lot better for the reasons that it didn't have any cheesy scenes like the Second Jurrasic park. Like in the end, where the girl does gymnastics and miraculously kicks the raptor off the platform and then he gets impaled, give me a break. This one was far better than the second one, but still not as good as the first one. Its always hard to top the first movie in a series of them. I'd recommend this movie to people of any age, its quite a thriller in some parts, you even hold your breath. "}{"Title":"Not as good as the first two films, but it is a good movie","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie with very low expectations. But I really liked what I saw. There is a lot of originality in this film. In this film, you see new dinosaurs that were not in the other films and there is a new dinosaur that replaces the t-rex from the other films. One of my favourite scenes in the film is the spinosaurus and t-rex battle that happens approximately 30 minutes into the film. What makes this film different from the other films is that the dinosaurs are smarter, faster, fiercer and more brutal than they were in the first two films. And they look different ten they did in the other films. Another thing that makes it different is that there is a divorced couple trying to find their son and they posed as a rich couple on a wedding anniversary and convince Dr. Grant to come with them to Isla Sorna as their guide. With Dr. Grant not knowing they have an ulterior motive. Although I did not like this film as much as the first two, I still enjoyed it for what it was. If you like the other Jurassic Park films, you might like this film. It is worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Excellent Installnment!!!! JP3 is GREAT!","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 was released on July 18, 2001 and it was GREAT! The storyline is good, but some people dislike it. I think it's good because it explains what people did after they found out the dinosaurs exist on the islands. It features the usual and new dinosaurs that look REAL between the CGI and Animatronics.The Dinosaurs are even better than the previous two films! This time the film takes you to a new area of Isla Sorna, the island in the second film. There are the new Pteranodons and Spinosaurus, and new looking raptors.The actors are really good and take you along for the ride. They are believable characters.JURASSIC PARK /// is a great film in my opinion. A lot of fun! You'll enjoy it. Just don't watch it thinking it's bad, or you will think that.**BRING ON JPIV ALREADY!!!!**10/10 "},{"Title":"Dino-awesome.","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the movie starting out with the awesomely clever Dino - Soar company, this movie was just set up for success.Apparently the American public did not realize this.I feel that the public overlooks the subtleties that make this movie amazing. For example when Dr Grant falls asleep, and wakes up in the helicopter, everyone is gone, but he turns to his left, and there is a raptor that in Billy's voice says .... ALAN?Pure genius.And when the tracker is about to be run over by the aeroplane, but is snatched up by, the admittingly silly looking spinosaur. That was one intense moment.I also have to give them props for totally admitting that the husband and wife were annoying, with asides and quirky commentary between Billy and Alan mocking them, saying how they don't want to be left alone.This movie is an A+ in my book. "},{"Title":"Best Jurassic Park sequel so far.","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Lost World Jurassic is the most disappointing movie I've ever seen, though Jurassic Park 3 is far from disappointing.What I liked about this movie,Sam Neill's aka Dr. Alan Grant's return to the franchise. (truely missed in TLWJP, Goldblum sucks as the lead character.)Laura Dern aka Ellie Degler's cameo. (though she should've had more screen time.)Hardly any Rex. (seriously overused in TLWJP but not in this.)New Dinosaurs. (yes TLWJP had new dinosaurs but the Rex stold thier spotlight, more so than the Spinosaurus does in JP3, which was underused.)Likeable Characters. (something TLWJP lacked except for Hammond & Eddie Carr.)What I didn't like about this movie,The Brachiosaus. (the one's in Jurassic Park looked more realistic.)No Dilophosaurus (this dinosaur seriously needs to return in JPIV.)Length. (though for the length it was, it's a great movie.)Plot Holes. (though JP & TLWJP are full of them as well, so that's nothing new to the franchise.)No Richard Attenborough aka John Hammond (seriously missed and there's no mention of what happened to him, if he's still alive or dead.) "},{"Title":"TOO GOOD","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is my second favorite movie of all time,its way better than the second one,and can be compared to the first(the best movie of all time)this one has the best special effects,the best cast,and the largest variety of dinosaurs.Even tough some dinosaurs are too much colored,and the spinosaur kills the rex who only appears for 2 mins.this wasnt a problem,in fact its good to have a new villain,i was tired of the rex,and the birdcage scene is the best action scene i saw in my whole life.This one also brings back the true hero of JP,Alan Grant,and also Ellie with a small participation.The kid on this one is not a whimpering fool,like in the first two,and his parents are the best characters,and actors,to ever participate of a JP film after Sam Neill.The only problem(not really a problem)is that from the 7 guys that die,only 3 appear dying.The only thing that doesnt make this one better than the first is the ending,the first one has a violent and scary ending,this ending is way too kindly,the raptors just go away,i thought the spinosaur would appear and they would have a dinosaur fight,while the humans would ran to safety.Anyway this is my number 2,it deserved,and if you dont like it...er...go watch Shrek YOU KID!!! "},{"Title":"`Jurassic Park III' is every bit better than `The Lost World Jurassic Park' and a step down from the original, which is where sequels should be.","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some SpoilersSequels are usually horrid things. Sometimes they come out okay, but most of the time they are a disgrace to the original. Well, Jurassic Park III might have been cashing in on Jurassic Park a bit, but it is still a solid action movie.Sam Neill reprises his role as Dr. Alan Grant from the first film. He has recently been trying to get funding for a new scientific process revolved around dinosaurs. His theory states that velociraptors used to Talk to each other by means of vocalization in the throat. High pitched screams, if you will. Unfortunately for Grant, no one really cares about this - they all want to hear about his experience at John Hammond's Jurassic Park. A tired Grant, exhausted from having to explain all the time, now ignores questions about the park, as we see in the beginning of the film when he says, Any questions? And everyone raises their hands. He then says, Any questions NOT regarding Jurassic Park? Everyone puts their hands down.Desperately seeking money for his funding, Grant reluctantly agrees to fly over Isla Sorna - site B of Jurassic Park (the island in the first sequel) - with rich explorers/couple William H. Macy and Tea Emma Thompson lookalike Leoni. But after their plane lands on the island, Grant realizes the truth behind the couple's story...and comes face-to-face with a new breed of dino.Jurassic Park III's respect for the original comes in very handy. It is easy to see that the filmmakers were ready to try again after the awful Lost World sequel, and they pulled it off well.Steven Spielberg has since handed over the reigns to new-yet-old director Joe Johnston. `'Jurassic Park' is one of those turning points in movies,' Johnston states. `They put a living, breathing dinosaur on the screen. These are hard movies to make.' Well, if I do say so myself, `Jurassic Park III' is every bit better than `The Lost World Jurassic Park' and a step down from the original, which is where sequels should be. Not that I don't like sequels to surpass the originals. I do like that. But sometimes sequels try too hard to overcome the original (`Lost World') and fail miserably. What Johnston and team did is great. They knew they couldn't beat the original, so they spiced it up in other areas. They didn't re-hash the original.For instance, there is more of a man-against-nature feel in this film. Dr. Grant and friends are trapped in this marsh land and are surrounded by dinosaurs. Unlike they could in the first film, the humans have nowhere indoors to go. It's man-against-nature, and it creates a very pleasant mix of paranoia and suspense for the audience, and some lush landscapes.At times I feel like I could reach out and grab the marsh they are in. Unlike some films (including the original, to a certain degree) the plants don't look fake. They have the same look as the first film (remember all those ferns?) without looking as cheesy. They don't look like plastic.And much is the same with the ever-improved dinosaurs. The detail on the dinos is amazing in this film. Their muscles move care-free, their skin has the coating of a lizard, and we feel like they are real. There is an excellent scene with a fighting t-rex and spinosaurus. You simply can't get your dino fix any better than that.If you read my original review on `Jurassic Park,' I state how much I hate it when CGI is not-so-seamlessly blended with puppets and plastic models. One scene the creatures are moving carefree when they are digitalized, in another they are puppets that move slow with no muscles. Well, that's what I enjoyed about the `Jurassic Park' trilogy. THE DINOSAURS LOOK REAL WHEN THEY ARE CGI AND PUPPET. You can't tell when it's CGI and when it's fake puppets. We can thank the best creature effects man out there Stan Winston, whose work I have appreciated since `The Terminator' to `Predator' (extra koudos on that suit!) to `Terminator 2 Judgment Day.' Winston is the best, plain and simple.And the acting in this sequel is nothing to fuss about. Unlike the complete one-eighty Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) did in the first film-to-sequel - from annoying guy to brave, annoying guy who thinks he's smart - Grant is the same as always. He reminds me of Indiana Jones - and no, not because of the hat. It is because his personality is the same. He doesn't really enjoy what he's doing, but he does is anyway, because he is Grant, and that's his job.William H. Macy uses his acting ability to full advantage here - I still say he'd make great as Ned Flanders if they ever made a live-action `Simpsons' movie/show.I have read both `Jurassic Park' books by Michael Crichton. The first novel is one of the best books I have ever read, and I have read a few thousand. It easily blends everything you want in a novel. Something about the way Crichton writes gets me hooked even if the story stupid. I recently read `Rising Sun.' Most books I start to read nowadays I read one hundred pages into and drop. I've been guilty of this with John Grisham and Robert Ludlum novels. But I finished `Rising Sun' in a few busy days. What I'm trying to get at here, is that Michael Crichton is one of my favorite living authors, if not THE favorite. And I must say, his books have been done justice - well, at least the first one. I respect that one of my favorite books by one of my favorite authors was treated well. The third film wasn't based on a book, but it still does justice to the roots of the tale, and that is always good.`Jurassic Park III' is more than just a surprising sequel.4/5 stars "},{"Title":"Oh dear, oh dear oh dear oh dear","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Simple as this, this movie wasDull, boring, unorginal, BORING,and those are just the words which i can be bothered to think about, this movie sucked big time in every sense of the word.The acting in my opinion wasn't so bad as to spoil the film, it was bearable altho at times i DID want to kill Doctor Grant. The main problem with this was just it was dull and boring, i couldn't understand why exactly they done this movie they should have buried this with the second one becoz it has just got BAD BAD BAD.I was just watching this movie and just thinking will they just EAT SOMEONE ALREADY!! (the dinosaurs of course, not the people) Ahh, i wished that i hadn't rented this movie out, it wasn't worth the plastic it was made out of, let alone the price of a rental. "},{"Title":"Trully the death of a great series...","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I went into watching Jurassic Park 3 with an open mind; sure it was a sequel, and Stephen Spielberg had demoted himself to executive producer, but JP3 might have some redeeming qualities.  However, by the end of the film, it was apparent that this hope was indeed false.  The cinematography was a bit too cartoony, especially during the plane crash/T-rex sequence.  Are we watching an action/sci-fi film or the latest episode of Looney Tunes? Also, while the dinosaur effects were indeed impressive, it seemed to me that the CGI artists utilized a little too much artistic license while creating them. It is true that we don't actually know what color dinosaurs were, but having purple T-Rexes running around is a bit of a stretch.  Finally, I would like to comment on the ending (If you haven't seen the film yet and would genuinely like to, then I suggest reading no further).  To the viewer, it would appear that the writers ran out of ideas come the end of the screenplay.  It is for this reason that the MARINES rescue Dr. Grant and his fellow travellers.  The ending lacked an overall feeling of suspense, which was instead replaced with abruptness.  Perhaps so much of the budget was spent hiring Sam Neill and William H. Macy that the remainder couldn't be spent on decent writers.  Take my advice and end the Jurassic Park experience with The Lost World. "},{"Title":"Great Flick!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the darker side of the Jurassic Park Trilogy. In Jurassic Park, and The Lost World they showed nice, cute dinos to hide the scary ones just a bit. In this one, forget cute and nice. These dinos get downright freaky. The Spinosaurus made a terrific villain. In my view, Jurassic Park III is the darkest, most thrilling, and best of the Jurassic Park Trilogy. The Raptors were mean, as always, and these new Pteranadons were agressive, and the T-Rex wasn't heroic this time around. If you haven't seen the III instalmint yet, I suggest you do.  "},{"Title":"Sit back and enjoy","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Much better than The Lost World, not as good as JP1, but almost. When I come in to the cinema to see this film, I was expecting less than what I get. The story is very simple, but this film is not like the first one. This one has a lot more adventure. The variety of dinosaurs is enjoyable, and the special Fx are good, but not as good as the first one. If you go to see this movie waiting to see something different, you deserve not to like it. Dinosaurs have not evolved into  Shakespeare yet!4 out of 58,5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"The best of the Trilogy...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This part was the best out of all 3 films.  Lots of action and dinos, the two thing most audiences wanted out of this film.  The past two were 2 hours long, and dragged out what this film accomplished in 90 minutes.  Many great surprises, and excellent special effects.  I hope part 4 will be just as good! "},{"Title":"Much Much Better Than The Lost World","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 was not as good as the first and much better than the second. It was scarier and more thrilling than the other two. The dinosaurs were more verocios and are much faster. the dino's look more real than ever. I prefer the T-Rex but the Spinosaurus is a good substitute. The movie was a tad short and the ending could have been better but hey this is a summer release and is well worth seeing. Sam Neil made this movie happen and Tea and Macy made the jokes in this film. Great casting but Laura Dern should have had a much bigger role than she did. She was the hero in this film. I think this movie will do better than the second in the box office. I gave this film a 10 out of 10 and give it two thumbs up. Rumors that there( might be a fourth)in the Jurassic Park Series. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, I was totally prepared what to see in this film. I had read all the spoilers, and I thought, I hope this is better than TLW. I was right! Jurassic Park III is a great movie! Nothing can compare to the first film, but JPIII is very close behind.Potential Spoilers I loved the parasail island arrival sequence in the beginning. It was so nice to see a lot of the island. I love the scene where the group finds the video camera and plays it back and sees Eric on the screen! End of SpoilersI was wondering if I would feel it would be too short at the end when I finished seeing it. Nope! It was the perfect length, and I think JPIII seemed to be longer than it was. It is in my top 5 favorite movies of all time, but not the 1st favorite that goes to JP1. If you haven't seen JPIII yet because you are debating if it is good or not, I cannot stress enough, Go! Please go see JPIII and make it #1 at the box office for many months to come! And I can't wait for JP4! "},{"Title":"I don't understand all the hate.","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"17 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This may be the worst of the trilogy, but it is by no means a bad movie. Actually, it might not even be the worst. It might belong to the lost world, and even that one's a good movie. Flaws? Names. Spinosaurus? Come on... it should sound a little more threatening. Next Length. This is probably the shortest non-animated movie I've ever seen. The plot was good, not terrible. The dinosaurs seem smarter, stronger and faster than ever before. The space between each of the the movies has usually been 4 years (JP in '93, TLW in '97, JPIII in '01). But JP4 is set to come out (last time I heard) December 31, 2006. Quite a while from now. Either way, I'm looking forward to it. Go out and rent this. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"18 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although I was sad to see Steven Spielberg was not directing this movie,I still enjoyed it.The movie looked very realistic and the area it was filmed in,which was Hawaii,was perfect as well as the new look of the dinosaurs.The Velociraptors looked better in the blueish-gray, than in the brown colors of the first and second movies,and the addition of the hair-like feathers looked good too.Also,in this movie,the dinosaurs acted more naturally and intelligent.One good example of this is the Velociraptors, they set traps and communicated,instead of just chasing the people.The fight scene between the Tyrannosaurus Rex and the Spinosaurus was also very realistic, the Spinosaurus winning made a lot of sense,because the Spinosaurus was larger than Tyrannosaurus Rex.Another realistic part was in the aviary,because the Pteranodons acted like a real flying animal with maternal feelings,like the Tyrannosaurs in The Lost World.Unfortunately,they should of put more dinosaurs in this movie, such as Dilophosaurus and more scenes with the Compsognathus.They also needed to put more scenes with the herbivores.The ending was a bit confusing because how did the marines find Billy if he was attacked by the Pteranodons?But in the scene where out of the helicopter window,they see the Pteranodons,it connects with an earlier scene,where they leave the aviary door open.So basically,this movie is as good as its predecessors. "},{"Title":"Scarier than Jurrasic Park!","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"19 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, so everybody is complaining about quality, plot etc. I agree, it seems far fetched and all that, but pound for pound this movie is MUCH scarier than JP. It has that giant Alasour (spelling?) and the T-Rex, etc. all in a very spooky rain forest kind of setting. I read Jurrasic Park about 6 times, and found the book much more intense, more scary and creepier than Steven Spielberg's movie version. They made a lot of significant changes from the book in that movie, not fatal but enough to notice if you read the book. They switched ages the kids, Lex and Tim, from the book. Also in the book the lawyer doesn't get killed, Dr. Wo is also on the island and gets eatten alive by the raptors. Hammond dies after falling down a large hill into the jungle and gets bitten to death by the compys (little chicken dinos, seen in movie #2, but not in #1). They cut out the whole section with the Terodactyl enclosure. This was one of the trials that faced Grant and the kids in the first movie, but they put it into this movie. It works fantastically! Now, not only do you have to watch out for raptors, T-Rex, Allasour, smaller RED t-rex's, but now the sky has 'em too! Not bad at all! "},{"Title":"This time, well this time, it's not just a very bad movie, it's even worse","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"19 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People, people, you owe it to yourself to avoid this movie.It's a stinker, as much as the pile of dino-dung used once again to make a rip-off joke from JPI.SPOILER WARNING. But read'em anyway as it wont change a thing to your enjoyment of the movie. Did I mention it was SO VERY BAD?In fact, JPIII feels like a parody of JP and to a lesser extent, one from The Lost World. Nothing makes sense in that doomed excuse for a script. Nothing. They killed the T-Rex, they blew sky-high the whole raptors concept and they just made Grant a Dino Chow Indiana Jones.Okay, let's see what's in this waste of time...ACTINGThe acting is atrocious. Dont get me wrong, I like Sam Neil as much as the next guy and I honestly think he is one example of and underrated actor who should get a lot more credit for his work. Neil just tries his best at using his Wide open eyes (TM) as soon as he sees a dino but it's pretty much it. Macy and Leoni are plain bad, like they dont care. Scream here, run over there, scream again, include corny dialogue, END. Woah, and you get paid for this??? Only decent part is from Alessandro Nivola (Billy), but as soon as he gets too emotional toward the end of the movie, it all goes downhill.I never thought I'd miss Jeff Goldblum that much..SCRIPTPretty darn simple, you could have come up with something better. Throw in action scenes  humans vs Bid Bad Nameless Dino, humans vs Flying Dinos, humans vs Talking Dinos and stitch everything together with the lamest trick to include a kid in a movie and Voila! You have a 90 minutes story. Come on.Oh, I forgot  stomp over every inventive idea of the first movie. Who needs intelligence, it's an action movie isnt it?Question  Why is the Bid Bad Dino chasing after humans when it can have a T-Rex for breakfast??? If the raptors are so intelligent, why dont they build a cruise boat or order an internet connection??The only good idea was the Pteranodons. Kudos for something that was left off the first two movies. Flying dinos with an attitude, scary.Except for the very nervous guy sitting next to me, nobody in the audience seemed really moved by some of the surprise moments. You can see them coming from miles away and it all comes down to a point where you want to laugh, not cringe in your seat.FXNot even close. In JP, we were amazed at the technical feats the FX guys put up. Now we're just plain fed up. And what is it with the winamp skins? Why are the dinos looking like they bought new sets of scales?? They evolved to the point of fashion victims? Even the raptors looked different. Smaller, leaner, greener.That new Bid Bad Dino is just a download from the Godzilla movie (remember how that movie was bad? well, JPIII is not even a notch higher).The scenery is amazing, what a beautiful island, but that's not the point.In JP, Grant was completely overwhelmed by dinos, like we did. We all were amazed. But now, he just feels fed up (yeah, much like us. See my point?).If you want to see a parody movie, go see Scary Movie 2. If you want to laugh, go see Evolution. And for your dinos cravings, well go visit a museum for God's sake. "},{"Title":"One minute you're marvelling at the advancements in technology, the next you're frowning at how shoddy it is","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"32 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is so dire that I found myself writing this review before I'd even reached the halfway point, I was reminded of just how bad it is. There is one thing this film suffers from more than any other of its drawbacks, and that is a disease amongst the film industry known simply as Badfilmmakingitis. What, pray tell, could have caused this? And what are its symptoms? They differ from film to film.Symptom # 1 A clear knowledge that this island holds no real danger towards our heroes. Symptom # 2 The broken family which pulls together for the happy ending. Symptom # 3 Continuity errors regarding its predecessors. Symptom # 4 One word overkill. Symptom # 5 That God-awful and down right ridiculous idea to have the satellite phone ringing from inside the Spinosaurus-a-gypsy-curse. Symptom # 6 Deciding to cast All Out Action in favour of Tension. Symptom # 7 The family friendly rating and content. If there's actually just one good thing to take away from this film it is this the creatures themselves. Ingen's bad doings have been giving us resurrected dinosaurs since 1993 and with each outing they've looked better and better. They have been created quite beautifully in a mix of practical props and CGI fabrications. Their movements are undeniably majestic, even at their most hectic. But it is not enough to recover from the hour and half you'll undoubtedly feel somewhat insulted after. The raptors have lost that aura of pure menace they once had (who can forget ANY of their scenes in 1 and 2?!) and when they're not being chased by the punkosaurs, our band of 'heroes' are up against the new 'big boy on the block' ol' Spiney-back. These dinosaurs seem they're more from the ASBO generation of harassment than 65 million years ago, causing such provocative hassle for our cast within just ninety minutes.There is too much wrong with this film and although a few of the DVD special features provide some 'excuses' concerning the drastic change, it doesn't redeem the fact that it has detracted from the mysterious magic and awe of its forerunners. You can't help cheer at that agreeable punch Neill delivers to Macy after he realises he's been fooled, like us, into going onto that island again.Read the full review and more at www.wrawreviews.co.uk "},{"Title":"Extremely underrated","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"69 out of 143 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't believe the low average score for this film! Jurassic Park III had a spectacular sense of adventure. The dinosaurs were better than ever and the more than competent cast, led by the always excellent Sam Neil, did a terrific job of bringing the various characters to life. I thoroughly enjoyed this film. Strongly recommended, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Best film of the Franchise","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Best Actors, Best Dinosaurs, Best Dialogue. No dinosaur on dinosaur fight scenes that go on too long, No 'military agenda', No annoying kids. It wasn't too preachy, they didn't go to the city, they had William S Macy, Animatronic not CGI chronic, No bad rhyming. No theme parks, no English guys with twee Scottish accents, scary pterodactyls. 3d printing before it became a big thing, Some great comic scenes. The one and only problem I have is that the boy didn't close the door when he left his armoured home of the previous eight weeks, allowing anything to climb in and cause a nuisance later, but maybe even that is forgivable because I suppose he never intended to go back there. I would have closed the hatch is all. "}{"Title":"Not good but also not as long as the Lost World","Date":"17 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am easily torn on which movie I don't like more, The Lost World or this one. This movie isn't anything special it just hits the points it needs to, to be a Jurassic Park film. It isn't good but at the same time I feel like the film makers knew it was just a cash in for marketing and toys and stuff like that so they really didn't try as to make it big and long like the last movie prior. It is about Alan Grant from the first film who goes to Site B with some people to find their lost son who accidentally landed on the island. The acting is pretty annoying from Tea Leoni and William H Macy. The only character I actually somewhat like is Sam Neil's Alan Grant just because I liked him so much from the original. Thank goodness there wasn't Ian Malcolm again or I would've ran away screaming.So still I am torn on which one I dislike more so I'll leave it up to you. Both are bad and have annoying stupid characters. I guess a couple of the chase scenes are entertaining but each of them kind of has an element of stupidity, however sometimes that makes it more fun to watch. It's not terrible but overall not good "},{"Title":"We Have A T... Oh @#$%! RAPTORS!!!","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the original JURASSIC PARK, remember that sense of awe you felt upon setting eyes on the first majestic brachiosaurus? Remember witnessing the baby raptor hatching out of the egg? Remember watching the T-Rex thunder across the screen? Or the adult raptors stalking the kids in the kitchen? *SIGH* JURASSIC PARK. What started as a brilliant masterpiece has been turned into a downward-spiraling series. Much like Spielberg's similarly great shark film JAWS! By the time LOST WORLD came out, the dinosaurs became nothing more than standard-issue movie monsters that just stomped around and ate everybody who wasn't famous. By the time JURASSIC PARK III came about, the formula was already getting old and worn. Here's the story An annoying kid goes paragliding and crash-lands onto the island of dinosaurs. The boy's annoying parents (played by William H. Macy and Tea Leoni) convince Alan Grant (Sam Neill, yay!) to accompany them to the island in a rescue attempt. Apart from some new dinosaurs (including the flying pterodactyls, finally) there's not much else to write home about with this one. Hopefully JURASSIC WORLD will pick up the reins of this tired series and pump new life into it! "},{"Title":"More action,less brains","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Action movie but kind of short at 91 minutes leaving the audience wanting a little more when the end credits role becouse the movie does not fill you up enough.A roller coaster ride with great expected CGI effects as promised.A good movie over all but not a classic.It almost was a classic if they added more depth into the story/script and more minutes as well.Not really for audiences who demand deep thought into their sci-fi......   "},{"Title":"I guess it's good","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like this movie and then again I don't. I like how they brought Alan and Ellie back. I like how they incorperated new dinosaurs into the plot. I like the story. I DON'T like how they portrayed the spinosaurus (In real life, the Spino was never that big and the T-Rex would have kicked his ass if they were the same age). I don't like the CGI as much. (It's too colorful, which makes some scenes look fake. I don't care what people say, the Lost World will have the greatest special effects out there for a LONG time), and i don't like how it was so short. The other jurassic park movies were 2 hours and 10 minutes. This one was 1 hour and 30. HUH? Anyways, all in all I give it a 6/10. Its entertaining, but doesn't live up to the first 2. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Third Film of the Jurassic Park Trilogy","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is an excellent third film of the trilogy and is in many respects the best film of the three Jurassic Park movies.This film takes us back to the second island Isla Sorna, the place called Site B in the second film, where InGen first hatched and raised the dinosaurs before taking them over to the main island for the tourists (at least that was the plan) to look at.Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Niell) is lured back to Jurassic Park under the ruse of an aerial tour of the island for a mysterious wealthy businessman and his wife, (William H. Macy and Tea Leoni) as their anniversary gift to each other.It turns out that he's not what he seems and in short course, they end up trapped on the island, with some very large, very dangerous, and very hungry predators (and a few velociraptors that are using vocalizations to communicate) who want to make lunch out of them.It's an exciting, fast-paced movie, once it gets going and it doesn't let up until the very last frame.Because of the advances in computer-generated imagery since the first movie, this film easily looks and feels more real than the other two movies and the director shows what he can do with the technology available to him.This film would also be an excellent point to end the Jurassic Park series, in my view. "},{"Title":"A Fun Return to Isla Sorna! ***1/2 out of 5","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park III is the first one to be directed by someone other than Spielberg. Joe Johnston does a really good job though. It's obviously going to have a different approach to the material because of this, but ultimately it works quite well.Admittedly, it's a significantly different kind of film. It's extremely fast paced and by this I mean you have the cast already on the island and being pursued by the main dinosaur on the JP3 logo within the first 15 minutes! There are some things that seem unanswered in the film but overall I feel these things can be looked over. Also the sprinkled attempts at humor had me laughing but at the same time had me raising my eyebrows because it felt slightly out of place in the world of Jurassic Park.The film is a lot shorter. It's about an hour an a half as opposed to the other films being over two hours long. So overall as you can see, it's quite a bit different from the other two. But this is a Joe Johnston film, not a Steven Spielberg film and I feel the director shouldn't try to totally duplicate what was done before him and that he needs to make his own movie. Just so long as he doesn't change things around so drastically that it is no longer the same. Thankfully Johnston still captures that old adventurous Jurassic Park feeling and provides highly memorable and breathtaking action sequences. Sam Neill, who is one of my favorite actors, is back and reprises his role as Dr. Grant and it's really great to see him back in the hat! While the plot may be very simplistic the film does enrich the world of Jurassic Park. Obviously Ingen is still up to no good and creating dinosaurs that weren't originally 'on the list' as was stated. Here we have the addition of the Spinosaurus, Ankylosaurus, and various other dinos.The music by Don Davis is superb. He integrates the memorable themes by John Williams and uses them superbly in his own original music.The special effects by ILM are terrific as ever. Some of my favorite big moments being the confrontation between the T-Rex and Spinosaurus, The Bird Cage sequence (especially the build up to where the Pterondon is walking on the bridge) and the Brachiosaurus greeting the boat. It's a fantastic quick journey back to the island of dinosaurs and I must say it's a fun and highly memorable one! "},{"Title":"nothing like Barney!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 was an OK movie. Of course it wasn't as great as the first one. That one was really good so it's hard to live up to. But JP3 had more action scenes which were really good. However the story just wasn't that great. Tea Leoni and William Macy didn't make a really good couple to me. And what was the point of having them divorced, couldn't they just as well have been married and then it wouldn't have been so extremely cheesy when they got back together? But anyway Sam Neill was good and that guy Billy was cute.Tea Leoni's character was really annoying and not that I'm a feminazi or anything but I kinda thought that was sexist.Oh yeah I forgot the dinosaurs were amazing! They are the best part, very good. I liked the way they put Barney in there to show the comparison in that one scene. "},{"Title":"Here on Gilligan's isle...good action-satire, great effects","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** If the folks at Mystery Science Theater 3000 had made a movie, this might have been it. It's comedy-horror with great effects. You start chuckling at the start, after the teaser, when a lecture audience (us, in other words) has no serious questions for Dr. Grant and he emphasizes there's no way he'll go back to the park...then there's the  plane ride-comedy, the bickering couple, the unmasking of the characters (I'm not a real mercenary, just a temp), the indestructible satellite phone which LITERALLY becomes one long running joke with humorous fake suspense (C'mon, Baby Watson, put your mother on the phone before I get eaten - AHHHH!!! - classic MST3K), the absurd man in suit on the beach.  Even lil' Eric has some good lines. I only wish they had a close-up of Sam Neill at the end ryely muttering the explanation to how they get rescued, like I guess Laura Dern's husband is a little higher up than a PR man for the government... As they say in the movie, people aren't always who they appear, and likewise this movie which may seem flat to JP fans(if you like JP1, then go rent it again and stop complaining) satirizes the genre rather than becoming another James Bond series; a welcome change from the usual formula.  "},{"Title":"As Good or Better Than #1","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a case when the sequel does live up to the original. It is full of action and far surpasses #2. My wife nearly broke my wrist as she grabbed for my hand in some of the scarier points. The group of people that viewed it with me ranged from three to eighty-three; everyone seemed to be thrilled with the movie. "},{"Title":"Not as awful as the second half of II","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film succeeds at being what it intends to be, an exciting, well-filmed yarn without the usual sort of filler that was present in the first two.Don't get me wrong - Sam Neil's American accent is still irritating, the plot is rather silly and many of the dinosaurs portrayed are completely and deliberately wrong. (more on this later)The good bits? - There's only one kid in this, and he is less annoying then either of the two from the first film. There is a greater attempt to portray the Dinosaurs as the stars, which is how it should be - If you want to watch Sam act, watch something like a death in Brunswick or The Piano.The set pieces were done very well, particularly the carnosaur-carnosaur fight and the way in which the Velociraptors were not simply shown as cartoon villains worthy of moustaches, but rather behaving like intelligent predators.On to the aforementioned deliberate mistakes with the dinosaurs1) The Spinosaurus Egypticus - Roughly the size of a T-rex, NOT noticably bigger, the sail indicated a cold-blooded animal, as such the idea that it could despatch a similarly sized and protected hot-blooded animal (theT-rex) when the T-rex had more advanced teeth (serrated, larger sockets in the jawline for more muscle power/bite) and would be able to move and react a lot quicker is a tad laughable.2) A full-grown Velociraptor stood a decidedly less-impressive three feet high weighing at most 15kgs. Rather different than portrayed in the entire trilogy. What they did get right is the large brain/body-size ratio making the Dromaeosaurid family (to which it belongs) up to three times smarter than the smartest T-rex. What they should have done from the outset is show Deinonychus, the Velociraptor's bigger cousin standing over five feet tall and weighing 80 kilos. This dinosaur was so advanced that some paleontologists believe it may have had primitive feathers. The biggest dinosaur in this species was the Utahraptor (no prizes for guessing where it came from) at around Twelve feet high and weighing close to a ton.3) Pteradons (the flying creatures represented) weighed about 35 pounds, could not have even lifted the kid in the picture, were far more lightly built and a full grown man could easily have crushed the neck of one. Incidentally, all Pterodactyloids were reptiles, not dinosaurs!Food for thought - Glad that the series has generated so much interest in the subject!  "}{"Title":"At least it doesn't pretend...","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** to have a deep plot. The thing that makes this movie stand miles above Jurassic Park 2 The Lost World is that above all else, the movie itself seems to realize it is a shallow concept, but still tells the story in a very enjoyable way. The shots of the dinosaurs fighting each other was awesome, by far the best CGI creatures seen as yet (it may be just me, but when the T-rex is killed, I felt it was as though it were to slam the over-use of T-rex's in JP2).  If you haven't seen this movie, do so, but see it as you would watch a sporting event. Go with a friend, and one person root for the dinosaurs, and the other root for the people.Will there be a Jurassic Park 4? if they do so, I would hope it would be more like an Aliens style movie, "},{"Title":"Not good against evil, IMAGINATION TRIUMPHS","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP3 is not a good against evil plot.  After my second viewing I realized that th beauty of dinosaurs is much more a part of this film than the first two films.  The flying of the three dinosaurs was really quite amazing.  As my wife said you can even see their muscles as if they are real.  These creatures are not shown as evil vengeful creatures but highly dangerous and intense.I can only explain many of the bad reviews as people who have judged the movie in advance affecting the opinions.  It would be expected that each sequel would deteriorate as in most cases such as with the Magnificent Seven sequels, Jaws sequels and the horrible Exorcist sequels.  But Director Joe Johnstone brings a fresh view here and even surpasses Spielberg at times.  Even the story satisfies the young at heart.  One intereting point I had never thought of was that astronomers, paleontogists and directors imagine which makes them the ones with the imagination and astronauts etc. experience things which makes them the practical ones.  You can only leave the theater walking on air.   "},{"Title":"IMAGINATION TRIUMPHS","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 is not a good against evil plot.  After my second viewing I realized that the beauty of dinosaurs is much more a part of this film than the first two films.  The flying of the three dinosaurs was really quite amazing.  As my wife said you can even see their muscles as if they are real.  These creatures are not shown as evil vengeful creatures but highly dangerous and intense.I can only explain many of the bad reviews as people who have judged the movie in advance affecting the opinions.  It would be expected that each sequel would deteriorate as in most cases such as with the Magnificent Seven sequels, Jaws sequels and the horrible Exorcist sequels.  But Director Joe Johnstone brings a fresh view here and even surpasses Spielberg at times.  Even the story satisfies the young at heart.  One interesting point I had never thought of was that astronomers, paleontologists and directors imagine which makes them the ones with the imagination and astronauts etc. experience things which makes them the practical ones.  You can only leave the theater walking on air.   "},{"Title":"Change Of Heart","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wrote my opinion before, and now since i have seen it again, i have had a change of heart, I thought this film was so much better than what my first opinions were, It is much much better than the second film, Sam Niell was good as always, Alessandro Nivola (one of my two favorite actors) was great in this movie, and the other actors were good also, take for example, Trevor Morgan has gone a long way since his Barney days.  The effects were very amazing, and awe stunning ( warning, may be too much for the younger children this time around though)  this movie is honestly for the people a little older and who can handle the intense and dazzling effects.  The plot wasn't bad, there was just not too much depth thats all, that doesn't mean it sucked.  This film is not Jurassic Park, but it is most likely the closest that we are going to get to it again though.  I liked this movie a lot.  I gave it two thumbs up, and so did everyone else I saw it with, the first time (out of the two times I've seen it) the film got an applause, never got that at the second film.  I liked it and i am very excited to get it on DVD right away.  I will say though, that this was a surprise, but this is the best that they are going to do, if there is a fourth, they are going to have to work very very hard to top this one off, and it will be impossible to top Jurassic Park off.  One thing that may help if they would have to make a fourth, would be to keep some of the original actors from either the first, or the third, and then add a few (smart)new comers, but if there wouldn't be some people that you love from the 1st or 3rd, then there may not be anything that you will want to go back to.  It will also be hard to top off those effects.  I think that this movie was really good, and it was nice to have a good movie this summer, so far many of them have been a disappointment.  "},{"Title":"A great adventure film that really is more than just a walk in the park.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although worried at first that the director of Jumanji would be doing Jurassic Park 3, my fears were put to rest when I saw the movie. This is a fast paced adventure film that gets and keeps your attention from the second the cast lands on the island. Although the movie drags between the action scenes, especially the scenes dealing with the relationship of William H. Macy's and Tea Leoni's characters, the film is still worth watching. Though this film is far better than 'The Lost World Jurassic Park', it still doesn't compare to the original. So, anybody who loved the first film, and anybody who loves a good suspense/horror film should make their may to the theaters today and see Jurassic Park 3.  "},{"Title":"Story underrated","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There seems to be agreement that the directing and the special effects were great.  SPOILER  Hypothetically, some think a boy could not survive at all in this dangerous area.  However, in real life some kids survived The Second World War and even the Holocaust.  People may or may not survive great adversity.  This is in essence what JP3 is really all about.  This was a good flick in many ways.  I hope this review does not get buried in the back because I hope people of all ages get to see this movie.  It is also very exciting and never boring.Of course it is not an academy award style movie type like Pearl Harbor or Moulin Rouge.  Check it out.   "},{"Title":"Loved it, but the trailers RUINED EVERYTHING!!!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a HUGE fan of the series I have enough merchandise from the films to fill up a whole house. So when I saw the banner at Universal Studios Hollywood last summer for this I jumped up and down for so long my girlfriend denied any association with me. Anyway, I waited PATIENTLY for the first TV spots/trailers for this and finally when I saw them I watched them online about 100 times. But then, they kept making more trailers that showed key scenes and quite frankly guys, making a dozen trailers for a 90 minute movie takes any hint of suspense away when you finally see the film! I could literally edit all the trailers together and condensed the entire film into 2 minutes! BAD marketing strategy, guys!Now I've read hundreds of bad reviews for this film on IMDb, probably from people who got in line for Trailer Park Raider, er, TOMB Raider the day it opened. Guys, why did you even bother? Your complaints all state the obvious No Spielberg, too short, no story, bad dialogue...which we all agree with. So how about awesome CGI, great action, fast pacing and the like? Heck, it is summer, it is a mindless Hollywood venture, so loosen up! Even the soundtrack sans John Williams is still great! It's not as good as the first (what is?), but it does the trick. And if the make a part four, how about setting it in the future with dinosaurs versus mankind to conquer the earth (the budget on that one may get a little out of control).HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION! "},{"Title":"what were you expecting","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its the third installment, come on what were you expecting, the number one movie of the year?  its nothing amazing, if you were to see the movie it would be for the great effects, the plot is pretty hollow though, but its a summer block buster, all the movies out there seem to be at the moment, acting is nothing amazing but its not to the point where its not worth seeing the movie, the effects alone are what pulled the movie through,it is nothing close to as good as the original Jurassic Park, but I don't think that anyone was expecting it to be that good in the first place,  It may be a bit better than the second but that doesn't count for too much.  If you haven't seen it yet, it may be some fun, but maybe wait till its on video. "},{"Title":"Better than TLW, but Jurassic Park 1 remains the best.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off let me say this movie really is action-packed. Saw it twice yesterday and I'm still thinking about it. Some of those scenes left me breathless, and it was wonderful to see a sold-out, packed theatre with fellow fans all around me react to the magic on the screen. I found a lot of the reaction to be laughter, which in a way is good (it shows they were listening, anyway), but people were gasping and muttering oh nos, too. What was I doing? Gaping at the screen, hungry for action and new dinosaurs. I got plenty of both the Spinosaurus, the renovated Velociraptors, a Ceratosaurus, Ankylosaurs, Corythosaurs, the works. Even some cool pterosaurs. The fight between the Spino and the rex was great, but I hated the victor for what he did to the hero of the previous two movies...The plot and dialogue was lacking in some places, but for me the wonderful thing was to see the dinosaurs. Isn't that a major part of these movies in the first place? All in all, a worthy installment to the series.  Fair enough job, Mr. Johnston. "},{"Title":"A triumphant return to the series","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First came Jurassic Park. One of the greatest films in history. I saw that at the theaters more than seven or eight times, and I was pretty young. Then, four years later, came The Lost World. Not good. I expected too much out of it, and what was the stuff about T-Rex getting onto San Diego. Let's keep them on the island, I ended up only seeing it maybe three times in theaters. And I'm still debating on whether I should buy the DVD. And now, ironically, four years later, Jurassic Park III hits the big screen. I am one of those hardcore JP fans, and I must say that this movie was one of the greatest sequels Hollywood has ever made.When I first heard of them making another sequel, I thought, Oh man. But then, the news started rolling in. Sam Neill is going to reprise his role as the infamous Dr. Alan Grant, who was sorely missed in the second film. I thought he did such a fantastic job, that he topped all of his other films. Then came Laura Dern as a cameo. She does a great job, and it seems to be more than just a cameo role. It was a vital role for this film to be a success. William H. Macy, Tea Leoni, and Trevor Morgan, make the characters realistic, and I'm not usually a fan of Tea's, but this film made me want to go back and see her other films.Then, of course, there are the dinosaurs. Spinosaur kicked major butt in this film. He knocked the crap out of T-Rex. The raptors were finally smart. The first one, they were mysterious. In the second one they were clumsy and stupid, but in this one they were very intelligent. They learned to set traps, and learned to look at all their options before attacking, thus proving Grant's theory about their intelligence. I've only seen it once, but trust me, it won't be the only time. I plan to see this film more than ten times in theaters, and, not to mention, buy the DVD when it comes out in December. Speilberg did an excellent job producing, and Joe Johnston deserves great recognition for this phenomenal picture. I had also seen A.I. this weekend, and JP3 was far better. "}{"Title":"It Really Is Not Just a Walk in the Park!!!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must first say that I went to this movie with anticipation, but also was a bit of restraint.  I had heard from early reviews that the story line was simplistic and too far fetched to amount to anything.  What I got from the movie blew me away!  The script is simple, but hardly without plot twists and surprises.  The action is crisp and clear with hardly any of those momemts when the camera is so close to the action you can't tell what's happening.  It's as if they took the best elements from the first two films and just layered them on in this one.  After a few minutes I totally forgot about trying to see which dinosaurs were real and which were CGI and just lost myself.The acting was excellent, including Sam Neill's reprisal of Dr. Alan Grant. He added the familiar link that was needed to really bring you back to the first storyline.  Trevor Morgan, the young actor who plays Eric Kerby, really shines in his role.  Michael Jeter and William H. Macy are good in every role they play, no surprise there.  Kudos to the entire cast and crew. Great work!At one and a half hours, they concluded the film perfectly and left me wanting more, but very satisfied.  If you liked the first movie and the second, you will squeal like a raptor for this third installment.  Don't walk, RUN to this movie.If Gone With the Wind is your favorite movie, rent the Whales of August sit down in a comfy rocking chair, and get a nice, small glass of tea to sip. Jurassic Park III is not your...ahm...cup of tea. "},{"Title":"Just read my comments.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was very good I thought.  Well....the plot actually was kind of uh...well, wasn't much of one really.  The beginning kind of threw you into the story way too quickly rather than letting you get to know the characters more, which isn't a bad thing, just different.  And the ending was kind of like a Lord Of The Flies ending, it leaves you wondering what the hell, did I miss something?  The dinosaurs were very well done though with a lot of new and cool ones and the movie always kept you awake.  Very good action sequences, but could have had a little more help with the storyline. Still, 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"not as good as the first but still exellent","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just coming back from seeing this movie I thought it was exellent not as good as Jurassic park but a litttle better than the Lost World. Actor Sam Neil comes back as Dr Alan Grant and the movie sets on site B also known as isle Sorna. And it features some new dinosaurs like the main one spineosaurs and ankolasaurs and some others and as a dinosaur fan even before Jurassic Park came out I loved this movie. There was some errors in the movie but it was still good(SPOIL)when the tyranosaurs fought the spinosaurs the t-rex would of won in real life (most probaly,and with the scene pytarodactlys (sorry for misspelling)they did not have teeth. And they also featured some raptors with feathers on their head,which personaaly I thought they really looked liked(END SPOIL) all in all this was an exellent film just not as good as the first one. "},{"Title":"DINO-MIGHT","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the catastrophe that was the lost world, i thought to my self the jurassic park franchise was fried, no hope left for it, just let it die. God himself must have had some hand in this movie because this film is a million times better than jurassic park 2. The plot is simple rescue eric kirby. i have to admit the story is a little weak but the action scenes will take your breath away. The effects are fantastic, and the acting is not bad at all. Sam Neill is great, and Tea Leoni manages to out act her computerized friends. I recommend this film to everybody it is the only great action movie that will come out of the summer of 2001. this movie is an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just what was needed","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic park one was a fantastic. Aside from the action the excitement and everything it also introduced the world to the theory that birds were descended from dinosuars. The Lost world introduced nothing except how to cock up a good movie. What a stupid idea to have a dinosuar roaming around a city. Its too godzilla. Jurassic park three however is awesome. it sticks to the tried and tested method of having these creatures on an island and taking the foolish humans to them. The film itself would have got itself a 7 out of 10. the reason that i have given it a ten is because it shows that the T-Rex was a scavenger rather than a predator which is a theory that i agree with totally. "},{"Title":"A Great Sequel to add to the Trilogy","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently watched this film on DVD.  I did not see it in the theatre but the film was a lot of fun.  It's very hard to make sequels to great hits. Those voting seem to not appreciate the time and effort that goes into film making.  Especially ones with so many special effects.  I think Spielberg captured the adventure/suspense of the other Jurassic Parks as well as adding new elements.If you like action and adventure then this film is a must. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this film was the best out of the jurassic park trilogy's. it was much more gore and better locations in the film e.g  the bird cage . it has more dinosaurs and different kinds of ones. and this time., the t-rex aint the main one. i  have NO idea what the main one is but its great. go out and rent it now! "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favourite movies!","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What an incredible movie!  I bought the dvd and I have already seen it about 5 times, and the special features are also amazing.  One of the times that I saw it was with my family, and all 4 of us agreed that it's better then The Lost World and that it's as good as the first Jurassic Park.  We all loved it.For the people here who are complaining about the movie and who are basically searching for intense deep conversation, extremely complicated storylines, sophistication, to learn something extraordinary about life etc., YOU ARE NOT WATCHING THE RIGHT MOVIE!  This is an action movie!  And to me, it's probably the BEST action movie ever made.  It delivers in every way.The settings are incredible.  The whole movie is filmed in nature and it's such a pleasure to watch it.  Your eyes will be satisfied, the settings are amazing.  As for the dinosaurs, I have never seen anything like it!  They are incredible and I doubt it's possible to make them look more realistic then this.The movie is full of action, just like many people have said, it's a THRILL RIDE.  You never get bored, it's non stop action.  Another good thing is that there's also humor at the right places.  In my opinion, all the actors played their roles perfectly.  The action sequences are incredible and very realistic.  In other words, the dinosaurs react and move just like they would probably have if they were alive, they are  based on real scientific research.Also each action sequence is basically a story on its own.  It's not literally dinosaurs chasing humans the whole time, the action sequences are much more sophisticated and very different from each others.  IMO, this new director has done an incredible job.  I also enjoyed seeing the flying dinosaurs (I forget their name) and of course Spinosaurus, T-Rex, Raptors among many others.This is what a dinosaur movie should be like, they are in THEIR surroundings & territory (meaning the forest) which is incredible to see.  It's probably my favourite Jurassic Park movie and I suggest to everyone to go see it and judge for yourself.  If you don't, then it's your loss.  I recommend it to anyone who loves dinosaurs/nature or action movies in general.  I can't wait for the 4th movie and I plan to buy the 2 other dvds very soon because it's been a while that I haven't seen them!  This movie has turned me into a Jurassic Park fan!  Thank you for your incredible work.GO JURASSIC PARK!!!!!!!!!!!  Go Dinosaurs! "},{"Title":"A non-stop thrill ride!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 3rd film in the Jurassic Park franchise is a non-stop thrill ride.  The storyline is fairly simple as Dr.Grant (Sam Neil) gets tricked and bribed back onto the island by a divorced couple (William H. Macy and Tea Lenoi) looking for their lost son.(Trevor Morgan)Then the chaos rolls out in heavy doses from their. Im gonna spell out that main pros and cons of the movie.Pro's 1. Sam Neil returns as Dr.Grant 2. Overall great performances especially by Macy. 3. Great SP/FX as usual. 4. New Dinosaurs. 5. Fast pacing. 6. The Raptors and Pteradons become the stars of this movie.Cons 1.Maybe a little too fast paced. 2.Sudden EndingOverall this movie is a welcome addition into the Jurassic Park franchise. "},{"Title":"You know you enjoyed it!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the best movies of the year. Forget Harry Potter and rent this movie that'll make you sit on the edge of your seat. A breathless roller coaster popcorn ride.Forget all bad comments. And to the people who diss the movie so much. I guess there is nothing to please you all. For goodness sakes it was better than The Lost World. The only reason you like to put TLWJP above JP3 simply because it was directed by Spielberg. Yes Spielberg can direct good movies, but he not perfect. He failed at The Lost World and your just gonna have to admit it.JP3 is everything The Lost World should have been. Acting is what it should be.As I heard from one of the commenters we don't want purple t-rexes around here. First of all there weren't any purple Rexes. Not even close to the color purple. Which makes me wonder if you even saw the movie. Next I heard someone say the effects wasn't as good as the first. The effects have improved dramatically from the first looking even more real than ever. If you noticed that the dinosaurs actually had their muscles jiggle when ever they were supposed to under the skin like real animals. The skin was made with more detail and they basically up the anty a lot bigger than ever.Don't listen to me, don't listen to the people who hate this movie. Just go and see for yourself and make your own opinion. "}{"Title":"A masterpiece of imagination!","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (Warning of spoilers in this review)Jurassic Park /// is a thrill ride with never a dull moment. It is jam-packed full of incredible special effects, great actors, imagination, humor, suspense - everything you could possibly ask for in a movie!The film did indeed have a plot ( which many people said there wasn't). There was a beginning, middle and an end. Jurassic Park /// portrayed how a group of people REALLY would survive on the island. We had heard all the science in the first two movies. Now is was on to the action.First of all, the dinosaurs. Industrial Light & Magic did a phenomenal job on the special effects. The scene where a Pteranodon grabs Billy in the water was simply perfect, just like the rest of the movie. It was nice to see the dinosaurs reacting more with their environment this time around. E.g. moving bushes, eating grass, splashing water. Stan Winston also excelled himself. The mixture of CGI and live action was nothing short of perfect. It was nice to see the dinosaurs portrayed as animals rather than pure killing machines like in The Lost World. The Spinosaurus was a nice change from the T-Rex. After all. T-Rex had been the main star of every dinosaur movie since movies began. Not very 21st Century is it?The actors. Sam Neill really made his presence felt in this movie. He was his same old loving self from the first Jurassic Park. That was needed in this movie. Tea Leoni did a fine job acting Amanda - a much better improvement than Julianne Moore (Sarah Harding in The Lost World) who did not stop talking throughout the entire movie. The way Tea acted when coming face-to-face with a Velociraptor was spine-tingling. She was so scared. William H. Macy also acted his role well, as did Alessandro Nivola and Trevor Morgan. Laura Dern also made a very nice appearance.The script. Even though it was written as they filmed the movie, the script proved to be a success and had many memorable quotes. Alan's speech about Astronomers & Astronauts was by far the best piece of writing I have seen in a film in a long time.The ending was short but nevertheless good. The Pteranodons flying in the clouds was a perfect way to end a perfect movie. At last we saw something believable, unlike the San Diego scene in The Lost World. The main Jurassic Park theme was enchanting and enough to bring a tear to the eye. The original feeling of the original Jurassic Park came flowing back. Joe Johnson captured the Jurassic mood with his brilliant directing as did Don Davis with the score.As a conclusion, this movie does not deserve the bad comments it gets.  It is a true Jurassic Park. I recommend this movie to anyone. Buy the DVD or VHS now! "},{"Title":"A fantastic followup to a mediocre followup to a fantastic movie","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the seemingly muted blah that was The Lost World Jurassic Park, my expectations for this third film should probably not have been too high. Spielberg had left the project (except for his role as producer), and the film was reportedly a mere 90 minutes long, but for some reason, I still held high hopes for this Joe Johnston-directed dino-flick.  Fortunately, the dissapointment of the second film was immidiately washed away by the high-octane thrill ride that is the third installment of this once-again-great franchise.  People have complained of a weak story and cheesy dialogue, but honestly, what do these people expect?  For a movie of its kind, the dialogue is actually both intelligent and humurous, and the story, though by no means original, is still exciting and attention-keeping. The performances are all decent to great, with talentless Tea Leoni giving probably her best (though still mediocre) performance of her career.  Macy and Niell both shine in there roles, each one utilizing a subdued and natural style that works well with the loose and exciting pace of the film. The new major new dino-the Spinosaurus egypticus is a great replacement for the T-rex, and it provides some of the films scariest and most thrilling moments.  The pteranadons, which are thankfully not referred to a dinosaurs, are also a great new addition, as the scene with them is probably the most tense and terrifying of the film.  Overall, a great followup after the dissapointing second film, which makes me happy to once again think of this franchise as on of the greatest ever.  Bring on #4! "},{"Title":"You're scared, you're entertained, you're amused, you're amazed.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The dinosaurs are back for more in Jurassic Park III. This time they're meaner, and they're smarter. This movie is a thrill ride from start to finish. Sam Neill is back as Dr. Alan Grant and he does a wonderful job playing the paleontologist. Grant really doesn't want to see any more dinosaurs up-close and personal, yet it is tempting for him since dinosaurs are his life. The rest of the cast do a good job too, especially the boy played by Trevor Morgan. This time, the child in the movie is not screaming all the way through -- he's more smart about dinosaurs, even though he knows when it is the right time to run for his life! The special effects in Jurassic Park III don't disappoint either. It's amazing what can be done when it comes to bringing these dinosaurs to life. Plus, Jurassic Park III adds humour which turns the thrill ride into an even more entertaining thrill ride. The thing the Jurassic Park franchise always gives you is a real scare, then to finish off it leaves you with a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"GREAT!  The best film of the year!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Who couldn't like this movie?  Its Jurassic Park.  This is up at the level of the first film and I really mean it.  It has great action and also has some comedy.  The effects are better than ever.  I am definitely going to go see it again! GO SEE THIS MOVIE!  The best film of the year! "},{"Title":"A great trilogy","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a huge fan of 1 and 2, needless to say, I was excited about Jurassic Park III. I've been excited about this for months, and finally seeing it opening night just topped off my summer. Sam Neill, William H Macy and Tea Leoni gave excellent performances, as well as the supporting cast.A huge fan of William Macy, I was determined to like the movie no matter what, but I didn't need an excuse to love it, it was great no matter what. A definite must-see! "},{"Title":"WAY COOL","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is my second favorite movie of all time, after the original JP.This one has the best special effects,the best cast,the best actors,has the most different types of dinosaurs,and brings back the true hero of JP,Alan Grant,and a new villain, a spinosaur,who is bigger and badder than the t-rex.This movie is way better than the second and can be even compared to JP,this is probably the best film of the year,watch it ,love it,and if you dont like it ..... youre nuts! "},{"Title":"Fun movie!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, I have to say What is wrong with you people?, all of you out there that said you hated the movie, I'd be interested to know what it is that DOES impress you.  And secondly, Why do so many people love JP1 and HATE JP2?  I just don't get it, JP2 was a fine film!  No, it wasn't as good as JP1, but it was just fine.  Anyway...on with JP3...JP3 was a great movie!  First of all, the special effects are incredible!!!  There are some scenes that put my jaw on the floor because the dino looked sooo real.  As far as story goes, this film is nothing terribly complicated, but that is just fine with me.  I went into the movie to see some dinos, and I got just that.  I think I liked the story because it's simple, but feasible (given that Jurassic Park exists)!  Also, it doesn't throw in a bunch of useless, lame sub-plot points (like the girl in JP2 being a gymnast).  I would agree that the movie was a bit short, but that wasn't anything I couldn't deal with, it was a short and sweet movie.  The acting was fine as far as I could tell, I didn't have any problems with it.  One thing you have to keep in mind is that these actors are acting with nothing in the shot, or if there is something to act against, it isn't anything mildly intimidating.  I give all the actors props for being able to make it believable.  I noticed that some people on this site said that they thought the ending was horrible, I disagree, I thought it was fine.All in all, I'd have to say that if you like both of the other JP films then it's probably safe to say you'll like this one.  But if you didn't like one or the other, you may be disappointed.  I'll leave you with this, don't go into the theater expecting a thought-provoking, deep movie, just sit back and be entertained.  Also, appreciate the dinosaurs, a lot of people put a lot of effort into making the dinos look that good, so give them some credit.  Thanks for reading,-Cortex "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park III i think was a good movie but i still preferred the first ever Jurassic park because it is the orignial and i think you can't beat orignials. I did like this movie. I give this movie 10 out of 10. I am looking forward to Jurassic Park IV in 2005. I have also figured a pattern. All the movies were made ever 4 years. Jurassic Park 1993 Jurasic Park Lost World 1997 Jurassic Park III 2001 and Jurassic Park IV 2005. "},{"Title":"COOL!!!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the coolest Jurassic Park movie I have ever seen. The movie could have been a little bit longer but it is still a good movie to watch. My nephew would like this movie also if he comes to go see it with me.Final Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Summer Fun, Finally!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To me summer movies are supposed to be fun, exciting thrill rides that make going to the movies fun. Jurassic Park 3 is just that.  No it's not the best film ever made, but it is one of those films that you can sit down and watch and enjoy while munching on your popcorn.  Some people may take pop shots at the film, but it is well worth the price if you want to have some fun. Don't go into it expecting to see an epic film, go into it expecting to see the movie for what it is, a fun summer movie. "}{"Title":"The factory line continues....","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a waste of effort. A plot that insults at every step. Actors that are good in other films and wasted here. No real suspense or scares.The only good thing were the effects - but even they took away from the suspense because you saw too much (I like the jaws approach of shadows, quick movement and a build up to seeing the beasts).I enjoyed the first and second films but this was really poor. All I wanted was some thrills and a reasonable story...this has neither.This is less than 90 minutes long - going in I though it would feel really short.  Honestly, I was waiting for it to end - 90 minutes felt like an age....Stay away - if you pay to see this you'll only encourage them to make JP4...and you don't want that on your conscience. "},{"Title":"Much Much Better Than The Lost World","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jurassic Park 3 was not as good as the first and much better than the second. It was scarier and more thrilling than the other two. The dinosaurs were more verocios and are much faster. the dino's look more real than ever. I prefer the T-Rex but the Spinosaurus is a good substitute. The movie was a tad short and the ending could have been better but hey this is a summer release and is well worth seeing. Sam Neil made this movie happen and Tea and Macy made the jokes in this film. Great casting but Laura Dern should have had a much bigger role than she did. She was the hero in this film. I think this movie will do better than the second in the box office. I gave this film a 10 out of 10 and give it two thumbs up. Rumors that there( might be a fourth)in the Jurassic Park Series. "},{"Title":"Nothing wrong with JP3","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What's wrong with this film? The story makes sense and it's a great action-packed film! After the San Diego incident the whole world now knows that there are dinosaurs. So interested people go and see the island from the outside and do not go in it (duh!). It's bad enough already being a paleontologist, but because now that everyone knows there are living dinosaurs it becomes harder for paleontogists (like Dr.Grant) to get any funds. Which makes sense why he took the Kirby's offer (anyways Grant thought they were just gonna fly over it). It's a good little story, but it makes sense. Some people just can't think or are unable to fully analyze films. The only flaw I see in this film is when they said Eric Kirby was on the island for 8 weeks (unbelievable). Overall Jurassic Park 3 is a good little film that does the franchise justice. 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Significantly better than the second, as well as most of the summer blockbusters....","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the entirely disappointing Jurassic Park The Lost World (which, while not entirely bad, reached the point of goofy by the end), this movie is a refreshing return to many of the things that made the original so good. Spooky atmosphere, great dinosaur effects, and a rather simple, yet involving story all draw you in. The movie is indeed short, yet too much film can be just that. Any longer and the movie would've outgrown what it is, a thrill ride from start to finish. Joe Johnston, who did great work with Jumanji, really takes the movie and runs with it, and one really has to admire the filmmaking. In a world of movie cliches (which the end thankfully doesn't cave into) and drawn out action films trying to be something they aren't, Johnston has trimmed the fat, making JP3 a action-packed machine of a summer popcorn movie, and a movie that leaves you begging for more. If Johnston wants to do another one, I'd actually welcome it. "},{"Title":"Second best of the series","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Given the drivel of the summer of 2001, we finally have a film that REALIZES its an elaborate B-movie and does not pretend it's more than that. Not as smart as the first, but a heck of a lot more fun than The Lost World, it's more than worth the price of admission. Great effects, decent acting, simple plot... yeah it's starting to feel like the 50's matinee again. "},{"Title":"I just saw Jurassic Park 3","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before I went to see this movie I read a bunch of reviews.  I dont think I read one good thing about it.  But to be honest it wasnt that bad.  Sure it definatly wasnt better than the original, but it wasnt horrible.  True, it wasnt something I would go back and see right away, but if you liked the first two, its something to see just for fun.  The only thing I hated about this movie, had to do with the T-Rex.  I wont blow it, but to be honest the T-Rex scene was one of my favorites.  You will just have to see it to know what I am talking about.  Well, to keep this short  Give it a chance.  "},{"Title":"It has just about enough meat!","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"12 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 3rd instalment of Steven Spielberg's lucrative franchise has not been as awaited as the 2nd, partly due to the failings of that first sequel. Unsurprisingly, Spielberg has ditched the franchise and passed the leash of it onto Joe Johnston who directed the uninspiring 'Jumanji.' Was this a good decision? Let's find out.OK so we haven't got off to the best start, a director who doesn't exactly have excellent film history really doesn't help things, however, in comparison to some of this years blockbusters, it is just about average. Jurassic Park 3 throws up a few surprises which is its saving grace.A nice touch is the return of Laura Dern as Ellie Sattler, being a supremely popular character in the first film, it was practically inevitable for her return, though her character is a little scarce on the ground for our liking. Sam Neill as Dr. Alan Grant makes a predictable reappearance.The story is adequate to keep audiences sustained through an exceptionally short running time of just 83 minutes. The words too short spring to mind even before watching the film, and this is even more evident at the finale.A short, but well shot introduction gives us an insight into the separate characters lives as well as providing the basis for the whole film itself. This is a clear-cut no nonsense action movie, all well and good but it means the movie lacks the witty, humorous dialogue that made the previous two films so different and enjoyable, that's not to say Jurassic Park 3 doesn't have it moments, but they are scarce.William H Macy and Tea Leoni star beside Sam Neill and Alessandro Nivola along with an array of other forgettable characters that one by one are picked off by the dinos. The acting is adequate rather than inspired but all the characters give likable performances, especially Nivola who plays his character with a much needed cautious approach and provides us with some of the movies most hair-raising and enjoyable moments.Casting is one of the fundamental flaws in this film, Leoni is simply not right for this type of movie and her clumsy character only makes the films serious feel deteriorate as it progresses, she struggles to keep up pace with the other actors. It is a shame she is not picked off as lunch. Sam Neill provides us with a very watered down Alan Grant and his performance is severely lacking for a lead role.When people think of Jurassic Park, they think of excellent special effects; this is true to an extent, the CGI remains unrivalled but the animatronics feel very much like leftovers and lack the realistic movements of their predecessors. Jurassic Park fans are going to be disappointed.From the director of 'Jumanji', a childish storyline is expected, so this is not such a concern, but even so, some of the decisions the adults make are ridiculous, leaving us most definitely; rooting for the dinosaurs. Jurassic Park 3 does have some excellent and very memorable scenes however, the giant bird cage is exceptionally entertaining and brings back the Jurassic Park feel to the film. The finale is good, but a little short, though this is just a minor consideration that doesn't need to be taken into account.The saving grace of this film is the story's unpredictability, keeping the audience guessing right until the very end. It may be a little thin on the ground, but it is unpredictable nevertheless. Jurassic Park 3 is a good way to pass the time, but not a strong film on any basis. It lacks the story and in depth characters of the previous two films and will also leave audiences feeling short changed. One can only wonder how great this film could've been if Steven Spielberg had returned to the helm of this franchise. An efficient but soulless film.It just has about enough meat to get your teeth stuck into and enough to keep the franchise going a little longer. JP 4? Yes please, but only if Steven Spielberg is directing. "},{"Title":"The only required ingredients are fast feet!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"15 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Since when has Character Development been on the menu in a Jurassic Park film?  I was rooting for the dinos the whole time!  And plot?  How about RUN LIKE HELL!!!   Joe Johnston finally gives us what we wanted to see after the attrocity of Lost World. Sure, the ending was lame, but weren't they all?  My only disappointment is that Tea Leoni wasn't ripped to shreds.   "},{"Title":"Spine Tingling Fun!!!!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just wacthed Jurassic Park III, and let me tell you it ROCKS!!! First off let me say the special effects are amazing. People say the running time of 92 minutes is too short, but it is just the right length for this second sequel.(SPOILER) The way the Raptors set the trap with Udesky was a great touch.(SPOILER END)This is a must see for the entire family. I am giving it 4 stars because I truly believe it deserves it. This could possibly be the hit of the summer. Go see Jurassic Park III now! )**** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Not JP1 but certainly NOT bad at all","Date":"29 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jurassic Park 3 has been hugely criticized for being more gore than heart. Does that matter in any sense? The main reason half the people that watch the first movie was for well.... THE DINOSAURS! And hay you get'em in this movie as well, it's just they were depicted a little more monstrous and brain dead than usual. The only part of this movie I didn't like was that they made the Spinosarous the main antagonist and had it killed everyones favorite a very superior dinosaur the T-Rex. Don't get me wrong, I thought the Spinosarous was a great Addition to the franchise but still, I think the T-Rex should of killed the Spinosarous, JUST SAYIN! So yeah this movie is no where near as bad as people say, and if your a die-hard JP fan, like me, you'll enjoy this movie just as much as the others! "}{"Title":"Jurassic Park III        10 out of 10    EXCELLENT","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the success of the first two Jp movies they decided to make a third one. The Story of it you probably now from the trailer so i'm not gonna explain it. But also if you have seen the trailer it still has a few plot-twists and an very interesting story.The movie itself is totally awesome, its great to see Sam Neill again and they figured out a very intelligent plot to go back to the island. Special Effects of this movie are fantastic they took everything from the previous movies and evolved it to Level 300. I like the new dinosaurs Espacilly Spinosaurus and the remodeled Raptors. The Characters are very cool as well. Sam Neill is nice to come back ,he is a lot different that from JP1. The Soldiars and pretty much the entire cast you don't want to see dying, what is something a lot of Adventure/Action movies fail to do.So thats pretty much it i could sit here and prays the movie for another hour. It has pretty much everything a movie of that kind should have OUTSTANDING Special Effects OUTSTANDING Scary moments OUTSTANDING CastSo yeah you should see it. "},{"Title":"Very very good.","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Good movie, not bad. The storyline is good, the sequel is not always convincing but this may be fine. The storyline is science fiction, the result is enjoyable although some alleged experts have criticized. The sequel sometimes are almost always the worst of films preceding it and make disappear the charm of the film earlier but the commercial requirements sometimes pushing for a broader business. Film full of special effects and laden with emotions, new dinosaurs, new environments and the classic tyrannosaurus that frightens the city. It 'a good film that despite its exuberance defends itself well. Definitely good, one of the best! "},{"Title":"Better than the first two!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JP3 is the best JP movie yet! The first movie was turned into a painful vomit inducing experience due to the child actors being given way too much screentime. Watching the original is like riding the It's a Small World ride at Disneyland, only worse. The second movie was simply absurd, and completely forgettable. If you want to see a great movie watch JP3. "},{"Title":"I think people are overdoing it when they say this is the worst movie of the franchise...","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just watched this movie and I really do think that what people say about this movie being the worst. It sure is way better than the second one.I do agree about certain problems, and that this is nowhere near as good as the first film, but honestly, cut it some slack.There are quite a few exciting scenes including the attack on the plane, the pteradactyl attack, and the raptors in the woods.They probably could have done a little better with certain things, like tell us why Ben dies, or how the navy/air force rescued Billy.I think it deserves a bit more credit than people give it though. "},{"Title":"A Jurassic Disappointment","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 2001 saw the release of the third Jurassic Park movie. The story and setting, plus the mention of San Diego, make it an obvious follow up to 1997's The Lost World, though Jeff Goldblum does not return, Sam Neil does, as fan favorite Alan Grant. The movie was met with considerable hype due to the return of two memorable characters from the original film, one being Alan Grant, and the other being Ellie Settler. To me this film always seemed far too rushed for a Jurassic Park movie, the beginning of this film is the better part, and could have been way longer. Instead the whole point of this movie is to make Sam Neil return to the island. Along with him are a husband and wife who are named the Kirby's, played by William H. Macy and Tea Leoni who are searching for their son after he vanished in the area while on a holiday trip with his unbiological father. Why they were even there to begin with, seeing it's restricted is unclear and stupid. The character Kirby played by William H. Macy is quite funny, likable and overall a good asset to this film. The main antagonist is not the T-Rex anymore and is instead replaced by the Spinosaur, which I don't mind at all but the 25 second battle between the two in this movie is shocking. The T-Rex gets its neck snapped! That's how our child-hood hero goes out, great! The movie tries to stick faithful to the original by using animatronics for the dinosaurs, but here they just looked more like machines than animals, the way their heads jerked so suddenly just revealed how poor the hydraulics for this films movie magic was. Sam Neil as Alan Grant is very poor in his role the second time round, he just looks bored and there's nothing he does in this movie that's memorable, the same can be said about the movie itself. At 90 minutes long what can a movie even do!? Seriously, it just flashes by, the other sequels all go for over 2 hours, which means there was obviously something in them that was needed to be shown, but here the only reason is to make money. Alan Grant returning is great but why ruin his character, along with Ellie Settler, they aren't even a couple in this film. The CGI somehow looks even worse than it did in the original and overall this movie just fails as being something Jurassic Park related. Watching all four of these films is unnecessary, skip this one, nothing here is important, it's just a formula for making money which the makers obviously knew. Stamping Sam Neil's name on this movie is what got everyone pumped for, and I don't think it was fair for him to leave this franchise on such a poor note... The only redeeming factor in this film has to be some of William H. Macy's acting, and maybe some of the action scenes with the Pteordactyles... Other than that, a very disappointing sequel with no wow factor and a disgrace to Sam Neil's beloved character. "},{"Title":"Digital Dyspepsia.","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"27 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here's the definition of decadence from the Free Online Dictionary.1. Being in a state of decline or decay. 2. Marked by or providing unrestrained gratification; self-indulgent.Now you know all you need to know about Jurassic Park III. This third installment has some fine performers in it -- Bill Macy, Sam Neill, Tea Leoni, Laura Dern -- but that's it for the good stuff. They must have received splendid checks.The original Jurassic Park had a lot of bang for the buck. Just for example, that leisurely sequence in which a cartoon character teaches us dummies about DNA and how to extract it from a mosquito and all that. It followed the classical structure of King Kong. There might be a crisis followed by a temporary resolution. Then another crisis and resolution, but of greater importance. Then another, and so on, until you have King Kong wrecking half of New York City or dinosaurs running loose in the staff cafeteria. Or a shark sinking a fishing boat, to cite another example of the classic narrative structure.Nothing like that here. It's aimed, I suppose, at an audience that is impatient, unwilling to wait for the gradual build up, biting their tongues with the desire for immediate gratification during a suspenseful preamble.Nope. Here, an airplane crashes on an island full of man-eating dinosaurs in the first few minutes. The first human being is eaten after about fifteen minutes. Well -- actually, he's snapped up, chewed a little, then spit out into a mud puddle so he can try to crawl his way to freedom and be eaten again. A supersized meal.It's all noisy as hell, pounding music, screaming people, roaring monsters, crashing trees, smashing airplanes, horror galore, teeth the size of mastodon tusks, and none of the women disrobe.I'd call it a disappointment, only it's not. It's precisely what any sane devotee of the fast buck would produce -- a frantic ripoff of a modestly entertaining and financially successful earlier movie. It's practically an operational definition of decadence.Of course we've always had monster movies, before and after Universal's Frankenstein in 1931, but they usually had some kind of class. There weren't ALWAYS people getting ripped apart on the screen.I can't help wondering if this cheapening of an art, done at enormous expense, isn't resonating with public taste in some foul infinite loop. The more the kids see of this crap, the more simple-minded they want it to be. Hard-core pornography went through such a cycle. The original porn movies, like Deep Throat, had stories, however banal they may have been. But the producers of those gems quickly figured out that the narrative structure was too complicated, took too long, required some indulgence on the part of the viewers, so compilation porn movies evolved. No stories at all, just a handful of dreary episodes slapped together.Well, how about it? Why have a story in which Neil is hired as a guide to help Macy and Leoni find their lost child on the island? Why bother? Why not just have a series of episodes in which people we don't know or care about get eaten alive with a Wilhelm scream while grotesque monsters ululate behind them, in line sort of, waiting for their turn? In other words, the movie raises a genuine aesthetic question. How decadent can a thing be? Just exactly how low can public taste sink? Are its depths plumbless? "},{"Title":"A shame, but not a disaster...","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite Sam Neill's return as Alan Grant, other members of the cast and the overall structure prevent this third installment from capturing the magic of the first two films.Sam Neill delivers a stellar performance as Alan Grant, rivalling the attention to detail he contributed in the 1993 original. Tea Leoni and William H. Macy pull off a decent job too, although Alessandro Nivola (playing Billy) seems a little out of his depth at times. While Trevor Morgan gives Eric his all, fans of realism may baulk at how headstrong and unfazed he seems through it all, given his character's age of 12 and his long term stranding on the island. Unlike the first two films, director Joe Johnston adopts a much shorter running time of 93 minutes, bracing viewers for an all action experience. In some ways this works, as there are some truly breathtaking scenes involving the dinosaurs themselves. However, it prevents any sort of character progression, which was a very obvious and well-liked feature of the first two films. Similarly, stalwart fans of the original Jurassic Park won't appreciate Johnston's refusal to incorporate any sort of climax; instead, the action starts early and pretty much stays at the same pace, which may annoy viewers who like to be surprised and teased. That said, the effects involving the dinosaurs remain outstanding, and some of the many action scenes strongly rival the tension found in the first two films. The musical score is still strong, and the script, while nowhere near the strength of its predecessors, still convinces enough to hold its own.Jurassic Park 3 is by no means a BAD film. If you're a dino fan, or just want to see Sam Neill don the famous hat one last time, then go for it. It's just that in making the picture an all-action roller coaster, a lot of the depth found in the originals seems absent, and without that, the subtle touches that made them so magical also vanishes. It's arguably this that prevents Jurassic Park III from being as truly great as its bigger brothers were. "},{"Title":"The Tragic Trilogy Factor","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Grade C+ Ugh, the third film is a guaranteed tragedy when a new director is handed the legacy. This fact is a house-hold term factor for Hollywood by now. Joe Johnson pieces together the best story they could manage and it gets the job done I guess.Sam Neil is dragged into this mediocre 90-minute tale, along with William H. Macy and Tea' Leoni. The comedy is off-beat and doesn't fit the film but enough of the bad. On the positive side, are dinosaurs are looking better than ever. It seems the color scheme has drastically altered; every dinosaur now is as bright as a tropical bird. I'm disappointed the Spinosaurus vs. T-Rex battle is set up at right at the beginning. The ending to me is kind of weak. IF anything that should've been the climatic end scene with the T-Rex taking victory. Probably the thing that lacked the most in this film. Don Davis does a decent score, but John Williams can never be topped.The trilogy factor will haunt movies forever&#x85; "},{"Title":"A disappointment to the Jurassic Park series","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all I'd like to say that I am a huge, huge fan of the JP movies. The original is one of my all time favorite films. Second, I would like to say that, unlike many other people, I was not utterly disappointed with The Lost World. It was a fine movie, it just lacked something the first one had an abundance of. Anyway, when I first heard that a third Jurassic Park film was being made, I had my suspicions. I knew that film-makers like to cheap-out on the audience when they make a second sequel so my expectations weren't very high. When I saw the film, however, I was very surprised. Not surprised that it was better than I thought it would be, but surprised at the fact that it was considerably worse than my expectations. What made this movie so poor? Let me just say this although recently film-makers are trying to convince people otherwise, even if a movie has great special effects, story is still the most important part! The entire script to JP3 could have been written like thisYoung Boy OH No! I'm trapped on an island with dinosaurs! Help me! Parents of Young Boy Please save our son Dr. Grant. Dr. Grant Reluctantly, I will go with you. (They get to the island) Cast Oh No! Dinosaurs are coming! Let's run away! (They run away) Cast Oh No! More dinosaurs! We must run away again! (They run away) Cast Look, some more dinosaurs that we must run from! (They run away) (The End?)When the dinosaurs start over-shadowing the human actors, you know the movie isn't that good. Though I liked the introduction of new dinosaurs in the film, there weren't enough classic dinosaurs from the first one. The raptors were of no interest at all in this film and frankly, the one scene with the Tyranosaurus was an insult to giant carnovores everywhere. I was deeply angered and even saddened to see the king of the dinosaurs dethroned in such an embarrassing way. The one thing that sparked my interest about this film was that there was a fight between a spinosaurus and a T-rex. I sat in the theatre in anticipation for the big duel between these prehistoric heavyweights. What I witnessed was a short little skirmish that ended with the T-rex getting killed off before the humans even get a chance to run from him. If the makers of this film wanted to make a fight that would last in our memories they should have made a lengthy and elaborate one that would have made a great finale. In my opinion, a battle between two seven ton titans would have been a much better climax than the insult of an ending that was given to us.Well, that about wraps up my review. If you want to see a good dinosaur movie, see the original Jurassic Park. Avoid this one at all costs.  "},{"Title":"We have a contender for worst film of 2001!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Right, Michael Crichton didn't write it, and Spielberg didn't direct it, that's a good indication. This film is strictly by the numbers, but it all appears to go too fast-it only lasted 90 minutes! While I love the beauty of nature, it is hard to enjoy this film, where the characters just run around pointlessly. It has none of the magic of the first two. It jumps into the action to fast, with the viewer not having time to absorb it all. It really is one big scene, with them just running around for the whole movie. It ends ridiculously, and it is SO predictable. Really awful, and the raptors even talk to each other! Well, lets hope there will never be a jp4! "}{"Title":"Alien Ten","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Recent discovery dino's nostrils are low on their faces, not high as shown here. That allows them greater sense of smell and more `nasal' vocalizations. A real shame that so much money was spent and they still got it wrong.Cat's eye comments followFirst of the series from the perspective of the dino. Follows the scifi tradition of robots that are able to both evolve and replicate more intelligent editions to battle humans. In this case, the robots have evolved a superkiller to protect the island, knowing that humans will return soon. They can talk of course. But the fliers disagree and decide on a run and proliferate strategy.Standing orders are to kill the men and save the women and children for experiments, and always to defer the killing to the big guys if possible. But one of the intruders steals some eggs, the greatest taboo. Makes it necessary for the spino to kill a few small dinos just to keep order, but the rebellion grows.The fliers do get involved in an undisciplined way, and they are exiled to another island. The smaller raptors who are keepers of the eggs do confront the intruders and get the eggs back. Wheels turn and the lack of discipline (plus some gasoline) allow the bad guys to barely escape. Then the good guys have them, then the bad guys show up with all their machines of destruction.We are led to believe that the dino robot population kill the spinos and devise a new, more powerful protection for the next episode combination dino/war machines. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park III","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first film is the best of the series (but Jurassic World is fantastic as well), the second film is average, this third instalment is essentially a retread of the other two, but worthwhile, produced by original director Steven Spielberg, directed by Joe Johnston (Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, Jumanji, Captain America The First Avenger). Basically tourists Ben Hildebrand (Mark Harelik) and Eric Kirby (Mean Creek's Trevor Morgan) are parasailing around the island of Isla Sorna, where the dinosaurs where engineered and nurtured for Jurassic Park, the boat pulling them is attacked by an unseen creature, killing the crew, and Ben is forced to uncouple the line before the boat crashes, he and Eric with him go sailing into the wilderness. Paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) has become famous as a result of writing a book about his experiences on Jurassic Park (Dr. Ian Malcolm also wrote a book which is mentioned later), while his friend Dr. Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern) is married to Mark Degler (Taylor Nichols) with two children. Alan discusses with Ellie how raptors are more intelligent than they previously believed, he also discusses his theories at an auditorium lecture, but the audience only want to ask him about Jurassic Park, or the incident in San Diego, but later at his dig site his assistant Billy Brennan (Alessandro Nivola) demonstrates a replicant of the larynx of a Velociraptor, made with 3D printer. Alan is next met by Paul Kirby (William H. Macy) who invites him to dinner with his wife Amanda (Ta Leoni), the offer him funding for his research if he will guide them on an aerial tour over Isla Sorna, to see the dinosaurs in their natural environment, he reluctantly agrees, joined by Billy, and the Kirbys' mercenary associates, Udesky (Michael Jeter), Cooper (John Diehl) and pilot M.B. Nash (Bruce A. Young). On the plane Alan hears the Kirbys' real intention to land on the island, his knocked out when opposing and wakes to Amanda using a bullhorn to call out to someone, this attracts a Spinosaurus to attack and kill Cooper and Nash and destroy the plane, the fleeing survivors briefly lose the dinosaur, only to encounter a Tyrannosaurus Rex, the Spinosaurus returns and the two carnivores fight, with the Spinosaurus killing the T. Rex, the group escape into the jungle. The Kirbys explain that they are on the island to find their missing son Erik and Amanda's boyfriend Ben, Paul and Amanda are divorced, exploring the island they find the parasail entangled in the trees, Ben's decomposed body is attached to it, they also come across a nest of raptor eggs, they take the parasail with them. The group next find an abandoned InGen compound, soon they encounter a Velociraptor, during the ambush it calls out to its pack, the group flee into a herd of Corythosaurus and Parasaurolophus, causing a stampede, Alan retrieves Billy's dropped satchel, while Udesky is wounded by the raptors, Amanda, Paul and Billy try to help him, but they realise the raptors had set a trap for them, one of them finally kills Udesky. Alan watching them suspects the Velociraptors are searching for something, they ambush and corner him, but is rescued by Eric, he has been surviving the eight weeks he has been missing in an overturned supply truck, the next day the two of them are reunited with Paul, Amanda and Billy. They survive another encounter with the Spinosaurus, then Alan discovers that Billy has stolen two raptor eggs, hidden in his satchel, this provoked the raptor attacks, Billy thought they would be worth a fortune to fund their research, Alan decides to keep them to ensure the group's survival. In the facility the enter they climb down the stairs into a foggy caged area, it is only when the fog clears they realise they are in an aviary, used to house Pteranodons, which attack the group, Eric is rescued by Billy using Ben's parasail, but he is attacked and apparently killed by the Pteranodons, the rest of the group escape the large bird cage, leaving the door unlocked in panic, in a small boat they make their way downriver, heading to the coast. At night, Alan tries to contact Ellie on the satellite phone, but the Spinosaurus attacks the boat, Alan is only able to say the words The River! Site B before being forced into the water, Alan and Paul scare it away setting leaked fuel on fire. The next day the group are close to the coast, but are ambushed by the pack of Velociraptors, Alan has Amanda hand back the eggs, while he uses the 3D-printed raptor larynx to confuse the pack, they run off with the eggs. In the end the group reach the coast where the the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps are waiting, called by Ellie, on a helicopter they discover Billy is seriously injured but alive, as they leave they see Pteranodons flying free, Alan guesses they are looking for new nesting grounds. Also starring Taylor Nichols as Mark Degler, Julio Oscar Mechoso as Enrique Cardoso, Blake Michael Bryan as Charlie, Sarah Danielle Goldberg as Cheryl Logan and Linda Park as Hannah. Neill is still likable as the intelligent guide, Leoni could have been on longer, and supporting stars Macy, Leoni, Nivola and Jeter do their parts fine, but as with the other two films before, the dinosaurs brought to life by the fantastic CGI special effects and models are the real stars, including newly evolved or whatever Spinosaurus Eegyptiacus which seems more dangerous and aggressive than the good old T. Rex, it may be same old same old most the way through, and the ending a little dashed off, but you can't help but get into the action, especially the pterodactyl attack scene, an entertaining science- fiction adventure. Good! "},{"Title":"Seen It All Before","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite having a good opening hook I didn`t really hold out much hope for JP3 and I was right . It`s not the worst blockbuster film I`ve seen but it has committed the sin of becoming a franchise film . It does deserve some brownie points of having humourous scenes like the dream sequence of a talking dinosaur , but the plot of Dr Grant being coaxed back to Dinosaur Island where a group of humans attempt to survive against flesh eating prehistoric monsters is something I`ve seen perhaps a little too often . It is a mildly entertaining film but after seeing THE MATRIX and THE LORD OF THE RINGS audiences have rightly come to demand something a bit more from a Hollywood blockbuster  "}]