[{"Title":"The Sum Of All Cop Outs","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"104 out of 175 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I read the book The Sum of All Fears with fascination--Palestenians discover an Isreali nuclear device lost when the aircraft is shot down in the six day war, sell it to Al Queda, and the arab terrorists proceed to blow up Denver with said nuke.I was very much looking forward to this movie, only to find that for fear of offending Al Queda, the director and screenwriters had substituted some ridiculous plot about German Nazi's and turned the whole thing into a melodramatic hash.This could have been a GREAT, prophetic, movie.  instead it became a silly waste of money and talent.  I know Tom Clancy hated the movie, so did I.  "},{"Title":"Jack Ryan Saves the World!","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"60 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   The Sum of All Fears is the latest film in the Jack Ryan series as written by Tom Clancy. In the previous films, Ryan was presented as a family man and played by Alex Baldwin and Harrison Ford. This time around we are asked to accept a Ryan who is 25 years younger (Ben Affleck), unmarried and a nerdy, wet behind the ears CIA historian. The age difference would have been more believable had the film been set in 1973, when the story begins, rather than the present. Anyway, the story is about a disgruntled ex-Nazi, Dressler (Alan Bates) who acquires a nuclear device and plans to instigate a war between the USA and Russia and then take over when the super powers destroy each other. The new Russian President, Nemerov (Ciaran Hinds) is set up by Dressler to be blamed for a nuculear attack which wipes out a large part of Baltimore. U.S. President Fowler (James Cromwell) calls in the CIA headed by William Cabot (Morgan Freeman).  Cabot enlists the aide of historian Jack Ryan (Affleck) because Ryan has done a thorough study on Nemerov. Ryan believes the Russian to be innocent even though all around him believe him guilty. As each side prepares to launch their respective missles, Ryan and CIA Operative John Clark (Liev Schrieber) are busily gathering information and Ryan is racing against the clock to convince Fowler of Nemenov's innocence. Affleck tries his best to make us forget Harrison Ford but to no avail. He simply cannot be taken seriously as the man who holds the world's fate in his hands. Freeman is excellent as always and Cromwell and Hinds stand out as the two world leaders. Bates makes a nasty villain and Schrieber is good as the mysterious man with a past, Clark. Bridget Moynahan appears as Affleck's love interest and future wife. The real star of the picture are the special effects. The nuclear explosion is realistic and believable and the attack on the aircraft carrier is equally good. I hope that in the next Jack Ryan movie, he is portrayed by someone who is at least old enough to shave. "},{"Title":"Great book, horrible, HORRIBLE adaptation (SPOILERS)","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"37 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let me preface my comments by saying that I loved Clancy's book when I first read it ten years ago.  It was a gripping page-turner, and a marvelously intricate work, building suspense in layers.  I've since re-read it several times.I realistically expected that elements of the massive tome would have to be changed or condensed for the screen version.  But so much is changed, and so many critical elements removed, that it hardly resembles its novel origins. As a result I find it difficult to believe that Tom Clancy had much creative control over this effort, though he's credited as Executive Producer.First, for some inexplicable reason, this movie jumps away from previous Clancy continuity by completely revamping the character of Jack Ryan. Rather than a middle aged CIA administrator, Ryan is now a young handsome PhD with little Washington experience.  Apparently this is to boost the chick-flick quotient of this outing, as it adds nothing tangible to the film, and only detracts from the continuity that had been built to this point.  There's even a scene where Kathy is asked how cute Ryan is on a 1-10 scale, and she says a 12.  Ugh! They had time to include this garbage, yet skip vital character development later in the film?Yet, even worse, this Ryan is the Uber-Ryan.  Yes, the man is everywhere, and involved in virtually every action sequence in the film.  He finds the bomb lab in Russia (and saves Clark, CLARK, for crying out loud, shouldn't it be the OTHER way around???), races to Baltimore in a helicopter to warn President Fowler(who in yet another huge change is caught in the blast himself) he gets caught in the nuclear blast(and hardly gets his hair mussed, how cliche!), he personally sifts through the rubble of Baltimore for evidence (another inexplicable change, as Denver was the city nuked in the book, then goes on for a cliched confrontation with the terrorists (who are VERY poorly developed character-wise, totally unlike the book) mano y mano in a darkened Baltimore warehouse.   Oh, and I almost forgot, there was the obligatory (and oh so overused) Hollywood death scene where Ryan (again, Ryan personally) kneels at the bed of Morgan Freeman as he expires in a tearful sequence.  Yes, it was painful but not in the way intended.I thought Clancy's books sometimes stretched the believablity of Ryan's capabilities to the breaking point, yet this goes way beyond anything Clancy has previously done.   It's Super-Ryan to the rescue, more 007 than distinguished, cerebral CIA analyst, even though he supposedly had little if any experience in espionage, forensics, or any of that.  It is very cliched, and very tiresome to watch, at least for anyone that's actually read the books.One of the best parts of the novel was the realism.  Reading it, you really believed that the plot Clancy put in motion could occur.  Not this movie. Believable Islamic terrorists were replaced with cartoonish middle-aged white european neo-Nazis who make stock Hitler-loving speeches that any avid movie-goer has heard a million times before.  Dr. Evil would love these guys.  They even got to kill one of their own rank, ala Dr. Evil, after he experienced the convenient cinematic crisis of concience.  You could see it coming a mile away!  I guess that's so we can understand these men are serious and mean businessOh and on the subject of business, since the typical european Neo-Nazi is young, skinheaded, devoted, but not terribly affluent these Nazis were conveniently well-to-do businessmen with the financial assets and experience to put their scheme in motion.  Is this Tom Clancy or James Bond?  I guess its not politically correct to feature the actual type of real world Middle Eastern gentlemen, with the aid of foreign government sponsorship who even now are striving, again in reality, to make weapons of mass destruction to use against us?  I guess its always safe to once again bash caucasian conservative-appearing men in business suits.  Whatever the reason, its another major plot element from the book down the tubes.On the subject of the bomb;  there was a great deal of detail in the book about the bomb that was completely overlooked in the movie.  For example, in the book, the bomb was originally intended to be a multi-stage, ie, HYDROGEN bomb.  It fizzled.  The original yield was overestimated by twenty fold by military analysts because of reflection of the snow, and other factors. The President's advisors didn't think terrorists could build a multi-stage weapon, thus the suspicion was immediately upon the Russians. It was only after frantic detective work that the true yield of the bomb was discovered, and it put Ryan on the proper track AND gave him leverage to help defuse the situation(no pun intended).  It's a common worry that terrorist groups might get ahold of a low yield fission suitcase bombs, yet right from the start in the movie no one, including the President, suspects terrorists!Another fond memory I have of the book is that Clancy took us to the very brink of Armageddon where the US and Russia were nearly in a shooting war because of the misinterpreted size of the bomb, and the tank battle that the German terrorists cause to happen in Berlin.  Yet here, the Russians attack and virtually destroy a US nuclear carrier, we bomb a Russian airbase, and we're still standing at that brink.  Somehow, I think if events got that far, there'd be no turning back.  Clancy seemed to know that when he wrote the book;  he seems to have forgotten it here though.These are just a few of the major problems with this film.  The pacing is bad;  one minute the bomb is still being constructed, and a few minutes later its already placed in Baltimore and about to explode, with the cliche of Ryan hot on the trail, trying to warn the President.  In the book, the bomb catches everyone completely off-guard, but not here, ANOTHER irritating change.  There is also very little character development, the President's motivations are poorly understood, the paranoia of Fowler over the new Russian President's motives was poorly developed, etc etc.Avoid it if you can.  I turned the last 5 minutes off, it was so bad. "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad adaptation","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" OK, I enjoyed the movie. But I also have read the book several times, and the comparisons are inevitable, as several other people have done.I just don't see the point of the most obvious changes from the novel  why using a Neo Nazi fanatic instead of Middle East terrorists? why a very young and single Jack Ryan instead of a married and older character? (Harrison Ford would have been terrific again) Of course a scene aboard Air Force One is more eye candy that a President trapped on Camp David because of a storm and a damaged helicopter. And  where is Ding Chavez??? A character from Clear and Present Danger, is almost adopted by John Clark after being rescued, and they work as partners.Some gaps on the story are too difficult to accept  you mean that the ONLY person able to communicate that the bomb was not Russian, is a obscure junior CIA adviser? what about all the agencies and personnel deployed on the explosion site? are they all mute? (On the book, Ryan passes the information but he is not believed by a hostile President and his Nac.Sec. Adviser, *and* a possible power struggle on the Russian government is completely left out).And how come that you can link without any problem from a Palm in the middle of a burned city? "},{"Title":"Holes big enough to fly a jet through","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"73 out of 128 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a ridiculous movie. First the casting of Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan just doesn't make sense, chronologically (he's already been played by the much older Harrison Ford and Alec Baldwin) or physically &#150; Affleck just isn't commanding enough for the role. Secondly the movie is simply capitalizing on North America's new found fear of terrorism on home turf, and thirdly the screenwriter Paul Attanasio took huge liberties with the Tom Clancy novel, including, in a stroke of misguided political correctness, changing the bad guys from Middle Eastern to Nazis. Of course everyone hates Nazis, so the filmmakers are not going to offend anyone (Hollywood finds it so hard to get good hateful villains now that Russia is no longer communist) but are we to believe that there is a worldwide conspiracy by super-rich and powerful Nazis to pit two world powers against one another? And how, after the blast (yes, there is a huge atomic explosion), does Ben Affleck piece together this entire conspiracy using only a cell phone and a palm pilot? I'm willing to suspend disbelief in most movies, but this movie has holes big enough to fly a jet through. "},{"Title":"A Disgrace To Clancy's Book & An Insult To All Of Us","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"33 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film was a far cry from the book by Tom Clancy, who wrote about Al Queda terrorists reading a set off a nuclear bomb in America. The latter must have been sick watching this movie and typically-Left Wing Hollywood changed the script to being one with Nazis as the villains instead.Are you kidding me? How ridiculously politically correct is that? If I had known this beforehand, I would have boycotted this insulting movie, instead of wasting money on it.Also, at least to me, Harrison Ford will always be Jack Ryan, not some second-rate pretty- boy actor like Ben Affleck. The only redeeming qualities to this film were the nice cinematography and the awesome sound when the big bomb went off. If you have a surround sound, that scene will rock your room. Too bad, they didn't blow up this film before it was released. "},{"Title":"This virus is airborne","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"42 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Final Score 4.0 (out of 10)The movie adaptation of Tom Clancy's The Sum of All Fears might be a starkly frightening movie, could be a cautionary tale of homeland terrorism and nuclear war - that is, if it wasn't caught in the confounding cinematic time-warp it finds itself in. It is primarily set after the fall of the Berlin wall and the end of the nuclear arms race with the Russians, however it's also a prequel with a younger, cocky Jack Ryan (plug-in flavor of the month Ben Affleck) and with the  principle villains being Nazis. This movie will probably be remembered more for it's unfortunate post-9/11 release date (which gave it a sense of importance) then the silly story and content. It's not even so much that the Nazis-as-bad-guys thing is an overused, now out of date cliche as much as the idea that they were Middle Eastern terrorists in Clancy's book and the writers and director Phil Robinson changed them smacks of pure political correctness. Nobody wants to offend the terrorists. As a result the movie feels phony. And that's a big problem because we feel detached from it and, thus, don't feel it is as sharp, timely and intense as Clancy meant it to be. The reason that movies like Fail Safe and Dr. Strangelove were so brilliant is because they were gutsy enough to take on the public's fears directly. This movie isn't, in fact, it goes out of it's way to hide in it's phony world from doing anything gutsy. All movie villains have to be white Anglo Saxon Europeans most likely with `sinister' Russian or German accents. This type of stuff might frighten liberal Hollywood types who think the president might drop nukes at any moment, but it's not going to resonate with most people. It also doesn't help that we can't connect with the characters. Affleck does a fine job or running around yelling, but there isn't a lot of development in the young Ryan or in any character we meet. Robinson's direction is purely rudimentary. The whole thing has the feel of a clumsy TV movie. It's race-against-the-clock gives us no real payoff. There is exactly one really good scene here involving Morgan Freeman, a cell phone and a stadium full of people. It also has one interesting little monologue about how the internet and technology has connected terrorism globally like never before. But without any characters, eye-candy action or resonating story we're left pondering why we wasted our time on this thing. Alternate viewing recommendation 24 - Season 2. Kiefer Sutherland's Jack Bauer runs circles around Ryan in generally the same plot only more intense, frighteningly timely and on a more epic scale.  "},{"Title":"I know Jack Ryan and Ben is no Jack Ryan","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"44 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't notice who was responsible for casting, but they made a huge mistake in casting Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan.  I heard about him inheriting the role from Harrison Ford for some reason, but my first choice would have been to go back to Alec Baldwin, who did an excellent job in the Hunt for Red October.  Morgan Freeman, usually brilliant, also seems to be thrown into this movie incorrectly.  The story was convincing, but again star power doesn't necessarily translate into great story telling.  Let Ben continue to do the romantic comedies and action movies, but leave the strong serial characters to someone who can truly embody the role. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining. Why do reviewers always have to compare to the book?","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As usual, I am very glad I saw the movie BEFORE I read the reviews on this site. Why do soooo many reviewers here have to compare the movie to the book? A book allows 300-400 pages (or more) to develop plots and characters. We are reviewing movies on IMDb, not books. I guess reviewers here want to appear erudite by scraping up details from the book that get omitted or distorted on the screen. I am a very active reader, but I simply cannot read every book that makes it to the movie theatres. Writing a book (a fairly isolated event) is a significantly different event than producing a movie which involves countless people and issues screenwriters, actors, writers, directors, production people, locations, etc., etc. Making all these book to movie comparisons isn't fair to the movie or the book. Many times I just want to watch a movie and judge it on its merits alone - as a movie, period. I did not read this book, but I watched the movie and found it very entertaining and extremely absorbing. "},{"Title":"Read the Book...","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"32 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   The Sum of All Fears, based on the # 1 New York Times bestselling novel by Tom Clancy, features Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan, a historian who somehow or another, by writing a paper on the new Russian leader, is spotted by the CIA Deputy Director (Morgan Freeman).  The Sum of All Fears is even more powerful in this day and age, but nevertheless, it stands nowhere near as great as the novel, which is usually the case with films taken from books. In the following I will point out some differences that weren't crucial to my opinion on the film, but just interesting. The film is a prequel to the other Jack Ryan films, while the novel was a sequel to the other books. In the book, a lost Israeli nuclear warhead is picked up by Arabs some twenty years after the war it was lost in. In the film, a modern-age Hitler is attempting to begin turmoil between Russia and the U.S. with the nuke -- there are no arabs. Also in the novel, the way the bomb was sneaked into the superbowl was much more interesting than the method they used in the film. Also, in the book, Morgan Freeman's character was a dumb man who hid throughout the novel. In the film he's a hero. There's countless other things that don't really matter, but still made me a bit disappointed in the film. The film was in no way awful, and is the best Tom Clancy movie to date, but it's still not as good as the book.3.5/5 stars --John Ulmer "}{"Title":"Hollywood should apologize to all of us Ryan fans","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have read every Jack Ryan book and loved each one. Unfortunately someone always decides to make a movie out of it. How Clancy hasn't b*tch-slapped someone yet is beyond me. How the movies fare so far.. Patriot Games.. acceptable. Hunt For Red October.. One of my favorites,even if different from the book, it basically got it right. Clear and Present Danger.. that's where things really started to jump the track, and fiction crept its way into an already fictionalized story.But this one... this one is truly a horrible horrible event for literate people the world over. I won't list every detail changed and mutilated from a once great story, but suffice it to say this movie is basically in name only a representation of the book. All other details are conveniently changed or overlooked.I understand that Clancy books are involved and takes some effort/intelligence to keep with the complex plots, but they always come to a great point, and leave me wanting more. This movie does not. If someone took my work and did an end-round with it like they did with this waste of film, I'd be homicidal.Hate isn't a strong enough word. Vile isn't a strong enough word.Then to cast my literary hero with Ben Affleck just pours more salt into a gaping wound in the side of my head. What a crock. Pearl Harbor was a totally ruined movie which inconveniently had a historic battle (which I'm sure the veterans of were extremely interested in seeing done in modern effects! or did we forget that this should have been more of a tribute to THEM) interrupt everyones love lives, but at least the Japanese still attacked for Christ sake. This movie doesn't even go that far.The real fun is how many clueless people say wow, what a great movie and don't even begin to realize what they're really missing by not PICKING UP A DAMN BOOK EVERY ONCE IN AWHILE!!!Hollywood, continue to play down to the lowest common denominator if you must, but leave the worthwhile stuff in life alone for those of us that can still read. Stop making crappy movies based on great books. "},{"Title":"Yet another one of Ben Affleck's BOMBS","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Affleck's portrayal of Jack Ryan can only be described as one of the biggest casting mistakes in all of Hollywood history. Does he really think he can fill in for Harrison Ford or even Alec Baldwin? YIKES. As long as the American public will shell out their hard-earned dollars to see Affleck, Hollywood will continue to produce this kind of tripe. Don't people know good acting from really bad? I guess it is just as well that Affleck is associated with this clunker; better actors probably knew to turn the role down.After Hunt for Red October and Patriot Games, this was a miserable followup to what I understand is a great Tom Clancy novel. It was tedious, boring and, amazingly, full of bad language, unlike its predecessor movies. In short, it stank. The script was terrible and the plot so unbelievably stupid that it was painful to watch. The special effects were laughable CGIs. I have not read the novel, but I doubt very seriously it was as asinine as this screenplay was. Skip this one! "},{"Title":"One Stupid Movie","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The only thing you have to know about this film is that it has the Super Bowl taking place in Baltimore. That's right. Super Bowl. Baltimore. That tells you how much thought was put into this giant piece of crap.The plot involves neo-Nazi's who obtain an Israeli nuclear bomb (from an Israeli plane that was shot down in the 1973 Yom Kippur war) and use Russian nuclear scientists to refurbish it, and then ship it to Baltimore (just in time for the Super Bowl) to try to blow up the President of the US.The Nazi's goal is to trick the US into thinking the Russians carried out the attack, hopefully starting a nuclear war which then allows the neo-Nazi's to do what exactly? Take over the smoldering remains of the earth? The movie never adequately explains the rationale behind their actions, since their actions are completely self-defeating. A nuclear exchange between the US and Russia would destroy most of the Western World, leaving precious little left for the Nazi's to rule over. In the novel, Islamic terrorists were the bad guys, which makes sense since they don't care if they live or die and because the Middle East would be relatively unaffected by a nuclear war between Russia and the US. Changing the villains to Nazi's sends this movie into fantasy-land.Ben Affleck is wrong as Jack Ryan -- he's just too much of a sarcastic punk. You can't buy him as the CIA analyst turned action hero. The rest of the cast is good, but most of the characters are complete idiots. Its hard to believe that the President of the US and the Premier of Russia wouldn't talk to each other over the telephone during an international crisis, but in this movie they e-mail each other over AOL like a couple of adulterers.According to the trivia, Harrison Ford and Wolfgang Peterson (Director of Air Force One) turned down the opportunity to participate in this fiasco. They were smart to do so since there was nothing to gain but scorn for having any part in this horrible, horrible movie. "},{"Title":"I feared wasting a sum of money to see it in theaters 10 years ago.","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" And I'm glad I didn't shove my fears aside. It is now the end of June 2012 and I just watched this (ahem) film for the first time, and to be kind, I'm simply not impressed. As Terminator 3 was appraised for being made to appease the masses and a disappointment for the Terminator franchise, so too has TSOAF earned that dubious distinction for the Jack Ryan stories. I cannot begin to describe how much I loathe movies that defy common sense where sense should be common. I mean, how does a hot-headed President get to the Oval Office if he is one to declare a tit-for-tat hit on Russia because they (assumedly) tried to take him out? Did Ben Affleck's Ryan use some secret force field to protect himself from the nascent radiation as he navigated the unreasonably lightly cluttered (if not unrecognizable) streets of Baltimore? How was he able to send and receive wireless communications so soon after an EMP, much less able to use Bill Cabot's magnetically-stripped ID card to get into the Pentagon? And did the continuity folks miss the fact that Jack Ryan has now gone down twice in chopper mishaps? I thought the casting of Affleck was the biggest hindrance though. He just didn't seem to have that it presence for his characters' place in his world. That is, he seemed to be playing Maxwell Smart rather than Jack Ryan as evidenced by his immature-ish reactions at several points in the film, his high-octave voice in spots and his over-emoting the point at the climax. That's pretty tough to do given that the author of this review considers Affleck an actor with the acting range of a signpost. I think the directors mistake was in trying to make a stand-alone film rather than a sequel or even a reboot that respected the Jack Ryan universe. If I had a choice between watching this movie, or some 1950's drive-in B-issue, I'd warm the popcorn for the latter. "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS Ok, I just watched the movie Sum of All Fears staring Morgan Freeman (one of my favorite actors) and Ben Affleck.In the spirit of kindness and compassion, I will save you the high price of movie admission and tell you in no uncertian terms Don't Bother.Here is a spoiler, although it really isn't a spoiler. If you've watched the previews, then the plot is already rotten--for they tell you all there is to know about what happens.Here we goA group of fascists buy a nuclear bomb on the black market so they can use it to provoke the United States to attack Russia in some weird hope that a major war between two nuclear superpowers will lead the masses of people to become goose-stepping Hitler lovers. So they decide to set off the nuclear bomb in Baltimore during a football game that the president is attending.The president gets word of this and leaves the stadium just in time. Even though he is still in the city and his limo was knocked over by a thermonuclear blast, he miraculously escapes unharmed. Morgan Freeman, who was in the same limo however, dies for some reason. (as an aside, the arms trader who found the bomb dies of radiation poisoning, but the guy who buys it doesn't---this is a really strange weapon)Ben Affleck, also in Baltimore and equally unharmed by the giant radioactive explosion, tries to tell the president that the Russians are not to blame--it's the Neo-Nazis.30 seconds before the US launches warheads at Russia, the president calls it off.The Russian and American president become friends and sign a treaty banning nukes forever. Everyone is happy happy, Affleck gets married and life is grand.Entertainment Value=0  "},{"Title":"Phil Alden Robinson, what have you done?","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wow I usually love your stuff, director Phil, but this was... painful to watch. You made a terrible film choice; does your long hiatus from directing have something to do with this turkey? Are you punishing yourself? The only reason I kept watching was to see the nuclear explosion. That too was a disappointment. Affleck, Freeman and Cromwell really all suck here too. I'm glad I didn't pay to see this one in the theater.So get back to directing something that has a decent screenplay. Keep away from CIA writers and CIA approved plot lines and the whole terrorism thing. It's getting really old and the propaganda isn't working anymore.You have enough chutzpah, Phil. Direct something that explains how terrorism is really just the new boogeyman, to replace the cold war boogeyman. Something that explains where AlQueda really came from, or how Presidents can do business with a boogeyman's family with terrorist ties, but no one says anything. "},{"Title":"Enthralling film. LOVED IT","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After reading several negative reviews, I was shocked when I finally saw `The sum of all fears'. I simply LOVED this movie . It was totally thrilling. It had all the ingredients of a great adventure and to top it off it was visually poetic and emotionally stirring. I never read the book this is based on, and I'm  not a Tom Clancy fan. I came into this movie expecting to hate it, because I have hated all the other films in the Jack Ryan series. They were too dry and technical, lacking immediacy or emotion and they felt more like lectures on the way government works and how the military operates than movies. Those films were made for Tom Clancy fans. The sum of all fears was made for a different audience, which is unfortunate since it is based on one of his novels.  There is no doubt that it crosses the line into fantasy several times for dramatic effect. Things happen that probably wouldn't happen in real life. People do things that are impossibly heroic and unrealistic. I'm convinced this is why Clancy fans hate this adaptation.  For me, these traits (considered flaws by many people) helped free the movie from the constraints of absolute realism, allowing it to become more poetic and powerful than it ever could be otherwise.Director Phil Alden Robinson deserves most of the praise for this film. He's a new name for me, but looking at his filmography, it was interesting to see that he was the writer and director  for field of dreams, another film that I totally loved.  He was a very odd choice to helm this film, because field of dreams is a bizarre movie where reality and fantasy meet head on. It's an ultra surreal American fairy tale. It's like a happy David Lynch film, or a Luis Buñuel film with a wholesome center. This is not the kind of director you would normally choose to make a movie like the sum of all fears. The clash between the ultra realism of Clancy's material and Robinson's willingness to forgo realism in favor of  dreamy fairy tale lyricism creates a wonderful sense of vibrancy that I would never have anticipated.After seeing the sum of all fears, I am now convinced that Robinson will go on to make a huge name for himself. He is a truly gifted director with an incredible ability to communicate through images. I can't wait to see his next film. If field of dreams is any indication, he is just good a writer as he is as a director, and I am excited to see what other sorts of ideas he might produce.The movie also has tremendous performances by Morgan Freeman, and (surprisingly) Ben Affleck. He's way to young to play Jack Ryan, so he doesn't even try. The Jack Ryan in this movie is a reinvented character. He's basically a young guy, with the mentality of an idealist,  working his way up in the CIA, while trying to juggle a bachelors social life. For me, he works in this film and he plays that kind of character perfectly.The bottom line is this If you love Tom Clancy and you've read every one of his books,  you're probably going to hate this movie. If you have never read the book, and have no real interest in Clancy's work, you'll probably at least enjoy it. If your like me, and you don't mind films that let drama interfere with rationality, you'll probably love it.  "},{"Title":"Um, yes, I need to deliver some information to prevent a war, is that cool with you guys? Worth a rent.","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First thing that struck me was the casting of Ben Affleck- im not sure why and if this was just me, but i expected him to come out with some punch lines and start cracking jokes at any second- he just didn't fit the role for me personally. Morgan Freeman also didn't seem to have a solid cast in this movie.The story was fairly captivating however, Cromwell was good to watch as always and Morgan Freeman did his best given the role Overall worth a rent but probably not a buy guys. Catch it on TV if you can and you will be probably entertained for that night.7/10 "},{"Title":"Well Made Thriller","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sum of All Fears is an enjoyable thriller and the type of movie the Hollywood studios have always been good at making. It's slick, expensive-looking, well-acted and two hours of far-fetched fun. Ben Affleck plays CIA Agent and superman Jack Ryan PhD. Ryan is a former marine, linguist and all-round polymath who saves the world from impending disaster. Affleck is youthful and convincing as Ryan and makes him seem fallible and likable. Ryan becomes a confidant of the wise and sensible CIA Director Bill Cabot (Morgan Freeman) and acquires a beautiful and successful girlfriend (Bridget Moynahan) who believes he's a historian. The plot is complicated and involves a new Russian leader (Ciaran Hands) who spouts anti-U.S. rhetoric. A Russian chemical attack on Chechnya increases the tension between the two countries. An Israeli atomic bomb is found in the Egyption desert,a relic of the 1973 Arab-Israeli conflict. Neo-Nazi terrorists (led by Alan Bates) want to provoke a nuclear conflict between America and Russia. They acquire the bomb from a South African arms dealer and explode it in Baltimore. The U.S. blames the Russians and the two countries are about to commence all-out nuclear war until Ryan works out what is happening and it all ends happily. The message is that the new Russian leaders are reasonable men signifying that the world has moved on from the Commie bashing flicks of the 1980s.The idea of a terrorist nuclear attack is topical, but unfortunately the Neo-Nazi villains seem very 1970s. The film has good character actors in supporting roles (e.g., Liev Schrieber, James Cromwell). I much prefer Afflek's Ryan to that of the 52 year-old Harrison Ford who by 1994's Clear and Present Danger seemed too old and surly for the role. "},{"Title":"Jack Ryan Movies","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" People seem to expect jack Ryan movies to be more or less the way they imagine the books to be. This phenomenon is almost never the case when a movie comes out BASED ON THE BOOK. I emphasis BASED because it is never MEANT to be exactly what the book is. In Sum Of All Fears, there is a switch from Arab to Fascist terrorists. Sure, some scenes are changed and others, unfortunately, left out. But being that the book is only based on the story, it is NOT GOINT TO BE the story itself. Somethings don't translate well on screen. A book is several hundred pages long. A movie two hours, and they can't very well put every detail from the book into the movie. I saw the film and thought it was good. I also saw all the other Clancy films and enjoyed them for what they were. Maybe not so good by comparison to the book, but never the less good for what they were. As for some characters, for example, Mary Pat Foley would have been unrecognized had it not been for the credits. She is known more for her role as a spy in Cardinal of the Kremlin, which would make a great movie, if they ever did it. "}{"Title":"What a weak waste of an incredible story","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The entire Jack Ryan franchise has been so royally screwed up, it just makes no sense. The sequence of Patriot Games, Hunt for Red October, Cardinal of the Kremlin (book only), Clear and Present Danger, and the Sum of All Fears all build upon each other (not to mention the books Debt of Honor, Executive Decisions, and The Bear and the Dragon, which follow). If you have seen the movies, my guess is you have no personal interest in Jack Ryan's character whatsoever, and don't really see how any of them are related. With no interest in the main character, I see little that would interest me in the plot &#x96; and therefore the film - let alone the franchise. This isn't just a the book was so much better than the movie rant. This movie sucks. The original book wraps such incredible tension into the characters as they all -- unknowingly -- approach the inevitable moment. There is no preconceived knowledge of what is about to happen. This movie reduces that tension (on the stereotypical can you hear me now? poor cell phone connection) to meaningless drivel with Affleck's moronic the bomb is in play&#x85;I repeat&#x85;the bomb &#x85; is &#x85; IN &#x85; PLAY!!!. There was more plot in Transformers Dark of the Moon &#x96; and that's saying something.The real story is meant to revolve around how the characters react to what happens (according to each's preconceptions and personal shortcomings), and the larger ramifications those reactions have to the government, the country, the world. The heroism results from the actions taken by a desperate, broken man who acts with complete personal disregard ... to save the very system that has deliberately broken him. The psychological effect of the key moment in this story, and the desperation that ensues in its aftermath are non-existent in this movie.Do yourself a favor &#x96; read the books, in order. Then realize that they were written before 9/11, before biological attack scares, stock market/cyber-attacks, before Iraq, before the current tension with Iran, before what doesn't seem to be too far off into the horizon with China. Starting with Clear and Present Danger, it will seriously freak you out to see that, some 20 years ago, Clancy predicted many of the traumatic major world events that have occurred in the past decade (and may yet be unfolding in the near future). Not that I walk around wearing a tin foil hat, but seriously, it's freaky.OK, I guess this is a the book is so much better than the movie rant after all. "},{"Title":"Ben Affleck fights terrorists, audience cracks up","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Sum of All Fears stars Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan, a CIA analyst who saves the world from madmen with nuclear missiles and demonstrates that the sum of all American fears is, apparently, the destruction of the Super Bowl. The film, based on a novel by Tom Clancy, is an above average techno thriller, notable for the way it tiptoes around Clancy's depictions of terrorists. Clancy's bad guys were Palestinian terrorists, demented caricatures which evidently made the film's producers nervous (9/11 occurred shortly before the film was made and released). So out goes the turbans and in comes the swastikas. The film's bad guys are now an absurd group of Neo Nazi terrorists with TU-22s. Their plan? Blow up an American football stadium, upset Super Bowl fans and kick start a new Cold War between Russia and America.Incidentally, immediately after 9/11, a smug-faced Clancy would frequently be interviewed by news channels (his novels frequently deal with hijacked commercial airliners crashing into US monuments). In every one of his interviews, Clancy assured the public that 9/11 (and terrorist attacks in general) was due to the gutting of American military intelligence and the downsizing of the US military. If the US had more bombs, more spies, than they would have seen this coming and been able to stop it (US Intelligence long expected such attacks, and the US military and military budget is in fact constantly expanding).Meanwhile, in the real world, people like Nelson Mandela, the Dalai Lama, Martin Luther King, Gandhi, Jesus, Malcolm X, Julian Assange, Bradley Manning, Heinrich Heine, Heinrich Boll, Lech Walesa, Vaclav Havel, Abd El Krim, John Lennon, Sophie Scholl, von Stauffenberg, Martin Luther, Michael Collins, Petofi, Aleksandr Solzenystin, Galileo and, uh, Luke Skywalker are labelled terrorists by states. Clancy's latest novels spend most of their time bashing Chinese, Iranians, Barrack Obama and Pakistanis, and prophetically predicting skirmishes with or in Iran and Pakistan. The Sum of All Fears was directed by Phil Alden Robinson, a director most known for Field of Dreams, one of George Bush's favourite flicks. Sum features some effective thriller sequences and Morgan Freeman as a white man.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Don't forget your peanut butter sandwiches,honey!!.......................","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" So young master Jack Ryan's mommy must say every time she packs him out the front door to go to school,little knowing her cute poppet is in fact leading a double life as a CIA Analyst as well as learning the names of the capital cities of Europe.Doubtless worried he might develop a crush on his teacher,she would be horrified to learn he is dating a doctor nearly twice his age. Never mind,Mrs R.,he's bound to get straight As in saving the planet from a nuclear holocaust.And here's how it all started.Are you sitting comfortably?....Then I'll begin. Once upon a time,back during the second Middle East conflict,the Israelis had a plane in the air 24/7 carrying a nuclear bomb.If they looked like losing(how's that for bad sportsmanship)they would bomb the crap out of Egypt.Sort of like picking up their toys and stomping off home.This plane - or one of a number of planes so equipped - I'm a bit confused on this point - is shot down and lies hidden in the desert for 29 years until it is discovered by Arabs,and a South African(taken over from the Brits in the International Villain stakes) buys it for $400 dollars,selling it on to a unregenerate nazi for $50 million.Said unregenerate nazi (Mr Alan Bates - a chain smoker just to add to his general bastardness) uses it to blow up a football stadium in Baltimore thus plunging the world into the nuclear abyss.Go figure. Luckily young master Ryan is able to get a few days off school to persuade the Russian Premier and the President of the United States that he knows better than either of them and after some jolly tense moments the President grits Stand down to Defcon 3,thus earning young Jack a Gold Star. I have never read the book on which this daft movie was based.I can only imagine that it has been dumbed down and made more child - friendly. Perhaps young Jack can read it for himself when he gets a bit older. Until then he should content himself with learning that Paris is the capital of France,Vienna is the capital of Austria.....are you paying attention?I'll be asking questions later..... "},{"Title":"what the hell were they thinking?","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, at least the people who made the movie at least had some of the same names that the people were in the book, because that is the only thing that even comes close to being like it. I hope you know how to read, because if you don't, and you watch this movie, you're going to be in for some serious disappointment. "},{"Title":"oh dear","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not impressed, I only enjoyed one bit which you just have to watch the trailer for.I have always been a fan of the character Jack Ryan,  it wasn't even that Ben Affleck did it badly.  It's the overall running of the film.Very disappointed.  If you really want to see it,  I'd wait for video, the cinema seats aren't comfortable enough to sleep in!!  "},{"Title":"Forget that you have read the book.","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very good and worth the money to go see. IF... you are able to forget that you read a book by the same title who's author was the executive director of the film.  If you are able to separate the two you will enjoy the film.  I found that I was able to enjoy the film but had long discussions and was bothered by many inconsistencies from the book.  The location of the action (Baltimore), the time (2002), the time the activity took place in Jack Ryan's life (early), the level of his position within the CIA (low), the lack of any other fears to sum up, all were very different from the book and while I was able to enjoy the film as I watched it is has been bothering me more as I reflect on it.So my recommendation is see the movie then read the book, I have found that to be true with most of Clancy's work.  I guess a movie just can't handle the whole story. "},{"Title":"i guess the book doesn't have anything to do with this......","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a Tom Clancy fan but his books made big money and i guess he must be doing something right.I never read any of his books but i've seen all the Jack Ryan movies and i like all other 3 of them,this one is pretty bad.The plot is totally off the wall,and since it must be similar in the book ,i guess he managed to explain things in some rational manner in the book that Hollywood didn't care to transfer to the movie.As it is,you get the impression this was written by some megalomaniac screenwriter who was so caught up in the importance of his story that didn't care about anything that has to do with basic common sense.All that matters in this story is that everything can and will go wrong,and that the US and Russia will be unable to do anything about it without the help of Mr.Ryan. SPOILERS-When you have a movie where a nuclear bomb explodes in Baltimore and then you have Mr.Ryan say,its not that bad ,it was a rather small bomb!!!!!!!!!!!!,then you know you are in trouble. "},{"Title":"total crap","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i hated everything about this movie. many others have said already what the problems are, the timeline is off. sure the book is always better, but at least get the story right. also, i have a rule, if i can whip your butt, you can't be a superhero. Ben is a wuss, and should stick to movies with j lo.  "},{"Title":"Nuclear terrorism by Nazi's !","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enjoyable but also a disappointing two hours, an extra half hour to an hour would have given it the missing edge this movie seriously needed in giving its characters a bit more development and a lot of modernisation to update the 15 year old novel would have helped this movie immensley by adding more action.People who followed the book, might remember Tom Clancy's amazing prediction of the Israel-Palestine peace accord over a decade ago(now in tatters), middle eastern nuclear terrorism and that Israel having an illegal nuclear weapons program for the last forty years!   Being a Tom Clancy fan and a follower of the books, you start to get a feel for what could be converted into a movie maintaining the thrilling nail biting story with the the key characters being utilised with the upto date fashion of the world of geo-politics or current affairs and trends e.g Red October(cold war), Patriot Games(irish terrorism) and Clear President Danger(columbian drugs).This movie based on the book fails to maintain the key bad guys in the novel, Arab Terrorists trying to sabotage the Israel-Palestine Peace talks (tip for a movie)!   This film tries to make us believe unconvincingly that there is a both a threat by WWII German neo-nazi's decendants and the poor loser of the cold war, former Soviet Union, now a part of Nato for the past year, duh!This story is so out of touch even the winning combination of Harrison Ford and Philip Noyce the Director of Patriot Games and Clear Present Danger, avoided this script and turned it down like a four day old sandwich and who could blame them!   The bitter pill was to see Tom Clancy credited as an Executive producer.This movie makes Dreamworks techno thriller. 'The Peacemaker'. About nuclear terrorism which also has an explosive beginning from start to finish look like a superb masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Typically Bad Clancy Movie Plot (MEGA SPOILER ALERT!!!!)","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While the movie would have been entertaining if I were to check my brain at the door, given the hype I found the movie disappointing in the extreme.I found at least six major holes in the plot large enough to drive a space shuttle through. Now, don't misunderstand. I'm perfectly happy to suspend my disbelief at the movie theatre door in the case of obvious fantasies like Harry Potter or Shrek. I'm even willing to accept the notion that James Bond films are essentially cartoons no more related to reality than an episode of the old Batman TV show. However, when a movie purports to have some connection to the reality of current affairs, and it turns out to be no more realistic than the Itchy and Scratchy Show I get annoyed.Let's list the plot holes 1. The Israeli plane gets shot down and the bomb doesn't explode on impact. That's just nuts. Between the impact and the heat generated by the explosions of the engines, the bomb must detonate. If you deny that, you are denying simple engineering. I'll accept that in an episode of Lost in Space but not in a mega-budget film written by the great guru of espionage flicks.2. The authors think the Israelis won't wonder what happened to their atomic missile? That's just nuts. An Israeli plane crashes into the Golan and the Israelis let the missile hang around for 30 years. Sorry. The Israelis know where their missiles are and they know that their neighbors would be happy to use even a grain of plutonium to harm them. This just defies reality.3. An atomic missile is smuggled out of Haifa Harbor by neo-Nazis? That's just loony. Now, the Mossad isn't as good as its press releases and is certainly riddled with KGB double-agents but it is absolutely inconceivable for any Israeli to be involved with Nazis no matter what the financial reward. There was this event in the 40s called the Holocaust. Perhaps, Mr. Clancy has heard of it. Especially after 9/11, the Israelis are extremely careful about what goes on in their state. Give them credit for being at least a little smarter than a doorknob.4. Ben Affleck gets into the Pentagon with Morgan Freeman's ID? The City of Baltimore has just been destroyed by a nuclear weapon and the Pentagon is easier to get into than the Z Smith Reynolds Airport in Winston-Salem, North Carolina? In the immortal words of Homey the Clown, 'No, I don't think so!'5. A nuclear weapon gets smuggled into the US. That can certainly happen but you really need some sort of serious cover. As Abe Rosenthal, the former editor of the New York Times, has said,'If you want to smuggle a nuclear weapon into the US, put it in a bale of marajuana.' The notion that there is anybody in the Customs Service in a position of authority who would allow a nuclear weapon into the States without a lot of  money changing hands and without leaving himself the opportunity to get far out of harm's way is farcical at best.6. Ben Affleck goes into the middle of a radiation zone without any protection and suffers no ill effects, not even the loss of one strand of hair. 'Nuff said.7. This last criticism is a general criticism of Tom Clancy stories. No rational person who has lived through the last decade or so in the US can possibly believe that the CIA is even minimally competent much less the repository of virtually all wisdom as depicted here or in any other Tom Clancy novel. CIA stands for 'Clueless in America.' Since 1990, we have seen the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, the bombing of the World Trade Center, attacks on two embassies in Africa, the emergence of terrorist training bases in Afghanistan, Sudan, the Phillipines and G-d only knows where else, the Oklahoma City bombing, the Aldrich Ames case, the Robert Hansson case, BCCI, the bombing of our troops in the Khobar Towers, the USS Cole attack, and the suicide bombings of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Maxwell Smart and Larabee on a three week bender could do a better job.One can only hope that Morgan Freeman and James Cromwell were well paid for having this cinematic disaster on their resumes. "}{"Title":"Less than the Sum of its Parts","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie ticked all the right boxes, yet somehow came up short. It's watchable, and yes, even entertaining. It just could have been so much better!Clancy's techno-thriller novel of the same name isn't his best work, which peaked at Clear and Present Danger. But it's still a good enough read and should have made a good film.Ben Affleck is cast as Jack Ryan; The third actor for the role. In my mind Alec Baldwin came best to capturing Jack Ryan as the shy, naive boy scout of Clancy's novels. Nevertheless Ben Affleck plays the role competently, albeit casually. The supporting cast is very good, including Morgan Freeman as Ryan's boss, and Liev Schrieber as John Clark.However this movie is set as a prequel to the earlier Clancy Movies. There were also some changes to the book I thought these would bother me, but they didn't. Although these changes were thought to be made post 9-11, it turns out they were actually made some years before.But it turns out this movie isn't meant to be a prequel after all. They're actually starting from scratch, but this isn't explained to the audience making it confusing to say the least.Accordingly the movie (apparently) suffers the usual prequel problem; We know the hero cannot be killed. Film makers usually counter this by introducing a supporting cast we do care about. Here that is attempted, but doesn't work because we don't see their human side; Mostly we just see bureaucrats shouting at each other in darkened conference rooms. Not the stuff of love.Key to the story is a series of apparent attacks by Russia on the United States. Are the Russians behind them, or is it somebody else? The problem is, we, the audience, are told immediately that the Russians aren't behind it, and who the who-else is. For the next two hours we watch our heroes stumble around trying to prove what we already know. It makes them look, well, not very bright, and we have to wait impatiently for them to catch up to us.A similar plot device worked brilliantly in Hunt for the Red October, but fails here because of a lessor screenplay that consistently fails to develop suspense. Suspense needs to be played out over time to work; it's something you build up to a terrifying climax. Better yet, you don't give the audience a break and keep it ratcheted up there all the way through the movie.This is where the screenplay consistently misfires. The nuclear bomb spends the first half of the movie sitting around as nuts and bolts. When it is deployed, the movie jumps so quickly suspense never has time to develop. Similarly the military sequences are similarly lost opportunities. The attack on the aircraft carrier, the attack on the airbase and even John Clark walking into the abandoned warehouse are over so quickly that again and again suspense never has time to develop.Surprisingly too for a Clancy/Neufeld film, the technical inaccuracies in this film are major. In the airbase strike, the defenders don't launch even a single fighter to challenge them. The bombers lazily fly up and drop their bombs unchallenged. In a two hour movie, we could have had five or ten minutes of nail-biting air combat. Instead we get fifteen seconds of video stock footage. The attack on the aircraft carrier is pure bunkum and very underplayed. If you've ever read Clancy's Nail Biting Red Storm Rising you'll have an idea what I'm talking about. Another opportunity lost. Stealth Bombers picked up at long range on radar? I hate to break this to you, but....The sort of audience that sees a techno-thriller will pick out this sort of thing, and it'll break their suspension of disbelief. What's surprising is that Clancy is credited as the Executive Producer. The audio on the DVD narrated by the Director Phil Alden Robinson and Clancy is interesting. Clancy complains about the technical errors and some of the plot devices. But as Executive Producer, why didn't he have this discussion *during* production?It turns out there were discussions with the US military and the producers, but the outcome was confused. It also resulted in ludicrous situation where the US Navy begged the producers not to destroy the carrier because, you know, they're the pride of the fleet and all. This is quite frankly, exceptionally silly propaganda by Navy PR. Are they going to ask Mr. Clancy to rewrite his novels too? Many carriers were lost during WWII, and modern weapons make it more and not less likely. If the US Navy thinks hamstringing a movie producer is going to save their ships on the high seas, well, someone had too much jungle juice.Instead of the nail biting suspense we could have had, we get Jack Ryan in a minor automobile accident because he's SMSing while driving, or repeatedly swiping his magnetic pass to get into a building. All over in ten seconds. Oh there is a helicopter crash. All over in ten seconds. You get the idea?A techno-thriller without suspense isn't a thriller and the many technical flaws will alienate its Nerdy (sorry guys! ;-) audience; Two out of Four Stars.Clancy/Neufeld have turned out some good Jack Ryan films; Most notably Red October and Clear and Present Danger. For their sake, and for ours, I hope they get the franchise back on track.There is one interesting claim Clancy makes on the DVD audio; Left-wing leaders are the ones that get into trouble and have to use nukes, where as right-wing leaders never let it get that far. I like Clancy, but I think he's confusing his hypothetical fiction with real life There hasn't been a single leader since Truman that has used a nuke, and Truman was hardly painted into a corner when he ordered the nuclear attacks on Japanese cities. "},{"Title":"Ben is not a action drama star","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie is not bad itself. Bring in Ben and it goes to poop. As I liked him in Good Will Hunting, he has spoiled every movie with action drama to include Pearl Harbor. Watch the movie if you don't agree with me. Afterwards, you will. During dramatic scenes, it seems as if his character is not really in the movie, but rather a separate entity superimposed into the script. It's like a baby crying during an underwater exploration. It reminds you that your watching a movie, not experiencing it. Also, for a movie to capitalize on peoples' fears about terrorism is morally wrong in my opinion. It should have been kept as a book, and not made into a movie. "},{"Title":"bad story bad acting bad editing","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tom Clancy knows how to write a good book and the movies that have been made from his books have been pretty darn  entertaining.  This time someone screwed the pooch.  Ben Aflec is not a very good actor and did not portray Jack Ryan as well as some other actors could have.  The story (screen play ) was awful. The editing made the films sense of time passing extremely difficult to gauge.  Oh well. Better luck next time movie makers. "},{"Title":"Now I know why Harrison Ford and Philip Noyce chose not to participate in this film.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is as preposterous as the existence of a domed football stadium in Baltimore.  While the special effects are technically well executed, the plot resembles Swiss cheese--lots of holes.  It's bad enough I spent $3.00 to rent it, I would really have been angry if I had paid $8.00 to see it in the theater. "},{"Title":"Muddled and confusing.","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the premise, but felt the film could have started about half way through and concentrated on this second half. As it was, the second half just lost me as it groped around aimlessly in some sort of forced ra-ra mode. There was little time reference, continuity, and certainly no character development. I see what Tom Clancy is trying to say, but as usual he does it with all the subtlety of a brick over the head and it doesn't help that in trying to compress all he has to say, into a less than two hour movie, it all just becomes confused. Frederick Forsyth has the same problem when transferred onto the big screen - although at least Freddy is plausible and has some real experience with what he writes about. The CIA is just a little too slick here - love how those cell phones just keep on working... anywhere! Affleck is no Harrison Ford, no, no, no, or even a Baldwin for that matter. God help us all if we're relying on him (or his acting) to save the world. He's about a three on the cute scale for me - how anyone could give him a twelve is beyond me. Freeman is wonderful as usual. The tension is well portrayed in the situation rooms, but I can't help but think even a George Bush has more backbone than the President in this film. This is a really bad film, which is a pity because they could have done so much better - even with Affleck. "},{"Title":"Horrendous","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why did they even pretend that this is the same story from the Tom Clancy book?  The name should have been changed and new characters made up because it has nothing to do with the other Clancy movies.  I could have gotten over the fact that they changed to villians in the name of political correctness, but fundamentally changing the personalities of the characters ruined the film, on top of a terribly written script and gross over-acting.I was somewhat skeptical of Ben Affleck taking over the part of Jack Ryan, because he seemed too young.  However, that is not what made it a bad choice. The fact that they make him single, with no family, and with no experience in the CIA is bothersome to watch.  This was supposed to be a sequel to the other Clancy books/movies which include The Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games, and Clear and Present Danger.  In each of these, his family plays a prominent role, but in the Sum of All Fears, there is no family.All of that made the movie less than pleasurable to watch, but the bad acting and cheesy script made it painful.  None of the characters are believeable.  The arguments are half-hearted and don't make much sense and Ben Affleck's passion is contrived.  All in all, I would give this movie 1 star out of 5 and hope I never have to watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Clancy Sold Out","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The beauty of Clancy's films have been that they were well-researched, plausible films that mixed in good Hollywood action.  There were so many holes in the plot of this particular movie it made me sick.  It's clear Clancy simply handed over the rights to this movie and said, Do whatever you like.  It definitely isn't worthy of being in the same family of movies as the other works.  The reasons his other films worked so well was because people who were simply looking for an action movie could enjoy it for the action, while people who were more knowledgeable about politics and the military could enjoy it on another level ... but this film caters to people who know nothing more than what they see on CNN, while including mediocre action. "},{"Title":"Tom Clancy made Irrelevant, boring and dumb","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would not have thought it possible to take Tom Clancy material and make it irrelevant, boring and dumb, but that is exactly what this stumbling production manages to do.The improbable plot of this film supposes that there is a Nazis conspiracy out there with the resources and will to blow an American city to kingdom come.   Tom Clancy at least had the clarity of mind when writing his book to make the villain plausible.  After all, we do KNOW that there are Islamic nut-heads out there who really do wish Western society serious harm.Even eco-terrorists would have been more plausible than an imaginary cabal of super-rich Nazis.The impression I have is that the simple reason the producers altered Clancy's book to make the villains Nazis is precisely that any alternative group would have sued their butts off.On top of this, they slather over a heavy dose of slavophobia with heavy-jowled and five-o'clock-shadowed Russians ready to jump the gun on nuclear war at the least excuse.  The director and producer also need to be told that an over the top sound track cannot make up for a total lack of dramic development.  I found myslef wanting to be somewhere else about twenty minutes into the film, and the feeling grew in intensity steadily thereafter.Gratuitously,  the producers give the Jack Ryan character an existence totally outside the timeline of all previous Jack Ryan movies.  Was this just to accomodate a younger actor?  Was Ben Affleck the only actor available?This film is not an extension of the Ryan franchise, it is a parasite on the Jack Ryan franchise.  After creating a Jack Ryan that no one can believe, they compound the problem by making him a dumb but charming bumbler, who can't even figure out how to make contact with his handlers, or to get them to give him access through channels to the President.Forget Ben Affleck, this role was tailor made for Woody Harrelson or Jeff Daniels.  The Farrelly brothers would brought a clearer vision to the making of this movie than did the actual director of this disappointing loser. "},{"Title":"See Bourne Identity instead.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw both movies on the same boring summer day.  I was energized by Bourne Identity but nearly put to sleep by Sum of All Fears.Ben Affleck is too young and inexperienced and his character is not sincerely believable. A low ranked CIA agent all of the sudden has the jurisdiction to talk to the president of Russia during an international crisis? Ryan, Affleck's character, decides it is his dying duty, because somehow he has the ability, to save the world just because he wrote a paper on a Russian leader? Affleck's character seemed exaggerated and the actions he took would most likely not be possible in real life.Morgan Freeman should have known better than to take this script, although he did do an admirable job with a bad movie.There were so many characters that remained unidentified, and it was too long. Also, there were many military impossibilities.Do yourself a favor, see Bourne Identity instead. It is definetly the better of the thrillers. "},{"Title":"Totally ruined by some Hollywood dimwit changing the bad guys","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well, if we start with the good. The story itself is not really too bad and if you forget the title, the mention of Tom Clancy and Jack Ryan, then the movie is decent enough. It is a reasonably well implemented thriller. Not great but worth seeing.However, the book is about Arab terrorists performing terrorist acts by means of thermonuclear devices causing the two superpowers to come to the brink of a nuclear war. The movie has replaced this foe with some nonsense story about emerging neo-Nazis wanting to take over the world. This is just utter rubbish. It is obviously a political decision by some asshole not wanting to upset the Arab community so he picks a safe bad guy instead. The speech where the head Nazi compares themselves with a virus was just unintelligent writing and painful to watch.Nazis are obvious bad guys and can be put to good use in movies, just as communists and Muslim terrorists and a whole bunch of other groups, but not when the original material uses another, much more logical, foe. The original foes in the book would have some force behind them in the radical Muslim community that made their plans for world takeover after the superpowers had annihilated each other at least somewhat plausible. If you ignore minor details like that there would really not be much to take over after a barrage of nuclear missiles from USA and Russian of course. But a few twisted old Nazis that sits in hiding in dark rooms cooking together this hair-brained scheme? No way! I am sad to say that whoever asshole that decided to rewrite the main adversary of this movie ruined it totally for me. I am really happy that I never watched it when it came out in the theaters but instead watched it, in a sense for free, on my Netflix subscription. "}{"Title":"Exciting and thrilling installment in which a young analyst , Jack Ryan,  must supply advise to US President , then goes into action","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jack Ryan's entry with lots of noisy action , thrills , chills , tension and amazing thriller . This blockbuster is an acceptable adaptation of the novel by Tom Clancy , companion to other prior renditions . The title is paraphrased from a Winston Churchill speech; Why, you can take the most gallant sailor, the most intrepid airman or the most audacious soldier, put them at a table together - what do you get? The sum of their fears. It deals with CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Ben Affleck) along with a ranking member (Morgan Freeman) of Presidential administration must thwart the plans of a terrorist faction that threatens to induce a catastrophic conflict between the United States and Russia's newly elected president by detonating a nuclear weapon at a football game in Baltimore. As there are 27,000 Nuclear Weapons and One Is Missing . Now Ryan goes back in action for the most vital assignment of his life  to save the President (James Cromwell) and the nation .Stirring outing filled with emotion , suspense , chills , twisted intrigue and extraordinary nail-biting action scenes . This film is a prequel to the others in the Jack Ryan series . The 'Harrison Ford' films are direct follow-ups to The hunt for Red October (1990) despite the recast of Alec Baldwin's role . Nevertheless, in this film we see Jack Ryan meet John Clark, something which also happens in Clear and present danger (1994) . Therefore this film might be best understood as a reboot of the Jack Ryan series . Interesting screenplay plenty of twists and thrills by Paul Attanasio and Daniel Pyne . However , the filmmaker changed the villains from Islamic extremists , in the novel , to Neo-Nazis ; this was done because prior to the 11 September 2001 attacks, he did not believe Arab terrorists could plausibly accomplish all that was necessary for the plot to work on film . Good production design , in fact , the CIA scenes were filmed at the actual CIA headquarters ; this was one of the times the CIA had ever done such a thing . And this was the first American film unit to enter the Kremlin , though Red Heat (1988) was the first American unit to film in Moscow . The spectacular Super Bowl scene takes place in Baltimore , the two teams playing in the game are portrayed by the Toronto Argonauts and the Montreal Alouettes . Real U. S. Marines along with two Marine Corps CH-53E Super Stallion helicopters were used for the sequence of rescuing Fowler from the wrecked motorcade . The picture has a very good support cast who gives excellent performances such as James Cromwell as President Fowler , Bruce McGill as National Security Adviser , John Beasley as General Lasseter , Philip Baker Hall as Defense Secretary , Joseph Sommer as Senator , Michael Byrne , Liev Schreiber , Alan Bates , Sven-Ole Thorsen , Ron Rifkin , Colm Feore and special mention to Ciaran Hinds as Russia President . Spectacular musical score fitting to action and suspense by maestro veteran Jerry Goldsmith . Colorful and atmospheric cinematography by John Lindley . The picture is well directed by Phil Alden Robinson , though Philip Noyce, director of previous entries, was offered to direct but turned it down and Wolfgang Petersen was also offered the chance to direct but declined.This blockbuster is an entertaining adaptation of the novel by Tom Clancy , companion to ¨The hunt for Red October¨ by John MacTiernan with Alec Balwin and Sean Connery , followed by ¨Patriot games¨ (1992) by Philip Noyce with Harrison Ford taking over the role of Ryan from Alec Baldwin and again ¨Clear and present danger¨(1994) by Philip Noyce with Harrison Ford and Anne Archer . Then Harrison Ford dropped out of reprising the role of Jack Ryan because he and director Phillip Noyce could not agree on the script and Noyce ended up dropping out of the film as well. And finally , Jack Ryan Shadow Recruit (2014) by Kenneth Brannagh with Chris Pine as Jack Ryan , Keira Knightley and Kevin Costner . "},{"Title":"Too much CSPAN homework","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the 1973 Arab&#x96;Israeli War, Israel launches a plane with a nuke but then is shot down over the Golans. In modern times, the nuclear bomb is found by arab scrappers and falls into the hands of arms trader Olson (Colm Feore). Jack Ryan (Ben Affleck) works behind a desk as a CIA analyst. He's brought in to advise on the new Russian President Nemerov (Ciarán Hinds). Everybody thinks Nemerov is a hardliner except Ryan. His girlfriend Dr. Cathy Muller (Bridget Moynahan) doesn't know about his work. DCI William Cabot (Morgan Freeman) brings Ryan to Russia to inspect disarming efforts and uncovers that 3 Russian scientists are missing. John Clark (Liev Schreiber) is sent to find the scientists. During the White House correspondence dinner, President Fowler (James Cromwell) and everybody is called in about a Russian chemical attack in Chechnya. Nemerov pretends that it's his operation instead of renegade generals. Clark discovers the 3 Russian scientists working on the nuke under Olson. A worldwide cabal of right wing nationalist parties smuggles the Israeli nuke into Washington and sets it off in a plan to ignite a war between the nuclear superpowers.This Jack Ryan movie takes forever to get going. There is too much explaining and political intrigue. It's a little too much CSPAN. It's not good enough to be a spy movie and Jack Ryan has always been more action than cerebral. The franchise is action thriller with a brain. This feels like a Bond movie without the action sequences. And then a nuke goes off to make up for it. At least it's an exciting turn that injects some much needed energy. The other problem for this movie is the timing.Sometimes world events overtake the movie world. This one suffers from coming out so soon after 9/11. The political intrigue would be passable in years past seems so cartoonish now. It tries so hard to be realistic but it just rings hallow. It's not gritty realistic enough, and neither is it cartoonish enough to be escapist fun. It's the worst of both worlds.There are great actors at work here starting with Morgan Freeman. Ben Affleck is a good young Ryan even though it's a failed reboot. I can understand the criticism at the time. After the ridiculous 'Pearl Habor', he didn't have enough credibility. It's the start of his years of terrible roles and bad acting. "},{"Title":"Even worse because it is so full of itself. It has moments, but it's a pastiche and an insult","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Sum of All Fears (2002)A bit of cold war redux. It's patched together, not quite incoherent (as some reviews on its release claimed) but one thing does not necessarily lead to another. The lead CIA dude in charge is a typically dull Ben Affleck (however hard he tries), and too much depends on him at times to really work. The plot, for 2002, is thick and thicker, dredging up both 1960s Cold War fears and WWII Nazi anger, too. At times you want to throw up your hands and just say, stop!You can't argue against high drama for its own sake, I suppose--love, loyalty, a stadium full of innocents, Israel and the Ukraine and Langley and a pair of firmly reasonable Russian and American leaders. It has the makings of a serious movie, the Tom Clancy basis notwithstanding (he's an airport novelist at best), but it has too many fault lines and strained effects. And it pushes its drama like a hungry pig at the trough. Note the ending, if nothing else, for proof--not the cutesy part about the engagement, but the five minutes before that, a kind of homage to the famous wedding sequence in The Godfather where two opposite plots and sentiments are aligned in classic parallel editing.This isn't quite a disaster of a film. It has some neat movie-making moments, like the way they recreate the high secrecy of the Defense Department, or the brief atomic bomb sequences. Morgan Freeman seems to be convincing as anything he wants to be in film, and he is a central high point again and again. In fact, the movie takes off when he first appears, and it disintegrates when his role is done. Liev Schrieber can be wonderful and he's strong here, but isn't given enough rope to make his character have distinction. Taking all this further, I think it is at times an insulting movie, making schlock out of the most fearsome and serious of 20th Century issues. You also invariably remember the great Cold War films straight out of the cold war, like Fail-Safe and The Bedford Incident among several others, all of which have the horror and terrifying lack of control intact. And of course to bring out the Nazis again (as so many films do, I guess because we have a cultural hatred of them that's still draws water at the well) is just too much. Not that they don't exist, but that they don't contribute here.I wouldn't waste my time in particular, but if you are stick in Baltimore in a motel room and this comes on, you might, possibly, do worse. "},{"Title":"decent, flawed Clancy adaptation","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is a certain inanity to 'The Sum of All Fears' and it begins to grate after a while. It is Jack Ryan (portrayed here by Ben Affleck) constantly being seen by his government superiors as 'the boy who cried wolf.' Yes, this is a continuing aspect of the character, but it is WAY overdone here, to the point of absurdity. Ryan is belittled, ignored, disbelieved, lectured, and generally made to look like a fool. At one point, he actually has a member of the cabinet on the phone during a crisis in which Ryan has a crucial piece of the puzzle, and the guy hangs up on him! Please tell me our government isn't THAT stupid. The story basically is that a mischievous third party tries to provoke a war between Russia and the United States, and damn near succeeds when they acquire an old Israeli nuke that disappeared back in the 70's. They set it off in Baltimore and the US administration naturally suspects the Russians. The problem is, the film audience learns about the weapon very early on, and so Jack Ryan's uncovering of the truth, in bits and pieces, seems interminable. Between no one else in the government believing him and the agonizing amount of time it takes him to put two and two together, filmgoers may begin tearing their hair out. Ben Affleck resembles Alec Baldwin's Jack Ryan much more than Harrison Ford's. Despite the urgency of much of his dialogue, Affleck comes off a bit shallow, and at times seems more annoyed at things in general than worried about the possibility of a nuclear showdown. Like the whole thing is keeping him from ordering concert tickets or something. Morgan Freeman plays his boss at the CIA and he's good as always, and James Cromwell is quite believable as the US President. 'The Sum of All Fears' doesn't feel a part of the same world really as the other Tom Clancy films, even with the presence of old hands like Cromwell. The Ryan character is diminished too much, and there is no other presence in the film substantial enough to take his place. So we essentially have an ensemble piece about a horrific set of events with a lot of interesting things taking place and a number of characters dealing with them. Taken on those terms, 'The Sum of All Fears' is a decent thriller. "},{"Title":"A majorly underwhelming experience!","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can live with Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan, the ludicrous attempt to transplant what is essentially a 60's cold-war setting to the new millennium (excuse me, but didn't Russia fall off the end of the Earth?) BABE'S Farmer Hoggett (James Cromwell) as a President with an impressive line in expletives etc... what I CANNOT hack is the notion that the world's apocalyptic fate hangs on the outcome of Jack Ryan's over-used cellphone and a few hurriedly compiled emails! This is total bull----!Patriotic hogwash, that just wouldn't cut it for any half literate and clear thinking person. The series is already a legend in its own mind, even Harrison Ford's couple of turns as Jack Ryan were something less than action classics, though both outshone this by a country mile! Take Morgan Freeman out of the equation here and excuse me, but WHERE was the film? At the recent screening I attended there appeared to exist a groundswell of people WANTING to like it....I doubt even a few Mexican waves could have achieved much more however!Production values were good, although in fact the film IS on a total downward spiral from the excellent opening credits onwards. Basically from what I can remember (and it WAS only last night)...nothing happens!  A few poor shepherds watching their flocks (OK...bit of poetic license there), come across a half-buried nuclear bomb that the Israelies sorta lost a quarter of a century earlier.  Well what good fortune then would this be for political extremists who see an opportunity of getting the two old foes...Russia and the US back at their nuke-HQ's by detonating the thing at a sports stadium in Baltimore. (Is this one of the most unimpressive fx's in recent years? - I mean, how many guys does it take to digitise a mushroom cloud?)From this point forwards, the film loses all credibility - not that it had that much to start with! Affleck shifts up a cog into James Bond mode, the script writers had given up and the film's ONLY decent character CIA Head Cabot (Freeman) is choking on his death scene in a laughable GONE WITH THE WIND sequence.Someone want to tell me what this wannabe action flick is doing with a rating of 7.0? THIS my friends is the Sum of all Mediocrity "},{"Title":"This project should have been nuked at birth!","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Being an avid reader of the Jack Ryan Novels, I thought that this would have been an ideal film to make, showing all of the guile of the book. What we got was a complete and utter misrepresentation of the story. I am surprised that Clancy even let his name be associated with the film as it bears no relation to the book whatsoever. Even allowing for dramatic licence, Jack Ryan seems to have lost about twenty years in age, his children have yet to be born, and, he survives a nuclear explosion at close range. I don't think so somehow. The acting is very lightweight, and not very convincing. Should you be given the choice of watching this film or watching the grass grow, green is a very nice colour. Sorry to be so negative, but I also believe in being honest. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably stupid.","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie lost me in the first five minutes.  I think that's a record.  How did it do it?  (If revealing the teaser can be considered a spoiler, then SPOILER ALERT)We start with a lone Israeli jet carrying a nuclear bomb over Sinai during the 1973 war, just in case Israeli forces are overwhelmed.  While the pilot is fussing with a picture of his wife and child, a SAM is launched and the plane is downed.  Years later, Bedouins dig it out of the sand.a.  It takes about six minutes for a jet to fly from Tel Aviv to Cairo.  The Israelis wouldn't have launched a jet with a bomb unless they planned to blow up Cairo for real. b.  There would have been an entire squadron protecting the plane. c.  No Israeli pilot -- or any fighter pilot in any air force -- would be fussing with photos of his wife while flying. d.  The Israelis owned Sinai for years.  If they lost a jet with a nuclear weapon, you don't think they'd be damn sure they found it before they handed Sinai back to Egypt? e.  Russia is chock full of nuclear weapons and underpaid soldiers guarding them.  It couldn't have come from there?  The rest of the movie is the same.  Cool visuals, story makes no sense.  Hard to care when the storytellers don't.   "},{"Title":"Sum of All Nothings","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Deservedly derided on release, The Sum of All Fears continues to hold a heady place in the worst-movies-ever league.It's not only a mess, but a repugnant mess, as ludicrous as it is loathsome in its pandering to that section of the audience which belongs to the moronic tendency, one which only wakes up to death-as-reality rather than death-as-entertainment when confronted by events like 9/11 and which hasn't a clue about politics, history, geography, or much of anything else.Like the execrable Die Hard II, which for narrative purposes dispensed with several hundred lives in the destruction of a 747 &#150; Lockerbie, anyone? &#150; Sum of All Fears goes in for mass murder &#150; but then, like Die Hard, fudges it. It's just a fiction, folks. Entertainment, right? We didn't really mean it.And no, of course they didn't. It would be difficult, putting it mildly, to have any serious intent when dramatising anything from Tom Clancy's latter-day output source material bearing only an accidental approximation to the English language makes life hell for those lumbered with the task of turning it into a screenplay.With Paul Atanassio in the writing credits, however, more, much more, might reasonably have been expected. But neither he nor anyone else involved delivers, well. . . anything.Narratively, it's a string of clichés that aren't even pulled together neo-Nazis (oh Gawd, spare us, do) with a nuclear bomb (heigh-ho) and somewhere, some rogue Russian general who blows up the most unprepared aircraft carrier in the history of warfare after the Nazis have blown up, er, Baltimore.Not that anyone notices that Baltimore is the new Nagasaki. People merrily wander around Ground Zero without thought or effect of radioactive fall-out. The biggest danger appears to be fire engines driven by Keystone Cops.Tackling the neo-Nazis is an actor who achieves the not inconsiderable feat of registering even less on the radar than a stealth bomber. He, whatever his name is, escapes Baltimore in much the same way that his presence escapes the entire movie.Morgan Freeman is somewhere in there too, but it's a phoned-in performance -- as is that of Alan Bates, who on reflection may afterwards have thought himself fortunate to have worn so much make-up.The US military is there in support as well, thereby proving to the rest of the world how utterly illiterate it truly is -- else how come it signed up to a script which shows it to be so blindingly maladroit? (If there's such a thing as reincarnation, God, please don't bring me back as a midshipman on a US aircraft carrier. . .) James Cromwell turns up too, seemingly in confirmation that either he or his agent can't read, either the tastelessness of The General's Daughter ought to have been enough for one career but no, here he is again. Curious, how far the farmer has travelled from the happy days of 'Babe'.But perhaps that's the explanation. Somebody said of The Sum of All Fears that it's a real pig of a script.So he thought he was in another sequel.Rating doesn't even register. "},{"Title":"This is canned!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"       As an average espionage movie, this is a good flick.  In fact, if the names involved weren't Jack Ryan and Tom Clancy, and if we hadn't actually seen some terrorist disasters in the last eight months, I would've thought it a really well-done intelligence thriller, looking at how Russia and the U.S. might head towards nuclear war if somehow a nuke went off in the U.S. during a time of tension.  Affleck and Freeman seemed fine, but I keep on reminding myself supposedly that these are the characters that should have become James Earl Jones and Baldwin.        After September 11, and especially with the Clancy/Ryan films that have already been made, Sum just feels wrong.  Philip Baker Hall's line about the response from the Russians, This is canned! feels like a description of the whole film.  How can you blow up Baltimore and still have a happy go-lucky ending?  If you are going to, ADMIT that you're just trying to make a fun Friday night flick, and not a TOPICAL IN-DEPTH film about U.S. security, which is kind of what Affleck and Clancy have been claiming they're doing.  (Kind of like claiming the ridiculous Air Force One was a serious look at how to respond to terrorism on board the president's plane.)    Also, if this was a film about nuclear war, then it should have stuck to that possibility.  If it's a film about the hunt for some terrorists planning a nuclear attack, that would be a different story.  The way the film neatly wraps up everything in the end (with the exception of the destruction of BALTIMORE) is both silly and pure Hollywood.  I'm disappointed, and I hope this is a hiccup in an otherwise intriguing series of well-done espionage films.       "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"25 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Russia and the U.S. are on the verge of a nuclear war all masterminded by a terrorist.  Jack Ryan (Ben Affleck) knows, but can he convince both the governments?There's more to it but, basically, that's the plot.  As it is, it's pretty good.  It may be a little disturbing, however, to some people after 9/11.  If this had been released before then it would have been seen as just another Cold War movie.  It's very well-done but no great shakes...the attack scenes are frightening to watch.Affleck is very good as Ryan.  He's young, good-looking, intelligent and Affleck's low-key acting fits the Ryan role like a glove.  Morgan Freeman shows up (again) as a mentor to Ryan.  Nothing against Freeman, but hasn't he played this role once too often?  Also John Cromwell is excellent as the president (completely covering his British accent).So, an enjoyable drama...unless 9/11 really hit you close to home.  If it did, avoid this.  "}{"Title":"An extremely effective and compelling thriller","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on the 1991 novel of the same name by Tom Clancy, this is an extremely effective and compelling thriller. Since it has received some fairly mediocre reviews, my hopes were not particularly high but it turned out to be hugely enjoyable. In all honesty, I would have preferred a third Harrison Ford film rather than a reboot but it is at least a slick and well made one. Although it was filmed before 9/11, it is notable as being the first major Hollywood film on the subject of terrorism to be released after it. It has a very clever script by Paul Attanasio and Daniel Pyne. Phil Alden Robinson's direction is very good, which surprised since he is not exactly known as an action director.The film has been criticised by many people as being very difficult to follow but I can't really see why. It is admittedly complex and you have to pay attention in order to understand everything but I'd take that over a film where I can mess around on my phone for most of it and still understand it perfectly any day of the week. It opens with an Israeli plane being shot down over the Golan Heights during the Yom Kippur War in October 1973 and the consequent loss of one of its nuclear weapons. In September 2002, the bomb is discovered by scrap metal merchants and sold to an arms dealer for a pittance. He then sells it to an Austrian neo-Nazi named Richard Dressler, who intends to use it to start a nuclear war between the US and Russia which will leave Europe as a fascist superstate under his control. To that end, the bomb is detonated at a sports stadium in Baltimore in the hope of placing the blame squarely on Russia. At one point, Dressler says that Hitler's biggest mistake was going to war with both the US and Russia instead of setting them against each other and it is hard to disagree with that. Of course, if a plot like Dressler's were ever enacted successfully, Europe would undoubtedly be devastated as well but never mind that!The film stars Ben Affleck as the third actor to play Jack Ryan. He does not have the same easy charm as Alec Baldwin and particularly Harrison Ford but he is nevertheless convincing in the role. Affleck will never be Laurence Olivier but he is a likable actor with a good screen presence. In this film, Ryan is younger than in the three previous ones and has only been working at the CIA for 14 months. He moves up in the world when his prediction that Alexander Nemerov would succeed the hard-drinking Boris Yeltsin-esque Russian President Zorkin proves to be correct after the latter's death. Having written a paper on Nemerov, he is an expert on the new President and correctly believes that he is not a militant hardliner but merely adopts that role in order to save face. After the bomb explodes in Baltimore, Ryan desperately tries to contact US President J. Robert Fowler to prevent him from launching a nuclear attack on the Russian Federation before he eventually contacts Nemerov personally. Ryan's one man mission to escape the partially irradiated Baltimore and stop World War III may be a little far-fetched but it operates on film logic as opposed to real world logic.The always excellent Morgan Freeman is perfectly cast as CIA Director William Cabot, who becomes a friend and mentor to Ryan as the film progresses. Ciarán Hinds is fantastic in the role of the moderate Nemerov, basically a post-Communist Gorbachev. As his name would suggest, Hinds is not of Russian descent but he had to learn pages of Russian dialogue for the film, which could not have been easy. However, he delivers every line in a very natural, believable manner. James Cromwell is very good as President Fowler, a good and decent man who has no desire to start a war but believes that he must in order not to look weak in the eyes of America's enemies. The extremely heated discussions between Fowler and his senior staff are very compelling and I imagine that such conversations would be conducted in the same manner in reality. One of the reasons that these scenes are so effective is that actors of the calibre of Philip Baker Hall, Ron Rifkin and Bruce McGill were cast as the key members of his staff. In one of his final films before his death in 2003, Alan Bates is suitably creepy as Dressler, who was possibly named after Anton Drexler (the founder of what eventually became the Nazi Party). Bridget Moynahan is perfectly fine as Cathy Muller but she has no chemistry with Affleck and her scenes are too brief for her to make much of an impression. Of the five Jack Ryan films, Patriot Games is the only one that really gave Cathy a chance to shine. Other than the actors that I have already mentioned, I was very impressed by Michael Byrne (who also appeared in the similar but less effective Bond film Tomorrow Never Dies), Colm Feore (who later popped up as a different character in the franchise's second reboot Jack Ryan Shadow Recruit) and Ken Jenkins. However, Liev Schrieber, who is not a very good actor, was pretty boring as John Clark, particularly compared to Willem Dafoe's interpretation of the character in Clear and Present Danger.Overall, this is a very exciting thriller that it is far better than it is made out to be. Another Jack Ryan film starring Affleck would have been welcome. I have greatly enjoyed this series, the closest thing to an American version of the Bond films that I have come across. "},{"Title":"A good movie filled with tension","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" *WARNING MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS* I'm not really sure why The Sum of All Fears gets so much hate. I like this movie, I think it has a really good story. Ben Affleck isn't as good as some of the other actors to have played Jack Ryan, but I think he does a decent job. I do however think Liev Schrieber is a good John Clark, and I may actually prefer him to Wilem Dafoe's portrayal. The film seems to get hate for deviating from the book, which never bothers me that much, as long as its the same story. I've never read the book, but I do know that it's 900 pages long, so obviously some stuff was going to be cut. The movie has some good humor as well, but it has a dark tone to it, which is handled really well. Also, since this came out a decade after the Cold War ended, we get a non-propaganda portrayal of the Russians. I've heard it's Al-Qaeda who plant the bomb in the book, which could've worked better, but I didn't mind the fascism sub- plot. This still feels like an intelligent movie, as all the Jack Ryan movies do, so I'll give it a pass on a few moments that feel kind of... dumb. All in all, I think this is a pretty good movie, with a decent cast, a good story, and some alright acting. "},{"Title":"Plenty of Action and Suspense","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jack Ryan (Ben Affleck) is an analyst for the CIA whose advice is sought by the director William Cabot (Morgan Freeman) because of a paper Jack wrote a couple of years earlier concerning the new President of Russia President Nemerov (Claran Hinds). As it so happens the war in Chechnya is a current concern of the President of the United States President Fowler (James Cromwell) and he wants to know everything about President Nemerov that he can. However, when a rogue general resorts to chemical warfare President Fowler rejects Jack Ryan's assertions that President Nemerov did not order it. This causes any further advice by Jack Ryan to be treated with equal disdain when something big happens. Now rather than reveal any more of this film and risk ruining it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this movie had plenty of action and suspense but a few scenes lacked realism which caused the movie to seem a little implausible here and there. Even so it managed to keep my interest and for that reason I rate it as slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Not Jack Ryan's Finest Hour,but Still an Enjoyable Thriller,","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Sum of All Fears is a good movie with a well written storyline and a great cast.It is a very good thriller and it has some great special effects as well,but I didn't find any of the action or dialogue very breathtaking.Its definitely the worst Jack Ryan film to date,although I did really enjoy Ben Affleck as Ryan,he's certainly no Harrison Ford but he was definitely better than Alec Baldwin,I would have liked to see more Ryan films with Affleck in the main role but it dosen't seem like that will be happening anytime soon.I wasn't impressed with the amount of screen time Morgan Freeman received,they made it seem like he was a very main character in this but he probably had 20 minutes of screen time,I was surprised to see James Cromwell in this,I thinks he's an underrated actor who would rarely star in movies like this,but he played an important role and did a great job.Fans of previous Jack Ryan films won't love it,but you won't hate it either,Sum of All Fears is an enjoyable movie that I would recommend to anyone looking for a good thriller or drama if it's ever on television. Jack Ryan must prevent the plans of a terrorist organisation that is trying to start huge conflict between Russia and the USA. Best Performance James Cromwell Worst Performance Philip Baker HallIf you have any recommendations on films/TV series I should watch or review,or any questions to ask me,just tweet me @DillonTheHarris "},{"Title":"Superb political action thriller","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just rewatched this again on Bluray.Still holds up well saw it when it came to the cinema in 2002. This film is superb. it really stands the test of time all classic movies do.Phil Alden Robinson's direction is almost flawless he deserved an Oscar nod for this its a shame he is not interested in directing more often because he is a very talented man! Jerry Goldmsith produces his last great score the music is terrific.Ben Affleck was perfect as Ryan. Paramount made a huge mistake not making more Jack Ryan films with him.Morgan Freeman, James Cromwell, Alan Bates, Bruce McGill, Philip Baker Hall, Ciaran Hinds, Michael Byrne, Liev Schreiber, Ron Rifkin, Colm Feore, John Beasley all produce a perfect performance & the rest of the cast also did well with very limited screen time.The scope & scale of this film was also impressive considering the low budget it looks/feels like a much bigger film than it is.I would say its not quite the best Jack Ryan movie but also more interesting than Patriot Games & Jack Ryan (the worse in the series by a long way).Finally, the themes covered & the way the story is presented are quite chilling as they mirror certain real life global political events recently. "},{"Title":"Moscow weather?","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just watched The Sum of All Fears. Isn't it ever spring in Moscow? The crisis starts during the White House Correspondents Dinner. That's usually around the end of April or the beginning of May. There was still a couple of feet of snow in Russia! April and May the temperature is usually above freezing. It's not just this picture, every movie I remember seeing, Moscow is always frozen solid! Red Heat, Gorky Park, Russia House. Just once I'd like to see a film set in Russia where you can't see the actors breath. Has there ever been a movie where the sun is shining in Russia?J. Woodiwiss "},{"Title":"Meet The Young Jack Ryan","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Sum Of All Fears is an action/political thriller that features Jack Ryan,the famous CIA spy developed by Tom Clancy.This is the fourth film about the character that was based on Clancy's novel with the same title after the likes of The Hunt For Red October,Patriot Games and Clear And Present Danger were made into films. In it,it features a younger Jack Ryan portrayed by Ben Affleck.The cast also includes Morgan Freeman and Bridget Moynahan. Phil Alden Robinson directed it.The President of Russia passed away and he is succeeded by an unknown whom little information is known.This causes panic to many nations especially the United States.To pacify the fears felt by many,the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) director Bill Cabot recruits Jack Ryan,a young analyst working from the Russia desk to gather information and provide insight.But many events happen such as the capital of Chechnya is leveled by a nuclear bomb.Then fear intensifies especially when terrorist threats are being made to the U.S.It is now up to Jack Ryan to prevent these threats or another world war could happen anytime soon.This new Jack Ryan film is somewhat unrealistic and lacks plausibility particularly with the events that could happen particularly in the international front and the political motivations behind the countries involved in conflict.The bomb being set at a Superbowl was somewhat cheesy although it did manage to provide suspense to the story.Added to that,we get to see the new character more of a heartthrob rather than an intelligence expert.While many female fans may not disapprove of that especially with Affleck playing the lead role,it is distracting and it somewhat takes away many substances that Tom Clancy's novels want to provide his intended audience.It made a lot of money more than ten years ago.Although it was far from a typical Clancy novel and what intelligence spies are all about,it will definitely provide entertainment and great musical soundtrack.While this may displease many critics and the serious moviegoer,an average fan may not find displeasure in it for it was definitely a fun movie for them especially if they like Mission Impossible and James Bond films. "},{"Title":"Better-than-average thriller","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With Harrison Ford out, it was decided the Jack Ryan series, which had so far proved very profitable at the box office, was to be rebooted, with Ben Affleck taking over. While the film was a financial success, it proved to be far less successful than the previous films, and it's telling that 11 years later, they're attempting another reboot of the series.Affleck is likable, but he doesn't have anything close to the presence Alec and Harrison had. He is far outclassed by costars such as Morgan Freeman, Alan Bates, James Cromwell, and taking over from Willem Dafoe, Liev Schreiber as John Clark. It's interesting to note how Clark is introduced, a lone mysterious figure standing in the rain - it's fair to assume Clark, a regular and very popular character in the Ryan books, was to appear in further movies.To accommodate Ben as Jack, the book has undergone an extensive change, with Jack now a young rookie analyst, yet to be married to Cathy. While the simple premise remains the same - terrorists build nuclear device from Israeli weapon left over from Yom Kippur War and use it to provoke nuclear war between US and Russia, Jack is forced to end the crisis himself by going directly to the Hot Line - one can't help feeling extremely cynical about the change of villains. In the book, the main villains are Palestinians, helped by a former left-wing German terrorist, and an American Indian extremist. In the film we get....neo-Nazis. As good as Alan Bates is as the megalomaniacal fascist Austrian politician, it is difficult to take seriously the scenario.In fact, the film's biggest problem is this - they are trying to present it as a more-realistic-than-usual thriller, yet at the same time, the film has cartoonish villains, and there are a great number of moments that take us out of realism and into pure fantasy.As problem-riddled as the film is, one area it does not fail at is entertaining the viewer. If one distances themselves from the previous films, the books, it is still a pretty good thriller that always keeps your attention glued to the screen. It's pace goes along at a fair clip, and there are some standout sequences. The best sequence is obviously when the nuke goes off. No last minute stopping the bomb here, it does indeed go off, and it marks the point where the film changes direction, presenting us with an intense doomsday scenario that keeps worsening by the minute.Deeply flawed, but satisfying entertainment. "},{"Title":"In a state of war...Information and communication is everything","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In a state of war...Information and communication is everything. This movie is based on one of Tom Clancy's novel. Although I never read any Tom Clancy books so far, this was actually a intelligent and well constructed thriller. And even has quite a bit of suspense to it because of the subject matter. Even if some parts of this movie is just too far-fetched or just not realistic. The story is about a guy named Jack Ryan(Ben Affleck) who works for the CIA in bringing information to the people that makes the decisions. And throughout the movie basically the only one that knows exactly what is going on but also a person almost no one listens to. And he teams up with a CIA Director William Cabot(Morgan Freeman) Freeman is just always great as these team leader or mentor types of roles. But the main enemy rises, which isn't completely Russia this time around but neo-fascists. Who are trying to frame Russia for a major bombing in the US so they could go to war with each other and destroy one another. So the president of both nations are put in a position where they are pushed into a corner and nuke each others nations. With people that work for the leaders of both nations antagonizing them to strike back and others trying to ask for more patience. And it's up to Tom Clancy's trademark character Jack Ryan to bring the right information to the people that makes the decisions before it's too late. I don't know if it's because we are currently in a time period where America and North Korea might go to nuclear war with each other. Which adds to the fear when watching a movie like this but it does add to the suspense. When I saw this movie when it first came out, I was in elementary so couldn't comprehend everything that was going on but still found it a entertaining movie. But now that I am older I can appreciate movies like this. Even if the characters are very one dimensional and doesn't bring out much emotions this is still a well constructed thriller that is entertaining and suspenseful.8.3/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I like this movie and I recommend it to anyone who wants to see it. I've never read the book that it was based off of, but I know that this movie was a pretty good action-packed time for everyone involved. I find that they used an interesting concept for a movie by using a controversial subject like a nuclear bomb and make an interesting story about it that no one can really say leans one way politically, which is good. Such interesting movies are usually hard to come by, especially by accident like borrowing this from a friend. The acting is nice and the director is good too. I can't see any problems with the script or writing of the movie. I think that you should watch it if you want to see a pretty good movie. "}{"Title":"A Declicate Brush Stroke in this Espionage Thriller","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Of all the Jack Ryan movies, Ben Affleck of now Argo (2012) fame, finds himself again in superior, mental espionage thriller that relies the least on spectacular action thrills as the powerful Deja Vu (2006) or Bourne Identity series and dizzy stunts of any Jack Ryan movie and almost all the contemporary spy movies of the last decade, except for the less than world peace at stake in The Tailor of Panama (2001) or the more recent remake Tinker Tailor Soldier (Spy 2011). Instead The Sum of All Fears perhaps comes closer to The Russia House (1990) and The Three Days of Condor (1975) in a psychological, mental way or the more recent The Good Shepard (2006). However unlike the very personal story and experience of an spy as in The Ipcress Files (1965), The Spy Who Came In From The Cold (1965), the much edgier Spartan (2004), Breach (2007) or the more convoluted avant garde art film of Confessions of a Dangerous Mind (2002), The Sum of All Fears is the basic all-American spy movie with a mental bent.But this version of espionage also captivates and titillates with mind with its personal high stakes climax. Interestingly enough Jack Ryan in this movie isn't some super hero with years of military special ops training that it seems is left to Liev Schreiber's character. This rare division of this somewhat ensemble casting makes this movie much more believable. The personal emotive interaction between the various Presidents of the United States and Russia are taut and on par with the classic cold war Fail Safe (1964) and offering the more balanced flavor of Body of Lies (2008).What is remarkable about this movie is the storyline and its underplaying the action in this movie while the connecting the dots and continuing the strong investigative detail that Jack Ryan's movies and Tom Clancy the novelists have excelled at. This movie has the delicate balance of character reveal, relational empathy, and editing that makes this movie very effective all the way through to the more sedate but just as impactful ending.Unlike the James Bond movies, the audience doesn't have to suspend disbelief in the impossibility of the plot and characters and In Sum of All Fears, it allows its audience to retain the plausibility that makes for all the more intimate and riveting as well as captivating lure of this movie as such the sci fi thriller Andromeda Strain (1971). "},{"Title":"Let's see. Who else has 27,000 nukes for us to worry about?","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Sum of All Fears is directed by Phil Alden Robinson and adapted to screenplay by Paul Attanasio and Daniel Pyne from the novel of the same name written by Tom Clancy. It stars Ben Affleck, Morgan Freeman, James Cromwell, Ciaran Hinds, Liev Schreiber, Bridget Moynahan and Michael Byrne. Music is scored by Jerry Goldsmith and cinematography by John Lindley.Film is the fourth film to feature the character Jack Ryan (Affleck). It is set in present day 2002 but with Ryan younger than in the other films and at the start of his career in the CIA. Plot is Cold War themed and finds America in a sweat when it is found that renegade terrorists have a nuclear weapon in their possession; just as a new supposed radical president takes up office in Russia.Our most basic common link is that we all inhabit this small planet, we all breathe the same air, we all cherish our children's futures, and we are all mortal.2002 saw two great thrillers released that starred Ben Affleck, one was Changing Lanes, the other was this Jack Ryan based effort that attempted to reboot the series. Coming a year after the September 11 attacks and featuring a plot involving terrorists using a bomb that America supplied the Israelis in the 70s during the Yom Kippur War, it was material too close to the bone for some critics. Yet the film did well at the box office in the States and including Worldwide takings it garnered well over $100 million in profit. Impressive figures considering it's not an action blockbuster, it relies on brain over brawn and leading man Affleck was on the back of Pearl Harbor and bearing the brunt of critical scorn.Each day we lose a little bit more of our separate, sovereign ability to determine our own futures... and each day the world comes a little bit closer to that terrible moment when the beating of a butterfly's wings unleashes a hurricane God himself cannot stop.Comforted by the superb cast around him, which also includes the likes of Colm Feore, Phillip Baker Hall and Alan Bates in support slots, Affleck proves perfect for the material to hand. Without doubt he's no Harrison Ford, in the same way Moynahan is no Anne Archer, tough boots to fill in the roles of Jack and Cathy Ryan respectively, but in a re-jig of Ryan the character, we now have the arrogance of youth dressed up in slacks and t-shirt, a smart brained youngster beginning his CIA career at a perilous time, a time that thankfully is devoid of jingoistic flag waving, but of adult political sensibilities. Affleck's Ryan as a character is as refreshing as the writers' responsible attitude is.You dropped the bomb on Hiroshima. You dropped the bomb on Nagasaki. Do not lecture me on Chechnya!With shades of the Cuban Missile Crisis and a Fail-Safe like finale, The Sum of All Fears rounds out as a nail biter of a thriller. Dig deeper and some implausibilities surface, but we are asked to tune into the paranoia and get in deep with the characters trying to avert global catastrophe, to decry the film's cerebral thriller qualities is churlish. The Jack Ryan parts of the film involving Cathy the girlfriend are the least interesting, but here's the thing, young Jack Ryan is just one of the components making up a far bigger whole. The film isn't solely a Jack Ryan movie. The source novel was a door stopper, so inevitably much as been excised from it, and inevitably fans of the book have been vocal in their displeasure; though we would have needed another hour of film to even get close to Clancy's big block of fiction. So in place is a picture that is uncomplicated in structure and story telling and comes in at under two hours running time. It's credit to director Robinson that The Sum of All Fears engrosses from start to finish.It was hoped that the reboot would herald the start of a run of more Jack Ryan based movies, but in spite of the great box office, this didn't materialise. But that is in no way any marker to the quality of the film, or its standing in the Jack Ryan series. Judge it on its own merits and ideas and the rewards are many, especially on a second viewing. At the time of writing Jack Ryan will return to the big screen in December 2013, titled simply as Jack Ryan, with another young actor, Chris Pine in the role of Ryan. Undoubtedly that will be high on action, such is the way of drawing in the young dollars at the multiplexes these days. But if it has half the tension and brains of Robinson's picture then we will be blessed. If not? Then there's an even bigger reason to treasure Jack Ryan's 2002 version. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"The Sum of All Fears","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There may be some spoiler-ige here, please forgive me.There are two ways to look at this film. As a stand alone film, I found it rather enjoyable. A great cast and equally fantastic effects in a fast-paced techno-thriller, with the added bonus of a good script, which could be funny at times, but was serious when it needed to be. While certain flaws may stand out a lot (they did for me, but I look for them), it's still the kind of film to share with your friends.However, it IS a reboot of Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan film series, meant to modernize it the way the new 'Star Trek' did for Roddenberry's franchise. Unlike 'Trek,' it didn't work. Jack Ryan (Ben Affleck) stumbles around haphazardly looking for clues like a good little CIA agent - do you want a treat? That's a good boy! - while everyone around him runs around without a head because no-one has all the info.Oh, except Jack.All the time we're thinking, This can't be the guy who steals a Russian submarine BY HIMSELF?!?!To recap Good script, actors, effects, story Bad reboot, screw-ups (they can pop out rather bad), and villain (I mean, like, Neo-Nazis? Really?).All in all, a good movie to watch with your squeeze if you run out of romantic comedies. So long as neither of you read. "},{"Title":"The fourth Tom Clancy novel to make it to the big screen, and the third actor to play Jack Ryan.","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The fourth Tom Clancy novel to make it to the big screen, and the third actor to play Jack Ryan. This film falls short of expectations for several reasons. Since it is shot as a prequelof sorts to the previous films, Sum of all Fears seems somehow out of time with its predecessors. In this film, Jack Ryan is played by Ben Affleck, who is certainly no slouch in front of the camera. His portrayal of the the Clancy hero is good, and even meshes with the performance of Alec Baldwin in the first film of the series, Hunt for Red October. I guess my problem is Red October post dates Sum by a number of years, since in it Catherine and Jack are married with a daughter, yet the Soviets are still around. In Sum, Ryan and Cathy are still dating, only becoming engaged at the end of the film and the Soviet Union is long gone. From that standpoint alone, the timing is off sequence, which can make for a bit of a conflict for those of us who have read Clancy's novels, or seen the previous films. For the uninitiated, the film is terrific, and opens up the possibility of an entire new series (which was never pursued, apparently). Cromwell and Freeman are striking in their roles, as is Ciaran Hinds as the Russian President. The remaining cast, McGill, et. al., are intense when they need to be and absent when not needed. Which is the problem with a film like this, since you have so much action going on it is easy to get lost in it. Rated PG-13 for violence and language, the terrifying scene of a nuclear weapon going off in a crowded city is enough for all of us to consider whether or not to let the kids watch. Definitely not collectible, since the series was never continued and the film is out of sequence with the first three Clancy films. Rent it, don't buy it. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Visualised","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think that the director has done a great job and well placed that's why this film has done well internationally.I like the performance of both Morgan Freeman and Ben Affleck both together in one film had a great impact on audiences and Jerry Goldsmith is a very unique and outstanding composer. This film is a combination of action thriller and politically suspense and high octane.This film is worth watching for and highly recommended for those who like to watch action politically thriller film.And this film worth buying DVD and watch again and again.Heart pounding suspense from start to end with good direction.Hats Off. "},{"Title":"Ben Affleck Saves the World","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" America's Cold War fears are rekindled after the President of Russia dies and is succeeded by a man with a cryptic past. But East-West tensions erupt when the CIA suspects that renegade Russian scientists are developing more nuclear weapons. Mobilized into action by CIA director William Cabot (Morgan Freeman), Jack Ryan (Ben Affleck) follows a danger-ridden trail to a shocking conclusion terrorists plan to provoke a war between the U.S. and Russia - by detonating a nuclear weapon at a championship football game! according to Paramount's home video edition...The Sum of All Fears was criticized for changing the original novel's Middle-Eastern terrorists to Neo-Nazis. As explained on the video's commentary track, the decision was made before the September 11, 2001 attacks on the US by Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda group. Included in the spirited video commentary are director Phil Alden Robinson and original novelist Tom Clancy. The changes make this fourth Jack Ryan film less fresh, though it's still exciting. They also made the Denver bomb a real Baltimore nuclear threat, but do not explain Mr. Affleck's invulnerability...****** The Sum of All Fears (5/29/02) Phil Alden Robinson ~ Ben Affleck, Morgan Freeman, James Cromwell, Liev Schreiber "},{"Title":"For Susupense, Applause for Tom Clancy - and a Fine Cast","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" THE SUM OF ALL FEARS may be 10 years old not but it packs a wallop no matter how many times it is viewed. Credit the particular genius of Tom Clancy and his memorable creation of the main character in these suspense/espionage thrillers for that, but at the same time much credit is due screenwriters Paul Attanasio and Daniel Pyne for the tense dialogue and DiRector Phil Alden Robinson for the pacing of this story. As far as the story is concerned, very briefly the essence can be summarized as follows When the president of Russia suddenly dies, a man whose politics are virtually unknown succeeds him. The change in political leaders sparks paranoia among American CIA officials, so CIA director Bill Cabot recruits a young analyst to supply insight and advice on the situation. Then the unthinkable happens a nuclear bomb explodes in a U.S. city, and America is quick to blame the Russians.Jack Ryan was a role that seemed to belong to Harrison Ford in the other Clancy films, but here that role is assumed very well indeed by Ben Affleck. He is capably assisted by Morgan Freeman, James Cromwell, Bruce McGill, Liev Schreiber and Philip Baker Hall along with a large cast of supporting actors. They give it their all and make this film work on every level. For solid entertainment this is a film that deserves repeated visits. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Subtracted by its author (dvd)","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For a Frenchman, watching a movie starring a President and military force is a miracle because my country doesn't make movie like this. The only moment we can see this reunion is at our national day with our military review (as the old days of soviets). Maybe we think that art can't mess with politics but art is truth and liberty and politics can't mess with that. Thus, watching all this technology and all those acronyms left me speechless.On the other hand, it's also a miracle to have the commentary of an author whose book is adapted. The less I can say is that Clancy isn't indulgent that's crap; that's bullshit; it's wrong. The most exquisite are his first words  I'm the author of the book they choose to ignore.Those things said, this American Bond was interesting until the bomb exploded. After, with thousand people killed, the movie focus on the President and as the actor has the charisma of a amoeba, it's become dull. Finally, Clancy was right his book was better. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman excellent in a  just fair thriller","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We've seen the plot many times before--can even sense what is coming next. Yet, the money spent in writing/screen-play; where film was set; costumes; level of directorial expertise--etc--carries this film along where many another would have faltered. Others here have commented about the plot, so what follows focuses on the actors Morgan Freeman shows us again how powerful an actor he is--and he carries the film. Ben Affleck is just starting out in major roles here, and shows it. He is engaging.. but not an actor yet. Ciarán Hinds as Nemerov was unbelievable, both physically and in terms of how he approached the role (to me, anyway); Ron Rifkin over-emoted-as usual; however, Bridget Moynahan was fine--stood out in what was just a stock role. Other oft-used character actors do their stuff. Philip Baker Hall was really bad here--over-acting and pulling the pace of the film out of whack.To me, this film was fine for a rainy afternoon. Nothing great--but good enough to put the popcorn in the microwave. "},{"Title":"The sum of familiar sequences","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a competently acted and reasonably well-assembled film. I am quite a fan of all the actors that find themselves sat around the table as the Presidential inner circle I have a semi-Pavlovan response to Bruce McGill in particular - if his name's on the credits, keep watching.Like other Tom Clancy plots, this is credibly but not confusingly complicated. Layered, I think, is a better term. The film takes a significant turn for its third act, which I won't mention here. However a related aspect of the film is its scale, which I fear over-dilutes the impact of the thrills. Kubrick managed this rather better (in Dr Stranglove) by keeping people, more or less, in rooms and relying more on a fine script than on accurate styling. Still, there are some super aerial shots, particularly one - which you can tell director Phil Robinson is very pleased with - of an American delegation driving across icy Russian wilds in the sun.I couldn't help but remember what Alfred Hitchcock had to say about his own Sabotage when it came to dealing with the threat of bombing in public though. 5/10 "}{"Title":"A Solid Thriller!","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Now I have never read the novel from Tom Clancy and I don't intend to. I am not a big fan of Clancy's work. However, this was a pretty good movie based off his work. The movie started off slow and somewhat boring but by the end I was hooked on every scene.This film is about Jack Ryan who works for the CIA. After Baltimore gets blown up and The President suspects it's the Russians, Ryan realizes it wasn't and his job is to convince the President.The acting is pretty good. This has to be Affleck's last good performance until The Town, eight years later. Morgan Freeman and James Cromwell are good in whatever movie they are in.Overall, this is a pretty good thriller film. The special effects are solid here. Now I should see Hunt For Red October. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Fairly Interesting...","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on a book of the same name by Tom Clancy, 'The Sum Of All Fears' is a fairly interesting film, that begins with a bang, but loses the fizz 60-minutes into the film. The problem? Too many complications, and a weak culmination spoils the fun. Yet in all fairness, it has it's share of moments.Clancy's favorite character Jack Ryan returns as CIA analyst who must thwart the plans of a terrorist faction that threatens to induce a catastrophic conflict between the United States and Russia's newly elected president by detonating a nuclear weapon at a football game in Baltimore.The concept, like any of Clancy's best sellers is absorbing. But reading is a different experience, and watching is a different experience. 'The Sum Of All Fears' beings with a bang, in fact the first 40-45 minutes are hugely gripping. But it loses the fizz in the latter hour. The culmination, is a complete spoilsport. It is not at all convincing.Phil Alden Robinson's direction is just right. The adapted screenplay is flawed. John Lindley's Cinematography is nice. In the acting department, Ben Affleck gets it right this time. Morgan Freeman in a supporting role, is dignified. James Cromwell is a complete letdown this time around. Liev Schreiber is hardly there. Bridget Moynahan does a fine job.On the whole, not a taunt-thriller in any aspect. But it manages, to become a decent one-time watch. Watch it if you must! "},{"Title":"This could (should) have been much better...","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I must say I expected much more from this movie than what it actually turned out to be. This is another classic example of film Directors unable to successfully transfer a good book from paper to the big screen. There are literally hundreds of examples of this. Actually, there are very few movies that actually manage to do it well.The premise and general idea of Clancy's book is very promising, chillingly realistic. So we have great hopes for the movie too. But apart from this premise, the screenplay disavows the book, and this is when it all starts going wrong. The movie becomes a classical Hollywood action film, with many situations that are totally unrealistic, impossible, and therefore unbelievable. I never understood why most movie makers always make this mistake. A film can be ever so frightening and tense if it is realistic and believable... I will not go into detail so that I do not spoil the viewing for anyone, but suffice it to say that many situations in which Jack Ryan ends up in order to save the day could never happen in reality.And with this we come to another of the main weaknesses of this motion picture. The casting of Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan... This is definitely not for him. He is totally unbelievable as a top CIA analyst become secret agent, become superhero... Not even Morgan Freeman who is excellent (as usual) as DCI manages to provide any credibility to Affleck in his role. If anything, it makes the differences between the two performances stand out even more. Another miss-cast is Ciaran Hinds as the new Soviet leader. He looks more like a French cook than a member of the Politburo...Otherwise, the film has good cinematography and sound and very good special effects, all of which makes it a decent thriller, but unfortunately nothing more. "},{"Title":"Watchable film!","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Tom Clancy best seller is well filmed with towering locations and a cast with peaks and lows . The script lacks of dramatic continuity and in more than once it tends to fall in common grounds . Watch for instance Seven days in May and you will know whayt I mean . The plot in question well deserved a deeper gaze for the multiple aspects considered . But nevertheless it is a worthable work even it will not become a masterpiece or a cult movie in the future . Affleck is charismatic and emerges as the substitute of Kevin Costner ten years ago and Keanu Reeves five years ago , but its performance lacks deepness, its role is too predictable and besides he is quite expressionless from beginning to end and the lines for his character certainly do not help him at all . "},{"Title":"no sum of all failures","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie has been given quite a few negative reviews but i don't fit in accordance of such opinions. movie is quite gripping from the start and impressed a lot to me. May choosing ben affleck as jack ryan is not a decision but apart from this the film contained a lot of events regarding war , terrorism, espionage and spy games. The plot deals with on growing threat of strain relationship of governments and emergence of terrorist leaders who just want to take advantage of on going sensitive situations. Morgan freeman at least played good part to his character , he completely did justice with his roll , James Cromwell was good as American president and cairan hinds was impressive as Russian president. Even after the detonation of nuclear bomb ,ben affleck become very emotionally active and charged into the movie, there was now some power in his character. the movie isn't bad any way whatever someone may think, there wasn't any time no any suspense and Adrenalin was found in the story. Liev schriber was good special induction to assist affleck in bringing forward the story. it may not be every body ,s choice but it wont disappoint much "},{"Title":"Not fantastic...but still enjoyable...","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As far as the spy movie genre goes I simply love them. And me being a big fan of these type of movies I can say that after I saw this I was satisfied but not overjoyed. The problems with this film were that i think that it could have had a tad bit more action to keep it going. And i thought it was a little boring in some places. But once you get passed that you get a very good film. It IS entertaining and for people who like the genre will probably like this movie. I was not expecting much from Affleck but i was very surprised. Ben Affleck did a very good performance and made you believe that it was happening. Morgan Freeman as usual gives a good but not outstanding performance. And props go to Affleck, James Cromwell, and Liev Schreiber.This movie is not predictable and with some cool camera shots and good acting. So in conclusion anyone who likes spy movies should see this sit back, and relax... "},{"Title":"When Morgan Freeman's character departs, so does the film","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'd say the first hour of this film was very good and intriguing. It did rehash the cold-war era to some degree, but the novel upon which it was based was written around that time and the novel is predicated on a plot involving the two superpowers nuke'ing each other back to the stone age, so there is not much anyone can do to avoid the necessary inclusion of Russia, aside from focusing on the secret nazi-esq group plotting the disaster.But as soon as Morgan Freeman's character died, the film nose dived into a chaotic screaming match with loopholes and far fetched conveniences.Prior to that, I was glue to the screen as Morgan Freeman has a really hypnotic method and ability to turn any old script into a highly watchable film. "},{"Title":"Sorry I am but this film sucks","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is not completely awful, but it bears little resemblance to Clancy's novel. There is a progression in the Jack Ryan series that shows him rising higher and higher in National Security circles until he reaches the Oval Office himself culmination in The Bear and The Dragon which I was hoping to see made into a film. But the film makers decision to reset Jack Ryan to the bumbling beginnings of his career has pretty much guaranteed that we will never see that now. And its a damn shame. Plus trying to recapture the mentor/disciple relationship of Ryan and Greer just simply fell by the wayside by killing off Morgan Freeman's character in the film. Don't get me wrong, I like Ben Afflack and have a great respect for his talent, but this is one film he should have given a miss. This movie was truly the sum of all my fears about the future of the Jack Ryan films. Too bad that what could have been will end up as a never was. "},{"Title":"Boring to begin with, then exciting ... but how could they?","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Warning May contain SPOILER if you haven't seen the CBS TV-movie 'Time Bomb'.This is not what I was expecting at all. What I saw Sunday night on CBS was more like what I had hoped for. Although the many scenes explaining the background of the terrorist threat helped us to understand better what was going on, I could have done without the boring parts.That's not to take anything away from Morgan Freeman. He did his usual fine job. I was also impressed with the performance of the actor playing the Russian leader.Things really got exciting by the time the President entered the football stadium. And I finally understood the close-ups of the cigarette vending machines (I couldn't help but wonder about the connection between those and a statement by one of the missing Russian scientists that smoking is bad for you). The one good thing I can say about what happened after the President left the stadium at least we weren't subject to a graphic description of the results. Somethinbg was missing, though, when we didn't see the stadium afterward. The visual effects some distance from the explosion were impressive, but I always hoped the blast was coming from a rural area. How ... with ALL THOSE PEOPLE? The investigation proved to be quite exciting. And violent. Still, I was happier with 'Time Bomb', in which the bomber was found and stopped before an unspeakable tragedy. "},{"Title":"The evolution of enmity","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's easy to make somebody look villainous. You give him a grim dark face, something along the lines of Bela Lugosi, deprive him of any sense of humor, have him speak with an accent, and light his face from below with a hideous green key light. While you're at it, make him a full foot shorter than his American counterpart, played here by John Cromwell who -- and this is a little-known fact -- is the third tallest human being on the planet. All these conventions are adhered to in this movie. The Russian Premier thinks as reasonably as the American president, but it's hard to believe his lines when they come from a mouth with lips that resemble a fresh two-inch incision on somebody's belly.The real problem isn't making someone look like the enemy. It's deciding who should be the enemy in the first place. The Soviets provided us with bad examples for decades but -- well, they are, let's say, no longer available to Hollywood. As the Cold War wound down, even Ian Fleming had trouble. The real SMERSH had to be changed to the fictional SPECTRE because Fleming's conscious was beginning to trouble him.In The Sum of All Fears, the Nazis are resurrected, a kind of generic villain to whom no one will object. How could things possibly go wrong? Is someone going to write an angry letter to the New York Times and say, Hey -- wait a minute! My grandparents were Nazis and I'm offended? The movie calls them terrorists and throws in, let me think, Aryan supremacists, and some others into the stew, but they speak German and we all know who they are.The plot? This group of terrorists decides (for reasons I seem to have forgotten) to blow up a nuclear bomb in America, an act which they figure will provoke a response against Russia, who will then respond because they must show their strength, and so forth, until there is a nuclear exchange and the world is basically blown apart. Jack Ryan, or Doctor Ryan as everyone calls him, figures out the plot and barely prevents the plan's success.I enjoyed watching the movie. Great shots of airplanes. Special effects, some of them a bit obvious, involving the exploding bomb in Baltimore during the Superbowl. (Does Baltimore have a pro football team? The Crab Cakes or the McHenrys or something?) There's a big hole in the middle of the movie though. Ben Affleck has a big chin and looks the part. I'm sure he's a good guy but he is lightweight for the part. Both Alec Baldwin and Harrison Ford were able to bring strength and some underlying humor to the same role whereas Affleck hits his marks and speaks. I hated to see Morgan Freeman die half-way through. And John Cromwell is a splendid actor but the part doesn't allow him to do much with his character.The climax is borrowed from The Godfather. Nessun Dorma -- the aria de jour -- swells in the background while we see the president and the premier signing some sort of joint anti-war treaty, and this triumphant scene alternates with bloody assassinations.Tom Clancy is an interesting guy. I've only read The Hunt for Red October and I can understand why it was all the rage at the military academies. It was really retro. But it was also filled with exciting bits of technology -- how nuclear powered subs work and all that. He evidently used to spend a lot of time shooting at targets with a large caliber pistol. And I saw him perform for his charity, along with three other celebrities, on Jeopardy. The other contestants bungled their buttons and stumbled over their answers and joked about their own inadequacies. Clancy didn't do that. He smiled politely throughout, was thoroughly decorous, and answered every question flawlessly and without iterative comment. He demolished the competition. In interviews he's been candid and friendly. I'd like to have a beer with the guy sometime. "}{"Title":"the wonder years of boy genius CIA agents","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" tom Clancy knows if he writes it, they will film it. with the 4000 other Clancy novels with success on screen, why let them die. Harrison ford is too old to keep playing a role. with all the many Ryan films Harrison has worn the part out, left nothing to be done. cant use ford anymore, so lets try a new hunk actor and hope he can show the younger side of jack Ryan. the script was written basically to make money, not to be a great movie. the acting, from Morgan Freeman to Affleck do a credible job. this movie has action and dramatics in it which make you question yourself. If I were put in this situation, how would I handle it? some scenes were strictly movie fantasy. with the nuclear halo going off, Ryan's chopper crashes, but everyone else but he dies. a nice film, would have been better if the love story would have unfolded more. cant get enough of the doctor, she was pretty as well as a nice actor. "},{"Title":"Liev Schreiber for rainbow 6","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is my favorite of all the Jack Ryan movies and i thought Ben Affleck was very watchable in the role his chemistry with Bridget Moynnahan, Morgan Freeman and Liev Schreiber was great. Its better for the franchise if Ryan is young and doesn't have the level of authority that hes got in the later movies, so i liked the young Ryan running around trying to save the world stuff. The highlight of the movie was Schreiber as John Clark though, he projected a great balance of toughness and intelligence and was a nice contrast with Ryan on the recce because essentially Ryan has just entered the world that Clark is keen to escape. If they make the rainbow 6 movie without Liev i so wont go to see it because he totally nailed that character in four scenes in TSOAF. "},{"Title":"Sadly Useless","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was extremely hard to understand and this from a person who read and loved Mr. Clancy's book!. The silliest part was to have a very young man as Jack Ryan who somehow was boosted from obscurity to international peace talks! Stick to the book plot more closely next time, lads! Another Jack Ryan, CIA super agent, outing with Harrison Ford - Clear and present Danger - held more closely to the book plot and was enjoyable to watch. Sadly Mr. Clancy has now embarked on military heroes true lives so we await with fascination his next novel that will bring us to the world of today and the terrorism issues. It does put rather a dent in his super hero Jack Ryan who ran a CIA and even country that could do no wrong and always wins.  "},{"Title":"Sum of a bore","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Was that it?  Another example of a great trailer and a movie that's not bad, but does not meet expectations. Great effects and sometimes literally explosive action*S P O I L E R* but the end is really not convincing.  I missed a thrill and a plot line that one could follow.Now it's just a couple of events passing by. Average movie, that compared to other films of the same author let's you down a little bit. If they had cut some offtopic scenes out, 90 minutes that kept ones attention might rest. "},{"Title":"Great Unless you actually read...","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad movie on it's own merits.  But for anyone who is a dedicated Clancy book fan, this movie has strayed so far from the book it would be funny if it weren't dumb.  If you haven't read the book, then watch it, but forget the book.  For those who have read the book, skip the movie, unless you are prepared for a movie with more differences in characters, nations, and issues, as the book.  I don't mind moral lessons in movies, but if they are based upon books, I expect them those lessons to follow the book they are based upon.  This movie does not deliver. "},{"Title":"Very decent thriller","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Tom Clancy movie mill had grown fairly stagnant recently, and, fortunately, The Sum of All Fears injects some new life into it.  It works very well as a political suspense flick, with enough action in it to make brain-dead movie fans like it.I was very pleased to see a post-9/11 movie about terrorists not deal with Islamic fundamentalists, but rather the more shifty neo-fascist right-wing groups all over the world.  The plot is mostly believable, and the tension developed between Russia and the U.S. sucks you in throughout.  The nuclear blast was a little disappointing, but given the fact that it was a low-yield weapon, I guess that's to be expected.  I was pleased that none of the performances were over-the-top, as each actor seemed to fit into their role very well.  Ben Affleck avoids overacting, for the most part, and Liev Schreiber was just great as the CIA agent Clark. Overall, a good movie worth watching, but only gets a 9 from me because I really can't stand Tom Clancy anymore. "},{"Title":"Memorable, but could have been improved","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, but I believe that Tom Clancy had not originally hoped that it would be translated into a screenplay.  Sometimes the audience is left to guess who Jack Ryan really is is he younger than he was in Patriot Games or The Hunt for Red October, or is he supposed to be older than Clear and Present Danger.  Although I feel Patriot Games is the best appealing screenplay, The Sum of All Fears does not come off as totally boring.  The plot is logical, calculated and not entirely unreasonable. Morgan Freeman's performance is what really holds the storyline together. Although I find it hard to believe that, at the beginning, the A-4 pilot only had two seconds' warning before being struck with the surface-to-air missile (realistically, he would have had up to 30 seconds; I was in the Navy at an A-4 training squadron), and, furthermore, that such an antiquated missle could have been more easily dodged.  The main plot is set based on this initial incident, so it would have been more believeable if the A-4 would have run out of fuel, crashed into the desert, or something caused by pilot error.  That notwithstanding, the visual effects are stunning and captivating, and not overpowering so as to remove the audience from using their own imagination.  I also find it difficult to believe that the bomb's plutonium would not have been more easily detected before entering the U.S., where the plot climaxes and resolves.  The Sum of All Fears is still a worthy addition to modern drama video libraries.  *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Face it.....Harrison Ford IS Jack Ryan.","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SOAF is not a bad movie, except for one thing.....WRONG timeline.  Have to say that Affleck did a credible performance but let's face it; the REAL Jack Ryan has to be the man who is Indiana Jones and Han Solo.... Harrison Ford. (didn't Clancy said so too?)The show really screwed up the whole timeline.  Plane with bomb gets shot in 1973; discovered 29 years later in 2002 by the same guy who had faced the Soviets in 1984, the IRA in 1991 and the Colombian Cartel in 1994.  Only problem is......our hero's much younger now?!?!  Doesn't make much sense does it.  If we are talking coincidence and that this guy is NOT the Jack Ryan from the previous 3 movies, then why is it that his GF is a surgical residence called Cathy?  Can this be more coincidence?For the next movie, there is only one thing to do.....bring back the real McCoy! "},{"Title":"In a sort of a way, more frightening than it was intended to be","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers follow. Every other film to hit Australia is accompanied in each major newspaper by one of those articles in which a journalist (I use the term loosely) interviews someone associated and uncritically prints whatever public relations doublespeak he or she has to utter. In this case the interviewee was - wait for it - a CIA consultant. I can't say exactly what he does at the CIA, since, quel surprise, he refused to say. He gave us the usual guff about how the CIA is a champion of democracy and how he's willing to co-operate with any film-maker willing to depict the organization accurately - so long as the film doesn't show the CIA indulging in secret assassinations, or any of that nonsense.Who did he think he was fooling? I'll admit his words set me against the film right away. But when I saw The Sum of All Fears (in case I forget to say this later, it's very well done; I recommend it) I wondered if he actually paid any attention to what happens in it. How do you suppose the film ends? That's right with a series of secret assassinations, planned and executed by the CIA! I think we're meant to cheer on the killers - the music certainly encourages us to do so - but it's chilling all the same. One of the bad guys is killed by a car bomb in a public street in Vienna. Yes, it's early in the morning, but it's still no more than good fortune that no innocent bystander was killed or injured along with him. Why not - I don't know - arrest the man, and bring him to trial? If even Afghanistan, under a fundamentalist Islamic government hostile to the United States, was willing to hand over a terrorist on receipt of evidence of his guilt, what makes anyone think that the government of Austria wouldn't? Nothing, except for the fact that the organs of the United States government, and the CIA in particular, prefer murder to trial in a court of law, on principle.The official happy ending - leaders of Russia and the USA standing on a podium together, pledging peace - is also less cheering than it seems. Both men behaved like dangerous monsters (although the Russian president made a greater show of feeling bad about it, for what that's worth; perhaps he also had more excuse). Both men are surrounded by barking mad hawks straight out of Dr Strangelove. We get an interesting insight into military logic here. Again and again, an advisor will counsel some inexcusable, dangerously violent act, saying, This will calm the enemy down; and when, anyone could have predicted, it has the opposite effect, the advisor somehow manages to claim this immediate falsification as proof that he was right. The fact that belligerence doesn't work is seen as proof that what's needed is even more belligerence. (I call this the Israeli fallacy.) These men are all STILL IN POWER when the film ends. They aren't placed on trial, nor are they forced to resign in disgrace. The latter need not be a bad thing better a leader who has learned from his mistakes than one who hasn't. But have these men learned anything? Will either country actually get rid of its nuclear weapons? Or even disarm in any other way? I doubt it.The villainous plot - neo-Nazi criminal masterminds detonate a nuclear bomb with the vague idea of setting Russia and the USA at odds, with an even vaguer idea of what will follow - is straight out of James Bond; but the psychology of the main participants is all too realistic.Ben Affleck makes a far better Jack Ryan than Harrison Ford did. He's young; he hasn't yet been corrupted by working for the CIA (although one reason the ending fails to be uplifting is that we know that he soon will be); he has energy and human feelings which Harrison Ford's block-of-wood Jack Ryan mostly lacks (in Patriot Games), then entirely lacks (in the unbearably tedious Clear and Present Danger). Another pleasant surprise is the special effects, far more deserving of an Oscar than any of the actual nominees. There are some amazing shots throughout the film, and the scenes of nuclear destruction are suitably grim. "},{"Title":"Great movie, even after the book","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this movie twice, and since then have watched it twice on DVD. Why? Because it's refreshing!It's hard to explain why, without betraying the plot and spoiling the movie, but I'll try anyway. 1. It's based on the book, but it's not the same story. I'd finished the book about 2 days before I went to see the movie, and it wasn't ruined!2. A younger Ryan than in the book was a good idea. It added the small bit of romance in the book, and allowed for several smile inducing moments.3. The special effects are very very good, and the atmosphere created by this seems very real. Also the 'deafness' bit they took over from 'Saving Private Ryan' lent even more atmosphere to that moment. Seeing things that ought to make noise do their thing silently just has its merits.Anyway, it's a must see, and I don't think anyone should be disappointed by this movie, even after reading the book. "}{"Title":"fear for it","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a decent movie. Whit something that could happen now a days, only i think it would be going a bit different. -) Very good acting, and cool storyline. I enjoyd this one very much. "},{"Title":"Interesting escapism","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My wife and I watched this movie last evening and we both enjoyed it immensely. I enjoy movies that provide some thrills plus an occasional laugh. I don't require that a film educate me or probe deeply into the meaning of life. In other words, I want to be entertained and forget the real world for a couple of hours.There is plenty of action in this story and, although it's very far fetched at times, it leaves the viewer on the edge of her/his seat several times. Those who are disappointed that the film was not faithful to Tom Clancy's book or that Clancy sold out will simply have to get over it.Entertaining it is, Psych I it's not. Thank God for that...... "},{"Title":"You'd think this was exciting....","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  And in a way it is, big things happen in this movie but...I like this type of film, Patriot Games/Clear and present danger were excellent political thrillers and The hunt for Red October remains for me unsurpassed as far as claustrophobic tension goes.  These films are top of the cold war genre, Tom Clancy can really pull you in.In this, the times have changed and as it shows terrorism for no specific country but for bank balances is the more real threat.  The story is promising enough but never really takes off. For instance the inclusion of a romance is completely unnecessary.  It cuts from a third date to an engagement, the female has no real purpose and the time spent on this could have shown us more of Liev Shreibers character John Clark performing some crucial work to get to the truth. We get a vague idea of the people behind the attacks but what really is their plan?  They want two world powers destroyed and then what exactly? Are they truly Nazis or something else?All in all the elements were there but more could have been done.  There is some pretty good action in this yet it feels somehow budgeted and in no way really blows anything more than the set away. If you want the terrorist threat shown in a genuine edge-of-seat way, if you really want to get into a story and characters try Black Sunday by Thomas Harris.  Both book and movie will be by far more satisfying than this. "},{"Title":"Good political thriller- why dont we see more of these?","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, Affleck and Jlo are a bit tedious.  But don't slag their movies because of it.  This is a good and almost great political thriller, which was almost believable.  The editing was a bit wonky at times, but overall, it kept me riveted.Good flick and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Umm, I liked the change...","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I like the change in Jack Ryan. The other Jack was getting a little long in the tooth, his wife has been perfect as a doctor, and the kids had to grow up. Now post 9/11 this movie takes Jack into new directions, a needed change since the USSR is no longer the antagonist.Let's go tech, Tom C can go on forever with the tweaking of the good ole USA kids and technology. Hey, we all have opinions. "},{"Title":"The best Clancy book distorted into the WORST Clancy film","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a serious disappointment.  Afflek is TERRIBLE as Jack Ryan; the plot is very predictable; many interesting cinematographic opportunities that could have been taken were missed.  Most of the shots are uninteresting, in a movie that ought to have lots of impressive effects and camera work.  It is as if the director and screenwriters were forced to make the movie when they didn't want to do it.  Save your dollar and rent almost any other action movie.  Tom Clancy is listed in the credits as an executive producer; I hope he got something out of this film because I know I didn't. "},{"Title":"Should of been called Dumb with Fear","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fine Jack Ryan here in much younger, green and definitely clue less on using common sense. Sure in the beginning he has some smarts but wanes just like Cabot's response in the Stadium. John Clark would of been better as Ryan but w/the same direction of the screenplay it still would of sucked, could of been a great film. If Harrison Ford won't do it get Liev Schreiber John Clark and have Phillip Noyce direct or John McTiernan and W. Peter Iliff or Larry Ferguson do the screenplay.  "},{"Title":"Great movie, book is different.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film is great but still doesn't look likes the book. Instead it's more a combination of the books Politika and Sum of all fears. If you read the book youre surprised that the director took another enemy for America to fight with? You think some Americans still don't take the Aribs serious enough as an enemy. But as some say, do not compare books with films. It would be nice though if the film company didn't try to sell the movie based on the success of the book.  The movie shows that emotions have no place in leading a country in an international conflict. I hope that the're no real protocols which prevent exchange of valid information, so president don't have to make catastrophic decisions for using nuclear weapons without the proper intel. With presidents like the present one that presents a real threat. The only strange thing in the movie is that the radio of Ryan's chopper seams to work fine after a nuclear blast. EVER HEARD OF EMP. Acting is good though and Cathy looks very fine. "},{"Title":"Too much repetition. Thats 'repetition'","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went into watching this film knowing little about it other than that it was to do with a potential world war. The word potential immediately tells you it won't happen (that's Hollywood for you). I believe going into this film as I did knowing little but enough is the best way because there was no preconceptions because I had seen no trailers or read any reviews. I was however disappointed with the film, the makers seemed to presume that the audience wouldn't understand that it was not the Russians. This was pointed out by Ben Afflecks character a countless number of times. I would think that him saying this once or maybe twice would easily be enough (even though it's obvious enough already).As I read in another review, half way through I found myself thinking how long is it until it ends and also thinking I wish I had gone to see 'The Bourne Identity' (which was on at the same time.) instead of being forced to try and be enthralled by the supposed 'tense' situation.Overall it's a film that should be watched if there is nothing else on and your bored. I certainly wouldn't make time to watch this film again. "},{"Title":"Worth it","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not too much to say except it was a good movie experience, very entertaining, met my expectations, and was generally well done. Despite my A+ comments, I probably would not buy it, it's not really something I want to watch repeatedly...one time and ya got it. "}{"Title":"It's entertainment....lighten up!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  That's right.  This movie, just like the book(s) is just entertainment.  I don't, nor will I ever, hash out the entire movie, but I will tell you this......rent it.  It's exciting, maybe a little predictable, but hey, we've all seen these type of movies before!!   "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it much more than I thought","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I went to the movies one day in the summer it was a choice between Sum of all Fears and Bourne.  I chose Bourne and hated it, though I didn't mind Matt Damon.  Here I thought I would hate it and I didn't.  I thought Ben Afflick made a terrible Jack Ryan, very little emotion.  The guy is great to look at but can't act.  But the rest of the cast was just fine.  It was a good story though it reminded me a lot of Fail Safe.  But overall I'm not sorry I rented it. "},{"Title":"Jack Ryan goes young","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To allow the Clancy stories to continue, Jack Ryan has become young again with Ben A. as Ryan.  This will give the series of movies a long run with Ben, as long as he doesn't ask for too much $$$, like Alec Baldwin did.This movie is interesting, keeping one idea from the novel and changing the rest.  Look for more Affleck in the future.An average movie.  I grade very hard.  4/10.  Still worth seeing. "},{"Title":"It caught my attention","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie certainly missed some essentials, but nobody can deny that at some point it catches the attention and incites some tension... and fear.I've read some comments on this movie and I do not support those opinions that some of you have about the movie not agreeing with the book the movie is based on the book, it's not a reenactment of the book. So yes, they may have changed some things, but who says they can't? Besides, it's really hard to adapt a voluminous book to fit it into a few pages of script; don't let escape those details.Ben Affleck delivers a not-so-bad performance, although I think he could have done better (or some other person, perhaps?). In the other hand Morgan Freeman and James Cromwell gives an amazing acting. The rest of the cast is quite well chosen.You watch this title and it might not like you just like it might happen with anything; nevertheless I believe it's worth seeing it. "},{"Title":"The title says so little","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone that's read the book will be seriously disappointed with this movie.  Why Clancy approved a screenplay that has almost nothing to do with his book's exciting, convincing, and scary story has me mystified.  The movie switches from an Arab based plot to Russian, perhaps not a momentous shift.  But the screenplay makes so little sense in actions, characterizations or politics that it's only real interest is again what the matter with Clancy was in approving it.  Some of his more recent books suggest, as here, that perhaps he no longer really cares.  Too bad.  Skip this one, it's not worth even $2 at your local rental store.  "},{"Title":"Boy saves world","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Aren't you sick of people who tell you to read the book it was way better? Well guess what.Next to Clear and Present Danger this is the worst adaptation of a Clancy book I've seen. And he (Clancy) produced it?The truth of it is that Tom Clancy books will always be difficult for Hollywood to adapt to film, but I guess I am happy for the effort. I just can't imagine what they will do to Red Storm Rising.I will say that the actors performed well in the roles given them and that if I hadn't read the book I would have liked it a bit more. "},{"Title":"or maybe titled Some of Sum of All Fears","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a huge Clancy fan I was disappointed with the script.  And that the team did not have the testicular fortitude to go with a long format film and fully develop the plot from the book.  The loss of Harrison Ford was tough to take too, but it was his decision.  They are basically trying to wipe the 3 previous films from our memory.  But I still want Clancy to write Marco Ramius into a novel to see Sean Connery back on the screen.Aside from the departure from the Clancy novel... It is a good film.  But it could have been HUGE.  I gave it a 6. "},{"Title":"Another big mindless hollywood production.","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is always amazing to me the lack of respect that hollywood has for the viewing public when putting out crap like this. But then I look at the rating this movie receives on this site and I realize that they are just giving people watch they want. Nothing is believable in this movie, other than the special effects when the bomb goes off, all 30 seconds of it, the rest is your usual 'who wrote this crap' plot. The dialogue could have been written by a 9 year old. The situations are laughable, specially after the bomb goes off, and the saving of the world by Jack Ryann at the end of the movie while typing over a computer terminal is just so mindless that you feel that if you watch this garbage a minute longer weeds will start growing out of your ears. The only thing that can be said about this movie is that it looks good, everything else is all the crap you've seen in every bad doomsday thriller wrapped into one. If you want a good nuclear thriller, rent The Fourth Protocol. Skip this turkey, 4/10. "},{"Title":"Not True to Book, But...","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have read all the comments that point out the huge differences betweenClancy's book and this movie.Well, all the Jack Ryan movies differ greatly from the books.  They have to.  I  enjoy the movies, but I don't watch them with the notion that I will see a full  Clancy novel transfered to film.  The Sum of All Fears alone would require amajor miniseries to fill in all the characters and details.OK...My opinion of Ben Afleck playing Ryan would still be pretty negative in the  miniseries version.That said, I must also say that this particular Jack Ryan outing is notable for the  screenwriters', the director's and Liev Schreiber's rendition of John Clark.  Clark  is one of the most fascinating of Clancy's continuing characters and thismatches my vision of the Clark character to a T. "},{"Title":"Sound Quality","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An incredible movie that perfectly grasped the reality of the inside details of national security and suspense. This is truly a great piece with the exception of the sound. By far, the worst picture I ever saw for sound quality. You could not hear the dialogue well at all, even with the volume all the way up. I enjoyed the movie but at the same time was aggravated the whole time at the sound quality. Whoever was the sound mixer of this project did a horrible job unless what I got was a freak. "}{"Title":"99 Red Balloons","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you're over 40, then read this My first thought was to tell the reader that this was a bunch of nonsense, and that you should wait for two-for-one day at your video store.Then I thought, eh, well, you know, I kinda like those paper-back spy novels, I'm always reading them, maybe I shouldn't be so 'cold' about a fanciful spy novel on the screen.Then I thought, you know, this was just another Fail Safe or Bedford Incident type of scare-ya-with-nukes movie... ...and that's when I hit me like an atomic blast. Good heavens, how long has it has been! You see reader, if you're over 40 (better 50, but I'm sure 40's will do), then your kids don't know what it's like to live under the fear of nuclear war. At best, they've only seen the history channels documentary footage of Cold War or nuclear air raid shelters, or those drills at school. Great scott! Kennedy, Krushev, Castro, Mao, Breshnev and Nixon are ancient history to them! Now if you're under 40, (especially way under), then watch this and be frightened! True, Attacks of this type are not too far from reality! But let your imagination take you to the 60's, 70's and 80's; to escalation, to an all out nuclear war, nuclear winter, total destruction, in less time than it would take to watch this movie. Morgan Freeman is always a pleasure to watch. James Cromwell professionally plays President Fowler but will have to go a long, long way to top his role in L.A. Confidential, and Ben Affleck plays a paper-back-spy-hero-saves-world-wins-girl to perfection.'Sum of All Fears' is fair entertainment, and reminded me that it would be difficult to stop worrying, and learn to love the bomb, all over again. "},{"Title":"read the book","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was the worst of the Jack Ryan movies. If you like Tom Clancy novels, don't subject yourself to this torture.  The book is easily 100 times better, and the characters in this movie don't match up chronologically with the other movies.If you don't read Tom Clancy, you may think this movie is okay, but if you are a fan you are going to hate yourself for paying 4 bucks to rent it. "},{"Title":"Well...","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   I must say that after reading such a wonderful book I was very disappointed when I saw this movie. Everything was totally different, which made the movie a little less than perfect . If you really want something good  just skip the movie and read the book. You will be ten times more satisfied. Not to say that it was a total waste of time though. "},{"Title":"Compelling and dramatic.","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I, personally, loved this film, though my Mother found it a tad confusing by the end.Based on a book by Tom Clancy (and executively produced by him, too), The Sum of All Fears is a dramatic, compelling story about CIA agents, and about terrorism.Jack Ryan (Ben Affleck) is new to the CIA force.  He has a loving girlfriend, Cathy (Bridget Moynahan, who is a doctor, and whom Jack hopes to marry, he loves his job, and is fairly close to William Cabot (Morgan Freeman).  But how, oh, how, is Jack going to tell his lovely girlfriend that he's with the CIA?One particular funny part is where Freeman and Affleck are on a plane to a mission in Russia, and Affleck tries to tell Moynahan that their plans are spoiled because he's in the CIA, going on a secret mission; obviously, she doesn't believe him, and Freeman gets a kick out of that.Anyway, there is a bomb, and President Fowler, and the majority of the CIA force, seem to think it's the Russians who are the guilty ones.  I shan't spoil the film, so you'll have to see for yourself.The modus operandi of this film is to intrigue you to the plot, as well as make you think ahead to see 'whodunit'. "},{"Title":"A good movie anyway","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Desperate to make this film at any cost, they tailored a book published in 1991 about hostilities between the USA and Russia to fit today's political climate. I did not buy into the level of hostility between the two nations in 2002. Watching this film you can sense all the cutting and pasting that's going on. The nuclear blast in Baltimore is reduced in size to a low grade nuclear device. The Cold War is replaced by tensions over Chechnya.What Sum does do well is illustrate the panic and confusion that follows the explosion. The arguing among the president's advisors rang true. They'd be angry, overly emotional, irrational, and looking for a culprit, someone to strike back at. My question is, why neo-Nazis? Robinson and his writers are smart enough to use real issues like Russia's oppression of Chechnya and yet have to resort to cartoon villains to create the right circumstances. The nazis' desire is to rise up as a world power, to win in days what they failed to win in WWII. They want to take over the world. Well, Dr. Evil wants to take over the world. Those adapting Tom Clancy's book needed to think smaller-keeping the terrorists exclusively Chechen would have made more sense. Russia has been beating them down for more than a century now. I could have taken the film much more seriously if they'd limited the terrorists' ambitions to destroying Russia at any expense of human life. All that being said, Sum of All Fears does end up being a good film. I was pleased that, in spirit anyway, Robinson and company stayed true to the tone of the other 3 Clancy-adapted films. I'd rank it at number 3 out of the 4, October being at the top and Present Danger a close second.  Except for the nazi mistake, it's a solid story and an entertaining ride.    "},{"Title":"Comes up a little short","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First the good stuffAffleck was adequate, you might even say good, as the young Jack Ryan. He and Harrison Ford share that ability to seem not as dumb as they look. And the Anne-Archer-as-a-girl girl can wear an evening gown with the best of them. It's nice to see a pretty one getting some work for a change instead of the usual androgenoid or ho-bag or director's girlfriend/niece.The effects were excellent--I couldn't tell most of the time--not at all like the cartoon tigers in Gladiator, for instance.Freeman was perfectly charming and understated.The script was snappy, witty and hard-nosed.There were Backfire bombers! (Sorry--they're my favorite strike plane.)Now the not-so-good stuffIt was an hour too short. All that build-up with the surprisingly unconventional structure, and they throw it all away by rushing through the last quarter of the movie. It was like driving three days to see the Grand Canyon and then looking at it without getting out of the car. I've always supposed that one of the hardest things when you're making a movie is to know what you've got. These guys didn't. Maybe they were trying for tempo.Two stars out of four. Two-and-a-half if you like half-stars. "},{"Title":"From the kind of Peacemaker, which is a big compliment.","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine if cold war was, again, a reality. This single sentence could give you the main idea of what the Sum of all Fears is. It's all about what would happen if either Russia or America took a leap of faith and act unconsciously. Ben Affleck and Morgan Freeman star in the film that tells the story of this dilemma. It is Ben Affleck's role to prove the American Presidential commit, that Russia isn't guilty, as well as tell Russia the same about the Americans. This fight becomes even stronger by the time when the outcome of the tension finally happens.This outcome I was writing about is one of the most impressive sequences that came to our movie screens lately, it is a truly impressive sequence. It is actually impressive how this movie fulfilled it's obligations; when the chances of being an enormous failure were enormous. When we see the Sum of all Fears we can see some common plot points with the Peacemaker, another great movie Terrorism. Remarkable are specially the cinematography, Ben Affleck; the always trustable Morgan Freeman and the rest of the top notch cast. Also, notice the irony in Deep Impact, Morgan Freeman as the president, had James Cromwell working with him under disastrous situations. Here, the roles are reversed, however the disastrous situation is still standing. Oh, by the way, Deep Impact was directed by Mimi Leder, the same of The Peacemaker, of course.I rest my case!   "},{"Title":"Intricate well made film","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Sum Of All Fears adds up to a well-made, intellectual, intricate movie. This film is directed by Phil Alden Robinson who also directed Sneakers (Robert Redford) and Field Of Dreams (Kevin Costner). It stars Ben Affleck and Morgan Freeman. Ben plays a younger version of Jack Ryan (Tom Clancy's hero), CIA analyst who is thrust into trying to save us from starting a war with Russia. We have had two (2) previous Jack Ryans', Alec Baldwin and Harrison Ford. Does Ben do a good job, I'll let you be the judge. Morgan Freeman as usual gives a great performance as Ben's boss and advisor to the President (James Cromwell). I might also add that Lev Schreiber is a good supporting cast member who I felt should have had more screen time because I wanted to know more about the role he played.This movie starts out slow because there are many supporting characters and they all play pivotal scenes important to this film. I admit there were times when I wondered when we would get to the story line. Note do not miss any dialogue, pause this film or walk out of the room while it is playing because you could miss important story lines/scenes which you will need later.In summary, this is a story of a missing nuclear bomb lost in the 70's and who has it now. Will it be detonated in the United States and who is the cause of it.I gave it a 7 on the Internet Movie Database because it held my interest and also gave us some insight in the workings of the CIA (fact or fiction, it's nice to know that maybe our government agencies really work this way). "},{"Title":"Intricate well made film","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Sum Of All Fears adds up to a well-made, intellectual, intricate movie. This film is directed by Phil Alden Robinson who also directed Sneakers (Robert Redford) and Field Of Dreams (Kevin Costner). It stars Ben Affleck and Morgan Freeman. Ben plays a younger version of Jack Ryan (Tom Clancy's hero), CIA analyst who is thrust into trying to save us from starting a war with Russia. We have had two (2) previous Jack Ryans', Alec Baldwin and Harrison Ford. Does Ben do a good job, I'll let you be the judge. Morgan Freeman as usual gives a great performance as Ben's boss and advisor to the President (James Cromwell). I might also add that Lev Schreiber is a good supporting cast member who I felt should have had more screen time because I wanted to know more about the role he played.This movie starts out slow because there are many supporting characters and they all play pivotal scenes important to this film. I admit there were times when I wondered when we would get to the story line. Note do not miss any dialogue, pause this film or walk out of the room while it is playing because you could miss important story lines/scenes which you will need later.In summary, this is a story of a missing nuclear bomb lost in the 70's and who has it now. Will it be detonated in the United States and who is the cause of it.I gave it a 7 on the Internet Movie Database because it held my interest and also gave us some insight in the workings of the CIA (fact or fiction, it's nice to know that maybe our government agencies really work this way). "},{"Title":"What a mess...Why'd you butcher your story Tom?!?!?","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not gonna be yet another Tom Clancey-aholic here to compare the book with the movie...but I just have to say that the movie was a hack job. Trying to condece a 900 page book into a 2 hour film is a really tall order. I can see some of the story changes but everything went so fast...THere is just too much going on.In all I wouldnt recommend this one...too fast paced...more of an excuse to push Ben Affleck, than anything remotely close to anything coming from the pen of Tom Clancy. The Sum of All Fears takes the phrase Based upon the Novel by... to the next level. The only redeeming quality was José Carreras singing as the terrorists were being killed. "}{"Title":"Not nearly as good as the book","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  That comments summarizes the Sum of All Fears.  While the Tom Clancy novel of the same name would have no doubt made for a better movie, it may have also struck America's terrorist nerve a little more than this version.If I had not had read the book, I probably would have found it to be above average, but having read the book, I have to grade it below average. Unfortunately, this story takes the Jack Ryan character from the ranks of American hero to unbelievable.  Having said that, after having seen both Alec Baldwin and Harrison Ford portray Jack Ryan, I found Ben Affleck's portrayal wanting for authenticity, and un-Ryan-like.The too words that best describe this movie are too bad. "},{"Title":"What a disappointing movie. Avoid it if you can!","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why Ben Affleck? He's too young to be credible as Jack Ryan and his acting performance is average at best. Seems like hollywood cast all 30+ men with 20+ actors, preferable the swimsuit model-kind of guy. Never mind credibility and actingAnd the script, heh, the carefully wrought book is replace by a thin cliché-ridden mess, jumping from  one standardized action movie scene to the next without considering the plot... or what's left of it.What a disappointing movie. Avoid it if you can! "},{"Title":"Realism with little love","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie perfectly portraits what might happen when Evil conspire to crush World Peace. What makes it an 8 (out of 10) is that it's realistic, there are minimal focus on personal issues, and basically not much love, which I think is okay in these kinds of movies. "},{"Title":"27,000 Nuclear Weapons. One decent film Is Missing","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After a decent series of films, they kill the series with this piece of sh**. Ben Affleck doesn't carry the role at all. And most other characters are casted badly. "},{"Title":"Fear...","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very good one... if only there was not this always love-story in the US movies  It add nothing to the intrigue of the story, and is really annoying, i would vote for 8.5. Positive point is that americans and russians are showed as the same maturity of stupidity. "},{"Title":"Nuclear holocaust is right around the corner","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine what would happen if someone tricks the US and Russia, making both countries think that they are at war... Another Jack Ryan-movie. This is certainly not the best of them. Clancy's books are always better than the movies based on them. A lot of details and important parts have been left out.  The ending of the movie is rather disappointing, I think. It is not exactly creative, nor does it inspire to discuss any relevant issues related to the subjects dealt with. If you like Jack Ryan simply read Clancy's books. That way you will get many hours of great entertainment.  There are lots of well made scenes in this movie. It just lacks some punch, when the time comes to make a statement! The casting is fine. Most of the music has been stolen from Hans Zimmer, but Jerry Goldsmith gets credited for it. That is outrageous. The music in the movie can be found in Crimson Tide as well. Only a very little part of the music seems to have been made by Goldsmith himself for this specific movie. Any fan of Hans Zimmer will get a surprise. "},{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you've loved the other Jack Ryan movies, check this one out quick!!! It'll keep you glued to the edge of your seat the whole time!  I loved Ben Affleck in this spy thriller!  The only thing that I didn't like so well about this movie was that it was released within 8 months of the September 11th disaster and hit a little too close to home.  But all in all, I thought this movie was fantastic!  "},{"Title":"Please try harder next time","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't really consider The Sum Of All Fears to be a BAD movie, but it is very flawed. The previous 3 Jack Ryan films, Hunt For Red October, Patriot Games, Clear and Present Danger, were all extraordinarily well written, directed, and acted. Unfortunately, the Sum Of All Fears falls short on all 3 of those. Clearly in adapting the story to be a young Jack Ryan, a lot was lost. The Director, Phil Alden Robinson does do a great job with the excitement and action, but he knows nothing about character and story building. I found myself extremely bored with the first hour of story buildup, which is surprising, since I always thought one of Tom Clancy's strengths as a novelist was the plot building. I don't believe any of the previous 3 Jack Ryan films suffered this flaw.I did enjoy parts of this movie. Once everything starts coming together about half way through, I awoke from my comatose state and actually started enjoying myself. Robinson handled the action decently. He also managed to create the proper intensity to the story that the first half lacked.I really give praise to the actors. Morgan Freeman is just as good as he always is. Philip Baker Hall and Colm Feore are excellent with the little bit of screen time they have. Liev Shreiber did an even better job as the character of John Clark than Willem Dafoe did as the older version of the character in Clear and Present Danger. I left this movie wondering why they didn't bother casting Liev Shreiber as Jack Ryan.Which brings me to the biggest flaw of this movie. BEN AFFLECK. I can't even begin to descrive how mis-cast he was. Affleck just plain sucks in this role. Obviously following up Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan would be difficult for anyone. The problem is that Ben Affleck didn't put any effort into his character. Every second he's on screen it just seems like he's reading the lines off cue cards, making no attempt at giving a REAL PERFORMANCE. There doesn't seem to be any performance here. It's not necessary to be better than Harrison Ford, but Affleck doesn't even try. His performance is non-existent. I kind of expected more from him, considering in his last movie, Affleck gave the performance of his career. I'm talking about Changing Lanes. I really hope if another Jack Ryan film is done, they consider casting somebody other than Affleck. Aside from Liev Shreiber, I've already come up with 10-15 better actors for the role.The Sum Of All Fears suffers from many flaws, but there are many good things about the film as well. Is a stand-alone movie, it might work, but as a follow up to 3 amazing Jack Ryan films, it just seems mediocre. "},{"Title":"A positive surprise!","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After watching the trailer, I had some serious doubts about this movie. It has nuclear arms? Oh no! Another 'stop the bomb 2 seconds before it goes off'-movie?The first positive thing was, that the russians weren't babbling idiots, like they usually are in this type of movies. However, the fate of the a-bomb really left me stunned. They actually did that in this kind of a movie? Wow! were my first thoughts.However, you could say that the actual suspence begins from that moment, and it keeps getting better. If you're going to watch one movie about stolen nuclear arms, this'll be what you've been waiting for.I gave it 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Dont expect the book","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Don't see this movie with the expectation that you will be viewing Tom Clancy's incredible novel.  There are so many differences that the movie could have been re-named, and only a few die hard Clancy fans would make the connection.  I am not bashing the movie, I found it very entertaining and well worth my money, but it has very little to do with the novel. See the movie.... More importantly, read the book!!!  "}{"Title":"A waste of my hard earned money (may contain spoilers)","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is unrealistic both in the factual and personal level. Like Affleck's other film, Pearl Harbour, this film is also a rewriting of facts with unreliable characters. I'm living in Israel and I've read several books about THE bomb. This film is less realistic then starwars. It was also completely unreliable due to the fact hollywood didn't want to p*** off the arabs by showing the terrorists as muslems.--- Warning, this part may contain spoilers ---Ben Affleck is not reliable as a CIA official. He seems too cocky and acting too nervously to pass as a real Jack Ryan. I'm afraid he's also not such a good actor, always doing his same old acting gimmicks. As an Israeli, this film made me laugh at best. Is anybody foolish enough to believe that Israel would just forget about the lost bomb? We would have occupied the entire golan heights (a feat that could easily be accomplished during that war) and would scan it inch by inch. The film makers insisted on the terrorist delivering the certain cargo via Haifa, Israel. Why would they do such a foolish thing? The Syrian-Israeli border is the most fortified border in the world! The cargo had to go first through Jordan and then through the watched Jordanian border. I can continue on and on. Those factual errors are not supposed to be in a Clancy film...As for the rest of the film... Well, it's your typical hollywood film. And that is not a thing to merit... "},{"Title":"Lots of action","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It took a little bit to get into it, as well as somethings were very Confuzing.but all together it was very dramatic and mournful. It has tons of viloence and blood, for people who like that (like me) and two really intense kissing scenes, I think its so cool how Ryan has to prove what really happened to the president , and if he doesnt that there would be a nuc war!If your sentitive about 9-11 death, or any of the nuc's exploding realisticly then dont see it, or read the book. But for people who like blood, guns, and violence, this is perfect for you! "},{"Title":"They could have added more action","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!!!! The movie was exciting. But as EW magazine promised it to be a hard-hitting action flick, it's not.  Don't get me wrong, I loved the film, the pacing wasn't dull. In fact the suspense starts at one of the earlier scenes in the movie. We are introduced to Jack. And his pretty girlfriend, Caroline Muller. (The character played by Anne Archer in the earlier films)  The only spectacular scenes if there are any start after the nuclear blast in Baltimore.  The players are all good. From Affleck to Freeman, Bridget Moynahan and even Liev Schrieber.  John Clark is a real badass, watch how he kills Dressler.Is it similar to the book? NO! It's set 2002, and the events in the story have ALL been revised. Except the basic plot of terrorists trying to set up a war between Russia and America. Is it highly recommended? Yes, go see it. The film is well done. "},{"Title":"The True Sum of All Fears is that you watch this movie","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Really this movie is so bad i don't know where to start, from the ridicules performance of Ben Affleck, a lost character that you can't trust or know what is he doing. Morgan Freeman added nothing to his good movie record. This movie is in no way close to The Hunt For Red October, Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger. Tom Clancy is not to be blamed. I advice people who have not seen it, do not see it.  "},{"Title":"Best Clancy-based screenplay so far.","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Affleck sucks. This was my feeling about his skills as an actor before his role in this movie as the young Jack Ryan. Affleck is not the greatest actor on this planet, but he sure doesn't suck!, is my feeling right now after 5 minutes of watching the Sum of All Fears. All my best to the people that did the cast in this movie - you guys hit the jackpot.This was by far the best film ever based on a novel/script by Tom Clancy I have seen and the people who did the cast sure receive a full 10 from me.Not only were the characters believable (considering you're familiar with Clancy's work) but they seemed to fit to their roles like a glove - all of them, and that's pretty astonishing nowadays in an American produced movie in my opinion. If you like Clancy's novels, be sure to check this one out - while Clancy might prevail in meticuloucity in his novels, this one sure gives the intense feeling you can only find in his best work.To anyone.Even your wife, I suspect ) "},{"Title":"A decent flick that needed more intelligence","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A decent flick, that lacked in the intelligence department.  Rather disappointing in that regard, an upgraded script could have helped this movie tremendously.Ben Affleck is Ben Affleck.  What you've gotten in the past is what you get here.  Whether that is good or bad, is for you to decide.Rating 6.3/10 "},{"Title":"Flawed, but a good effort","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've been putting off seeing this film, as I was afraid I would be disappointed.  Luckily, I wasn't.Ben Affleck is convincing in the role of the 'accidental hero' Ryan - you never get the feeling that he's setting out to be a hero, just that he's in the right place at the right time to make a difference, and that he's just doing what he can.The first half of the film is interesting - we see enough of the Bomb Plot to know what's going on, without going into the intricate details that so often slow the books down.  It's interesting seeing the little snippets we get here and there from the good guys POV.  There's a real humanity to Ryan (being teased by his boss, looked down on by the bigwigs), as well as a sense of being caught up in events he can't really control.  This is good.The second half of the film is a lot tenser.  The handling of the detonation was good - no grisly, slow-motion shots of people being blown apart, just focusing on the main characters.  The aftermath was perhaps a little overdone (Ryan driving through the flaming city came out of nowhere - it was rather offputting), but luckily it didn't last long, and soon enough we were into a tense potboiler.  The handling of the growing crises was believable - given what we knew about the US and Russian Presidents, each decision was true to character, and it was easy to see each move being misinterpreted on the other side.  Eminently believable.The only major problem I had with the crisis at the end was the Backfire attack on the US Carrier.  In the book, this role was filled by tanks stationed in Berlin, a situation which obviously had to be rectified for the film.  However, the attack was simply unbelievable - the US Navy has practiced this exact scenario too often for them to be taken so completely off-guard, especially after what had just happened in Baltimore.  Still, it looked good.I was very pleased not to see rampant Americanism running through the film. It could so easily have become America good, being reasonable, Russia bad, being nasty, but if anything, Russia was the defender, and America the aggressor.  What could easily have become overbearing became tension-building instead.I can't rate this 10/10, because it wasn't perfect, but I'd say it rates a solid 8. "},{"Title":"Mindless and rather tasteless nuclear bomb story","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (contains minor spoilers)In spite of a half litre of Hagen Daz and a slush puppy, my brain wasn't nearly numb enough mush to do more than float off and consider the meaning of life while Affleck whittered on through this movie.It could have been great. Cataclysms, the horrific paycheck that can go with politically disingenuous power blocks, questions about the balance of power and how we can achieve greater global stability in a world that is still not free of nuclear arms. But no, none of this - but it least it lasts long enough to justify a megaton of popcorn.Even using more of the original novel (which had Israeli extremists rather than Neo-Nazis) might have yielded some intellectual component. Some decent characterization and casting might have helped too. But it was entertaining enough, overlooking these flaws, until it totally ran out of steam . . .'Ben Affleck saves the world' is as about as convincing as 'Hugh Grant plays Othello'. So is the squeaky clean CIA and all-American plot (squeaky clean enough to draw assistance from the CIA and American military of course - check out the credits). Johnny Depp or even (remembering Three Kings) George Clooney might have injected some moral integrity into the roles, but there again - they tend to be fussier about the films they work in.A plot involving terrorists that have real issues with American foreign policy might have been intellectually engaging - whereas the actual villains are more akin to the 'Dr Evil' of Austin Powers movies   in their one-dimensional 'evil-ness' - a suitable match perhaps against the toy-boy appeal of Affleck - though why, on earth, did Morgan Freeman bother??The plot itself has as much sophistication as a boys comic story. The latest 'Star Wars' comes to mind. And Bridget Moynahan (Coyote Ugly) as a doctor? She reminded me Cameron Diaz's 'doctor' character in 'Something about Mary' - aren't doctors supposed to be able to occasionally exhibit more intelligence than token eye candy characters?? "},{"Title":"Very Good...But Frighteningly Realistic","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum Of All Fears is a very good movie about a plot to detonate a nuclear bomb in an American city. It's a great action movie full of intrigue but at the same time it is frighteningly realistic.Before the tragic terrorist attacks last September 11th this film would have seemed like pure fiction but in this post-September 11th world, it is very realistic.In a way, I think a lot of films dealing with this theme are very useful to the real world. This type of film shows governments what can happen in such events and I hope that this type of movie encourages governments to think more about how to deal with the threat of terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.                       (SPOILERS AHEAD)Unlike most films of this type, the nuclear device is actually detonated in Baltimore and obviously, it causes huge loss of life. The American government are quick to blame the Russian government and soon after both countries are heading for nuclear destruction. The actual bomb that is detonated is actually an American-made bomb and this is quite a scary aspect. The actors and actresses play their parts very well and you can feel the tension along with them. Whilst watching this movie, I felt like I was watching a real life news event. I guess, the fact that this film is within the realms of reality added to the tension.But all in all, it was a great movie and once again, I think these films do a good job in showing the world the possible consequences of events like this and how to prevent them. This was a very good film. "},{"Title":"Spectacularly average","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Incredibly, &#145;The Sum Of All Fears' takes a sure-fire premise and turns it into one of the most ugly and boring films of the year.  Amongst all the concern about whether Ben Affleck could effectively replace Harrison Ford and renew this tiring franchise, the filmmakers seem to have forgotten that the best pick-me-up would have been a decent script.  This one's awful.  We know from the outset precisely what's going to happen, and when it does - after an interminable hour of preamble - it's virtually a non-event the nuclear explosion which takes out Baltimore is realized with about as much visual flair as a White House press conference.  Worse, the series of events it initiates rapidly mushrooms into ludicrousness - thanks to ham-fisted, telemovie plotting - and interest is quickly lost.  The direction is patchy, Goldsmith's music is typically dire, and the performances are lukewarm at best.  Sure, Affleck's a nice enough substitute Ryan, but there's no getting around it bucket-loads of boyish charm are no match for the fatherly, patriotic gravitas of Ford. "}{"Title":"Not bad, not bad at all","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a pretty good piece of summer entertainment and smarter than your average blockbuster but nothing to test the old grey matter too much. I haven't read the book but I had heard of a few changes to the story and these were the weakest link of the movie. Affleck was mostly bearable as Ryan and only became annoying towards the end but Freeman steals the show as his boss, he should be Jack Ryan (also the Russian President and staff are far more likeable than the Americans). Also changing the bad guys to Nazis is a major own goal as you feel like they just walked off a James Bond set from about 20 years ago. Most of the films shortcomings are forgotten due to explosive (literally) middle section and makes the end heroics feel tacked on and rushed (some of it brings back bad Pearl Harbor memories). Overall a solid 6/10    "},{"Title":"Thank Heaven Harrison Ford is gone...","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I must start by saying that I liked this movie.  I don't want to leave one with the impression that I didn't.  In previous reviews, I have raised the rhetorical question concerning looking so forward to a film that it can't possibly meet your expectations; this may be such a case, but I'm not sure.As is well known, this film is based on Tom Clancy's 1991 novel of the same name, one that is 900 pages in length, chock-full of characters on both sides of the moral fence and eat-up with interlocking subplots and character background and development.  As is also well known, Ben Affleck takes over the role of Clancy's hero, Jack Ryan, after Harrison Ford passed on this project (and thank Heaven, as Jack Ryan is NOT 60 years old, and Ford is starting to look every day of it).  Thus, due to Affleck's youth, producers believed the need to pretend that this film is Ryan's first adventure, thus eliminating the logical need for much of the background and many characters from the novel.All that having been said, director Phil Alden Robinson has made a better-than-average espionage movie.  The movie moves right along and held my attention throughout.  The action sequences are effective, the terrorist-induced disaster is well done with CGI effects and Affleck proves, to me at least, that he can play the modern American Action Movie hero. Affleck, in my humble opinion, is a more believable Jack Ryan than Harrison Ford, who was too old when he first took on the role ten years ago, ever was.  He plays the character with just the right balance of intellectual info-geek and regular Joe who'll swing a fist when the situation calls for it.  Morgan Freeman, as the Director of the CIA, is terrific, as usual. His performance as Affleck's superior and mentor is intentionally low-key, and more powerful because of it.  Several of Hollywood's all-purpose character actors (Philip Baker Hall, James Cromwell, Bruce McGill, Ron Rifkin) all do very well with small but important roles.Yet, I DID read the novel.  Other viewers and reviewers may have not and as a result may have a different take on this movie.  I can only speak for myself, though, and I don't have the ability to pretend that I haven't read it.  The change from Arab terrorists in the novel to neo-fascist terrorists in the film didn't bother me, but the lack of exploration of the new villains does.  Alan Bates plays the main heavy, Dressler, but his role could have been filled by any out-of-work actor, for all the depth it had. It is my hope that there was a lot of his character left on the cutting room floor that will pop up on the DVD, because here it is a week after I've seen the movie and I'm still wondering why this character did as he did.  Sure, there was a sentence or two uttered by one of Ryan's fellow analysts attempting to explain Dressler's motives, but a sentence or two doesn't flesh out a character, and especially one that is supposed to be the picture's villain.Come to think of it, there wasn't a lot of fleshing of Ryan, either. Since this film is supposedly the `first' one, and The Hunt for Red October never happened, then we need to learn why Ryan is what he is and how he came to be where he is.  The Hunt for Red October did that with Alec Baldwin's Ryan; this film doesn't for Affleck's.  The character of John Clark, a favorite among Clancy's fans, is a pretty standard cardboard-cutout SEAL/Delta/CIA black-bag-type guy here.  Willem Dafoe's Clark in Clear and Present Danger didn't get much more attention than Liev Schriber's Clark, but Dafoe's was much more involved and developed, and I don't believe it to be a testament to Dafoe's acting ability over Schriber's.  Director Robinson has proven he can develop characters (see Field of Dreams), so the lack of this here is surprising.To repeat myself, though, I did like the movie.  I recommend it and will likely end up owning it once it comes to DVD, being the Clancy fan that I am.  Despite my diatribe, there is much to like about this movie.  The performances are good, the story is gripping and moves right along and the visuals are impressive.  It's a great summer movie.  If you are a Clancy fan and have been looking forward to this film, go see it; fans of other authors often wish their beloved stories could be told this well.  If you haven't read the book on which this film is based, you'll be very entertained by a well-made film.  Just do yourself a favor; don't read the book first.  "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I do think the film managed to make the overall story much more interesting than Clancy did in the original novel, and I have to say that Affleck was much better than I thought he was going to be, but there were two things in this film that spoiled it slightly for me.  Firstly, the playing around with the stage that Ryan's life was at, made it hard to relate to the other Ryan movies, and - SPOILER AFOOT - when the American aircraft carrier is attacked by the Russians it is sailing completely alone, which would never happen.  There would ALWAYS be lots of frigates, Aegis cruisers, subs, supply ships etc. all around it, and chances are the missiles would have neer got to the carrier.  Anyway, apart from these points I thought the film was impressive, and very well done all-round. "},{"Title":"Another excellent Jack Ryan movie","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Being a huge fan of both the Jack Ryan novels and the Jack Ryan movies, I awaited this movie with great anticipation. I have to say that I was a bit sceptical of Ben Affleck playing the role of Jack Ryan but fortunately he didn't disappoint me.  The actually amount of action scenes is fairly limited and even the nuclear explosion, which for many directors would be an excuse to unleash millions of dollars of CG is displayed quite briefly. The action scenes are there for the sake of the story, and not for the sake of action and they help building up the tension really well. Like the other Ryan movies (The hunt for Red October, Patriot Games and Clear and present danger), the story is a simplified version of the novel but the movie tells the story of the escalating conflict of two superpowers spiralling towards a full-scale nuclear war remarkably well. The movie isn't exactly true to the novel but you can't expect a 800-page novel to be reproduced truthfully in 2 hours, and the main theme of the novel is captured way better than in, for instance, Clear and Present Danger. The age of Jack Ryan is inconsistent with both the novels and the previous movies but if you're willing to set this aside you Ryan fans will love this one. If you're not a Ryan fan this still is a very entertaining movie.  "},{"Title":"Good Film, bland at beginning but got a whole lot better when things heated up.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well as you can read by the summary, the film was slow at first but got a whole lot better. Ben Affleck whom i thought was soley casted in order to get ladies to watch the film was actually alright in the film, it was good to see new blood as Jack Ryan which worked better for the character because of the past few films and the character's history in them. I felt i could forgive the discontinuity because it was a different actor entirely, i could see Affleck do another Tom Clancy film. Morgan Freeman was great as usual, his surprise face was the best in the film. Great Cast all around including the president and the noboddys. The guy who plays John Clark had a serial killer face about him anyways from scream which made me uneasy about his character which worked well. Great film all around, you could take your lady to go see it and the plot isnt that hard to follow, quite a straightforward film with basically no twists.----------------------------Spoiler----------------------------The film dared to go where films didnt after september 11th, watching all the explosions i had to do a reality check for a second to make sure i wasnt actually watching another attack. The action sequences were done real well, especially the opera music at the end when all the bad guys got their dues. Only thing was, the 2 big silent period pauses which were sort of annoying, the first one was clever after i learnt it was meant to be but i would have liked to have heard what they said anyways. When the film kept escalating i kept asking myself, when will it stop? It was tense and made me realise that the men at the top were just men and not all knowing they had the weaknesses of humans just like the rest of us and they had all the power to end life. "},{"Title":"Too possible to be true!","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, we get movies late here in Germany (hence the late review), but I was freaked out at the premise of this film. I've read lots of Tom Clancy novels, so was drawn to what I knew would be a fact-based, reality and hopefully action-packed film.After getting past the Jack-Ryan-in-the-present deal, I found myself awaiting the next plot twist; since I had not read this book, I wanted to be surprised like all others. Because we see in the trailors that the bomb does go off (should of left it out 'cause I know European audiences wouldn't have thought American filmmakers had the guts to let this happen), made me more interested in this movie than had it been a James Bond save-the-world-with-007-seconds-to-go film. What happened after was frightening and I do believe, realistic. What bothered me was the unrealism of all the electronic activity after the bombing (cell phone nets still working?) and how the Dr.'s pretty face was not at all wounded although she was standing directly in front of the window when the shock wave destroyed it. How sweet, ugh! So typical of U.S. films. Did Ben Affleck do justice to a young Jack Ryan you bet. Was Morgen Freeman again superb oh yes. And I loved the casting of the president's cabinet with old, white men, one who probably has a heart attack on board Air Force One (who cares, gotta' start the countdown). Pretty depressing to believe that if the President did die, some other old, white guy would take over. Out of 10 stars, it gets a good solid 6 from me. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Clancy thriller turned into unoriginal action flick","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oh dear. A friend often reminds me that fans of a good book should never see the results when it is immortalised in celluloid - unfortunately this friend is once again proved correct.I am a big fan of the Jack Ryan books and quite enjoyed the first three films of the series to leave the Hollywood stable. I accept that it is impossible to condense the kind of detail found in a thousand page novel into two hours, yet the earlier films managed quite a fair stab at it with rather impressive results. This is, alas, not true of The Sum of All Fears. This film has all the political subtlety of an Indiana Jones film and is replete with the same pantomime rent-a-Nazis. The complicated historical situation of the Middle East that gave rise to the gripping and thoroughly plausible plotline of the book has been overlooked and replaced with an (admittedly extremely topical) action one complete with the requisite two-dimensional baddies. I am surprised they stopped there and didn't give them all Alan Rickman accents and thin moustaches to twiddle.To be fair the film is not entirely mush. While I will always picture Jack Ryan as Harrison Ford (sorry Mr. Baldwin) Ben Affleck portrays a rather convincing (albeit younger) CIA agent and Morgan Freeman is not at all bad in his role as a slightly modified Cabot. Unfortunately Ryan's sophisticated, elegant PhD spouse seems to have morphed into a mallrat. Could you really see a top eye surgeon telling her husband that his excuse is sooooo lame? What-e-ver.The film is in many ways typical action fodder that has been targeted squarely at the lowest common denominator for fear of confusing and frightening the audience with complicated plotlines. This really isn't necessary. Come on Hollywood, don't patronise the same public that has put Clancy (plot and all) at the top of the global bestseller lists several times over. "},{"Title":"quite good, but lots of errors","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Quite good, but lots of errors; and I (still) don't like Afflek, he's a one-face man. The story is not very original, but it could be worst.The boom scenes are gorgeous, the best of all this movie, well, that and Freeman, always Freeman. "},{"Title":"Standard Stuff","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  By John LowtherThe plot looks involving, the cast looks strong, and the previous Jack Ryan stories to hit the big screen have been considerably above average.  The plot was never entirely believable though, it didn't sit well or work somehow.  I know what your thinking, 'yeah right a terrorist attack on America pull the other one!'  It was not the scale of the attack that didn't work.  Nor the idea of a terrorist attack.  It was the conspiracy itself and in truth the characters who simply were not strong enough.After the film I asked my friends for the names of various characters, the only known one was Jack Ryan himself.  None of the characters were strong, not even Morgan Freeman.  There seemed to be absolutely no depth to any of them, they were interchangeable and represented nothing. The characters were not fleshed out enough.  There was no depth to them.  This is why the film seemed so unbelievable but more importantly it made it dull.  The viewer didn't engage with the film fully because the characters lacked a human side.  Some blame it on Ben Afflec's acting but I favour the explanation that he didn't get a chance to do any acting.  Sure he ran about a bit, but the human relationships and basically the characters in general were not explored.  The film never quite moved out of second gear. His girlfriend was a weak character.  In the other Ryan films the family element has been a source of comparison for the viewer - a link to their lives.  A motivating factor that sucks people in and reifies the Ryan character.  This film lacked any grounding for Ryan.  He seemed to be a CIA agent and that was it.  Obviously, the girlfriend sub plot was slapped in to try and ground him - however it failed.  The girlfriend had little screen time, and little relevance.  Ryan was not an interesting character and he seemed quite dislodged from humanity.  The bad guys were just comic.  The poor characterisation of the fascists made the film less believable and retarded the excitement of the audience.  That Alan Bates had to be identified as a fascist with a swastika on his watch said a lot about the subtlety on show.  I would rather not have him pigeon holed like that and if he was supposed to be a neo-nazi then there were better ways of showing this.  Generally Neo-Nazi's differ from the line of Hitler to some extent now, there views have changed on a lot of issues but none of this was shown.  They were simply Hitler's boys.  However, they didn't make sense - an international clique of nazis?!? Nazi and internationalist? Sounds as likely as a Communist CEO to me.  They seemed more like lonely old men.  Their motivations were largely confused and unexplored.  The European pan-nationalism thing had some promise but that was mentioned once and put on the backburner.  The idea of South Africa being involved confused things because they are outside of Europe, and if as Bates's Dr. Evil claimed that the point was to get all Aryans working together why plot the destruction of America?  The group also had problems about the destruction of Russia.  The baddies were a confused lot and the audience was left in some doubt over there motivations.  Surely to afford 50 million they would have to be a powerful terrorist group?  They were under developed and Bate's was seemingly in panto mode.  The film was quite dull, the characters underdeveloped.  The plot was also both underdeveloped and laboured.  The plot was not fleshed out with twists, turns and suspense.  Whilst the end was quite suspenseful it was never genuinely a clever film.  This was not brain fodder.  The plot was so very predictable and without much colour.  There was nothing interesting or new about it - though the production was slick enough.  A far better choice would be for all readers of this review to go and watch Dr Strangelove.  -Johnps.  The ending was also very smug.  "},{"Title":"Sum of all fearful tedium","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Relax my friend, here are 2 hours in your life where nothing unexpected will happen, your breathing throughout will be shallow and even. Cliched romance, bland noble hero and all the big action sequences are fudged or happen off camera. No directorial flair. But, smashing music and a three dimensional performance from C. Hindes as the Russian premiere. Be kind to yourself and rent 'Clear and Present Danger' or 'Airforce One' instead...  "}{"Title":"Could have been a 9/10, if only...","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After reading a brief plot-outline, I decided to watch this movie in a theatre. I was expecting an easy and smooth action-flick for two hours, but TSOAF definately exceeded my expectations. The movie raises a very serieus global issue, and the possibly devastating effect the actions of only a few rogues can have. Which is not to say that the movie is flawless though, but explaining this points requires me to use spoilers.<SPOILERS!>From the start, the scene is set for your average action-flick; a lost bomb finds its way to a number of people poised on setting the stage for WW-III. The acting, the scene, the way in which the CIA is deceived etc. are not bad, but not great either; I made me expect the average plot in which the good guys stop the bomb at the stadium from going off 3 second before it would have exploded.The point at which the movie starts to exceed the level of average Hollywood movies is the 5- to 7-second areal still-shot of Baltimore a powerful yet subtle hint at what's going to happen. It made me wonder Would Hollywood really have the guts to...?. And they did. Being a physicist, I must say that I was pleased to see a technically rather accurate depiction of a nuclear explosion it is absolutely silent, until the shockwave arrives (the shockwave travels faster than sound, so indeed things must be silent before it arrives).As I stated in the one-line summary, from this point on the movie could have become a 9/10, if only... That is if only the story would have proceeded in a realistic way from this point on. The realistic scenario would have been a full-scale global nuclear shoot-out. In this way, the point about how fragile our world really is would have come across in a much stronger way. I do understand Hollywood's (or Clancy's) need to entertain a large audience, since in the end they make their living by doing so. But please, this could have been done in another way than the all-too-American bs in which this One Righteous Man Saves The World All On His Own! The scenario which the people in Air Force One think of nuking Russia's ICBMs to make them back off, possibly at the expense of a limited number of USA cities, would have done perfectly as an ending the world would not have been destroyed completely, yet a very strong message would have been conveyed!In addition, I very much agree with many of the other customers, who rightfully scorn Hollywood for not having the guts to follow the book, and depict the arabs as the bad guys not because all arabs are bad guys, but because given the events of last year, this would have conveyed the point even more strongly. Yes, this would have been shocking! Yes, this would have caused people to walk out on the movie, too shocked to watch more! But it would have been realistic and strong!.If only.... A missed opportunity! "},{"Title":"This one was always going to be a tough sell (spoilers)","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't read Tom Clancy's novel but judging from other people's comments it hasn't just been cut but filleted, diced and pulverised.  The reconstituted souffle that has been served up in its place is oddly tasteless.  Not offensive but somewhat lacking in dramatic flavour.  If this film is remarkable for anything, it's for its eagerness to appear serious. But its obvious trepidation trips it up at too many turns.A more faithful adaptation using radical Islamic terrorists as the villains would have been open to charges of exploitation, no matter how well it was executed.  As horror overtook drama on September 11 the desire for sensitivity was understandable, if sometimes maddening.  Stuck between a rock and a hard place, the filmmakers could equally be accused of pandering to political correctness in their changing the terrorists into neo-nazis. I've heard the film was underway at the time so they can't really be blamed for the timing.But that's still their tough luck. Any film has to work as a piece of drama, and if SOAF wants us to take it seriously as a political thriller then it has to convincingly reflect the reality of the world we live in today. Using a hokey cabal of euro-fascists to spark off World War Three would have seemed contrived in the mid-90s but today it seems positively absurd. It's as if we've been transported into a weird parallel universe where the cold war never (really) ended and the Russkies are still the prime danger to world peace.  Even the far less serious Bond movies of recent years didn't try to pull that one on us.The wrenching awfulness of the nuclear explosion, on the other hand, hits close to home. The shock of the recent pulls the film clean away from its outdated political foundations but instead of elevating the story it only lays bare its weaknesses. This film doesn't even have the honesty to show more than a minimum of the suffering and destruction that such a calamity would create.  Obviously its certificate handicaps it, but we would still expect to see more of a human reaction, more pain, damn it.I was going to go into Ben Affleck's performance, but it's just too depressing.  His affable frat-boy goofiness may wile away an hour or two of light entertainment but he didn't convince as Jack Ryan.  There's a gravitas needed for character like this that he didn't summon.Plot holes have been well documented already, but they're not what sinks this one. This film was in a quandry from the word go and it doesn't merit special consideration.  History has the habit of moving horribly fast sometimes, and this is inconvenient for dramatists.  But if they can't keep up sooner or later people will notice and they will point it out - without mercy.  "},{"Title":"Good film but shame it's blown the future..","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say, I loved this film, it was very well acted and very well directed.. I loved the explosion (although it was a little far fetched) and the rest of the film was good too..My biggest problem with this film however is that it's *totally* blown any chance of any sequels based on the books timelines.. TSOAF, Debt of Honour and Executive Orders.. Will Jack ever make it to president now? What of Elizabeth Elliot? Ben Goodley? Arnie Van Damm? None of them in the film.. No Fowler/Elliott love affair, not even a mention of Durling, how can they kill him off and hand Jack the presidency now??Crying shame that Tom let them destroy such a good script to make such a politically correct, popcorn seller such as this..I'm heartbroken now as it seems that 2 of the best books I have ever read will not make it to the films that they so deserve to be.. -( "},{"Title":"Avoid","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie offers nothing new. Technically, it is well made, but the plot seems contrived and the tension wears out as you see the two sides continuously escalating for no real reason - predictably, the protagonist discovers the simple truth and is repeatedly frustrated in his attempts to communicate it. This blocking is obviously just a plot device to heighten tension and anxiety in the audience. But it just becomes tedious.If you'd like to watch a movie with the underlying threat of a nuclear Armageddon, perhaps you should try The Hunt for Red October.Rating 3/10 (Just for the effects and the attempts at acting)  "},{"Title":"Pretentious irritating rubbish","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was one of the worst of the year. I don't even know why I bothered going to see it now, but I suppose that the good reviews in UK film magazines won over my doubts. This film took itself far too seriously. It made me laugh to see all these second rate actors who never play anything else but generals and presidential advisors shout out stupid words that no one would ever say in such a ridiculous situation, until I realized that this would go on for two more hours. Then it made me sad to see actors like Philip Baker Hall, James Cromwell, Alan Bates and Morgan Freeman, who have all done far better films (Magnolia, L.A. Confidential, Gosford Park, Seven), submerging themselves in this crud. The plot was more stupid than Clear And Present Danger. What do these people have to gain from trying to start a war, as it isn't a religious belief? The film never explains any character's motivations, except that everyone either wants to save their country and their president, even on their death bed, or they want to blow up america. It was also flatly directed, attempting some form of style (no wonder it's Phil Alden Robinson's first film in ten years), which only managed to irritate, and STILL that American anti-smoking message gets through, because, as this film wants you to believe, only neo-fascists who kill innocent people smoke. So to all you smokers out there, quit before you turn into one! Or alternatively do whatever you like but please avoid this painful excuse for a film. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, entertaining it is. It's like reading a book during your vacation. It could have been so much more though. The scenario is nothing new. A bad guy,a good guy, a bomb and the time ticking. Refreshing was the fact that this time the timer didn't stop one second before explosion, but the bomb (and a big one) really went off. It shows that the film was made in a short period of time. It just doesn't look as if it all was thought out properly. An idea for a scene came up, camera, take, done. The most stupid part was the fact that Jack Ryan still can use his cell-phone on ground zero. After the explosion of a nuclear bomb, no antenna's in miles, the radioactivity all around, but still good reception on his cell-phone. Don't mention the fact that protective clothing is not needed at ground zero......Though entertaining, I just cant give it more than 5/10 "},{"Title":"A nice Clancy movie","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had some doubts about Affleck playing one of the main roles in this serious film.. but he managed to pull this quite nicely..This movie has actually quite similar feeling as `The hunt for Red October'.. The same kind of tension and vibes.. Two super powers ready to launch their whole nuclear arsenal against each other.. and two men that are about to stop it.. I think that Hunt of red October is a better movie because it is more serious and believable.. Sum of all fears concentrates more on pure action and special effects..A negative part of this film is the love story that goes on in the background between Affleck and his new girlfriend.. Beside this, Sum of all fears contains all the classic ingredients that made Clancy-based movies so nice..As mentions above.. there are some well done special effects.. especially the nuclear explosion..7 of 10  "},{"Title":"At least they kept the original score","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *** heavy spoilers ***I don't know... as a new and avid Tom clancy fan, but not having read TSOAF yet, i felt mixed feelings about this movie, i liked the way the adaptations have taken bits and pieces from other Clancy novels (remember the ship that intercepted the Red October when the crew was leaving, yep, Reuben James and its Seahawk-F, the same Captain Morris' ship in Red Storm Rising, also we see Mary Pat Foley from the Cardinal of the Kremlin, unfortunately no Colonel Filitov), so back to the movie, i had great pleasure in seeing a squad of Tu-22m3 Backfires making prey of an american carrier, unfortunately that was just about it, after seeing the movie i thought how did Clancy himself dared to twist and neglect such a delicate Ryan timeline? what's next? Tom Hanks as Ryan when he takes the presidency?, did he do it only to cast Ben Affleck? what ever happened to admiral Greer? at first when i heard of this movie i yearned it would show the origins of Ryan in the CIA thinking that Freeman would portrait a younger James Earl Jones, don't get me wrong i loved his part as well as his acting but then again...overall if this had been the very first of all Jack Ryan movies would be excellent except for the mass killing weapon that does not mass kill and the fact that the israelis had left an atomic bomb at its own luck after the syrians shoot down the plane that carried it... hehehehe yeah right... wanna know how the israelis handle this issues? read Gordon Thomas' MOSSADat the current events of time, this movie is off the track, nevertheless very exciting and well paced, clear your mind of past Ryan movies and enjoy.I wish they had made Red Storm Rising instead, we would know for sure what a terrorist attack can provoke. "},{"Title":"Listen to me THIS MOVIE IS CRAP.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I already wasted enough of my precious time watching this, so I'll keep it short STUPID STUPID STUPID. I can't find anything positive about this movie. Each and every scene was ridiculous and unbelievable.  The scary thing about this movie isn't its plot. It's scary that so many people actually like that movie. Oh come on people. Activate your brain !The rating (100 % subjective and straight from the heart)1 out of 10. (sucks...) "},{"Title":"Too Many Plot Holes","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, this was good entertainment for an evening. But not much to remember.With the opening credits still being displayed, the first big plot hole raised its ugly face In 1973, an Israeli jet armed with an atom bomb is shot down by Arabs. And no one ever cares for the wreck in 28 years. Neither Arabs curious to see what they've hit show up, nor Israelis who want to get back their nuclear weapon which didn't explode and might be a serious threat to them if found by the wrong people.A little later, an Austrian speaking imo sensible words about Europe being under the leadership of the U.S. is identfied as a Nazi by a swastika on the back of his watch lying on his desk. Ha Ha. Why doesn't he wear a sign I am a Nazi round his neck?The film carries on with a cold-war scenario. Huh, this is past! And there's the second plot hole While the president is still wondering whether the atom bomb that exploded in the U.S. was Russian or not - the CIA already has proven, it was not. But can they get to the President? Can they pass this information to him that will prevent World War III? No!And when Ben Affleck finally has a few seconds to speak to a man who has access to the President - does he tell him the crucial information hey, our CIA labs have proven the plutonium was ours! ? No. He blah-blahs until the other man drops the phone or closes the door.No. Weird story, past's enemies, un-interesting effects (including the biggest laugh a helicopter caught by a nuclear pressure wave, crashing and NOT exploding at all!). Summary Certainly not the best movie of the year. "}{"Title":"Anyone want to buy some Tom Clancy novels?","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oh dear, what a let-down. This movie left me with the feeling that two hours of my life had been stolen. OK, so this is Jack Ryan before Patriot Games (given that he's unmarried ... the movie is unclear on the time when it's set), so he has to be young, but Harrison Ford managed to portray Ryan as a nice guy, insecure but fundamentally smart, and Affleck just can't do it. He tries hard, but is handicapped ironically by his good looks and boyish smile. What is even worse is that the script does Affleck no favours. SPOILER ALERT. He makes a crucial phone call to someone who doesn't trust him and fails to put the key information in the first sentence? That's fundamentally stupid. He dashes around the world like a demented chicken rather than staying cool and making a few phone calls? And then there's the plot holes John Clark can't or won't speak Russian? He doesn't seem to know that most Ukrainians understand Russian? Cathy gets knocked over - inside a hospital - by a nuclear blast, stays there for hours afterwards, and doesn't suffer any radiation after-effects in later books? Come on, this is well beyond belief. END SPOILER ALERT.Clancy writes well, and deserves credit for coming closer than anyone else SPOILER ALERT FOR POSSIBLE FUTURE MOVIE to predicting September 11 in Debt of Honor, which I read on a plane coming back from Japan -( END SPOILER ALERT, but watching this made me lose belief in Jack Ryan and therefore to lose interest in Clancy's books. I really am tempted to sell or donate all my Clancy novels and just keep Every Man a Tiger and Into the Storm, where his ability to write military tactics combines with fact.Perhaps, though, Sum of all Fears is just a blip in Clancy's writing career. The following conversation took place in the men's restroom after the movieMe That was bad. Him Yeah, and the air-conditioning was freezing. Me Wasn't there some woman character in the book who made things really difficult for Ryan? She was totally missing from the movie Him Oh, you've read the book? Me Well, I started it Him Was it boring too?QED. "},{"Title":"The Letdown (SPOILERS THROUGHOUT!)","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Intelligence is one thing the world always needs.  In the filmmaking profession it is a rare gift. Along comes Sum of All Fears, a flick made by Broncos lovers (obviously) since the original target of Denver in the novel has been changed to Baltimore.  The villains aren't even convincing as Neo-Nazis are of no major concern to the Western world while the Arab terrorists (of the book) are.  I guess the producers didn't want a hit like 'True Lies' so this film ends up stinking like a dead skunk. Last, the whole plot in today's world is obsolete. With Russia now part of NATO and the Cold War over, the story is both predictable and hokey. I can't believe they didn't make Rainbow Six into a movie instead of this. "},{"Title":"Brainless! (spoiler!!)","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be THE most ridiculous movie I have ever seen. From the creators' point of view, if you portray this movie as a potentially realistic thriller, then at least give the audience some credit... Opposing presidents use the CIA-version of IRC-chat to talk to each other in the midst of a mini-nuclear war, helicopters and cars survive a nuclear blast at point blank range, characters travel around the globe at light speed, Israeli's lose a nuke and don't even bother searching for it, and everybody in this movie just seems to be brainless (apart from Mr. Freeman's character, which is probably why he has to die in the first place...)...I thought the other Jack Ryan movies were a joy to watch, and at least you didn't have to worry about incredible plot holes or disbelief over some of the patriotism, stupidity and truths in the movie, but THE SUM OF ALL FEARS really rocks off the scale. I figured having Mr. Clancy as executive producer on this movie should have helped, but he presumably kept in touch through his AOL Instant Messenger.My advice go see this one (but only if you have some money to spare), but use an open mind, and try to think you're smarter than them...By the way, my rating 3/10 (I must be in a good mood...) "},{"Title":"Sum of All Fears is a fast moving Tom Clancy cocktail with a nuclear chaser.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER---SPOILER---SPOILERSum of All Fears, presumably set in the 1990's, is about espionage, foreign intrigue and nuclear weapons.  Intelligence Chief Cabot Morgan Freeman has Jack Ryan Ben Affleck accompany him on a Russian trip.  Ryan is a CIA egghead historian and expert on the new President Nemerov.  Both the Russians and Americans know three Russian nuclear scientists are missing.  Mix this trio with an unexploded bomb from the Golan Heights, vacant nuclear facilities in Ukraine, the Super Bowl and Dressler Alan Bates a neo-Nazi with a global network, and you've got a cliffhanger.  Ryan teams up with CIA operative John Clark Live Schreiber to cut the fuse on this explosive situation.  Sum of All Fears is a fast moving Tom Clancy cocktail with a nuclear chaser.  Like most Clancy stories it's just on the other side of totally believable, allowing you imagination free reign.  The previews tell us that a nuclear weapon explodes, this is not the point.  The story is interesting because, although it's fiction it's not unrealistic, and illustrates how two nuclear powers react and interact when one is attacked.  This offers some degree of comfort, unless you're living in Baltimore MD.  The story plays out on a macro level between US President Fowler James Cromwell and his Russian counterpart Cairian Hinds and there are some tense moments.  Ryan Affleck, Chief Cabot Freeman and Clark Schreiber give the micro view of events.  Sum of All Fears offers little for the gals, now that Harrison Ford and Alec Baldwin before him has been replaced by Affleck as Clancy' hero Jack Ryan.  Affleck fills the bill in the macho department.  "},{"Title":"The Bum Of All Sequels","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oh Dear, as if it wasn't bad enough casting Mr. Charisma himself Ben Affleck as the hero Jack Ryan (Affleck isn't fit to shine predecessor Harrison Ford's shoes, much less step into them), we also had the novel's bad guys - Islamic fundamentalists - transformed for the movie into politically much safer white right-wing extremists. Never mind the fact that Muslim extremists today present the most credible potential perpetrators of such an attack. It would never do to say so in these politically correct times, now would it??!! Because that would be racist!!!! So instead let's just make like ostriches and bury our heads in the proverbial sand.The film is also displays a complete lack of continuity with the other Jack Ryan movies (this has already been dealt with extensively by other reviewers so I won't repeat the details). It's well known that movie-makers often treat their audiences like fools - so perhaps they figured that no-one would notice!! This movie would have been a whole lot better (a) with anyone but Ben Affleck (b) with Islamic extremists being portrayed as the (much more credible) bad guys (c) with continuity in line with the other Ryan movies or, failing that (d) creating another lead character to replace Ryan altogether and finally (e) eliminating the tiresome girlfriend character altogether (why is it that Affleck always has to be given some sort of romantic interest, even if it's of no relevance whatsoever to the main plot?). Stick to the first three Jack Ryan movies and pretend this one never happened. "},{"Title":"An impressive first act, skewered by a second act.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Ben Affleck, Morgan Freeman, Liev Shcreiber, and James Cromwell.I have to say, that this movie is smart.  Really smart.  A nuclear missile is missing and it is up to some CIA agents to find it.  But something so momentous and so stupid happens in the second act, that it makes the first act meaningless.  The first act was very impressive.  The third act was OK.  But, no, the second half really skewers it.  In addition, their are quite some flaws.  (MINOR SPOILERS)  1.  There is no way, and I mean no way that that tanker would've taken so long to see those attackers.  They would've had those guns and destroyers out there taking out those attackers in seconds, with ease.  2.  The time is 2002, Jack Ryan must've really time travelled.  3.  Affleck's girlfriend is seen talking with one of her friends in the hospital, then it's destroyed, and then, she hardly has a scratch.  She's quite a powerful girlfriend.  What is she the terminator? (END SPOILERS)  Freeman, Schreiber, and Cromwell give impressive performances.  Affleck is a different story.  I really couldn't see him as Jack Ryan.  I wish Harrison Ford was back.  I always see Affleck as a love story guy, take a look at Pearl Harbor.  That was trash.  I'm sorry I have to say this, but Affleck is on my bad side.  The movie is good and intelligent, but ruined. "},{"Title":"The end is typical of a catastroph movie","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would say the end of the movie was not believable.I was a bit afraid to have Ben Affleck as Ryan.  I 've seen the the other two movie with Harrison Ford.  I would say he was credible as a young Ryan.The part showing the work at the CIA and Ryan trying tho show its views was good.  The Russians were schematically played by the actor.  It looks like they just went out of their caverns. Still the cold war vision.The end starting from the explosion was non believable.  Having the president of the United States starting a nuclear war with just the opinion of four persons in a plane look unbelievable to me.  I press or I press not the button?  Bah ok I press it.  And zou no more earth.Vincent (Belgium)   "},{"Title":"Not the best in the series, but the most intense","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck is more than serviceable as Jack Ryan in this fourth installment of Tom Clancy's series and the supporting cast, the writers, and the director jump on board for a somewhat lackluster but definitely entertaining--and several times  pulse-pounding--flick.The moviemakers played the cliche of a nuclear standoff (not to belittle the situation) well enough that the most impressive thing about this movie is that I saw it twice and was still spooked despite knowing full well how things would turn out.  It has a similar effect to Rocky II (you know he's getting up, but you still worry) or the vastly stronger-across-the-boards 'Thirteen Days' in that the subject matter is well used and complimented by the cast and crew to strike home with most viewers.'Sum' has many strong moments, a few memorable quotes and throw-away jokes, as well as some superb character acting from the supporting cast, but--while intense--it lacks some subtleties that even the previous Jack Ryan adventures contained.  Nothing wrong with what they put on the screen, tho--a summer  blockbuster in strong form, and certainly worth the price of a rental. "},{"Title":"Average Thriller","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Good build up but this thriller is not always thrilling.  There is one good sequence that is tense, but it is hard to care about the characters.  The relationship with the girlfriend was lame.  Overall pretty average. "},{"Title":"Has some good qualities, but it's not exciting enough","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went into The Sum of All Fears expecting to be disappointed by Ben Affleck. I'm not really a fan of much of his dramatic work (Changing Lanes is an exception). I have not seen the other Jack Ryan movies, but I still didn't really think Affleck would make a credible CIA agent. So I was pleasantly surprised by his performance. It certainly isn't Oscar material, but he is very credible, which was more than I was expecting. The supporting cast is also quite good, especially the always impressive Morgan Freeman as Affleck's mentor and Ciaran Hinds as the Russian president.Speaking of the Russian president, I was impressed by the way the film portrayed him. Usually, foreign leaders in films are very one-dimensional. President Nemerov, however, is very well developed, with clear motivations for his actions. He is not the evil madman Hollywood commonly makes foreigners (especially Russians) out to be. In fact, he is arguably a better person than the film's American president. So I commend the writers for that.However, despite the acting and the good characters I did not really enjoy this film. Why? Because it's supposed to be suspenseful, and it's not. I know that Jack Ryan is trying to avert a major world crisis, but having him run around with a cell phone and type on computers does not generate much suspense. This is what a lot of the film, including the climax basically comes down to. The film is not deep enough to be a serious drama, so it needs the suspense and the action to deliver. Unfortunately, this does not happen. Although The Sum of All Fears does have some good qualities, it ultimately fails to deliver the basic needs of the genre, so I can't really recommend it. You could definitely do worse, but you could also do a lot better.Rating 5/10 "}{"Title":"Marred by political correctness and a lack of punch (moderate spoilers)","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `The Sum of All Fears' is unfortunately marred by political correctness.  An extremely scary premise (the thievery and detonation of an atomic bomb within the United States) loses most of its impact when, as opposed to the book, the perpetrators who steal and detonate the bomb are white supremacists (yeah, RIGHT!)  Neo-Nazis are of course a very safe target for Hollywood as villains, but let's be for real the only real nuclear terrorist threat in the world right now comes from Islamic extremists, people who feel extremely safe that they are destined for an afterlife of paradise, such as the Al Qaeda hijackers (Do I even need to explain this?)  Changing the villain to a Neo-Nazi makes us feel like we are in the James Bond fantasy world, where villains are German or British-accented intellectuals who listen to classical music while they express their mad theories.  Tom Clancy's books are strengthened by their non-Bond-ish approach to espionage.  Neo-Nazis are in fact dangerous, however this is not a suitable realm to depict them as the villains.  A standoffish scene between one of them and a black marine comes off more laughable than it does disturbing, as do other references to Nazism.  Maybe the filmmakers actually wanted to take us out of the real world and make this story appear more fantastic, but the result reeks of BS.  As for the other aspects of the film, it has some good moments and other ones that don't work.  The setup and characters are decent, and so is much of the cinematography, if it is wholly routine and unoriginal (lots and lots of blue or red-lighted Pentagon-like military planning rooms.)  I was at least into the story, if I had a problem with it as stated above, until the `money shots,' when the bomb went off.  I liked how there were no shots of a `ticking clock' or other clichés involved with ticking time bombs.  But after the bomb goes off, the plot resorts to the shuffling sequences we have seen commonly in movies from `Thirteen Days' to `Doctor Strangelove' to `Crimson Tide.'  It is not nearly as successful as any of these.  It also feels tired, and even somewhat irrelevant.  After a nuclear bomb is triggered off in the United States, I don't feel very satisfied with the momentum turning to an agent trying to STOP retaliation or nuclear war.  And having Russia as a potential threat to us is something that should probably leave the movies until we find that country to be a serious threat again.  In the end, it is frustrating and unbelievable that the American people would allow a nuclear attack without a major retaliation against those responsible.  The justice that comes to the villains as an afterthought is really unsatisfying--that we could just forget a nuclear attack and go back to normal immediately is absurd, and this was obvious long before 9/11.Ben Affleck, replacing Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan is decent in the role.  If not entirely believable, he is an entertaining character actor.  It is understandable that the filmmakers made his character out to be young and inexperienced.  But in the end, it isn't very convincing that this young kid would have the President of the US and the Premier of Russia on the same line.  Liev Schreiber (who steals most of the scenes he is in) and Morgan Freeman are good additions to the cast.  I don't know why I expected this Clancy film to be different than the others, but for me it suffered from something that the others did, too a lack of punch.  I don't think Tom Clancy's books are as ideal for movies as they may appear.  I'm not saying that they should be less technical, nor should they present typical action film Hollywood climaxes-these are aspects of Clancy's works that make his stories so appealing and successful.  I just wish there was a way for me to be more drawn into the story.  I have found every Clancy film thus far to be more interesting than entertaining.  Grade C+  "},{"Title":"Interesting political thriller, no real flaws . . . but it came at a bad time for the American public **spoilers**","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"      The main criticism of this film, by critics and mainstream viewers alike, is it's portrayal of terrorism.  Instead of the threat of fundamentalist Islamic groups (which, from what I understand, was true in the novel, though I've never read it), we're given a story about neo-Nazis plotting to start a nuclear war between Russia and the US.  Personally, I don't really mind this relatively minor point, and really, if September 11th hadn't happened just ten months ago, I doubt people would be making a big deal about this.  Perhaps the supposed unfaithfulness to the novel (again, I haven't read it) would draw the only criticism.    I liked this film.  It was suspenseful, and the action scenes (few as they were) were great, though, of course, flaws concerning the nuclear blast-resistant cellphones and such stand out; but I, at least, was too caught up in the exciting goings-on to notice.    The only other Clancy adaption I've seen is The Hunt For Red October, which I liked, though I thought Sean Connery was a bit wooden (and if you think he can't act, look at The Untouchables or The Man Who Would Be King).  The Sum of All Fears, while hardly perfect, was just what I thought it would be a taut, suspenseful flick about the threats of terrorism.  And in doing that, the filmmakers succeded.   The cast was, on the whole, pretty good, save Ben Affleck (who was okay but a bit corny) and Morgan Freeman (he didn't have much to work with and thusly didn't come across very well).  James Cromwell, as President Robert Fowler, was the most interesting and perhaps the most human character, and gets more screentime than you'd expect.  Liev Schieber was also good as a fellow CIA agent who saved Affleck's butt more than one time (and vice versa).  Also, Freeman's death scene was a bit stupid, but otherwise, no real complaints.   Eight stars. "},{"Title":"Forget the American education system, things I learned from this film","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  1)  If the Israelis lose a nuclear bomb, they don't bother looking for it.2)  Russia is still a Super Power.3)  Neo-nazis are rich, white, middle-aged, European men, whose sole goal in life is to provoke a nuclear war between the US and Russia.4)  You can still get cell phone service within a mile of ground zero of a nuclear blast.5)  You also won't get radiation poisoning.6)  Even if you look incredibly suspicious while trying to enter White House,  security will just let you in provided that your identification card scans.7)  In fact, they'll let you use the hotline, too.8)  Tom Clancy cares more about money than about the quality of the films made from his work.9)  Fans of Independence Day, Pearl Harbor, Armageddon and Air force One now have a new favorite film. "},{"Title":"Expertly structured and average suspense thriller.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS* THE SUM OF ALL FEARS is a well-crafted film that was put together very carefully and with much research. It would take a lot of knowledge to be able to come up with the storyline that this film has. The writer gets my thanks. My only problem with the film is at how slow it is and boring for the first half hour or so. I mean, I almost fell asleep. Ben Affleck and Morgan Freeman are good together. Seeing them together looks like they have starred in many other movies together, when really, this was their first teaming.The supporting cast includes James Cromwell as the President, Liev Schreiber, Philip Baker Hall, Ron Rifkin, Alan Bates as a Neo-Nazi terrorist, and Bruce McGill. Since this film is in the wake of the September 11th attacks, it is a very good thing that the terrorists were changed to Neo-Nazis instead of keeping them as Arabs. This film is very important to see especially after 9/11. Never has there been a film so well-crafted and placed into theaters so perfectly after such an impending disaster and can give the image of how it must look to the world. ------MAJOR SPOILERS------- (Don't read unless you have seen the film)I was not expecting the bomb to actually explode. What I thought was that Ben Affleck and Morgan Freeman were going to stop the terrorists at the Super Bowl the old fashioned way. With a good traditional fist fight. But after the Super Bowl scenes, there is still about another half hour of movie left. I am going to stop spoiling now.-------END SPOILERS--------The film is beautifully photographed and splendidly acted. I look forward to another film that is so well-crafted and so perfectly thought through. THE SUM OF ALL FEARS gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"I saw it at a late-run theatre for $1.25, so I wasn't disappointed.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My date and I walked out of The Scorpion King after about ten minutes and went into this one. It was only marginally better. They took an average novel by an average novelist, added some typical Hollywood b.s. and some spectacular special effects and Ben Affleck for the ladies. The story is just some scary crap that seems to me to be ill-timed shock effect (affect?) riding on American fears of terrorists. The details are barely plausible and the way it is logistically constructed is many times quite ludicrous. The way that the various department heads, the president, and the agents react and behave during the crisis is unrealistic. The ending is also implausible. It was fairly entertaining and I saw it at a late-run theatre for $1.25, so I wasn't disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, a few possible technical errors.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, despite the many negative comments here.  One in particular that caught my attention was the complaint about the stock neo-nazi villains being well-heeled instead of young skinheads and how unrealistic that was.  Well, just look at the near-miss in France with a fascist presidential candidate doing so well in the first round of elections, and the fascist politician in Holland who was assassinated by a Green Party wannabe, and maybe it's not so far-fetched after all.Possible technical errors--when the source of the plutonium is identified as Savannah River, the comment is made that they had a problem with gadolinium contamination, and that Hanford Pu had another element as a contaminant (I forget for sure what it is, might have been promethium).  Well, this is plausible, though I don't know if the two sites, for sure, would have had different fission product mixes in the Pu production.  I have worked at Hanford for 22 years (ten of those spent producing Pu in a reactor) and don't remember hearing about these kinds of problems, however it is plausible.  But--I looked up gadolinium in a reference book and yes, it is a fission product, but of the six isotopes that ARE fission products, four are stable and the two radioactive ones have very short half-lifes (on the order of hours or minutes) and so would have ENTIRELY disappeared by the time the bomb was found, re-configured, and set off.  I believe that the analysts used a gamma radiation spectrum to identify the gadolinium.The second technical error is when the Russian scientists pulled the plutonium pit from the Israeli bomb, and commented on how corroded it was. Well, Pu pits in nuclear weapons have been nickel-coated, since the first bomb in 1945, for that very reason--to prevent corrosion of the Pu.The third error is the Arab bomb-finder dying of radiation poisoning. Sorry, but Pu just isn't that radioactive, unless he inhaled or ingested a significant amount of Pu.  As I mention above, the Pu should not have corroded in the first place so there shouldn't have been a source of contamination for the man to ingest.  As far as Pu not being all that radioactive, you can safely hold a sub-critical amount of Pu in your hand (it will be warm, as mentioned in the movie)but it emits alpha radiation which is not penetrating.  So again, the bomb-finder should not have received that much radiation.  Now, Jack Ryan should have...All that aside, I still enjoyed the movie. "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite add up!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Contains Spoiler!! What started as a somewhat promising premise to the latest Jack Ryan saves the world film totally falls apart in the film's second half.  Why Ebert gave this film 3 and a half stars is beyond me.  Much hate has been typed about the casting of Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan, he's not the film's biggest obstacle.  That honor goes to the screenwriter and the director.  The movie builds up pretty good to what is (in the midst of these truly scary times) a frightening and all-too-real terrorist act.  It is after this when the movie loses all its credibility.  Not for one second do I believe Ryan can wear so many hats, perform so many heroic stunts, then wind up interrupting a phone call between the Presidents of Russia and the US, stopping them from declaring nuclear war on each other by proving that it wasn't the Russians who are the terrorists.  Ryan is somehow able to escape a helicopter crash, a terrorist (who for the sake of the screenplay just had to be hanging around the scene after the deed has been done so the hero can beat the crap out of him), nuclear winter, finding his girlfriend, and saving the world in just the nick of time.  It wraps up just too damn neatly so that our photogenic couple can cuddle and smile into the sunset.  Nevermind that a neighboring city has just been decimated.  As far as Affleck goes, the guy doesn't convince me that he's an action star.  I like him as an actor, not as Rambo.  Good luck with Daredevil in February.  But because this is an ensemble film, Affleck is not required to carry the entire film.  Strong supporting characters played by the great but underused Morgan Freeman, Liev Scheiber, Ron Rifkin, and others are what gives this film its spark.  This movie is a hit because timing is crucial when it comes to box office receipts.  This movie is about terrorism but you know going in that it's going to have a happy ending.  The world we're living in is just like a terrorism-themed movie.  The ending is still up in the air.  The Sum of all Fears is not a horrible movie but in a family of very popular Jack Ryan movies it is the outcast of the family. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Cheap nonsense","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What could have been a good movie, turned out to be very lame. Bomb blasts are cheap 2 second scenes, military action is replaced with what looks like real military test footage. How dumb is that for a so called summer blockbuster? "},{"Title":"Pretty good actually","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why people hate THE SUM OF ALL FEARS so much. It isn't nearly as bad people make it seem. (Mind you, Ben Affleck may not be the best guy in the world to play Jack Ryan, but that doesn't ruin the movie.)In order to truly appreciate the movie, you have to watch it as an independent movie. Don't think of it as a sequel to the other Clancy movies (all of which are worth seeing). If you do that, and you can ignore Jack Ryan's magical fountain-of-youth transformation, then you will be able to enjoy it.The film starts out good, then begins to slow down and starts to edge towards the Forbidden Zone i.e. the Cheesy Action Flick Zone.(NOTE If you've seen the trailer more than once, you can probably predict what I'm about to write here. Still, if you are unsure of what you have seen in the trailers, DO NOT READ THE FOLLOWING AND DO NOT READ ANY PLOT SUMMARIES FOR THIS FILM AS THEY MAY SPOIL THE FILM FOR YOU.)But then, BOOM! A twenty-kiloton atomic bomb obliterates Baltimore during the Super Bowl. (The entire theater jumped during this part. Personally, I thought that the blast sequence was pretty good, although I was hoping it would be longer and that I'd be able to actually see a fireball instead of just the shockwave and then a mushroom cloud about ten minutes later. For a good nuclear explosion sequence, watch THE DAY AFTER.)After that, the edge-of-your-seat suspense begins, with the United States and Russia edging towards total nuclear war. But of course, Ryan steps in and saves the day.This film sacrifices realism on quite a few levels. First of all, the very ending is absolutely terrible, with the entire world returning to total normalcy with Baltimore in total devastation. (Not to mention the fact that Ryan, Cathy, and the President should be dead from radiation since they were so close to the blast.) Also, the fact that Ryan and the CIA are able to find out who planted the bomb and where it came from while the President is ordering missile strikes is pretty unrealistic. I actually think this film would have been better if the US and Russia had actually begun initial nuclear strikes and counter-strikes. Then, if they had stopped, maybe better.**SPOILERS ENDStill, this film is pretty enjoyable, if you think of it overall. It will probably disappoint die-hard Clancy fans.Bottom line take this movie with a pinch of salt, but enjoy it nonetheless.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"I actually fell asleep halfway through this","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Typically I enjoy the movies adapted from Tom Clancy's novels.  This one was a huge disappointment.  I didn't read the book and have been told it was better than the movie. (How many times have you heard that)  The plot took forever to develop and the casting was laughable.  Ben Affleck is a talented actor but does not make a believeable Jack Ryan.  The sum of all my fears is that I would have to watch this thing again "}{"Title":"Doesn't Work","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Contains SpoilersAs a Tom Clancy fan and a reader of the novel on which this movie was based, I must express my dissatisfaction with its film adaptation.The Sum of All Fears was a massive tome of a book, upwards of 1000 pages.  Condensing that into a two hour movie is not only a daunting task, but a near impossible one as evidenced by the sloppy manner in which the plot unfolds.  It feels as though a bunch of crucial scenes were slapped together, with no explanation of how the characters get from point A to point B.  The result is a mess which leaves way too many questions unanswered.Other problems include the lack of character development in the neo-Nazi character, poor casting (Liev Schreiber as John Clark?  Give me a break), and most appallingly, a woefully boring nuclear explosion.  What you see in the TV spots is what you see on screen.  Some cars get blown off the road, a helicopter crashes, and there's one shot of a mushroom cloud.  Up to this point I was wondering how they were going to top the nuclear explosion in Terminator 2 Judgment Day, but sadly they didn't even try.And finally, there's Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan.  He just doesn't inhabit this role.  He's no Harrison Ford, nor is he Alec Baldwin.  As far as I'm concerned, this franchise is dead.Rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"Horrible, Irresponsible Movie","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT** As anyone who has seen the previews of this movie knows, it deals with a nuclear bomb going off in the USA. This is a very touchy subject that begs for an intelligent, sensitive discussion. This film does not provide that. What we get is a run of the mill, Tom Clancy thriller, where the CIA is full of people who alternately know everything and nothing. They know everything about Ben Affleck (positively wooden in this performance) and his girlfriend, but can't stop a nuclear bomb from coming into the US because it was diverted through another country. They can't tell that Russia is not responsible and refuse to communicate with them about it. Harrison Ford is a charismatic leading man. Ben Affleck is not. The fact that they made his character younger, but didn't set the movie in the past is just an example of how confused this movie is. Don't encourage them by paying to see it. "},{"Title":"Baldwin Legacy?","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While in Boiler Room, Ben Affleck did a credible characterization of Alec Baldwin's Glengarry Glen Ross role, it was not to follow suit in the latest installment of Jack Ryan.Instead of titling it Ben Affleck in The Sum of all Fears, a more appropriate title should have beenBen Affleck in Skippy Saves the Planet "},{"Title":"would make for a very good rental","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  it was a really good book. not the book, the movie. it was done just like a book. i felt like was reading this story and what i saw was really my imagination. to me thats kinda cool. but its not what i was looking for.but dont get me wrong, it was good. "},{"Title":"Good story; Affleck not good as Ryan","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I gave this film a generous 7/10. The story was very realistic, especially in today's times. But Ben Affleck just wasn't the correct person to play Jack Ryan.He wasn't nearly as good as Baldwin or Ford, simply because Affleck is 28-years-old, and most of his movies are for the women. This was an action film, and in my view, he didn't seem like the real deal. In the next Tom Clancy movie, Ryan needs to be played by an older character- someone in their late 30's or early 40's.One more thing. The romance scenes were totally worthless, and took away the momentum of the movie. Why was the girl in the movie? So Morgan Freeman and the audience could have a good laugh at the beginning of the movie? Affleck's a pretty boy, and should stay with the chick-flicks.Kevin "},{"Title":"Worst film of the year... so far","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have without a doubt seen the worst movie of the year.  This is not just bad, it's classic bad.  In the wake of a terrorist attack we are a lot smarter than what happened in this film - especially in the year 2002 as the film stated.  If you must know it receives a 0 on a scale of 1 to 10.  Go see The Peacemaker instead of this horrible waste of time and money.  Oh wait, I forgot, it isn't like I don't have anything good to say about this movie, Bridget Moynahan is cute. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining film, but I left the theater angry","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  MAJOR SPOILER READ ONLY IF YOU'VE SEEN THE MOVIEI have quite a few things I want to say, so this review is going to be pretty disorganized, I apologize in advance.For starters, THE SUM OF ALL FEARS is a very suspenseful and entertaining film.  Liev Schrieber fills Willem Defoe's shoes perfectly as John Clark, Morgan Freeman and James Cromwell are fantastic and Ben Affleck was adequate as the younger Jack Ryan.  The story is enthralling and, for the most part, believable. I was not expecting the bomb to actually go off, an unconventional and appreciated plot twist.  The way they showed the presidents of Russia nd America interacting was very believable as was the immediate aftermath of the bomb going off. Now as for what I didn't like about the movie.  I haven't read the book SUM OF ALL FEARS, but I know that in the book, Arabs are behind the plot, but in the film, we get a group of Neo-Nazis.  Basically, the film demonstrates Hollywood's typical knee-jerk liberal assupmtion that it's better for a film to feature a group of right wing Neo Nazis (an organization that has NEVER been linked to a serious act of terrorism) rather than even remotely imply Arab terrorists are dangerous and evil people (In case you've been living under a rock for the past ten years, watch the news).  Arabs ram 747s into the World Trade Center?  They're meerly trying to demonstrate their rage against the evil United States.  Neo Nazis bomb an empty Mosque or loot a Spanish run grocery store? Intolerable acts of hate.  Wake up Hollywood.  I'm sorry, I know I'm way off topic, but I feel this is a subject that should be addressed, SUM OF ALL FEARS is still an entertaining film, but it is still mainstream Hollywood liberalism at its worst. "},{"Title":"The Sum of All Fears (2002) - *** (out of ****)","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  PLOT  Jack Ryan (Ben Affleck) is a CIA analyst and, along with CIA director Bill Cabot (Morgan Freeman), they uncover a plot that Russia is trying to start a nuclear war with the United States.  But, of course, stuff doesn't add up, and it's up to Ryan to stop all-out nuclear war from happening.  Supporting characters include government operative John Clark (Liev Schreiber), President Fowler (James Cromwell), the new leader of Russia (Ciaran Hinds), leader of a neo-Fascist group (Alan Bates), and Ryan's girlfriend (Bridget Moynahan) who doesn't know that her boyfriend is in the CIA.MY TAKE  The Sum of All Fears is almost as real as fiction can get.  And that's one of the reasons why Sum of All Fears works.  It's unbelievable how... accurate author Tom Clancy was when he wrote the book before that tragic September day.  The movie always manages to stay interesting, as events slowly unfold and tragedy is inevitable.  Those looking for a movie with a whole lot of action might be a little disappointed - sure, there are your explosions, but the movie, thankfully, doesn't center around those.  The movie isn't perfect though - Ben Affleck is not suited to be an action hero.  He's bearable, but he's almost a little too cocky.  Morgan Freeman, on the other hand, is great, as is all the supporting performances.  The movie also has its timeline problems - this is supposed to be a prequel to the other Ryan films (Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games, Clear and Present Danger), but the movie's events seem to be placed in the present day.  Those problems aside, Sum of All Fears is an interesting, realistic, and satisfying motion picture. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was unsure about this movie, but it turned to be pretty good.  The explosion scene was unbelievable.  Morgan Freemen and Ben Affleck were great together. The plot stayed pretty true to the book.  Overall, I think this was pretty good. "},{"Title":"A major disappointment","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I expected a lot from this film and I actually got very little. Leaving aside whether Ben Affleck was a credible Ryan, the butchering of the book/story left nothing of the the plot. Removing the Arab connection was just plain silly, I suppose in these troubled times sticking the blame on Neo Nazis is an easy option, but it was a major cop-out.No character back fill was attempted on either side (USA or baddies) and there was no tension within the timeline. Silly issues such as a few Russian (Backfire?) bombers taking out a US aircraft carrier, oh yeah where were the support ships, Aegis missile cruisers, air cover. The Russians would probably not got within 200 miles of the flat-top. Then we had a little arcade action with the Vulcans stopping some missiles but not all.To compound this, the US then launches 3 F16s to take out an entire Russian airbase. 6 so called Smart bombs are not going to disable an airbase capable of launching how many bombers was it, 10/20? Where were the air defences of a land based facility. Come on...I agree with a previous poster, the setting in 2001/2002 was wrong. The fact that Ryan had a girlfriend not a wife was wrong. Time was wasted on lovey-dovey scenes that could have been used in story-telling.I disagree with the previous poster, this film rates 2/5. "}{"Title":"Action packed","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Even though I didn't read this novel, it was basically your typical Tom Clancy movie.  I thought this movie was great.  I know that they probably left a lot out from the book, but I still liked it.  Some parts of the film had me expecting something to come out, but it totally surprised me in most cases.  I thought it was cool to do a film on a young Jack Ryan.  Great movie. "},{"Title":"The Book is Better than the film","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ** spoilers **This film is based on Tom Clancy's best selling novel, except it isn't quite as good. Ben Affleck is not the best choice as Jack Ryan, although he does an ok job. No one can replace Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan. The story contains some major plot holes, like on how Ryan lacked a direct connection to the president during the time he was gathering info on the bombing. While the movie had a good plot, it was poorly conceived, and the ending was a major letdown. It could of been done much better. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Really scary","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is kinda scary because it shows how its easy to buy nukes those days,it is also the best JackRyan film ever made,better than the hunt for the red october,altough the timeline of this film seems to be messed up.The explosion,the plot,and the actors were really great;this is surely Tom Clancs best novel,and the directors best film yet.The only weak point though were the villains,how come there are still neonazis in this world?and how come they want to blow up superbowl? "},{"Title":"Alright if you're bored on a Sunday.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of politics involved-which is realistic in the situation that was played out during the film-but it made me yawn. I suppose I was waiting for the nuke to go off - which also disappointed - ok it was a small device... maybe they didn't want to scare the audience too much. My vote is 6/10. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but satisfying for fans and non-fans alike","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First, I will admit I am a fervent Clancy fan, having read all of his books at least once and seen all the movie adaptations so far.  As a Clancy fan, I say to other Clancy fans GO SEE THIS MOVIE!  But, of course, that goes without saying -- you've already seen it.From a fan's standpoint, the inconsistencies with the book were a bit irksome during the movie, and I found myself thinking back to the book I last read around 10 years ago.  Nazi's?  An unmarried Ryan?  Looks like Hollywood was liberal with the adaptation.  But it's nothing that we fans can't overlook in order to enjoy another big-screen view of the Ryan saga. And it's not like Hollywood has never mangled details like this before.Second, I think non-fans will also enjoy this movie.  I went with my girlfriend who has never shown much interest in Clancy novels, and she may have enjoyed it more than me due to the lack of any preconceived notions. That said, this movie definitely isn't for everyone!  It's more of an intellectual thriller than a fast-paced action flick.  The action/military scenes are sprinkled conservatively throughout and also, just as in Clancy's novels, there are a lot of light-hearted moments that will make everyone smile.Third, I'd like to add that I went into the movie thinking Affleck was a horrible choice for Ryan.  I would have much preferred to see Ford reprise his role too old or not!  But in all honesty, he wasn't too bad and surprisingly it didn't detract from my enjoyment of the film after the first few minutes.  The rest of the cast was strong and believable.  The direction and technical side was also quite good.  There was a definite mood to the sets, locations and cinematography that effectively conveyed the darkness of the themes being explored.Lastly, I'd like to comment on how bang-on Clancy is with his novels predicting actual events.  After reading Debt of Honor I remember thinking that it was so plausible that it had to happen.  Then September 11...  I hope that political leaders take seriously what Clancy plausibly lays out in Rainbow and Sum and work hard to avert even worse disasters in the future.Bottom line see the movie if you're a Clancy fan, and see it if you're a non-fan who has some patience and can enjoy a slightly unconventional pace.  "},{"Title":"Oh so many goofs, but entertaining for the last half hour at least.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *very minor spoiler*I'll make it quick and simple. The Sum of All Fears was not a great movie. It wasn't even a good movie. But...the last half hour was entertaining, if you can call a nuclear bomb and the aftermath and mayhem afterwards - 'entertainment.' The acting was pretty ho-hum all the way through the film, and Affleck has got a LOT of maturing to be done if he thinks he's going to be Jack Ryan ever again. He was amateuristic and unconvincing in pretty much every respect. Some scenes in the movie were also rather unnecessary, especially the love scene in the beginning. Also, it seems rather unlikely that a CIA operative wouldn't answer his phone, and that it would be so apparently simple to contact the president of Russia so easily. Not believable in the slightest. But I digress...The first hour of the film was pure tedium. The idea of the Israelis losing a nuke and not being able to find it is unbelievable in itself, but that was the most exciting moment of the first 60 minutes, if you can call it excitement. I don't think I've ever been so bored in my entire life. It was torture. But..as previously mentioned, it did pick up towards the end. I do think it's not a cinema movie, and that it's one of those 'MAN I'm bored tonight I'll think I'll rent a movie' movies. That pretty much sums it up, no pun intended. Oh I'll mention one goof that bugged me, incase you want a mess-up amongst the many in this movie. Here goes - 'someone' (I won't say who) is killed by some sort of strangulation/throat slitting thingy (best way for me to describe it) while listening to classical music. When the killer sneaks up behind 'him', there's no way he (the killer) can tell that the soon to be deceased character has his eyes closed, yet the way he's killed gives the impression that the killer knew, which isn't possible. If you watch the scene, you'll see what I mean! I just thought that was plain idiotic, albeit a minor issue.  But anyway..If you could rate movies by halves, it would be 3/10 for the first half, and 7/10 for the last half...(well, half hour anyway..)As an interviewer might say/sigh 'Next please.' "},{"Title":"Gripping, riveting, tear-jerker","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The only problem I had with the movie was...in the beginning, when it was talking about the 1973 invasion of Israel by Egypt n' Syria, there was a portion mentioning '29 years later'.  Unless Tom Clancy(Author of novel on which the movie is adapted from) was talking about 1992, '29 years later' would be this year.  I was brought to tears when the two Super Powers started annihilating eachother over a misconception. "},{"Title":"Gripping, riveting, tear-jerker","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The only problem I had with the movie was...in the beginning, when it was talking about the 1973 invasion of Israel by Egypt n' Syria, there was a portion mentioning '29 years later'.  Unless Tom Clancy(Author of novel on which the movie is adapted from) was talking about 1992, '29 years later' would be this year.  I was brought to tears when the two Super Powers started annihilating eachother over a misconception. "},{"Title":"Book butchered by censored executives","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (SPOILERS!) Simply put, 'Sum' is a story that is obsolete and shouldn't have even been put onto film.  There is no more Cold War, thereby eliminating 1/3 of the credibility of the book and the switch from angry Arabs to Neo-Nazis is one of Hollywood's dumbest mistakes!  Who in their right mind believes the revised plotline is realistic?! Affleck has neither the action potential of Ford nor the charm of Baldwin, almost everyone else acts like a bunch of nincompoops.  Willem Dafoe's calm, collective coolness is sadly replaced, pity.  Finally, I just wish Paramount will make Rainbow Six into a movie and do it right, the odds of success would be much greater.  By the way, the REAL nuke site is Denver and not Baltimore--idiot scriptwriters. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but...","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that The sum of all fears was going to be a movie hard to follow, like I felt with the Harrison Ford's previous films, but it was not. It's about politics all right; it reminded me a lot of Roger Donaldson's Thirteen days USA and Russia at the brink of World War III. The difference is that Thirteen days is real history.This movie is about a rookie Jack Ryan who unexpectedly finds himself climbing steps in the CIA in the middle of a potential nuclear war between USA and Russia.Personally, I still don't see why they cast Ben Affleck as the hero type of character. He didn't make it in Pearl Harbor and the doesn't make it in this one. He's better off in supporting roles as in Good Will Hunting.As I expected, Morgan Freeman steals every frame of the movie. His performances get better every time. Let's hope the Academy reward him with an Oscar one of these years.The sum of all fears is a good and entertaining movie. It's worth the while. "}{"Title":"A couple of flaws.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"       This is a pretty decent movie with a couple of flaws.  First, I have trouble accepting Ben Affleck as the young Jack Ryan.  He looks and acts like a college sophomore, not a CIA analyst.        That's minor compared to point two. To paraphrase Waylon Jennings Don't you think this Nazi bit done got out of hand?  57 years after World War II ended and the moviemakers are still coming up with Nazi plots to control the world?  We all know why.  Political correctness demands that only blond haired and blue eyed people be bad guys.  So, the bad guys have to be Nazis...who else are there Canadians?  Swedes?  Hardly persuasive...            "},{"Title":"This movie adds up","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How can you go wrong with all of the elements that this movie had.  Great cast (Morgan Freeman and Ben Aflleck), Great plot (save the world), and all the extras such as good CGI.  This movie will hold you in suspense, make you laugh, and touch your heart.  This movie was well worth the ticket.  It had some originality and unpredictability to it.  I fully enjoyed the latest in the jack ryan movies believe that it even surpassed it's predecessors. "},{"Title":"A well-made,chilling adaptation of one of Clancy's best","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum Of All Fears is a well-made chilling adaptation of one of Clancy's best.People have been quibbling,nitpicking and trashing this movie to death.Enough,already!It's a great movie!Ben Affleck seems to get dumped on more than any actor on the planet and I don't get why.I saw him in both Armageddon and Pearl Harborand liked his work both times.He's a good choice to be the new Jack Ryan and plays the role convincingly carrying off the dramatic scenes and the action scenes with equal aplomb.I have never seen Morgan Freeman give anything less than an excellent performance in any movie I've seen him in.The man definitely delivers the goods here.James Cromwell is good as the president.His chief advisors are played by three old pros,Philip Baker Hall,Ron Rifkin and especially Bruce McGill ,who Ive liked since Animal House.Ciaran Hinds is solid as the Russian prez.The girl who played Cathy is good,Alan Bates and Colm Feore are great villains,and Liev Schreiber is a great,rugged,tough Clark. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wasted opportunity","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There was a time when Tom Clancy was synonymous with well researched techno-thriller. The adaptations of his books grew steadily less faithful with each sequel, but we could forgive this because the movies were at least somewhat well made.After September 11, 2001, a techno-thriller centered around nuclear terrorism has the potential to truly frighten an audience. Had the book been even slightly adapted, the resulting story could have been one for the record books without being bloated. But those adapting the screenplay wimped out and identified neo-Nazis as the villains instead of capitalizing on the climate of the world now. For those reading this review who have seen this movie, imagine what the story would have been like if the U.S. was convinced it was Al Qaeda and not a shadow extremist group secretly backed by an unlikely Islamic government who was *really* responsible for the plot. Might such a tale not have served as a warning to contemporary leaders and their populations as to how carefully they need to move in this post 9/11 world? And would the story not have had a more chilling message? As it stands in its current form, TSOAF feels more like a story in an alternate reality. For that reason alone, it loses most of its punch.While some might disagree with my opinion, I think Ben Affleck as well as the rest of the casting was almost inspired. Affleck has got to be one of the more underrated stars in the Hollywood population, and the rest of the cast flesh out the story palatably. (Okay, so he has an ego problem. So what?) Going with a younger Jack Ryan was *not* a mistake any more than going with Liev Schreiber as John Clark. And who wrote their lines? Very funny stuff.The movie looks real enough, but it has glaring and inexcusable plot holes.SPOILERS AHEAD! SPOILERS AHEAD! SPOILERS AHEAD! SPOILERS AHEAD!Clancy was meticulous when he wrote this novel a decade ago. He went into painstaking detail on how to and how *not* to make a nuclear bomb. He even deliberately made a few subtle errors in his writing to avoid discussing classified or even unclassified nuclear weapons information to protect national security. So it is ridiculous for any story based on Clancy's writings to omit the effects of an electro-magnetic pulse or even the consequences to those poor souls caught in a bomb's blast radius. I could not watch the film from that point and take it seriously after those gaffes were made.Do see The Sum of All Fears but remember, this is not your dad's Tom Clancy. "},{"Title":"An hilarious comedy that wasn't supposed to be one","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Expectations were high after seeing Harrison Ford put his stamp on two very watchable Jack Ryan films. But Ben Affleck is no Harrison Ford. And that is the least of the criticisms this movie deserves. Poor Affleck struggles with a plot that becomes more far-fetched by the minute whereas other Jack Ryan films kept the intensity at a believable level of execution.It is hard to believe the writer and director of Field of Dreams made this movie. These two films are worlds apart. Having Sum of All Fears on your CV is something you'd want to keep quiet.At the beginning there were tell-tale signs of absurdity when a trained fighter pilot carrying a nuclear bomb bends down to pick up a picture of his wife and child that had blown off the dashboard (he was racing over desert terrain at the time), momentarily taking his hand off the steering wheel and his eyes off the landscape. Naturally, the plane crashes and you can almost hear Homer Simpson shout 'Doh!'. If this scene was not lifted off Airplane 2 or somesuch movie then I'm a nuclear scientist.After many such ridiculous twists and turns, by the time it came to the bomb potentially going off, about an hour and ten minutes into the film, you were actually preying for the blast and perhaps a fast exit from the cinema.At the end, when the crazed arms dealer is waving his hands to classical music (actually Nessun Dorma but known in Europe as the World Cup music from Italy 1990 - another badly researched hilarious touch from the Hollywood team) - the scene is lifted from Silence of the Lambs.There is very little originality in the movie except to say that it's almost in a class of its own, an extremely lowly class - the Hollywood blockbuster has sunk to a new level. "},{"Title":"Entertaining film, but ruined by too many changes and errors","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***SPOILERS throughout, but not much more than you could figure out from the previews.***As a U.S. Navy pilot (over 14 years' total experience studying many of the topics covered in the movie), with specific expertise in strategic (nuclear) command and control, and as a reader of Clancy novels, I was very interested in this movie.General As a stand-alone movie, and for entertainment value alone, I'd give it about a 9 (but I'm very easily entertained--I'd give high entertainment-value marks to lots of bad movies).  But for reality, consistency, and faithfulness to the book (and other Clancy movies), it deserves no higher than a 2 or 3.  I'm willing to give movies a lot of leeway for reality and consistency when they don't take themselves too seriously (e.g. Top Gun, Mission Impossible, Batman, even Charlie's Angels), but SOAF clearly tries to sell itself as a true-to-reality flick.  Plus, the mistakes I've pointed out were easily correctable.  My overall rating was a generous 4.Faithfulness The movie is supposed to appeal to Clancy fans, but it absolutely butchers the book.  I know you have to accept some screen adaptation, but this was way beyond that.  It's not even consistent with the other Ryan movies.  I won't go on as this has been covered well by other reviewers.  Tom Clancy should be ashamed of himself for putting his name on this movie.On balance, IMDb reviewers have done a good job, so from now on I'll concentrate on items they got wrong or missed entirely.F-16 strike on Russian airbases (1) In a high level of alert, Russian air defenses over their Backfire bases would have been saturated with radars, SAMs, and fighters.  Nearly impossible for F-16s to cruise in untouched. (2) Much more likely conventional strike would have been done with B-2's based in the continental U.S. or sea-launched Tomahawk cruise missiles. Almost impossible for F-16's to get there unless based nearby (Norway?) and/or with heavy tanker support.  Many other more realistic options.  (3) This was particularly amusing, and no one caught it In the dead of winter, in or near the Arctic Circle, the sun was shining brightly overhead and it was partly cloudy--unlikely!  Even in the middle of the day, it would have been dusky at best, with the sun low on the horizon, and the weather would likely have been much worse.  (4) Weak visual effects/choice of footage.Strike on U.S. carrier (1) I really enjoyed the visual effects, but that's about it.  (2) In a time of high tension, a U.S. carrier in the North Atlantic would have had at least its normal early warning and combat air patrol aircraft airborne.  These assets and escorting ships would have detected the Russian bombers hundreds of miles out.  (3) The Backfire bombers (which are NOT MiGs, as one reviewer said) would have launched from 100-300 miles out (NOT visual range), and probably not at sea level, depending on type of missile used.Nuclear effects (1) It was made clear that this was a small nuclear device (one-tenth of Hiroshima).  So, the explosion's direct effects would not have been as far-reaching as depicted.  Some reviewers erroneously thought that the effects should have been more severe.  (2) The EMP and radiation effects may not have been very severe (the movie got this correct).  Both of these are highly dependent on the type of device and location.  A ground burst would result in more radiation, but then again many nukes are manufactured so as not to produce high levels of radiation, and again, this was a very small bomb.  And the EMP effects would have been minimized by the size of the weapon and location of the explosion.  It is very possible that mobile phones, etc. would still be working.B-2's (1) It is extremely unlikely that B-2's would be based outside of the U.S., except possibly in remote locations (NOT Aviano, Italy), even in wartime.  (2) The Russians would definitely NOT take the B-2's' launching to be a sign of anything--it would be absolutely normal to have bombers airborne during higher DEFCONs.  (3) Even if the Russians could track the stealthy B-2's, how could they do so when the bombers were over central Europe?  Satellites can't track fast-moving aircraft and the Russians haven't had their armed forces based in eastern Europe for about a decade. (4) The Russians wouldn't automatically assume that the bombers were nuclear-armed.  To this point in history, they have been used very effectively as conventional bombers (e.g. Kosovo, Afghanistan).  See above comments.Characters/misc (1) Most reviewers got this right A young, cute Ben Affleck doesn't seem believable as Jack Ryan at any point in Ryan's career. (2) As for Mr. Clark, I'm surprised that most reviewers liked Liev Schreiber.  Schreiber was too young, goofy, and easily unsettled/annoyed. Willem Dafoe wasn't perfect but he was more stable, serious, mysterious, and professional (and slightly disturbed), as the Mr. Clark from the novels appears to be.  (3) The reckless use of God's name did not add to the emotional content, tension, storyline, reality, etc.--nor did Jack's sleeping with Cathy on the third date. "},{"Title":"Review of Sum of All Fears","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An Israeli fighter jet with a single low-yield nuclear bomb is shot down over Iraqi airspace. 20 years later, the bomb is found and is sold to a weapons dealer. The weapons dealer sells the bomb to a well-funded terrorist who does not like the United States or Russia. How can he hit both countries with one bomb? Make one of them think that the other dropped a bomb on them, and let them destroy each other!I think Ben Affleck did an exceptional job playing a young Jack Ryan. He's pulled into all this political drama because of a paper he wrote on the current president of Russia. Morgan Freeman plays the head of the CIA who enlists Ryan's services. Both do an excellent job portraying their roles. The actual nuclear blast wasn't that much but I still was on the edge of my seat. I give it an A-. "},{"Title":"a chilling, haunting, boring disappointment","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes this movie is creepy in the wake of the events of 9/11 and it really freaks you out to see how easily nuclear weapons are lost, and could be smuggled into this country and used at any moment for any psycho's agenda but I was bored.  It really sucked.  This premise is great - it was slightly interesting to see the politics and the communications/intentions of both sides in the process of war and in the wake of a strike.  But still it was a yawn fest.  I contemplated walking out but I really thought something great has to be coming - some pay off.  Yes, when the bomb went off at the game and the devastation showed was the most exciting point of the film and the most chilling and haunting.  To see what would happen if (and hopefully god willing not when) this should happen what it would be like - but it lasted like a minute and was over.  Who gives a sh*t about Jack Ryan.  It was a great idea too bad it came from a novel.  They could have tweeked this and made it a really great film.   I was disappointed - wait for HBO to see it - save yourself the 8 bucks.  Ben Affleck gave a great performance - don't get me wrong - Morgan Freeman is always so right on in every film he does but this criticism goes to the higher ups.   "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wait for this to come out on video, and then rent it if nothing else is interesting.  Sum of All Fears was fairly boring - I kept checking my watch to see when I would be able to leave the theater.  Considering the subject matter, there was very little tension in this movie.  I think the biggest problem with the film was moving the timeline post-Cold War and including Neo-Nazi terrorists. "},{"Title":"It's good. Clancy Trekkies should avoid it though.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Basically it's 'loosely' based on da book so far as I can tell here. I have been a fan of the movie series, this one falls in between Patriot Games and 'Clear and Present Danger' for me.  Overall this works...Fun Spoilers below!!*Affleck isn't the most believable Spook but he tries. That is what counts here.*I enjoyed the Cabinet-Ron Rifkin, Phillip Seymour Hall, Bruce McGill-these guys are all top notch. McGill as always puts out a forceful performance-ala 'Bagger Vance' or 'Insider'.*I enjoyed the Russian Pres-Hinds is a fine actor. They did a nice satire on Yeltsin too...*The Baltimore Nuke scene was well done, convincing, well handled.*the Aftermath wasn't-too many people ala Affleck running around in street clothes, surrounded by fire, fall out, etc-no mask, no effect. Yeah right...*The casting of his girlfriend/Doctor was ala Nicole Kidman as a doc in '90's Tom Cruise 'Top Car' flick. No way. Model all the way.*They don't like long scenes anymore do they-in this, or Spy Game or whatever, everything is SO chopped up. Gimme a break, guys-we're not ALL corroded by MTV...Some of us do have attention spans. *I thought the acting, F/X, combat scenes, etc-were all fine. The Chechnyn war was a nice touch too. Very topical.Overall-I think that this works, though the 'Jack Ryan Saves the Day by Typing to the Russian Pres'-ummmmmmm, that was HOLLYWOOD out the ying yang.  And the '30 seconds til nuke out--Ooops guess not' Cliffhanger finale was typical too.Finally, Kudos to whomever hired Alan Bates. We don't see enough of him.*** outta **** "}{"Title":"Resemblance to 9/11 too much for me","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  **WARNING CONTAINS SPOILERS***Its not that this movie is bad -- it isn't.  It's just that the nature of certain events within too closely remember our nation's most horrible day -- a day we must never forget, but never relive.Although the situation is clearly different from that of the actual events of September 2001, the destruction of part of the city of Baltimore and the significant loss of American lives as a result to me served only as a reminder of the tragedies in NY and DC.  It's quite a shame that because of those events, I cannot recommend this film -- and firmly believe that it has no place being released.  Perhaps the memory of those events are just too close -- not enough time has passed.A well acted movie, and certain a solid thriller.  This film is original in many aspects and would have been a fresh and intriguing film if not for the coincidental similarities to 9/11.Without 9/11, I'd give this film an 8/10.  With 9/11, 4 of 10. "},{"Title":"Way cool","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hmm, well thought I'd add my 42-1/2 cents...I was blown away by the movie in its entire-ity (10 out of 10).Fortunately, I know better than to read the novel BEFORE seeing the movie (as Clint Eastwoood pointed out in make-ing True Crime, There is so much inner thought of the characters that a novel can portray, that it's hard to bring this to screen. (not an exact quote).Of course, with this being released after Septemeber 11th, the impact of the scene in Balitimore is made all the more relevant. (I often wonder if authors such as Clancey have some *real* insider information).  That one scene where Morgan stands up in the stadium, and HE ALONE knows what is about to happen.  The vitality of the people, life, etc -- (the camera work!) -- I almost clapped out loud at that very point!  The camera work, fx, crew, cast, music, etc -- all deserve every award there is!!!As regards other comments as to the differences between this and the other movies with the same character; remember in the Alien movies, different directors/cast/writers bring different spices to the mixture. And on the techie side, I enjoyed the occasionally accurate russian dialog (hmm, I wasn't aware that there was *that* much difference between Ukranian and Russian ;)  Also, I think that the fx work so well, simply because the effects WEREN'T over the top -- a good balance throught out. The music was fantastic (Goldsmith is still a genius!).I also like the more humane way that the arabs were treated; remember 90% of everyone on our small, blue-green world is a pretty decent person (well for a human type being).  Finally, I thought Ben Affleck carried the part well, since he was supposed to be the new kid on the block, and probably just as well that Harrison Ford wasn't cast in the role (after all he's played the president of the US).  The chemistry between Ben and Bridget Moynahan was good, and I would have liked to have seen more of that in the story-line; but, (c'est la vie) it's an action/adventure film.To the cast and crew  Well done! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some say","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie tonight and I thought it was pretty good.  Dont listen to your negative friends (or the negative people here), go watch it and form your own opinion.  Many have typecast Ben Affleck as a bad actor because of past roles (Bounce perhaps), but hes not really that bad...they just go in thinking he will suck, and when you view an actor like that, he will. Morgan Freeman is incredible as usual.  Someone here described James Cromwell as potraying a indecisive President sorry, but I would much prefer a President that wasnt itching to give the command to launch a nuclear attack, wouldnt you?Everyone looks for inconsistencies, errors, and cheapness in this movie, but there arent as many as you would think.  Yes, the game is in Baltimore, but neither team is from there...I guess no one has heard of the Super Bowl? Yes, the teams arent real NFL teams...but can you name a movie that the NFL actually licensed their logos?  I cant think of any...remember Any Given Sunday used a non-existent league, and The 6th Day used the XFL.  I think someone also said ...we can hope for some historian like Ben Affleck to save us.  Maybe Im wrong, but I thought the historian job was his cover...maybe that wasnt obvious enough?As far as the time shift that makes this film almost completely irrelevant in relation to the other Jack Ryan films, I shall remind you all of the James Bond complex.  If one man can stay the same age for 40 years while everyone else grows older, surely a man can also become younger and start over, right?  Sorry, but surely if you can accept Bonds lack of aging, you can accept this.  This is not a great piece of film, but its certainly not the trash that some will convince you it is.  Ignore the reviews, just go see this movie, but leave your negativity at the door and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"The BEST Jack ryan of all!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this on opening day and just felt like I should review it again since it seemed to be getting a few negative reviews from some viewers! This is the Jack Ryan that Tom Clancy intended! He himself said Ben Affleck is his favorite actor as yet to have played the Jack Ryan character. Jack Ryan was never suppossed to be as old as Ford and was always suppossed to be more beleivable than Baldwin. Heck, Baldwin's why Hunt for Red October is the worst of the Clancy adaptations. Ryan's a confident overachiever and I beleive that this is the first time he has relly been portrayed that way.  Affleck plays the role brilliantly. Also great is Bridget Moynohan in the role of Affleck's girlfriend(look for her next in another CIA thriller, THE RECRUIT with Colin Farrell and Al PAcino). Affleck has all the luck! She's hot! Completely boring. Don't listen to reviewers who say this hits too close to home! If anything it gave me some closure on the whole 9/11 thing. I mean, I want to see something done about the terrorists responsible for that and in this film the US receives justice, something I have yet to see in real life. Hopefully, this is a case in which life eventually immitate art? And lastly, I have to say Morgan Freeman is great! Other than ALONG CAME A SPIDER, I don't think he knows how to make a bad movie! "},{"Title":"OK action flick","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's an OK Clancy flick. Good action. Not TOO outlandish.It seemed like a hard movie to make and edit. In some places the actors just had to explain what was happening; it was either that, or have a 6 hour long movie.I don't see Ben Affleck as Ryan, he played it a little too naive and callow. Ford is too old for Ryan now. I see Ryan as inexperienced, but savvy, not yet wise, but aware. Affleck's Ryan is an impetuous frat boy relying on his intelligence and intuition, shooting from the hip when he's unsure of himself.The best acting was among the president's aides. Freeman mailed in his performance, but he's so good it was still great.The cinematography is stunningly good, and IMO it carries the film. It is a visually pleasing experience. If you lose track of the plot, or miss some dialogue, sit back and look at the picture. Great color, great staging, great framing, depth, special effects... technically, this is as good a movie as you will see, and the excellence of the craft goes a long way toward helping suspend disbelief during the shaky parts of the plot.Overall, I give it a 7 out of 10. My wife gave it an 8. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Film","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I warn you that if you havent seen this movie, then dont read my comment, it will ruin the whole movie for you.This is one of the best movies I have ever watched.  The whole time my eyes were glued to the screen..  This movie has suspense, romance, and some reality.  Ryan(Affleck) was wonderful, he portrayed courage and spirit. When I left the theater, there were people saying they didnt like the movie, I can only wonder, what planet they are from.   "},{"Title":"Makes you proud to go to the movies.","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was exceptional.  I had my doubts about Ben Affleck carrying a heavy dramatic role, but he was very good.  Of course Morgan Freeman is always excellent, and the supporting cast was well cast, and all were deserving of merit.  The story line was very exciting, especially in the new world we live in.  I thought the movie was good from beginning to end.  Techno thrillers come and go, but this one captured me.  I chewed all my fingernails off during this two hours.  "},{"Title":"Successful rape of the great book on behalf of James Bond's fans","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  1. SO inconsistent with the Jack Ryan books.2. SO inconsistent with the Jack Ryan movies.3. Somewhat inconsistent with the reality. )I am not going to list first two kind of bugs. Lots of people have pointed them. Let's concentrate on the reality splits.*** THERE ARE SPOILERS BELOW ***As I am Russian, I would point out some things many people just not able to notice1. there is a scene where Clark (who perfectly speak Russian and was able to fool old woman, mother of nuclear scientist) and Ryan are involved in the standoff with two Ukrainian soldiers. Clark does not understand them but Ryan speaking in Ukrainian is able to convince them to surrender.Well, someone here has said it is impossible that (Ben Afflek's) Ryan would study both Russian and Ukrainian languages instead of playing football for his college team. Frankly, truth is more ugly. Both Russian and Ukrainian languages have the same roots and very similar. While guards were really speaking in Ukrainian, Clark with his perfect Russian would not have any problems understanding them (as I did not have such problems). Moreover, Ryan was addressing those soldiers (who do not appear Ukrainian soldiers to me, as Ukraine's army consists of young draftees, 18-22 years old) in RUSSIAN.2. In summary, Russian dialogues in the film are lame. And they sound like Yoda sometimes. I can't believe it's not possible to hire somebody more professional for this purpose.And all primary russian cast in the film is being played by non-russians, which shows another big flaw - russian dialogues were read just terribly. Russian president can't speak both Russian AND English - this is SO funny.It is not big deal, and I would not concentrate my attention on it if the secondary russian cast was not played by real russian actors. I have spotted Alexander Belyavsky (who is pretty good russian actor) in several scenes. But he does not speak a word! Why he has been choosen for this role? Because of his russian face? ))3. From military point of view scenes with the aircraft carrier are plain stupid. I believe (and Mr.Clancy has perfectly shown this in his book Red Storm Rising) that you need more then three TU-22M Backfire bombers to breach carrier's defense, which consists of AWACS, F14s on the patrol/scramble and escort ships. I believe that bombers should be detected by radars several dozens kilometers away and not just before entering visual range. Anyway, bombers do not need to enter visual range to attack carrier with their missiles, as those missiles are able to hit target far from the RADAR detection range.Same for retaliation scene with the F-16s. Well, to my best knowledge, F-16s are not used on carriers. They use f-14/fa-18 there and for that specific purpose of hitting ground target there is A-6 Intruder attack plane. As well as cruise missiles. And I doubt that this attack/retaliation scheme fits into timeline. And I doubt more seriously, that those F-16s would be able to penetrate russian air defense so easily, that it was not even worth to mention. )And Mr. Clancy, please, get Moscow's yellow pages somewhere. Because names you are using in your books, they are either not russian or very rare or VERY famous. Just imagine pizza deliverer George Washington (who's boss's name is Jack Nicholson) meets his old buddy Tom Sawyer on the way to the client named Mojo-Jojo. Well, you get the picture. Which makes you laugh on otherwise great books. ) "},{"Title":"Typical but good","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There were a lot of things I couldn't stand about the movie but for entertainment purposes it was pretty good.  The biggest problem I had was that there were a ton of people that knew the bomb was 'not Russian' but yet nobody could get that information to the President?  Please.  That information would have gotten to the president and things would have calmed down(but that wouldn't have been very cinematic)     "},{"Title":"Can't believe Clancy signed off on this","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tom Clancy had been quoted as saying how unhappy he was with past movies, stating that they weren't true to the book.  Well, this one took a BIG step backward.  About the only thing that is true to the book is that an Israeli bomb lost in 1973 is discovered and detonated at a football game (at least in the book they used real NFL teams, the Chargers and Vikings, and not two fakes...cheap cheap)  For some reason, they decided to toss Jack Ryan back into a time capsule, and portray him as a neophyte, rather than the experienced operative that Ryan was by the time of Sum of all Fears.  The casting was terrible IMO; Ben Affleck just isn't Jack Ryan.  Liev Schrieber (best known for Scream) was awful as John Clark.  For a guy that had been a field spook for 25 years by the time of Fears, Clark was looking pretty young and spry.  I was astonished to see how badly the Naval scenes were (Clancy being a huge naval buff, of course).  You just don't fly right up to an American carrier and hit it.  Where were the picket ships, the AA aegis cruisers that always always screen a Carrier?  There are few better defending areas on this planet than a U.S. carrier, especially in times of war.  This was insulting to anyone that has enjoyed the realism of Clancy's books.  I really don't see where the movies can go now.  Following Sum of all Fears, Jack Ryan (now a senior operative) takes the role of Vice President of the United States, and soon after, President.  Do they plan to portray Ben Affleck as president in the next few years?  That just wouldn't sit too well with me, or anyone else, I'm betting "}{"Title":"The names the same, but not much else.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you read the book, you may not recognize the movie. They kept the title, most of the characters and some of the very basic ideas of the overall plot, BUT, there it stops. Ben Affleck while a fine actor, just seems to be going through the motions as Jack Ryan. By the way folks, he isn't DDCI in this, and isn't even married yet. I guess that's about all for continuity of character. I guess this means we aren't going to see anymore Clancy Novels in the Movies after Cardinal in the Kremlin, if that ever gets done. How is the newbie in the CIA going to become DCI then VP then POTUS. Oh Well! That's Hollywood for you. Tom Clancy ducked on this one, I guess the almighty buck reared its ugly head over any form of literary integrity. Yes, there is action and adventure; yes, there are great Special Effects; but you can get that just about anywhere. Let's see, Baltimore isn't Denver, Central Europe isn't the ISLAMIC Middle East and in fact radioactivity has little or no residual and Ben Affleck just isn't a believable Jack Ryan. The movie itself, for those of you who have read the book will be a significant disappointment, since never the twain shall meet. If you can get past a shuffling of characters, heck, the National Security Advisor is a guy and he sure can't be sleeping with the President, as well as get past moving of most of the locals and seriously shifting the time line established in the Clancy Novels, you might actually like this movie. I know I'm getting a bit redundant, but then again I'm writing it and I really want to make that point. The fact is, it appears that they bought the rights, then changed almost everything. The title and the Clancy name sold this sell out. It really is a shame. I guess Hollywood never heard of IF IT AIN'T BROKE DON'T FIX IT. Our loss is apparently their gain.  "},{"Title":"Good, but disappointing.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps I expected too much... but must also say that I left movie having had an overall enjoyable experience.  The acting was great, the story good... but having read the book and followed the other Clancy movies, I found myself a little confused and disappointed.  When they say, Based on a novel by Tom Clancy... they mean roughly based.  The story was changed in many subtle, but drastic, ways... and while they were there, they did not really take away from the overall enjoyment of the movie. "},{"Title":"Sum of All Flubs","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Frankly, if I was Tom Clancy, I wouldn't have let them put my name on this one. The Jack Ryan movie series had been a must-see up until now. After this, I'll probably wait for the video of the next movie to come out and then carefully evaluate it.The storyline was shoddy, gutting the original book's premise and was in essence a bunch of irrelevant action scenes slapped together that didn't draw the audience in. I mean, they nuked Baltimore and then you never heard about it again! It's like, oh well, they nuked it. On to the next scene. If the bomb hadn't gone off, the plot line wouldn't have been affected. It was just a plot device for FX value.Ben Affleck had no presence on the screen. He was too young to play Ryan and it showed. He was simply there for the stud value, which didn't help the movie at all. James Cromwell was weak as President Fowler, and came off as an indecisive sewer-mouth. Morgan Freeman was passable (why did they kill him off?), but Liev Schreiber as John Clark deserves a big round of applause. He was the only actor with true presence in the movie.I'd say that they should forget this movie as a failed experiment and bring Ford back for the next Ryan movie and let him play the role until he dies. The Sum of All Fears only does damage to Clancy's reputation and they should go back to what (and who) works. "},{"Title":"Can It Happen?","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Without boring users, I will say in a short review, this.....It caught my attention every step of the way reminding me of the severity of terrorists and their ways!This movie was excellent both in acting, cast selection (which BTW I never knew Harrison Ford was chosen for Jack Ryan), and special effects. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a load of crap. It was worked up to be such an interesting movie in the previews, but turned out to be a disappointing pg-13 politically correct loser.Hollywood obviously does not want to pss off the arab countries by making them the vialins, remember we need to keep the oil prices down. Instead lets make the Nazis evil. They are all dead, so no one cares. Of course the nuclear adversary is once again Russia (who else?). Cheesy, overdone, boring, are the only adequate adjectives in this case. Oh and lets not forget to make fun of Yeltsin for his alcoholism while we're at it. The Russian president has to speak English, but not the other way around, because after all, America is number 1 right?There are so many flaws in the movie, besides the overwhelming amount of obscene political correctness. Critical mass of plutonium cannot be handled by nakid hands, besides being heavy enough to prohibit being carried in one hand. Cell phones and PDA working immediately after a nuclear explosion? Give me a break. You would have to shield them with 2 inches of lead for that to happen. Oh and one more thing. After the Israeli military lost a nuclear weapon, you think they would just leave it out in the desert for some idiot to find?The movie is a joke. "},{"Title":"Minor correction to n2theblue","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fiddley nit to pick, I know, but I must.On June 6, n2theblue makes a few comments as to what, in his opinion, were flaws in The Sum of All Fears.I have an opinion about the movie, but as I worked on it as a Digital Effects Supervisor, I can hardly be considered anything but biased in the extreme.In fact, it is this extreme bias which allows me to respond to Mr. theblue's fourth commentquote Flaw #4 The transition from CG F-16s (The Big Retaliation scene - Oh, they'll get the message. to live footage of F-16s was all too obvious. quoteWhile many of the aircraft in thi film were indeed CG, the F-16s were all real.I think I find the error to be flattering, but I'm not sure.May I say, I have seldom had the opportunity to work with such a richly talented group as I did on sum.  However the movie was, in the opinions of the audience, (I thought it was good, BTW) the Effects were brilliant.  (I had little direct hand in their execution, so I am not totally blowing my own horn).plugDareDevil - coming soon!! plug;-)Caleb J. Howard "},{"Title":"BORING, (I slept through half of it)","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THIS MOVIE SUCKED. The worst movie in the world. 27,000 nuclear warheads and there is 1 missing? Yeah I took it to kill myself after seeing the piece of garbage. The SUM OF ALL TEARS(thats right I said Tears),is by far hands down cant compare to anything the worst movie. Why Ben why? Why trick me into seeing this crap? I got off work on Sunday (opening weekend) to go see this movie and truth be told I wish I stayed at work.I should of took the hint when the usher came in there to see us all in there. I am sure she went out laughing at us all wasting our money. Good thing I caught it during the matinee so I didnt waste any more money. Screw drugs,sex,violence,etc. If you want your kids to have a good life *NEVER LET THEM SEE THIS MOVIE* it will ruin them forever.The Fear is the title refers to the fear that they actually made this movie.Well I'm out just typing about this movie is making me sad (b/c it sucked). But before I go I cant stress enough......(THIS MOVIE SUCKED). "},{"Title":"Excellent adventure/drama from the book by Tom Clancy.","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SUM OF ALL FEARS  ***+  Drama/Action  Novel by Tom Clancy Ben Afflek, Morgan Freeman James Cromwell The CIA attempts to locate a Nuclear bomb before it can be detonated on US soil. The film is extremely well put together. I especially like the degree of background detail and insight into human behavior it contains. While there are some plot flaws, overall the film is believeable, very exciting, and intense. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Believable, very exciting, and intense. See it.","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SUM OF ALL FEARS  ***+  Drama/Action  Novel by Tom Clancy Ben Afflek, Morgan Freeman James CromwellThe CIA attempts to locate a Nuclear bomb before it can be detonated on US soil. The film is extremely well put together. I especially like the degree of background detail and insight into human behavior it contains. While there are some plot flaws, overall the film is believable, very exciting, and intense. One major explosion. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"pure US Propaganda crap","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Contains Spoiler In previous comments, I see others say how they can't believe this movie was made to soon after Sept. 11th.  I think that this is the perfect movie to make after Sept. 11th because it allows the viewer to regain hope in our government and its foreign policy.  At the very least, we can hope for some historian like Ben Affleck to save us.  That being said, this movie was terrible.  It was clearly directed and influenced by those officials that want the hope in our government and economy to be restored.  It had no substance at all however, and seems to be another method of manipulation.. the likes we haven't seen since Hitler Youth Quex of WWII Germany.  Ben Affleck was almost laughably bad and unbelievable in his role.  Overall the story was boring and nothing much happened until the bomb finally went off. Even then, I found myself laughing as we see Affleck running in slow motion with flames in the background.  The highlight of the movie for me was getting a chance to see Philip Baker Hall in another role.  I hadn't seen him in anything since Magnolia, and though his role was very minor and had little speaking lines.. I at least am glad to see that he is getting work. I guess I can't say anything to prevent anyone from going to the movie however... it is unfortunately the number one movie right now, however next time a Tom Clancy movie comes out, I'll be more wary about whether the messages within the screenplay are from his writing, or from what big brother just wants us to hear. "}{"Title":"Almost fair on its own, but...","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To begin with, I did not like this movie.  That being said, I do not think it was a bad film.  Rather, the plot of the film splits off from the previous Jack Ryan movies to the point that I wonder how they are going to bring Clancy's other books to film?  What about Executive Orders where Ryan's the president?  Or Debt Of Honor where Ryan is the National Security Advisor about to become Vice President briefly before becoming President!? Both of which immediately follow Sum Of All Fears.  These three books are more woven in their plots than any of Clancy's previous works and I think messing with the timeline of Ryna's life/career virtually prevents them from making any believable film version of Debt or Execuitive Orders.  What about Bear & The Dragon?  That book was great - how is it going to be put to film believably?  Ben Affleck as the President!!??I see now that Clancy's new book, Red Rabbit covers Ryan's debriefing of Cardinal (from Cardinal of the Kremlin) in which he learns of a plot to kill the Pope.  This new adventure appears to have been written so that it can be portrayed by a younger Jack Ryan as it takes place between Patriot Games and Clear & Present Danger.  This brings up another problem now that we have established Ryan's relationship with John Clark, will his character be in the next movie?  Considering that later in Ryan's life (in Clear & Present Danger) Ryan will meet Clark again seemingly for the first time, is Ryan just going to keep meeting the character and not remember all those previous times he met/worked with him?  Are they ever going to make a Rainbow Six movie?  If so, how will they explain Ryan's influence in getting the group started considering he's now just some new guy at the CIA who got the director's ear before he died!?Being a big fan of Tom Clancy and the storyline he has created with Jack Ryan, John Clark, Chavez, Pres. Fowler, etc., I was incredibly disappointed with the movie.  Standing on it's own, The Sum Of All Fears is OK at best. When the proverbial stuff hits the fan, it's kind of lack luster and not really gripping at all.  You don't get the power struggle that was evident in the book between Ryan and the National Security Advisor.  The nuclear blast was a real special effects letdown, especially after the CGI spectacle that was Pearl Harbor!  Everyone but Affleck were believable if a little flat in their parts.  I have never warmed up to Affleck as an actor.  His character doesn't change from movie to movie.  When he says, A neo-fascist..., his youth really shows and it's hard to believe him as the former Marine/professor/author/phD.  He comes off as fresh out of college and into an analyst position at the CIA.  He has this aloofness to him that shouldn't be present in Jack Ryan's character.  Ryan was a Marine!  His hero is more unwilling than unwitting.Rather than continuing the Jack Ryan story, Clancy and the film makers decided to produce a run-of-the-mill action/adventure movie that totally ignores the gripping underlying power struggles and international politics of the book in favor of the all-too-common knowledgeable newbie placed in extraordinary situations only to come out on top in a nice tidy fashion.  I guess I'll just stick to the novels - at least until it looks like Clancy's writing screenplays in leau of his normal thrilling masterpieces like Red Storm Rising, Hunt For Red October (in which they should have kept the original ending from the book - way better than the movie), Patriot Games, Rainbow Six, Clear & Present Danger, Without Remorse, etc. "},{"Title":"Not an Ben fan, however the movie was great! - SPOLIERS!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, Ok, I don't like war movies. That having been said, this movie was more about the relationship and machismo that leads up to war rather than the actual war. Ben was decent, Morgan always satisfies and the guy that plays the Russian leader was deep and awesome.However, my problem with the movie is it's glitches. The stadium that the president is in is located in Baltimore, so why are the two football teams from Florida and Chicago? Also, Ben walks around at Ground Zero Baltimore, so why doesn't he die of poisoning? Despite the flaws, the plot is excellent with more twists and turns than Justin Timberlake's new hair-do! I was constantly engaged and always surprised.I would recommend this movie to people craving suspense and action. It is a tad bloody and messy, but hey - it's war.  Two thumbs up!Viva Liev Schreiber! Missed you since you were Cotton Weary in Scream! "},{"Title":"Great movie, with a look at possible reality","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A great movie along with great actors.  The Sum of All Fears has everything a movie of this nature needs, the actors, the effects and also the hype leading up to its release.  Most people who have seen past Tom Clancy movies were probably skeptical about Ben Affleck replacing Harrison Ford in the lead role of C.I.A agent Jack Ryan.  Ben Affleck does a great job at filling Harrison Ford's shoes, and deserves all the credit he should receive for this movie. But Affleck isn't the only one who gives an outstanding performance; Morgan Freeman plays his role of C.I.A director Bill Cabot to perfection.  Freeman has all the tenacity that a C.I.A director should have along with a humorous side that he demonstrates in the plane when they're on their way to Russia.  Overall I would recommend this movie to anyone, it was defiantly worth my $6 and once you see this you will be a fan of past and hopefully future Tom Clancy based movies. "},{"Title":"I was pleasantly surprised","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has to rate as the best movie in the series following the life of Jack Ryan. The movie starts out a bit slow but than picks up. The details were wonderful. I loved the fact the audience has the opportunity to pick up on some of the clues as we follow the characters. I only wish it were longer. Can not wait for the next one in the series starring Ben. "},{"Title":"Where's the beef?","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a drama the movie is good, as an action film it is fair.  That is my main beef with the film.  I was expecting an action film but ended up listening to a lot of words.I knew before I went to the movie that it was only loosely based on Clancy's novel (thanks to the comments on this site), good thing too or I would have been disappointed.  Hollywood had to be politically correct and pick different bad guys, alternate locations, present day, and messed with Ryan's place in the scheme of things.So I went to the movie with the mindset that this is a totally new thing, not the book.  And it seemed to work...I enjoyed the movie for what it is...a drama.  "},{"Title":"Major Spoilers ahead, do not read if you mind","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The basic premise of the plot is a lot like many James Bond movies. The bad guys try to provoke a war between the US and Russia, so what is new. Apart from the major holes that have been mentioned in this site i.e. your cell phone and email machine will not work after an atomic blast and the picnic in White house lawn after a nuclear blast less than 40 miles away is not very pleasant, technically the film is not bad. U understand in the book the terrorists are Arabs and change was done for Political correctness. I do not find this very objectionable. If there are neo-fascists around, I presume they are capable of such actions. One can imagine European McVeighs with a lot of money are a lot less detectable than a bunch of Arabs trying to buy or sell nuclear arms.  "},{"Title":"Insulting, Lame and Politically Correct","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film version of `The Sum of All Fears' is a watered-down and politically correct version of the Tom Clancy novel.   It is a major disappointment from Hollywood especially in light of what happened on 9/11/01.You would think that the filmmakers would stay faithful to a book that accurately foreshadows the threat that the Western World faces from militant Islam.  But instead they have given us a film that insults our intelligence with an absurd & improbable plot about neo-Nazis trying to start a war between the U.S. & Russia.The film is lame with Ben Affleck now playing the character of Jack Ryan.   Not only is Affleck too young for this role, he's not even an actor.   He's just some guy who appears in film with speaking parts.   The novel by Tom Clancy is excellent.   It has a complex plot with characters brought to life by Clancy and it is a real page turner.   Obviously, it wouldn't have been possible to include everything in the book in the film.   But virtually nothing from the book is brought to the film except for the bare bones summary `a bomb goes off in an American city'.   The film doesn't even keep the action in Denver as the book does.  For some reason, Baltimore is a better place to destroy on film.  Film audiences and especially Americans deserved better.  We know that neo-Nazis are not the threat we currently face and Hollywood could have at least tried to have made a film that accurately mirrors the times we live in.   A good start would have been to make a faithful film version of `The Sum of All Fears'.  "},{"Title":"A nuclear bomb hits Baltimore, and Jack Ryan walks through the ashes 15 minutes later?","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How could a nuclear device go off, and Jack Ryan is able to go to the Baltimore docks within an hour  - no radiation danger? No BLACK RAIN ? - His love interest is blown back from imploding glass - within a few miles of the explosion - oh, but she's o.k. The presidential helicopter is thrown to the ground in the blast - but no worries, mate - he's o.k. also. Morgan Freeman - he's the senior black advisor (sort of comparable to the James Earle Jones character in previous Jack Ryan movies) he, as JEJ, is toast! Acting was good by Freeman & Affleck - script was bad, and cinematography post-blast was very weak! And why are the teams playing in the Baltimore stadium, which was Domed in the movie, from Chicago & Florida???????? Clancy - this was obviously written for the screen, not for literature. I'm disappointed in Tom's exploitation of a character I had grown to love. (Face it Tom; Jack Ryan is not James Bond -- and I liked it that way) "},{"Title":"Less Than the Sum of Its Parts","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck should stick to appearing as the dopey romantic who gets the girl in light-hearted comedies - and even then I wouldn't be all that compelled to see him. And for those who were of the opinion that Pearl Harbor was a terrible wasted opportunity -- a Hollywood extravaganza that somehow missed the the chance to showcase Affleck's talents (a movie that Josh Hartnett practically stole), well, you'll want to skip Sum of All Fears.Affleck plays the role of an irreverent young Jack Ryan just beginning to learn the ropes in the CIA. Following in the noticeably larger footsteps of Alec Baldwin (Hunt for Red October) and Harrison Ford (Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger) in bringing Tom Clancy's character Jack Ryan to the silver screen, Affleck just didn't hit the right balance as a sharp but humble, bold yet intellectual Ryan. Those who are fans of Tom Clancy's novels know that Ryan is quite a tricky character to cast, almost in a away that is much harder than casting for a James Bond Ryan is really the anti-007, he's a family man, not the suave international playboy, but make no mistake, he is a tough and courageous hero when the going gets tough. Even Willem Dafoe's John Clark was a greater casting choice than Liev Schreiber.Back to the film itself. The storyline is quite an ambitious one, and after the events of 9/11, one that doesn't stretch the imagination to wild proportions. The basic fear that drives this film - an unaccounted nuclear bomb in the hands of terrorists - truly does make for high drama. The cinematography was excellent, taking the viewer through white-washed Siberia-like Russian outposts to the arid deserts of the Middle East. The action sequences were shot extremely well, such as the explosion in Baltimore to the military scenes. These are all of the film's strong suits.Morgan Freeman turned in a good, but not spectacular job, but I'd blame the weak screenwriting as the primary factor which limited his ability to turn in a more engaging performance. The President's role and his cabinet members could have easily been replaced by all of the jurors from the movie 12 Angry Men minus the all-important Fonda where was a rational, charismatic leader when you really need him? Another gripe of mine was the premise that the President and all of the top advisors would be flying in Air Force One and not in a secure underground location... (how credible is that).Other than Ben Affleck's unconvincing role as a humble, yet incisive and bold CIA analyst, the film in general was a decent thriller, but could have been far greater.  "},{"Title":"Frankly, disappointing...","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was not the story Sum of All Fears as told in the book by Tom Clancy. About all they had in common were the title, and the explosion of a nuclear bomb, on US soil, by terrorists. The movie story line was more like Walter Mitty meets the Cuban Missle crisis. ;-)The special effects were a bit flat. And, considering Clancy's penchant for detail and accuracy, I must ask Why did the cell phones, and wireless PDAs operate flawlessly after the disaster?That said, it was a pretty good adventure film, on par with Mission Impossible and Air Force One. The story line and events were too trite and convenient to call this a Drama.The best thing about this movie was Morgan Freeman, see the movie (with discount tickets) for that alone.r.c. "}{"Title":"Decent Entertainment with many Flaws","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A year ago, this movie would have been considered a decent spy flick, with nothing much to it.  Post 9-11, this film has taken a much more meaningful and scarier stance as we now live in a world at war, with chemical, biological, and frightening enough, nuclear war a very real possibility.  It is because of this why Sum of All Fears has relevance, and not because it's a greatly crafted film.  This is a Tom Clancy Jack Ryan film, so that means Ryan's a desk jockey analyst with no field experience, but finds a way to solve situation after situation.  In this one, he faces two stubborn presidents, both heads of the strongest powers in the world.  Nuclear war may be imminent, and only Ryan knows the truth.  In terms of acting, the film is great.  Affleck is decent enough, but the standouts are James Cromwell as the president, Morgan Freeman as the wonderful advisor, and Phillip Baker Hall as another advisor to the president.  The cast is rounded out by some lesser known actors, but they all work.  The film is suspenseful and the final scenes will have you biting your nails at what happens.  However, there are flaws within this film. First of all, there is a nuclear blast in the movie (this isn't a spoiler as pretty much any tv spot or trailer has shown this in great detail) and building up to this, scenes of the president evacuating at a major sporting event are seen.  Now, I don't know about you, but when I see the president, being covered by the Secret Service in an attempt to rush out of a stadium, I'd RUN.  Yet, the entire stadium was calm, and there was no panic or anything along those lines.  Anyhow, this is a minor quibble, and nothing too big.  Probably my biggest gripe with the film is the completely unbeleivable nature of the nuclear explosion.  While it is said to be a lower-grade nuke, it still is a nuke nontheless, yet nothing is disintegrated, nothing is taken out, and overall, the effects of the bomb seem nothing more then a simple large bomb then a nuclear bomb explosion.  First, there was no EMP wave.  Whenever a nuclear bomb goes off, an electro-magnetic pulse knocks out every single electrical current in the area, but in this one, nothing along those lines happens.  Cars run, hospitals work fine, and helicopters fly.  This EMP wave, which is mentioned in Ocean's Eleven (2001) and is seen in the made for tv movie, The Day After.  Likewise, the explosion doesn't show any of the effects of the bomb itself.  As said above, it seems like a simple conventional bomb rather then a nuke.  The blast itself is very short, and is nothing compared to the effects a real nuke would have.  Lastly, the effects of radiation and fallout are not seen at all.  Ryan manages to run all around the city without experiencing, seeing, or hearing (with the exception of one brief chatterbox moment) about fallout.  This is kind of a big deal because the fallout of a nuclear explosion is potentially even more dangerous and sickening then the blast itself. However, this was not the focus of the film.  Rather, the focus was on the events surrounding this blast, but I still thought that these flaws didn't help the film.  Granted, not many people will notice them, but I did, and it didn't help the way I viewed the film.  Overall, probably 7.5 stars out of 10.  Not the best Ryan movie either.  Hunt for Red October was much better.   "},{"Title":"Best Clancy Movie, Ben Affleck as Ryan is great.","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you are looking for an on the edge of your seat movie, this is it. Ben Affleck has a role of a life time.  I only have a couple of Clancy novels left to read, and I would like to see Affleck in every one of them.  This movie is funny and action packed.  If you see one movie this year, this should be it. "},{"Title":"action, direction good; effects, music excellent","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Affleck doesn't make the best Jack Ryan, but luckily he doesn't have to carry the film.  Schreiber, Moynahan, Freeman, Cromwell, are all very good. Special effects are done quite well, & the music is nearly brilliant (the soundtrack selections more so than Goldsmith's original music).  The Nazi bad guys come off as anachronistic fools, which may be deliberate, but not so interesting.  The humor is just right. "},{"Title":"WOW!!!!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this looked good and it was more then that Ben Affleck gave a great performance now he's going to do like a billion action films but what he really needs is a romantic comedy my opinion though.  This movie made you think but was also hard to watch because you go to the movies to get away from the everyday world and this movie kind of hit to close to home if you know what i mean.  Either way the acting was superb and i loved it.  Morgan Freeman what more do i need to say awesome actor hasn't let me down yet same with ben affleck.  Recommended for those who, well love amazing movies.   "},{"Title":"In over his head","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I will start out by saying, I am a Tom Clancy fan, having read all the Jack Ryan - John Clark stories and even his net force series.  However, having said that it is my opinion that Ben Affleck  is in over his head in this one.  He is, unfortunately, a lighweight in the role of Dr. Jack Ryan. First of all, his age is all wrong for a person with a PhD.  Unless of course he were a child prodigy.  By comparison, Alex Baldwin was more convincing in the Hunt for Red October.If the producers were looking for a younger audience, they are seriously mistaken,  The Tom Clancy series appeals to the 30+ and baby boomers, not the 14 to 24 year old market pictures are usually made for.There were serious contimuity issues here, for example if, as you are led to believe, Jack Ryan wasn't married to Cathy, then why the hell was the story set in 2002.  Why Baltimore instead of, I believe, San Diego,Secondly, why is it when a motion picture is made from derivitive material, the only thing kept intact is the title. They should say loosely based on a novel by .............  "},{"Title":"Great... but the worst of the Jack Ryan movies","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  From what I've heard, the book was much better.  To begin with, the plot made a little more sense due to the fact that the bad guys were a totally different group (Islamic extremists instead of Neo-Nazis).  The movie was quite good, with some excellent acting from many characters - but I could never buy into Jack Ryan.  After putting Harrison Ford in the last two Jack Ryan movies (Clear and Present Danger, Patriot Games) it was hard for me to accept relative newbie Ben.  He didn't play the part as well as I would have liked.  The movie lacked the touch that the last two movies had - and it was pretty bad as a prequel.  However, aside from the comparison the movie was intense and it was very interesting.  7/10 "},{"Title":"WADALOADACRAP!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why did Clancy let these knuckleheads loose with this horrible adaptation??? I understand the need to compress characters and subplots, and so on but this sorry excuse for a cinematic interpretation of a great book makes me want to puke! You would think as exec. producer, Mr. Clancy would want to maintain some sort of integrity of his work, but this lame retooling can only mean that he has no regard for the many fans of his work. He has attempted to extend the life of his franchise by letting these hacks re-make Ryan via Ben Affleck, who has stated that when interviewing with Clancy for the part has said, and I am paraphrasing from an interview with Charlie Rose... When I met with Clancy he said this role could very well be my retirement plan... WHAAAAT? Since when did movie making become some kind of 401k plan for mediocre actors? Anyway, if your thinking about seeing this movie, wait until it hits your local rental outlet. "},{"Title":"The Sum of all Film-Goers' Fears","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An unbelievably trite, watered down, insipid film.  If you saw The Player, you may recall how focus groups and testing twisted a filmmaker's vision into a mindless piece of pap, primarily through a hilarious ending change.If only this film were ONLY that cynical.  There's enough factual errors to fill a warehouse, but that's part of the movies, so no real big deal there. The really horrific swill comes from dialogue so mind-bendingly stupid and poorly delivered that it makes one long for Joe Dirt The Director's Cut.  Yes, Ben Affleck's an affable lightweight, but the no-talent actress playing his love interest is reminiscent of Pauly Shore doing Shakespeare, or the kid who played the lead in Star Wars Episode I.If you've read the book, don't see the film.  If you haven't read the book, read the book, then follow the instructions in the previous sentence. This movie assumes you have no brains, no interest in a coherent storyline, no ability to discern interesting visual effects from a few SUVs with lighter fluid on them, and no ability to resist incessant marketing.  It's horrible. Read between the lines on the other, more positive reviews -- this is a lightweight film that isn't too bad if you lower your expectations.You shouldn't HAVE to lower your expectations.  The Sum of All Fears is flat out awful, and worse yet, a complete waste of your time. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable, stupid waste of time","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I cant believe that Roger Ebert and others praised this stupid excuse of a movie. It had too many scenes that I have seen before in better movies (Like early James Bond). There isn't an original moment in this film. For example when one of the evil conspirators says he doesn't think that they should be doing this and decides to leave - surprise surprise, the henchman helping him on with his coat and scarf strangles him while all the other conspirators watch in amazement. (I saw this scene 20 years ago in a James Bond movie.) Give me a break. Do you believe that the CIA cant communicate with its agents but keep losing them to static and that Ben Afleck as Dr. John Ryan can use the CIA Directors pass and get into the Pentagon and use the HOT LINE Teletype and no one can stop him. The movie is just full of unbelievable scenes, that make it very hard to follow. The ending was total Hollywood and made no sense at all. Waste of time and money to see.  "},{"Title":"The best Jack Ryan Movie","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely the best Jack Ryan movie. The Hunt was boring to me. Patriot Games was ok and Clear and Present Danger was pretty good. The acting in this movie was very good. Ben Affleck did a good job, but he is not Harrison Ford. The blowing up of Baltimore was fantastic and i dont think it would be offensive to many people. Overall, it was a well done movie with alot of action. "}{"Title":"The novel comes to life and depicts the story well","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum of All Fears, a Tom Clancy original, is transformed from a novel to a heart-pounding suspense film. The movie stars Ben Affleck who plays Jack Ryan, a historian hired by Bill Cabot(Morgan Freeman) to become a CIA analyst and assist in American ties with Russia. A nuclear crisis arises and Ryan must determine who is behind the terrorist act. The acting is played out well and the special effects are exceptional. At points, the story seems improbable, such as when Ryan walks through a section of city surrounded by fire, not taking notice of any of it.In conclusion, the book really does comes to life and depicts the story well. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood gets Ryan right -- again.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Taken on its own, this movie is a masterful action thriller.  Viewed as the latest Jack Ryan movie, the sudden shift to Affleck (an actor 25 years junior to Harrison Ford) is at first jarring (as was Ford's aging of the character first portrayed by Alec Baldwin in Hunt for Red October).  I found Liev Shrieber more jarring in the John Clark role played by Willem Defoe in Clear and Present Danger.  But unless you're a purist who simply can't shuck the details of the original book(s), you'll soon find Ben Affleck a charming and heroic Jack Ryan, who in this film is new to the CIA and still courting the comely doctor named Cathy who will eventually become Mrs. Ryan.  Based on his strong performance here and the remarkable adaptability of this franchise, I look forward to seeing Ben Affleck return as Jack Ryan in future installments. "},{"Title":"Kind of Slow at First","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When sitting in the theater for the first 30 minutes or so for this movie, I kept on wondering, is this movie going anywhere?? But however, it did eventually managed to pick itself up a bit and move more at a faster pace. The movie had humor in it, but I consider it the type of humor that a middle aged being would find funny. The realism in the movie was unbelievable! It actually appeared as if the audience was actually apart of or witnessing this abomb attack on the U.S. So I would have to say that it was a first rate Tom Clancy thriller! "},{"Title":"Excellent film, kept me on the edge of my seat","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Film was well done, acting was very good and when that bomb went off in Baltimore, you could hear a pin drop in the theater....it hit very close to home.  Think it's a good time for this film to come out, it doesn't capitalize on the events of September 11th. An excellent thriller. Ben Affleck was good as a young Jack Ryan, a good follow up to the excellent performances of Harrison Ford. "},{"Title":"Liked it as a standalone film.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Possible spoiler (for other clancy films too)Been looking forward to this film, due to the excellent book. Was a bit disappointed how far it moved from the book. A key part of the book was the tension between Jack Ryan and President Fowler and his National Security Advisor, also the closeness between Ryan and Clark, but as earlier posters have said, it allows a new starting point for the franchise. There's a few in the line yet!!This moving away from the book has after all happened before. With Patriot Games, it was some minor Royal in the film, but the Prince and Princess of Wales in the book.  In Clear and Present Danger, they killed off FBI dude Dan Murray in the film (WHY???) whereas in the book series he is a major character.HOWEVER, if you forget the books, (and we ain't here to review the book), it was a good film. Plenty of action. Ben Affleck was good, he is not in Morgan Freemans class, but he hasn't been in the acting game as long. The plot developed nicely enough, except the bad guys were a bit vague. I got the feeling that a lot was cut out of the movie there to fit a running time. Perhaps it'll be on the DVD!!! For that, they only get 7.5 out of 10I liked it. It was a good yarn and thats what I went to the cinema to see. "},{"Title":"Borrow it from someone to waste your time","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie last night, and thought it was ok. But, after reading the first few comments today I found myself feeling annoyed and put-out that I someone else wasted their money on this movie for me.Destroying the Jack Ryan character in favour of having a young popular good-looking jock play it was a mistake. I can't even overcome my disappointment by attempting to view the character as a kind of archetype of Clancy heroes. Affleck's characterization of Jack Ryan as a weak, simpering, mewling post-adolescent was a horrible dissolution of the character I'd come to expect and certainly didn't even touch Ford's protrayal despite its insipidness when compared to Baldwin's portrayal.In my mind Clancy allowed his creation to be betrayed.Freeman definitely puts the boots to the other actors (once again!) and manages to walk away from the film without any egg on his face. I don't know how he does it, but if for nothing else this ability he must be commended on. After all, this is a man who was capable of finding work after being in a Kevin Costner production.Liev Schrieber also does a phenomenal job in playing a Clancy character the way it was meant to be instead of some waffling new-age commando.BTW - does anyone know where I can get a cell-phone, wireless PDA and the supporting commercial infrastructure that can resist the EMP of a nuclear blast? Or perhaps glass that doesn't shred bodies to mince when shattered by a blast wave?At least Paramount won't have to worry about this movie being pirated. I can't imagine who would want to waste the drive space. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good, but I expected more of an ending","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The cinematography was well done except for a few scenes where the camera was noticeably shaky. Some of the presidential scenes were terribly over-acted, and it didn't, at some times, come off as 'believable'. But it was very well done, and Affleck put on an amazing performance as his predecessors have in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger. But there were some flaws, like the timeline. It was placed this year when we knew that he was married, yet now he's younger, not married, and Ben Affleck. Other than that, the special effects were pleasing and the use of color, or lack thereof, was great after the nuclear explosion. Which contrasted horribly with the brightness of the grass at the end, in my opinion. It just seemed awkward that there was no thanking or anything special. But I suppose they did their best to cut the book. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Solid film, despite the weak presence of Ben Affleck!","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   This film is the type of movie that a couple years ago would have been seen as just escapist fun. After 9/11 this movie, though still just a big hollywood prioduction is topical and will make people nervous. I have liked all of the Tom Clancy novel that have been brought to the screen, The Hunt for Red October being my favorite. This film is in the same league, it is a tense film that has a premise that these days doesn't seem to impossible. Neo-nazi thugs get their hands on a nuclear weapon, and try to start a war between the US and Russia. CIA analyst Jack Ryan is played this time by Ben Affleck, and as I suspected when I first learned that he would take over the role from Harrison Ford, he is the weakest part of the film. I don't think that he is a bad actor, but he doesn't have that charisma to play a character like Jack Ryan, he is good in light dramas and comedies. He seems lost, going through the motions. Alec Baldwin was good, and Ford was a great Ryan, Affleck is not up to the task. The film is well acted and directed so he doesnt ruin the film, but he doesnt bring anything to the film, his presence seems more of a distraction. A good Clancy movie overall though!Grade B  "},{"Title":"The second half rebounds","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Contains Spoilers! I'm a big fan of the Clancy books and a bigger fan than most of the Jack Ryan movies, unfortunately this one falls a bit flat and only a couple of the subplots redeem things.I knew going into the theater about the revamping of the Ryan character so as to de-age him, and that had me greatly worried about how things would play out in regards to sticking with the book. My fears, I think, were mostly realized. The movie severs ties with most of the heart and soul of the book. Sure there's the bombing of the superbowl, but it lacks the same portrayal of Jack. Sum of All Fears, the novel, had him pinned against a corner, he's being ousted from his job by Liz Elliot and President Fowler, he's having troubles in bed, his marriage is in near shambles with his wife thinking he might be cheating on him, and it takes faith from his wife and a little help from his friends to get through it. That's gone. While the new love blossoming is a nice approach, it's been done...this one was about a man hitting rock bottom by being hit from all sides and yet still able to recover, and it's not there. And I realize it's impossible to condense a 900 page book into a 2 1/2 hour movie without losing things. I'm not complaining of that, if I were I'd be whining about them changing the tank battle in the middle of Germany to the launching of planes instead. But aside from a few key plot elements kept, the movie lost a good deal of the essence of the book.The backstory is rushed along so as to get us to the bomb detonation in a fairly quick manner, and yet at the same time, I felt my rear falling asleep as it somehow managed to drag nonetheless. Now I understand the need to get to the bombing and the tense standoff, as that did take up the focus of the movie, but the first 45 mins or so felt lacking of purpose, spinning its wheels at times.Now there is definite redemption. Everything that happens after the initial showing of the Superbowl stadium was enjoyable. (The Florida Gators in the superbowl was a nice touch)...well let me take that back, having Talbot die in the airplane seemed a bit silly and out of place. It was a nice attempt at keeping certain aspects of the book in...but it just came off as them trying to shove more ties to the book because they felt they were lacking than it did to serve any purpose to progressing the movie.The individual characters did an excellent job, Ben Affleck makes a good young Jack Ryan, and I look forward to more by him. While this is one of the lesser of the Jack Ryan films, it's not due to the cast. I enjoyed Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan, more than Alec Baldwin. The supporting characters did extremely well with their characters, especially some of the smaller ones.Morgan Freeman was top notch, that's all there is to say on that, he's nothing less than his amazingly talented career would lead you to believe. He provided the majority of the humor of the movie, much to Jack Ryan's chagrin.As for what else was good? The minor story arcs with Clark and the end with Spinnaker. The only other thing I enjoyed was the use of overhead photography to show the different locations for the movie. I thought that was a nice touch.6 out of 10. Wait for it on home video, you're not missing much. A good deal of individual excellence that just doesn't quite seem to meld properly to make a good movie.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievable patchwork of trailer clips. One half star of 4.","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** ***SPOILERS*** This movie sucked and here's why.Tom Clancy meant his Jack Ryan character to be America's answer to James Bond An exceptionally smart spy minus the violence and sleaze. A family man. That's why Hunt for Red October is the best of the Clancy adaptations. The Ryan character was true to form and Baldwin was perfect for the role. Ford was good, but kind of bumbling and vulnerable. He was purposefully so, but it just betrayed the character I thought. Ryan's a confident overachiever. Not a sad-faced Boomer carrying the weight of the world on his shoulders. Affleck plays the role like the clueless Gen-Xer that he is and it just comes off as too unbelievable. When he all-of-a-sudden speaks Ukrainian right when he needed to, I did not believe that this character would have stayed in those nights he'd be required to stay in to learn Ukrainian, but would have, instead, given in, and gone off to the bar with his friends to watch the game. I just didn't buy it. Not for a second. Maybe Russian. But not both Russian and Ukrainian. And naturally, the fabulous babe he's courting is a doctor. I didn't know they let 23-year-old swimsuit models be doctors. This couple is entirely too cute to be that smart and NOT be totally uptight.Next, if our president and his aids were ever as trigger-happy and glib about starting Armageddon as they were portrayed to be in this film, we'd all have been dead a long time ago. It defies reason that if Russia were going to nuke us, they'd ***SPOILER WARNING*** just hit one city. They'd try to wipe us out in one overwhelming strike. Watching the conversations between the president and his advisors in this movie was like watching a Three Stooges short -- complete with pratfalls courtesy of the guy best remembered as the library cop from 'Seinfeld.' Completely boring.Thirdly, in the book,***SPOILER WARNING*** a small nuclear detonation levels a football stadium. Pretty scary. But the movie made it look like the whole of Baltimore went up like Hiroshima. Cars, helicopters, and hospitals presumably miles away from the stadium, certainly out of site of the stadium, are tossed around like something out of The Day After. BUT THEN, the movie tries to be true to the book and say that it was mainly just the stadium that was destroyed. WHAT?!?! When I went to see the film after seeing the trailers, I'd presumed that they ramped up the explosion to satisfy their special effects department and put butts in theater seats. But they try and have it both ways. Preposterous.Fourth,***SPOILER WARNING*** who are these silly fascist bad-guys and how is it they're smart enough to be able to afford fancy office space and gold wrist-watches, but not smart enough to realize that if they get Russia and America to nuke each other, there won't be any world left to rule anyway?In addition to these four tests of your ability to suspend disbelief, the rest of this film was banal Hollywood sludge straight out of a made-for-TV movie. See, it's funny because he's trying ro tell her the truth about what he does for a living and she thinks it's some kind of lame excuse to get out of their dinner date. Fabulous! Bravo! Methinks not. Not since the film Armageddon have I so suspected that what the makers of this film did was shoot the trailers first and squish the rest of the movie in between them like styrofoam filler.And lastly, I have to believe Morgan Freeman is getting tired of taking roles in which he's the good-hearted, sensible older black guy who inspires the white male lead to do the right thing after being sacrificed on the altar of racist guilt. Just once I'd like to see the white guy get creamed and have Morgan get all p***ed about it.I told you it sucked.This movie review by Erik Gloor "}{"Title":"Another Hollywood disappointment","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie had a lot of potential.  Unfortunately, Hollywood just can't seem to resist the overapplication of CG in movies.Flaw #1  Ben Affleck doesn't work as Jack Ryan.Flaw #2  Why was Jack Ryan immune to the affects of intense radiation when everyone around him was dying from it?Flaw #3  It is impossible for enemy aircraft to get close enough to a U.S. aircraft carrier to launch anti-ship missles.  Tomcats and Hornets would have taken them out hundreds of miles from the ship.Flaw #4  The transition from CG F-16s (The Big Retaliation scene - Oh, they'll get the message. to live footage of F-16s was all too obvious.Flaw #5  Well, you get the message.Bottom line  Forget about it. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Being an avid Tom Clancy fan and very appreciative of the technical accuracy of his books I found Sum Of All Fears disappointing.  Ben Affleck is wooden as Jack Ryan and Morgan Freeman could have phoned in his performance.As to the technical details, I wonder where we can buy cell phones that will continue to operate after being nuked.  Too many technical details that are really screwed up in this.  I guess Clancy must have slept through the screenings or else was making so much money from the film he didn't care about preserving his reputation for making things accurate. "},{"Title":"Not flawless","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am a very big fan of the Jack Ryan series, and I was very excited to see this film when I heard about it, hopeful of a worthy sequel.  I was surprised at how well-done the movie had been made but was deeply hurt and confused when it became clearly obvious that this was not a sequel but a stand-alone movie.  That is, it has no connections with the other films made from these novels. This angered me.  So much could have been done with the script had they left it on the same timeline.  So, I say that the movie in and of itself was good, ***1/2 out of **** as a stand-alone film; but recommend Affleck or Ford come back, remake the film, and this time make it a sequel.  Also, I must mention that Liev Schreiber gave one of the best performances of his career as an assassin/spy. Next time, watch your facts, too, because I don't think a cell phone would have worked in Baltimore after a nuclear explosion. The wires and chips should have melted. "},{"Title":"I have mixed feelings about this movie...","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, let me stated that I have read all Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan books (except for the latest Executive Orders), and I have watched every movie adaptations of his novels.I have a mixed feeling about this movie. I don't think it is that bad (as an action flick, that is) but it is not up to the task either (as a novel adaptation). Let's look at the low points of the movie(1) They strayed away from the original plot in the novel. However, if you do not read the novel at all you will find that a lot of places in the plot just doesn't make any sense. For instance, why the nuclear explosion in Denver... sorry Baltimore did not wipe out the city, and why the Russian President Nimarov (spelling?) trust and listen to Ryan more thant the US President.(2) The original plot is supposed to be a conspiracy between the Arab extremists/terrorists who want to induce fear and confusion to the US + Russian, an ex-East German intelligent agent who couldn't handle the new era in Germany and the world alike, and a native america who hate the US government partly because they killed his brother (there is a couple others that I forgot... I read the novel a many years ago). They couldn't handle the new peaceful era of the world and they all like to take the world back to their likings. Where is that Neo-Nazi nonsense comes from? Those old white male right-hand extremists in the movie are just so lame and unbelievably one dimension.(3) So, why do we have to rollback Jack Ryan age and marital status? And, why is John Clark look so young? Is Tom Clancy really have a say in the making of this movie? This is just make for Ben Affleck, isn't it? And, BTW I'm really disappointed their treatment to the Mary-Pat Foley character in the movie (a pregnant disgruntle unintelligent woman? Give me a break).(4) Why do Jack Ryan (Ben Affleck) running around all over the place towards the end of the movie? Is he needed in the dock in Baltimore?(5) Last but not least, there may be way to get pass the defense line of the US carrier group, but what they have in the movie was too easy! The carrier is only guarded by the galting guns? Come on!However, as a action adventure flick it is quite entertaining(1) The casts are choosen well, and I'm surprised by the performance of Ben Affleck. The role fit him well in this movie. Not to mention the top notch performance of Morgan Freeman (did he ever let me down? no).(2) As an action movie there is not many times that are boring. It builds up the tension, release it, and build up another one. At least I didn't fall asleep.(3) Special effects are OK. However, they should show more of the explosion (or may be they don't want to upset US viewers after 9/11 too much?)(4) Human emotion are potrayed quite nicely. It shows the anger and fear of the people after the attack.BTW, about the nuclear bomb not went off during the fighter plane crashed I'm no nuclear scientist but if you have read any modern physics book for layman or freshman course you will know that it takes a lot to have a nuclear fusion explosion in terms of energy needed and precision. A situation like a plane crash WILL NOT cause a nuclear explosion. Also, because of straying away from the original plot of the novel, everyone here is complaining about the unrealistic aspect after the nuclear explosion during the Super Bowl. In the original plot there was a screw up in the manufacturing of the plutonium matter for the bomb, so the fusion process during the explosion cannot go all the way; the yield of the bomb was so low that it only destroyed the Denver football stadium and some surrounding buildings, not to mention the fact that the bomb was exploded INSIDE a concrete structure did help to contain the extend of the destruction (usually nuclear weapon explodes in the mid air right on top of the target to gain maximum effect).Also, those bombers that destroyed the aircraft carrier are not MiGs I believe, but I have to look up my copy of Jane's mil. aircraft guide to confirm. I could be wrong.At the end, The Sum of All Fears is an entertaining movie to watch, but it can only stay at that level, being entertaining and nothing more. I can only give it a 6 out of 10 at most. To be honest, I was not expecting a lot from the Sum of All Fears movie adaptation after I have seen Clear and Present Dangers, though.Last but not least, I still think The Hunt for the Red October is a better movie adaptation of the Tom's novel than all the others including The Sum of All Fears. "},{"Title":"I'm surprised Clancy allowed this much leeway...","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Between his book and the movie version of Sum of All Fears.  There were numerous differences between the two such as  **MAJOR SPOILERS**1) In the book, Ryan is married w/children.  In the movie, he and Caroline are dating.2) In the book, President Fowler is sleeping with his National Security Advisor, Liz Elliot.  In the movie, Elliot is never even mentioned.3) In the book, Ryan resigns from CIA after averting a nuclear war.4, and probably most obvious) In the book, the terrorists are Arabs.  The movie casts them as neo-fascist Nazi sympathizers, so as not to stereotype after 9/11, which is understandable.5)  There is no mention of the Russians attacking one of our carriers in the novel, but it is carried out during the film.There are others, but these are the most flagrant.  However, I have to admit that the movie still kept me on the edge of my seat for over two hours. Clancy purists (like me) will nitpick the differences between the film and novel to death, but anyone who enjoys a good spy/action thriller will not be let down by this movie.   "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman does it again!","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman is one of my favorite actor. My first is Denzel Washinton, and my third favorite is Dan Aykroyd. I really liked this film because (1) Morgan Freeman was in it, (2) it had a really good plot with the right actors. It was a really great movie, but they should have waited a little bit after Setember 11, 2001. I really suggest that you see this film, it's a masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Better than average action flick, minor technical flaws, but only to us pilots!","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Keeps moving right along... as an action movie should do! Morgan Freeman was excellent, Bridget Moynahan is gorgeous as the love interest, but the jury is still out on Affleck as Jack Ryan. As a think tank guy he's okay, but as a tough guy... well, let's see how the next one goes? Liev Schreiber was the big surprise to me and was outstanding as the CIA agent, John Clark. This role suits him to a tee! A few technical notes Was there ever a nuclear-delivery version of the A-4 Skyhawk? Not in the USA, but, perhaps with the Israelis?? Would Israel EVER leave a nuke unaccounted for... out in the desert... for 29 years? Doubtful? I do wonder though, will the cell phones still work when the real thing happens? It does keep right on moving, though, and I'd give it an 8... an easy eight. By the way, some pretty good special effects!  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love action and thriller movies probably more than any other type of movie and I would have to say that The Sum Of All Fears is probably one of the best that I have ever seen. Usually during every movie, even action films, there is a spot in the movie that is boring. During this movie I did not feel bored during a single scene. Many people are complaining about Ben Affleck playing Ryanm, but I can not think of a person that could have played the CIA analyst any better. i would have to agree with others that Harrison Ford is way to old for the role. He's almost sixty!! All I can say now is that everyone has different opinions on the movie, but it was entertaining throughout and I highly reccomend it. "},{"Title":"The enemy is often subtle","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm from New York, and while I was watching the movie I couldn't avoid to think about what happened here on September 11 2001. This movie has been well realized the actors play good and the action is not frantic. This movie really pinpoint a fact the enemy is often more subtle than what we might think.  "},{"Title":"Watch only if you want to see the action.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Being a huge fan of Tom Clancy's books, and seeing how The Hunt for the Red October lived up to my expectations, I was hoping to see a more complex plot, with many twists which Tom Clancy is famous for. If that's what you are expecting to see, skip this movie. Watch something else.  The only saving grace in this movie is the special effects, and the cool pictures of military machines. This movie is a far cry from The Hunt for the Red October or the book it's supposed to come from. When I watch the movie, I feel there are many discontinueties throughout. Logically, they all take sequence in order, but emotionally, the movie just do not flow very well. The sense of the timeline is very distorted.  Also, there are many things that doesn't make sense, which I think are done that way to fit the movie's storyline. The storyline itself is changed so much from the original book, either for political correctness, or to fit the movie in 2.5 hours. And that takes away a lot from the book's storyline's appeal. Ben Affleck is average. Compared with Harrison Ford, and Alec Baldwin, I would say Ben can hold his own. It's just that the movie's converted storyline is horrible. As an analogy, remember when Mission Impossible 1 came out ? Many people complained that the plot is too complex. The result of that is Mission Impossible 2, which has little story, and lots of action.That is exactly how I feel about The Sum of All Fears.Liev Schrieber is great as John Clark, I hope he'll reprise the role in Without Remorse (if they ever make the movie). James Cromwell is very good playing President Fowler, and Morgan Freeman is great as usual. "}{"Title":"Ben Affleck, we hardly knew ya.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let me get all the stuff I didn't like out of the way first.  First, when compared to the other Jack Ryan movies, this one's a little different.  It's less intelligent, more action oriented and still pretty good.  The major difference is that Jack Ryan is an analyst in the others.  In this one, he says that he is, but we don't see him do that too much.  For the most part he tells people that they're wrong, despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary.  Why?  Because he knows things that he's not able to put into words.  I really expected him to yell at one point, I'm the damn protagonist, which means I'm right.At a couple points in the movie, I was a little disappointed when the story took us back to Jack Ryan.  I found the other interactions much more thrilling.  This was only a couple times though, and the parts with Ryan aren't particularly bad, so it's okay.The bad guy tells us all his plan.  He doesn't tell it to us by capturing our hero and subjecting him to an overly elaborate death.  But he just says it.  Sometimes in meetings with his associates and other times just sitting in front of his computer with an internet cam pointed at him.  Who's watching?  I tried not to concern myself with it.Now to the good.  While it's not as intelligent as the other movies, it's not stupid either.  I really liked the relationships that were set up and I am looking forward to another movie or two with the same people involved.  Ben Affleck wasn't his usual smarmy self.  This is not the Ben from Pearl Harbor and Armageddon.  He's not the Ben of Chasing Amy either, so don't get too excited.The supporting cast is excellent.  Morgan Freeman gives the same quality performance that we've come to expect.  Liev Schreiber turns in another great supporting role.  Philip Baker Hall does what he does best (looks like a man on his death bed).  And Ciaran Hinds (the Russian president) gave a performance that could have easily been played over the top, but he was very deliberate.  It was good.There are some things that are rather unbelievable.  It was very difficult for me to watch some of the scenes of terrorism after watching similar ones in real life.  And then there's the whole idea of it being a young Jack Ryan, but not a prequel.  Minor complaints.  Overall it was certainly a respectable movie that exceeded my expectations. "},{"Title":"Sum of all that is mediocre in Hollywood","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry, this just ain't a great movie.  I expected a middle of the road Hollwood movie, but it doesn't quite measure up to that.  Manages to build only a low level of suspense using one of the highest suspense scenarios around.Actor-wise, Ben Affleck is a very lucky man - his pay to talent ratio must be one of the highest in the world.  I just don't get him as a leading man.  Must be his looks because I'm not picking up charisma or a tremendous acting chops.Mild spoiler ahead (although I've seen it in reviews), you've got people who have been exposed to a nuclear blast going la-la-la in their happy ending scenario.  No worries, a little premature death and cancer ain't going to get me down.  Jesus. "},{"Title":"very good, but......................","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The romantic scenes left me uncaring as to whether or not Jack and Cathy would ever get together.  The action sequences were classic Tom Clancy in their origionality, but correct me if I'm wrong, didn't they rewrite the book by beginning Clark and Ryan's relationship here instead of in Patriot Games?Anywho, that's my opinion. "},{"Title":"Was an excellent read. Movie was as large as life. Eye-opener","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After reading 7 Days in May by Fletcher Kneble and hearing his statement after Watergate I was disappointed (paraphrased I'll never write another book. I could never top this.) We can't bury our head in the sand, life will go on anyway. It was a great movie.  "},{"Title":"What fear?","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Is there some written rule that all summer movies have to disapppoint?  The only thing this film really has going for it is a morbid curiosity involving a nuclear blast on American soil.  In the wake of September 11, I can certainly appreciate that.  In New York City, I can certainly appreciate that.  But when that morbid curiosity is all the suspense that the film has going for it, then I have to vote thumbs down on the film. Understand, I went to this film really wanting to like it.  But the nuclear blast happens about half way through the film, and after, there is absolutely no suspense.  YOU know that Jack Ryan is ultimately going to save the world.  So, what does this film have? Well, first of all, we have Morgan Freeman turning in yet another faxed in performance, which, by this time, is to be expected (Do I really need to keep paying him to do the same thing over, and over, and over, and over, and over again?  One is hard pressed to remember the days of DRIVING MISS DAISY, GLORY, and LEAN ON ME ... when he actually acted!).  I dare say he has not done one even remotely interesting performance since SEVEN. Next, we have Liev Schreiber - stepping in for Willem DaFoe who originally played the same part in the vastly superior CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER.  Mr. Schreiber, however, seems to be playing a character - not a viewpoint like the rest of the cast.   Then we have the rest of the cast - a who's who of top notch character actors.  We have Bruce McGill, Ron Rifkin, and James Cromwell.  All they get to do is present various (sometimes utterly inane) viewpoints as the President and his cabinet.  Does anyone really care about them? No, unless you want their scenes cut to shorten your time in the theater. And finally, in a role originated by Alec Baldwin and fleshed out by Harrison Ford, we have Ben Affleck.  Ben is an affable guy.  I usually like him.  But do I really need HIM to tell me how dire a situation a nuclear bomb in downtown Baltimore is?  No, and neither does any member of the audience.   Lastly, the plot.  Well, I'm not going to spoil it for you, but the any sentence in this review is longer than a sentence needed to explain this particular plot.  And as said above, once the bomb goes off, there is no suspense, and no reason to stay in the theater.  A three year old can figure out how this plot is going to unflod having seen only the first five minutes of the film.  My advice?  Stay away. This film is more lethal than Ground Zero! "},{"Title":"surprisingly quite good","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  warningvery small spoiler aheadThe new tom clancy movie, the sum of all fears, was a very good movie. I went into the movie thinking that affleck would never amount to anything close to harrison ford(even though affleck was the bomb in phantoms), i was mistaken. The entire cast including ben affleck was superb. i advise all to go see the movie and trust when critics say that ben affleck fits the role. Also if you see this movie the ending is very good, its not a twist ending, but it is a very good ending that caps a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Sum or All of Affleck?","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    Great movie for fans of Ben Affleck.  We see Ben in bed with a woman, Ben all scruffy going to work at the CIA, Ben in a suitjacket that doesn't fit him, Ben in a big duffle coat, Ben with that misty look when being told a lie by the Soviet president, Ben injured in a wreck, Ben running quickly through a fiery disaster scene, Ben fighting some guy who wants to choke him, Ben being smart, Ben being brash, and even Ben wearing a T-shirt and having a pleasant picnic.  SPOILERS AHEAD** Aside from Ben running around being all cute and action-adventure, what the hell is this picture about???   Questions arise  Why does he need to go to the loading dock to see the signature?  Why would he care? If someone has blown up the city with a bomb, do you really need to see the packing slip?  And what are those canisters laying on the floor at the dock supposed to be?  Were those people killed with hairspray? Who are these evil masterminds and does any of it matter?  And instead of blowing people up, couldn't they just wait for the Americans to smoke the cigarettes and die of cancer? And what's with the Nazi insignia on the inside of that guy's watch?  Do they give you a gold watch if you've been a Nazi for 25 years or what?  What do they give you after 30 years?  How long till you're vested in the Nazi pension plan? And did you notice that Ben's girlfriend and the Soviet President's wife are wearing the same little brown outfits in bed??  And how about the way Ben's apartment is decorated in brown?  Is brown going to be the new color? And there are so many really ugly older men in this movie.. when is someone going to make a movie that calls for a whole cast of ugly old women?  This movie has tense, exciting music all through it.  If the music wasn't there, would we be more likely to notice how the script makes little sense?  Who cares?  Once again, Ben is a great actor, a cute actor, and wearing wonderful simple outfits that emphasize how cute he is!  Four stars!!! "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was so apart from the book that I could watch it as a separate story.  Movie was great cinema.  The Blast could've been a little more believable...EMP, flashpoint...disintegrated downtown.  (The helicopter radio probably would be shorted out along with everything else) While watching, the few points from the book seeped out but were after-thoughts. The PC tones throughout the movie (cigarette machine bomb, nazi terrorists...) were expected.  Overall not bad. "},{"Title":"My only fear was this film might never end.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a fan of  Tom Clancy political thrillers I was excited to see another of his novels hit the screen. In the film version, a young Jack Ryan must thwart the plans of a Neo-Nazi organization trying to start a war between the USA and The Soviets by exploding a nuclear bomb in Baltimore and blaming the Russians. Unfortunately, I found I couldn't care less. I don't fear Neo-Nazis and as for nuking Baltimore&#133;. This film version drifted from the novel and ended up apolitical. Where were the fanatical Muslim terrorists? Was it Harrison Ford's absence from the lead role or my having grown up with the threat of nuclear war that made this film so ho-hum. The only thing I feared was that this film would never end. Go if you must, but the only thing you'll have to fear is giving up two hours of your life in a darkened theater.  "},{"Title":"Unfortunate casting with Affleck in the Jack Ryan role.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I hope the popularity of this picture doesn't obscure the disappointing alterations of Clancy's story that were needed to put Affleck in the Jack Ryan role.  Affleck acts with neither the presence nor the intelligence to measure up to a character that is destined to be the U.S. president. I only hope that Affleck can improve, or the producers return to someone of the stature of Harrison Ford. "}{"Title":"Well Done Rendition of a Good Book","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After reading what some of the critics had to say about Sum of All Fears, I approached viewing it with some trepidation.  Not to worry, whether or you have read the book (I have) the movie is first class entertainment.  To my mind, this is the most successful film treatment of a Tom Clancy novel since The Hunt for Red October.  Ben Affleck is an entirely credible Jack Ryan as a young man and the rest of the cast could hardly have been better.  While some suspension of disbelief is, of course, required, after all, this is a thriller, the plot hangs together nicely.  The Super Bowl scene (I won't give away any more than that) is both riveting and hair raising, an example of a high order of film making and story telling.  Highly recommended.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the more exciting movie of recent times","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler Alert In the tradition of Clancy movies, this movie manages to keep a very exciting pace up until the end. Ben Affleck is credible as the young Ryan (although his character has nothing more to do than look and act out of his place, in the move that is). Liev Schreiber's role as John Clack is refreshing and fun while Morgan Freeman has been reduced to the token, wise old black man, acting as a mentor to a younger inexperience character (see High Crimes) and of course he has to die to pave the way for Ryan. Other reviews have said that the two governments acted in a stupid way but people presume too much of their government. (there are enough real-life bungling of international affairs or matters relating to the well-being of the country, for people to presume that they can handle a real end-of-the-country nuclear treat). Plus the russian president just got elected and according to Ryan is only pretending to be a hard liner and therefore it is reasonable to presume that he was being 'push around' by his generals into his actions (plus he has been betrayed by his own army in the Checnia attack) while the American president just survived a nuclear bomb and thousands of his citizens has just been murdered with the potential for millions more. It should not be surprising that they are not acting with a cool head.I am not sure but did they stole the music from Crimson Tide (which is by the way the most exciting war music of recent times) The movie also have some well placed humor(when the president is being led off, the scene looks like better than anything Candid Camera can come up with, where people do not know what to do, run and possibly save their own lives or risk looking like a fool). I am surprise that some of the well-paid football players do not decided to save their own skins.As for complaints of changing from muslim extremist to neo-nazis, they should know that even in real life, Osama has not been found, thus ending the movie with the muslim extremist in hiding and the us special forces looking in caves is not a very satisfying ending. Finding a bunch of old wealthy white guys presents no problems at all.This move goes to show that all action scenes are not necessary to make a successful and very enjoyable movie. 8/10 for the movie but 10/10 for enjoyment and excitement.  "},{"Title":"The Sum of All Changes, how much can a screen adaptation be different than the novel... and still be an excellent movie.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went into this movie with a big chip on my shoulder knowing that in order to shoehorn Ben Affleck in as a much younger Jack Ryan the story would bear almost no resemblance to Tom Clancy's novel.  Plot points that bear any similarity to the novel must surely have been due to some mistake or oversight during production.  I could go on and on about the differences and my dissapointment due to them but I won't.  This being said, I was thoroughly entertained.  Unexpectedly, I was choked up for a good portion of the middle of the movie, probably due to the events of 9/11 and the fact that the plot is given greater plausability in that light.  I am hopeful that the popularity of this movie will invigorate Clancy to write additional pre-quill novels in the Jack Ryan series for future movies starring Ben Affleck.  I also await the other Ryan novels to be adapted, regardless of how much they must be butchered, if they result in as excellent a movie as this. "},{"Title":"Half of the story is excellent, half of the story is absent.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum of All Fears is an excellent book, and it would have been difficult to live up to in movie form.  So it seems as if the powers that be decided they wouldn't even bother trying.  Rather, they decided to make a popcorn film.The biggest problem I had with this film is the villain an Austrian neo-Nazi billionaire.  WHAT???  That's the stuff of James Bond films.  The villain is not developed at all.  We learn that he was a member of the EU parliament who was kicked out for being too apologetic to the Nazis, that he's a billionaire, that he resents US-Russian domination of Europe during the Cold War, and that he wants to set off a nuke in the US in such a fashion as the make the US think it was Russia, thereby touching off nuclear war.  Why?  Well, I guess because he's an Austrian neo-Nazi billionaire who resents US-Russian domination.  I'm left to assume that's the life-mission of all such people, because no other explanation is really given.  It's not apparent that he's doing this because then Europe will be more powerful, or he'll personally gain power or money, no - he's just doing it.  That's James Bond stuff to me - it works in James Bond movies, it doesn't work here. That aspect of the plot - which is VERY important - needed a lot of development.  The novel, which had the villains as being Arabs seeking to prevent the peace process, etc., worked much better.Here's something else that bugs me.  The next Clancy novel in line to be made into a movie was The Cardinal of the Kremlin, but this was shelved because the suits who run the studios didn't think anyone wanted to see a movie about US-Soviet Union conflict since the Cold War has been over for a decade or what have you.  Ok, fine, so they made Fears instead.  I happen to think that if you make a good movie, people will see it, but whatever.  But what we end up with in The Sum of All Fears is a climactic nuclear showdown between the US and Russia that nearly goes hot.  So what the hell is the difference?  Cardinal would have had war between the US and the USSR, this one had a near-war between the US and Russia.  Ugh.  They could have made Cardinal and then made Fears.  Or made Fears but stuck to the original story (you know, the one that made sense and is realistic).This film frustrated me.  I was hopeful that the decision to make Jack Ryan would seem irrelevant, and I honestly believe it would have if this was a thorough, complete story.  But it isn't, so the Jack Ryan age issue becomes a distraction.  Where do they go next?  Re-work Cardinal so that it involves some other country/group besides the USSR?  Try to find a place in Red Storm Rising for Jack Ryan?  He's way too young now to have anything to do with Debt of Honor or Executive Decision.  I think they may have unnecessarily painted the franchise into a corner with this film.All of that being said, Ben Affleck performed rather well in this film. The characterization of Jack Ryan seemed is dead-on in terms of his personality and such.  We're supposed to imagine that The Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games, and Clear and Present Danger never happened and I suppose never will happen.  If you can get past that, you'll probably enjoy this representation of Jack Ryan.All in all, The Sum of All Fears makes for a good popcorn movie.  It's got a lot of excitement and tension.  It's filled with some pretty good acting. It's just missing a smart, coherent, realistic story which is the cornerstone of pretty much all of Clancy's work.  If you go see it with this in mind and don't expect too much, you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Standing alone, a good movie, but not true to the book or to the other movies.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would call this a decent action movie, standing on its own.  However, it is based upon a book.  The concept of the two are the same, but the movie departs from the book in many details.  The other three movies stay relatively true to the books, and they are generally consistent with one another.  I can find no way to make this movie consistent with any of the books or with the other movies.  I'm curious how Tom Clancy as executive producer felt about this movie.  He should know better than anyone else that this movie is inconsistent with everything that came before it.I enjoyed the movie, but I was constantly bothered by the dissimilarities. I had heard a few things about it, and I had seen trailers for it, so I was actually shocked at the start when it appeared to hold true to the book. It quickly strayed.  Jack Ryan's personal and professional lives are on a VERY different level than in the book.  Jack was powerful (in all books but Patriot Games) and married with children (in all the books).  By the time The Sum of All Fears was written, Jack had acquired high status.  To turn him into a pee-on again and to make him single is like creating a new character.  He becomes much more like Clark/Kelly.  Perhaps it's time to do one of the Clark books...Much of the activity surrounding the bomb itself was off by a bit.  The source for the plutonium was the same, but it was used by two different groups, for different purposes, exploded in different locations, and the explosion was weak for two different reasons.I'm not trying to say that the movie was bad.  I gave it a six.  It would have been higher, however, if it hadn't been riding Tom Clancy's coattails and not doing such a good job of that. "},{"Title":"Best movie I've ever seen","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are those out there who don't get the paradox, and I'll briefly explain. Clancy wanted Affleck to play Ryan, so he re-wrote this to be a prequel of sorts. He used the underlying Premise of SOAF to go back in time, re-develop the character, and create more adventures. He was limited by the Ryan in the novel SOAF because it is unrealistic to have a director of the CIA to be running around everywhere. Imagine that Hunt, Patriot Games, and C&P danger haven't happened yet.I was one of the people who thought Affleck was a horrible choice - until I saw this performance. For once in his career, Affleck gets a meaty character and is multi-dimensional.  I felt the supporting cast was A+ and the confusion ensuing something like this is real. The Jack Clark character is top notch. I love him in this no-nonsense role.As far as the movie goes, it has every quality I look for.  Character development, plot development, good script, and things that make sense. Too many action movies let you see a 3-2-1 countdown and stop it at 1.2 seconds to build fake suspense.  In addition, it had drama, sadness, humor, action, violence, intelligence, special effects - all of which make this terrific.I find this movie to be the solid building blocks of a new franchise. USA today (2 stars out of 4) said that it took too long to develop and criticized that the director of the CIA was ignoring his cell phone during the football game.  I found that the time to develop the characters was WELL worth it.  Too many action films today are shoot-em-up and build fake suspense. This suspense was real and kept me on the edge of my seat. I hate action films (like Don't Say a Word for instance), where at the end the protagonist has the advantage and doesn't shoot the bad guy because of moral ambiguity. Then, somehow, the bad guy gets a gun and the good guy is justified to shoot him. In this film, I LOVED that they hunted the bad guys down like dogs and showed no mercy. This is believable. This gives great satisfaction to a viewer who has just seen literally millions of people killed.Another facet about the movie that gave this credibility was the fact it didn't try to get credibility.  It didn't try to convince the viewers that millions died to get an effect. It didn't rattle off all of Affleck's credentials like so many movies do in the first 10 minutes. He wasn't called Dr. Ryan until he met the Russian president 50 minutes into it. I loved that he was ambiguous towards commitment with his gf, it shows real fear. However, the blast made him suddenly realize what was important and was a driving factor in his commitment. More movies should try to downplay credentials - you end up giving the character more credit.  As a point of reference, I look at Seagal movies. In the first 15 minutes, he had to be some special forces guru who knew everything. Why couldn't he just be an average guy who overachieves like Bruce Willis in Die Hard?  Seagal's career is weary at best now because he has an ego with his scripts.  Viewers like to relate to over-achievers, and I feel Affleck did a GREAT job playing an average guy who worked hard and is over-achieving and growing in strength as the ante is raised in global war.  The fact his character evolves to a stronger Ryan in the movie is great cinema. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a simple review I love this movie. The acting in it is top of the line; the way it was directed was amazing... and it was a film filmed with many one liners - Ben Affleck spoke not only English but Russian and Ukrainian in the same film.That one scene with Baltimore - is amazing for the simple fact that you are unaware that the explosion would happen at that very moment.I can't wait to see Ben star in more Ryan movies.The only thing that I found a little stray is that I'm sure that outside of Baltimore does not look like California and probably isn't sandy before the blast...9/10 "},{"Title":"Consider me Pleasantly Blown Away!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have to admit, while I was looking forward to this movie for a number of reasons (international espionage flick, Tom Clancy, Morgan Freeman, what's not to like?) I just wasn't prepared to buy Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan. Based on what I have seen of his other work, I didn't think he'd have it in him.I take it back, all of it; he was tremendous!  Affleck is a completely believable CIA analyst/reluctant action hero, and with such a cast as this one he absolutely rose to the occasion.  He even brought to this character the charm and occasionally goofy charisma seen in some of his other roles.I felt this guy really could be the same fellow as Alec Baldwin's or Harrison Ford's Jack Ryans, despite the slightly incongruous timeline with a movie set in present day and he being years younger than the last time we saw him (I can get over it if you can).  Besides, a younger Jack Ryan means we can watch him for years to come without following him right into the old folk's home or having modern spy movies taking place in the sixties.  How much fun would that be if Hollywood couldn't take advantage of modern military technology and current hi-tech communications?  (Apologies, Mr. Ford, of course I am referring to Mr. Ryan's age and not yours personally.)I don't want to give one moment of this movie away, but there was one teeny section that I felt ran a little slow (or maybe I just had had too much caffeine to sit still) but it picked right back up and changed directions once more and I was hooked again!I have not read the book (yet), so I can't speak to how true the movie remains to the original story, but that in itself is not a deterrent to seeing a movie (for me, anyway).  I will tell you that I've heard the terrorists were updated to the faction they were because the original (6-year-old!) book had Muslim religious extremists -- perhaps hitting a little too close to home for an afternoon's entertainment in 2002.  I went in to the theater expecting only to enjoy a couple of hours out of the hot Carolina sun and ended up being blown away by this terrific story, film, and cast.  Thanks guys! "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent film.  Whether or not one is a avid Tom Clancy fan this film is thoroughly enjoyable.  I was surprised by the artistry of Ben Affleck which convinced me that the choice of Mr. Affleck to play the part of Jack Ryan was an excellent one.  This film is a prequel to THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER and so Affleck even looks like a younger version of Alec Baldwin.  He approached the part with the same intensity of Baldwin.The only thing of concern is the events in this movie somewhat jumbles things for the other Jack Ryan stories.  But all in all, the movie is a triumph for Tom Clancy who is also executive producer for the film.Congradulations Tom Clancy and Ben Affleck. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Humor","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If our government were as inept as this movie implies I'd be peeing my pants about now. Ben Affleck is about as likely to be a renowned historical scholar as my pet frog. I'm not saying he isn't a good actor, I'm saying he's miscast really badly. Morgan Freeman does an incredible job as usual and should get an academy award just for being able to avoid laughing through his lines. At least we didn't insult the Russians with this movie.But it was an entertaining 'what if' story and probably worth seeing. Especially young people who don't remember the cold war and want some new food for thought besides comic heroes and kung-fu yoda's. Go see it. Wear your Depends. Pretend Ben Affleck is really really well-educated and smart. Admire how Mr. Freeman can carry a film. "}{"Title":"Insane the way they changed it.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The book was about ARAB terrorists nuking Denver NOT Neo-NAZI's nuking Baltimore.  But, I guess that was expected.  After all, we're talking about Hollywood; the most PC place in the country.  I will not be recommending this film.   "},{"Title":"The Sum of All Fears = Dramatic Realism!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First off, allow me to explain what I mean by that. Fears was filmed early last year, long before 9/11. At that time, it was look at as nothing more than an political/action film, just like many before it. However, once 9/11 came around, the film began to mean much, much more. It went from being just another film, to actually being a possibly blueprint on events which could actually occur in the USA, something that would not have been thought of as a possible reality, before 9/11. So, with all of that in mind... ...now, the film is looked at more so, as a dramatic interpretation of the world that we truly live in today. A world of true ist threat, a world of true lack of security in America, and above all else, a world in which the truly unthought of, can indeed be acted out upon.The Sum of All Fears however when looked at in it's whole form, as a film, leaves a bit to be desired. The buildup is fantastic, the action scenes and the horrific nuclear blast is truly emotionally unsetting, but after the big bang takes place, the film begins to dwindle down, as if Tom Clancy didn't know where to truly take it. I can not say much more, in fear of spoiling anything, but you will understand what I mean when you see it for yourself.The acting however, is top notch. The main two players here are Morgan Freeman and Ben Afleck. Freeman, who is almost always flawless, pulls out a convincing role here, and shines as always, but the big story is that of Afleck himself. Look at often as nothing more than a cookie-cutter persona on the big screen, he seems to be coming into his own. In Changing Lanes he began to show what he is truly about, and in Fears he goes the next step, proving (in my eyes at least), that he is much more than we all have come to expect from him. So yes, Afleck is looking very good, and comfortable, in his role here as Jack Ryan.Now, I'm heard many look at Fears and say that it was flawed, because of the failure to allow this Jack Ryan, to follow suit more so with the ones that have come before him, but in my view, that should not take away from this film. This film plays more so as a stand alone film, not to be thought of in the same way as the others. This is even more noticeable in the fact that this Jack Ryan is so much younger, and it is in current day. So do not allow this to take away from Fears, because in doing so, you are only taking the petty, and making it much more than it should amount up to.Overall, I give this film a 7.5/10 rating. The fact that after the blast, the film goes off in a direction which I would have preferred it not to, is the only reason I give it such a lower rating. But it is a must see, for everyone who can possibly get the chance... ...if you wish to see what could be reality, acted out before your eyes on the big screen, then this film, is the one for you! "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was a terrible disappointment.  The plot is a rehash of many previous films, too numerous to mention (including Patriot Games, and particularly Red October--Ryan alone, once again knows the mind of the apparent enemy who really is a friend).  But, I could live with that, after all, dramatic irony is a wonderful hook.  What totally makes no sense is the fact that we have the same hero--Jack Ryan--but completely out of sync with his prior persona.  Are we supposed to forget that Ryan, pre-2002, was a mature, agent of stature?  And, the similarities of this Ryan with his past persona is too striking to be erased from our minds as we watch.  His girlfriend not only is just like his past wife--a brilliant doctor, take-charge person in all respects (she reserves the hotel room for after the party before Ryan even thinks of it), she even resembles the wife (Anne Archer).  The plot was disjointed, hard to swallow, and predictable; so much so that the pretty terrific cast could not overcome for me.  That added to the nagging recurrent thoughts of who is this Jack Ryan? made this a very disappointing film.My wife and I saw this film at a drive-in in Sacramento where we are visiting for a month.  We hadn't been to a drive-in for more years than I would like to report.  She thought that the drive-in experience may have led to our dissatisfaction with this film.  I don't think so. One humorous high-point is the depiction of one of the evil-doers negotiating a multi-million dollar sale with the British Antiques Road Show playing on the TV in the background with the antiques dealer congratulating the guest on a coup procurement of an antique piece.  It was good fun. I might add that my two Australian Shepherds slept through the whole showing, so even the special effects did not save it for them. "},{"Title":"Great Action/Thriller!!!-----7/10","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You won't find Harrison Ford here, but you will find one of Tom Clancy's best novels magically brought to life. Ben Affleck does a great job as Jack Ryan, the character whom Ford had mastered. Don't try to fit it into any timeline with the other movies. It takes place in 2002 with Ryan as a CIA analyst. It doesn't fit but who cares. The non-stop action and excitement is more than enough to make you forget all that. The story takes us all around the world, but it starts in Syria where diggers find an old Israeli nuke and sell it unknowingly to a Neo-Nazi who uses it to trigger nuclear warfare between the United States and Russia, who are in the midst of nuclear tensions already. It's up to Jack Ryan to stop the power hungry leaders from sparking World War III and possibly destroying the world itself. Morgan Freeman and the fine as hell Bridget Moynahan also have great performances and Director Phil Alden Robinson does a excellent job. I'm also glad they changed the bad guys from Muslim extremists to Neo-Nazis as to avoid any stereotypes and hatred towards the Muslim people. Great movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Jack Ryan is back","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts off a little slow, but when it punches, it punches hard and on some nerves still raw from recent real life events.  This may be the reason that although the story is frighteningly plausible, many details are ignored, most notably the aftermath.  Ben Affleck does a respectable job as a young Jack Ryan just getting his feet wet in the CIA, and I look forward to his next film in this role.  The romance seemed out of place and IMO should have been toned down, or eliminated.  Liev Schrieber is wonderful and steals every scene he's in (he would have made an even better young Jack Ryan). "},{"Title":"A Good Film; The Book Was Better","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having read all of Tom Clancy's novels, I can assure you that he gets it right. The man has some of the most remarkable sources in the world. Reading some of the viewer comments I find a sort of scientific illiteracy. Everybody thinks that once an A bomb falls from a plane it will detonate. Nothing could be further from the truth. If the initiator isn't armed, a perfectly shaped charge will not detonate and hence no explosion.  The movie got that right, which is unusual for films, since they frequently botch anything scientific. The rhetoric between the President and his National Security Advisor played as real. Undoubtedly nobody who reads this has ever had the responsibility for starting a nuclear exchange.  Killing millions of people goes to the emotions, not the logic.Okay, the movie was nothing like the book. Forget any tracking in the screenplay. Those who wonder at the selection of Ben Affleck, obviously don't know how an high budget picture gets made. In essence, it requires a star who can open the picture.  That is, a star who has a large number of people willing to attend the movie because he or she is the principal character. Harrison Ford did not want to continue the character, he is the Captain of his career. Alec Baldwin has other issues. Once Affleck was chosen, the screenplay had to conform to his age, thus the realignment of the Clancy timeline. I, personally, have never seen Morgan Freeman give anything but an excellent performance. He does here.For those who liked the movie, I say, read the book. For those who find the science of the movie unbelievable, read Richard Rhodes, The Making of the Atomic Bomb. For those who hated the movie, well you'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll kiss ten bucks good-bye.I enjoyed it, but it's not in my top ten or even top 20, but I'm only one person. If you want to escape, harmlessly from the real world, for 120 minutes, this is as good a way as any. "},{"Title":"Be Prepared!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With the threat of nuclear war on our hands to this day, this film will definetly teach you a lot about the government during wars and violence throughout the world. It is based on a novel by Tom Clancy and features the famous character Jack Ryan who was originally played by Harrison Ford in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger, and Alec Baldwin in The Hunt for Red October. Now, Ben Affleck takes on the serious role of the famous CIA agent who will stop at nothing until the terrorists are finished off.After discovering a nuclear missle buried in the sand in Israel, a powerful Ukranian terrorist buys it from a village and plans to use its power to create a much more powerful nuclear weapon and use it against the United States in order to make Russia and America enemies with each other. The plot is formed so that the bomb can go off at a football game in Baltimore. When CIA agent Jack Ryan (Ben Affleck) discovers the plot and the threat towards Americans, he does everything in his power to hunt down the terrorists before they cause destruction of the United States and Russia.I thought that this movie was really intense but at the same time, very interesting and mesmerizing. In fact, it was one of the best films I have seen so far this summer. Ben Affleck took such care of his role and hopefully the producers will allow him to come back and play Jack Ryan again sometime soon. "},{"Title":"Very good...","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Contains Spoilers! This was a very good movie. The series was dead in the water with Harrison Ford as Clancy's Jack Ryan. God bless him, but Ford was getting way too old to play the 30-something Ryan. Now, if Alec Baldwin had kept the role he did such a good job with in Hunt/Red October -- instead of giving it up only to watch his career sink like a stricken sub -- I wouldn't be typing this first paragraph right now. So something had to be done to get this franchise back into high gear. With Ford's blessing, Ben Affleck was the choice.Ben is no Harrison Ford, but few people are. It was like when Tino Martinez took over for Don Mattingly at first-base with the Yankees, it takes time for the adjustment to click in. Ben should do an OK job with the franchise, as well as anyone else could have, at least.Ben plays naive characters well, and he portrays a very young Jack Ryan - early in his CIA career - the same way, naive and eyes-wide-open. He also displays the Jack Ryan stubbornness that fans of the books know all about. This naivety will have to change though, in future movies, as Jack Ryan marches on to, eventually, the U.S. Presidency. Is Ben up to the task? Only time will tell...The movie starts out when an Israeli nuke and the airplane carrying it is downed by Syrian AAA. The nuke, damaged in the crash, is buried by dust and sand. (The nuke is not a conventional bomb in that, when it hits the ground, it explodes. It must be triggered by the pilot or others to start the chain reaction for explosion). It is found years later by Syrian farmers, sold on the black market, and serves as the key factor of a group of Fascist Neo-Nazi men who want to use it to force the U.S. and Russia to go at each other's throats - conventional, nucelar or otherwise. It isn't explained all that well, but this Neo-Nazi group is apparently comprised of top officials from a handful of prominent European countries, including Russia itself. With Capitalism and Communism (or former Communism/Socialism) going at each other's throats, Fascism can step into the void and do what Adolf Hitler failed to do back in the 1940s.Three Russian nuclear scientists are bought by this terrorist faction to rebuild the dormant Israeli nuke. You see, during this time, America is inspecting Russia to ensure that no Russian bombs (lying around after the breakup of the Soviet Empire) are sold to terrorist states like Sudan or Iran. In fact, it is said that the U.S. pays these Russian scientists millions each year so they will stay loyal and won't help build nukes for Iraq or North Korea.Jack Ryan discovers that three Russian scientists are missing (each with an expertise that, when pooled, could collectively build a nuke) and the plot kicks into high gear. From here, Jack Ryan and a much younger Mr. Clark (Yeah!!!) work against time to track down the men and the bomb. But they're are much too late. A portion of Baltimore is wiped clean from the face of the Earth by the exploding Isreali nuke, which was moved from the Middle East by this Neo-Nazi super group to an American football arena undetected.I was under the impression that *that* would be the movie's climax, that Jack Ryan would spend the entire movie hunting down and, at the end, stopping the bomb before it blew up. I waved away the nuke sequence in the previews as a dream, or simulation of some sorts.I was very tickled, then, to see that I was wrong. And for me, the rest of the movie following Baltimore's destruction was a bonus, as top officials in both the U.S. and Russia took steps closer to World War III. I especially liked the yelling matches between the President and his advisors on Air Force One. Some critics on here have said it was unrealistic. That isn't the point. The movie opens with the President and these same Presidential advisors calmly counting down toward a nuclear launch with Russia. It was a drill, you see. But it was important to note how calm everyone was. Compare that to the chaos taking place on Air Force One when all are faced with the real thing, and you have a better understanding of what is going on. No matter how realistic the test at the beginning of the movie may be, it never compares to the real thing. Very well done... The rest of the movie is *very* intense (ala 13 Days) and makes up for a somewhat slow start at the beginning of the movie.I loved the nuke sequence, very eerie. The film goes black and white, as if the reel itself was exposed to lethal radiation, and there are periods of silence to further impact movie-goers' senses. There are very few, almost scant, shots of the actual destruction itself, which is nice - leave it up to the moviegoer's imagination. But the looming mushroom-cloud is... wow. Very sobering, to say the least. It seems, in a way, to magnify the horror of what just happened. Luckily, we have few CGI tricks like we were bombared with with *other* Hollywood movies this summer (cough cough Star Wars cough cough).Perhaps before Sept. 11, this movie's main premise - a major U.S. city destroyed by a terrorist-sponsored nuke - would have been planted firmly in the realm of fiction. Remember, Clancy's novel was published in 1991. After Sept. 11, however, the scene seemed all too real, and it explained why the theatre was silent as a tomb during the nuke sequence, as each and every one of us wrestled with the fact that such an idea is most plausible. I haven't seen an audience this silent since Saving Private Ryan.Very good acting all around. The death of Morgan Freeman's character (CIA Talbot) was a surprise, a pleasant surprise, considering we're talking about tired, predictable Hollywood here.Clancy brings a breath of fresh Republican, conservative air to the movie scene, since a tired, wheezing Hollywood is dominated by the liberal far-left wackos. A sane person can only take so much of the far-left spew before it dulls the senses. Kudos to Clancy for swinging the pendulum back to where it belongs!!And with Mr. Affleck fully entrenched in the movies, we will hopefully see other Clancy thrillers made in the coming years, as Jack Ryan slowly climbs his way up to the U.S. Presidency (Executive Orders) and my favorite Clancy book of all, The Bear and the Dragon.A must-see. The movie is as clever as Clancy's excellent novels. The Clancy franchise continues to motor forward. That is a *very* good thing!Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Ben Affleck saves the world","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this to be an enjoyable flick. It is slow getting started, but once it gets up to speed, it really gets moving. This is not a sock-em-up action film, but rather a political chess game-style thriller. And thrill it does. As you go deeper into the film, you watch breathlessly, wondering just how close these people will come to blowing up the world before the one man with the truth (Affleck's Jack Ryan)can overcome obstacles in his way deliver the truth to the people who REALLY need to hear it.Morgan Freeman is easily the top choice for best performance as Mr Cabot, the CIA Director. It's when he finally gets teamed up with Affleck's Ryan that the picture gets moving. As for Ben Affleck, he plays Jack Ryan as if he were Ben Affleck. To put it another way If someone were to make a movie called The Ben Affleck Story, Ben Affleck would be the ideal actor to play the lead. Whether or not you think he did a good job playing Ryan depends greatly on whether or not you like Ben Affleck. The president and the balance of his cabinet are played by some of the biggest character actors in Hollywood. James Cromwell, Ron Rifkin, Bruce McGill, and the guy who played the game show host in Magnolia; they all put on fine performances. Liev Schreiber offers up quite the cool cat as John Clark (I believe they are preparing a movie for Rainbow Six so they can spin Clark off into his own series).As to the re-vamping of the story to make Ryan a much younger man, I thought it worked well. The problem with keeping Ford as the lead is the man is in his 60s now, and the only way to have kept him believable throughout the book series would have been to make them all consecutively, and that wasn't going to happen.Also, I think that some of the criticisms levelled at this movie are unfounded. Even withstanding the 9/11 terror attacks, this movie presents a realistic scenario.At any rate, if you enjoy taut political thrillers, go see this movie.I gave it 7/10 "},{"Title":"Is that all there is to a nuclear holocaust?","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If that's all there is, my friends, then let's keep dancing; let's break out the booze, & have a ball, if that's all there is...(I figure some readers may not be old enough to recall that tune.)A few years ago there was a George Clooney flick called The Peacemaker that had a nuke destroying a city, I think somewhere in Russia.  The nuking was basically glossed over, maybe partly due to budget but chiefly, it seemed, 'cause it happened early on & wasn't really the point.  Lots of other stuff happened afterwards, but I kept wondering Well gee whiz, what about that city that got nuked?  Isn't that kinda major?   In this movie a city also gets nuked, specifically Baltimore--well okay, really it's Montreal, but leave us not quibble---& it's also basically glossed over but this time it's very much the point.  I'm spilling no beans here the trailer shows us cars getting blown off the road by the shock wave etc. The more I think about how this was depicted, the more annoyed I get.Ironically, this movie about a fictional disaster that was made before the real disaster of nine-eleven may get saved by the latter, because before nine-eleven, who could've remotely predicted how the country would react to hijackers flying airplanes into buildings?  Yet now, 8 & a half months later, the mop-up is ceremoniously over (C-SPAN, god bless 'm, carried it live) & most of us are getting on with our lives.  So we dealt with that. So we can see this movie & think Yeah, we could deal with this too.  AND YET there's a universe of difference between the events of nine-eleven, as bad as they were, & a nuke (even if it's low-yield) going off in a city. But you'd never guess that just from watching this movie.THOSE WHO HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE MAY WANT TO SKIP AHEAD UNTIL THEY SEE CAPITAL LETTERS AGAIN....Not that I'm deliberately spoiling anything, but still.  We don't actually see Baltimore get nuked; we see ancillary damage from far away, we see the famous cloud, later we see carefully edited medium-close shots of burning cars, MASH-type hospital tents, airborne debris etc.  Maybe this was partly budgetary, although they seem to've pumped a crapload of money into this flick; maybe it was artistic less-is-more etc.  That's not my chief problem with it.  It's how something so unprecedented & apocalyptic gets turned into something so perfunctory & plotdriven.  After the nuking, we see Affleck running around like Mannix or some other TV private eye, we see guys on Air Force One arguing, & we see guys in the Kremlin arguing.  What's the effect on the whole country?  What's the mood in the street, or on talk-radio, or in Congress?  Does martial law get imposed?  How 'bout all the corpses, all the wounded, all the families, all the residents of the city, how does the place even function?  None of this gets delved into, because in the movie it doesn't matter.  The nuking of an American city becomes merely a means to a story end.  It's like another James Bond flick. The obligatory happy-ending with Affleck & his honey on a blanket is not just nauseating, it's insulting.  Hey honey, let's go celebrate our engagement tonight, I know lots of great places that WEREN'T recently destroyed by an atomic blast.....  Oh by the way, we're informed the radiation all conveniently blew out to sea, so THAT'S not even an issue. Gee whiz, makes ya wonder what those wimpy Japanese were complaining about all those years, didn't they sell lots of cars & TVs afterwards???.....OKAY, IT'S 'SAFE' TO READ AGAIN NOW IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE.Why do I dwell on this?  'Cause but for the nuking, this would just be another stupid thriller, & not even an intelligently executed stupid thriller.  Start with the villains---neo-Nazis????   Jeezus, not AGAIN???? Didn't we already kill Laurence Olivier in Marathon Man years ago?  The movie doesn't even follow through on its own goofy premise we see a handful of Europeans sitting around in a hotel room like the evil conspiracy guys in the X-Files movie, only instead of Armin Mueller-Stahl it's Alan Bates with an accent, chortling how fascists all over the world can now work together via the Internet etc., yet they're hatching a plot that would result in millions of Americans & Russians being killed, WHICH WOULD SEEM TO INCLUDE ALL THE NEO-FASCISTS IN THOSE COUNTRIES, WOULDN'T IT, SO I GUESS IT'S A PRETTY STUPID PLAN, ISN'T IT.  Nuclear war between America & Russia would render Europe largely uninhabitable, & make it hard to get those cigarettes the bad guys're constantly smoking, & the really nice cars they drive, & the vintage wine they drink.  Umpteen other scenes strain credulity horrendously, e.g. when the cloak-&-dagger guy single-handedly invades the Ukraine, etc. etc.  Reminds me what Stanley Kauffmann wrote about the corruption of realism in movies---they get the trappings down to a T, while asking us to swallow these whoppers.This could've been a fun movie or a harrowing one, could've been Fail Safe or Dr Strangelove, but it ultimately wants to be a geopolitical Field of Dreams without a lead even as charismatic as Kevin Costner to carry it off. I don't even care about previous Jack Ryan movies, I haven't read Clancy's books, I'd rather just watch  C-SPAN, & I did enjoy the movie's reference to it.  But darn it, they go to so much trouble about Detail & in the supposed Super Bowl game, the 2 teams are wearing clearly non-NFL insignia.   Why not just have the announcer speak French while they were at it?Also enjoyed Cromwell's nuke-ya-lur, a little dig at Bush I presume.  "}{"Title":"Entertaining but Clancy-esque... Big spoilers ahead","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Make no mistakes, I did like this movie but some aspects really annoyed me...As usual, Ben Affleck rocks -) I saw all his Kevin Smith work, which makes it so funny to see him as an action hero. I'm always waiting to hear him say and i'll f*** her in an uncomfortable place... (See Mallrats). Anyway, he delivers perfectly.Now the problems (and the spoilers!!). Is it me or is the US navy portrayed as a bunch of idiots? How can russian Migs come within 1 mile of a carrier group undetected??? Also, is russian air control so incompetent that US jets can actually overfly a military base undetected ? The movie also gives a very bad image of russian border guards... Let's say that had we known the russian border was so loosely guarded, we would have invaded the country long ago ;-)As this movie is based on a Tom Clancy novel, I also saw the usual oh-so-highly-sophisticated character development, typical of Clancy's work. The heroes are brilliant but surrounded by incompetent public servants/military... and the bad guys are incredibly stupid. It is absolutely unbelievable that such blubbering idiots can have lived past puberty... To top it off, we also get the usual russian and arab clichés... All that is missing is the IRA guys...I was happy to know that the movie was filmed in part in Montreal. Unfortunately, the production seemed to forget that Montreal's skyline is easily recognizable... I'm pleased to know that the Molson Brewery moved it's main building to Russia...One last thing In case of nuclear war, hang on to your cell phones! They work even if a city is destroyed...In short, it's a good action flick. Well made, great action scenes and good acting... Please suspend your disbelief if you want to enjoy the experience.  "},{"Title":"Not many similarities to the book but still not bad","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went with a friend to see this and both of us had read the book.  There were a number of things in the book I was hoping to see on film and I was pretty excited to see how they would be handled.  It was rather disappointing to find that pretty much the whole book was tossed out of the window.  It was still a decent action adventure, and I kept an open mind thus I gave it a 7 on that basis.   "},{"Title":"THE Bomb!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An amazing film not to be missed.  The Sum of All Fears is the story of a realistic scenario of a nuclear bomb detonated on US soil.  Only scary if you let it go to your head.  If you just sit back and watch the movie unfold you will love it.  Ben Affleck and Morgan Freeman are both wonderful in their roles.  I could say so many great things about this movie but there's just one thing I really wanted to comment on.  The 30 second or so nuclear bomb explosion that happens in the movie is so spine tingling and hair raising that I believe these 30 seconds alone are worth the admission price of the movie!  I would pay full admission just to watch the explosion over and over and over again.  The special effects made the explosion look so real and the sound absolutely shook the theatre.  I'm looking forward to cranking the volume at home(I'll put the cats and dogs out first!) when this one is released on DVD (but I know it just won't compare to the theatre sound)  I can already see myself skipping straight to the nuclear bomb track on the DVD just for fun from time to time.  WOW is a massive understatement in describing the explosion.  But seriously there's more to this movie than just the explosion.  You will absolutely love the way the movie unfolds.  A great way to spend a couple hours.   "},{"Title":"Enjoyable fast paced flick once critical mass was reached","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Genuine enjoyable viewing experience.Could have been less lovey dovey scenes with Benjamin.Morgan Freeman was outstanding and good casting featuring doves and hawks trying to bend the Pres's ears. "},{"Title":"I can't believe people liked this","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The plot was dumbed down, I suppose so that it could fit into under 2 1/2 hours.  Regardless of the reason, the outcome was a poor, flawed plot with virtually no room for any character development.Frankly, it sucked. "},{"Title":"Pretty good film -didn't follow book well","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Overall this was a pretty good film with some great moments, however it didn't follow Tom Clancy's book as well as I would have liked (I will admit that a book that large is hard to fit into 2 hours).I enjoyed the plot development although the characters could have been given a little more opportunity to develop; a few of the main characters came across as one-dimensional and almost caricatures of their potential. However, both Morgan Freeman and Ben Affleck did a pretty good job, although I wouldn't categorize it as the best of their careers. And the special effects, particularly of the nuclear blast were well-done. They did a good job of using the effects to tell the story, rather than getting hung-up on how well they could do special effects, which so many movies do these days.In the end, it was worth the ticket price and then some. I would recommend this as a pretty good flick, although I have to point out that the book was better (it always is).  "},{"Title":"Caution...You might not want to read this...","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Alright...Let's get it out now...I'm a Clancy fan.I've read and enjoyed the books.  I even liked the movie version of Hunt for Red October.My third favorite Clancy book, behind Debt of Honor and Executive Orders is The Sum of All Fears so I was excited when I heard about the movie coming out...I deliberately didn't watch the trailers or read anything about it.  I wanted to see it for myself.  I even re-read the book a week ago.Well, I was disappointed.There were so many changes to the basic plot I wonder how they were able to keep the name.Sure, a nuclear bomb goes off at the Super Bowl.I think that's about all they truly kept from the book...Alright, the scenes with the hot line between Fowler and the Russians was in the book and so was the opening sequence about the Israeli-Egyptian war, but little else.I enjoyed Morgan Freeman's portrayal of CIA director Bill Cabot.  It's ironic that in Deep Impact, Freeman was the President while James Cromwell was a Cabinet Member and now Cromwell is the President and Freeman is the senior member of government.I thought Liev Schrieber as John Clark was a good move, although Willem Dafoe played the part well in Clear and Present Danger.If the movie was just a movie by itself and not an adaptation of a book, then I'd rate it a five of ten.  Unfortunately, as a Clancy fan, I have to give this one a three. "},{"Title":"Not all that great","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While all the acting and special effects are top-notch, in the end this movie is nothing but more Hollywood garbage. Where is Jack Ryan's family ? Why is Jack Ryan such a young man making his way up the CIA ladder twenty years after Patriot Games and The Hunt For Red October  ? And more importantly, why did the producers of this film bow to the demands of some Arab group and change the enemy from Islamic terrorists to neo-Nazis ? We are in a war here, for crying out loud, and if Hollywood and our government don't wake up soon to whom the  real enemy is, we're all either going to end up dead or praying to Allah. Wake up Hollywood. This is your country also. Live free or die.  "},{"Title":"How could Clancy let this happen?!?","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Allow me to warn you that this review contains spoilers and is lengthy.I was introduced to Tom Clancy and his character Jack Ryan in the 1990 film THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER (THFRO).  Subsequently I read many of his Ryan novels and have seen all the movies.  I feel that THFRO is his best novel and his best movie.  That movie is the only one of the Ryan movies that stays fairly close to the original novel.  The problems with PATRIOT GAMES(PG) and CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER (C&PD) movies is that while the overall premise for each movie stays relatively the same there are some characters that drastically changed.  For instance in C&PD FBI agent Dan Murray is killed off during a trip to Columbia.  In the novels his character lives on & has a role in THE SUM OF ALL FEARS (TSOAF).  I hate when this happens because now if a film is to be made of a novel that has Dan Murray in it the film writers are going to have to rewrite part of the story and that usually means they are going to screw the story up.  Well, last year before 9-11 I became aware that a movie was going to be made of TSOAF and was greatly excited.  Next to THFRO this is my favorite Clancy novel. After 9-11 I waited for months to see if they might cancel this film because parts of the novel came so close to events in 9-11.  I was glad to hear that the film was still going to be made, that was until I saw it.  Now I wish they had scrubbed the whole project.  Listed below are comparisons between the novel and film for TSOAF.First let me deal with Afflec as the new Jack Ryan.  I thought Alec Baldwin was an excellent choice for Ryan in THFRO.  I was less pleased with Harrison Ford in PG but thought he did very well in C&PD.  I suspected that Ford would not be back in the role of Ryan after I saw AIR FORCE ONE (AO).  For anyone who has read Clancy's novels DEBT OF HONOR & EXECUTIVE ORDERS knows that Jack Ryan becomes National Security Advisor, then Vice President and finally President.  I felt that after having played the President in AO that having Harrison assume that role in a future Clancy novel would cause viewers to confuse and compare the two roles.  I was hopeful that Baldwin would resume the role of Ryan, lord knows he could use a good role.  When I learned Affleck was getting the role I became scared for the whole film. Despite what a previous reviewer stated Ryan's role in TSOAF comes after the events in THFRO, PG and C&PD.  By the time TSOAF comes along Ryan is the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence aka DDCI.  Ryan is now giving the President and his staff intelligence briefs and is a fairly important position.  Also, it is his experience that allows him to do what he has to do in the book to save the day.  By picking an actor who is not even 30 to take over the role and to have Ryan just starting in the CIA causes a major continuity problem.  I don't see how you can ever make DEBT OF HONOR or EXECUTIVE ORDERS into films.  Ryan's to young legally to become Vice President or President.  I believe you have to be at least 35 years old.Next, the plot sustained major changes.  The bomb goes off in Baltimore instead of Denver.  This is important because in the novel the President is not at the game but instead is at Camp David.  Cabinet members are at the game and killed which leaves the President cut off from his advisors and allows his own fear and misunderstanding to allow the situation to escalate. I won't even go into the Nazi terrorist in the movie versus the Arab funded terrorists in the book.  I suspect this was changed for pc reasons, especially after 9-11.  Having Nazi's responsible for the terrorism sounds less like a Clancy novel and more like a Cussler novel.  Also, Ryan was never at the scene of the explosion but in the DC and Maryland area.  After the explosion went off the real tension in the novel's story comes from the difficulty Ryan is having convincing the President the Russians did not cause the explosion.  This is difficult because the President is receiving bad advise from his National Security Advisor, a female with whom he is sleeping.  Also the President is not married, his wife died while he was in office during his first term as President.  It is these circumstances that lead to the Presidents paranoia.  To overcome this Ryan consults with the Vice President and it is this which eventually leads the Vice President who later becomes President to make Ryan his National Security Advisor and later Vice President.  The movie just never has the background to support the Presidents irrational behavior and the tension level achieved in the book is not achieved in the movie.There are many other character changes in the movie.  One such change is that of the Russian general who works for the CIA as agent Spinnaker.  In the novel Spinnaker is a double agent who has given the CIA good intel for years but in TSOAF lies to the CIA in order to position himself as the next leader of Russia and to advance his own political ideas.  It is these lies that help promote the fear that it was Russia that attacked the U.S..  In the movie Spinnaker remains a good source of intel for the CIA and really undercuts the suspense and tension level.  Then having the double agent come to America and congratulate Ryan on his wedding was insulting to the story line in both the book and the film.  Another bad change is that of James Greer (played by James Earl Jones) in the other 3 Clancy movies and novels. Greer is the one responsible for bringing Ryan into the CIA and guiding his career.  Everyone who has read or scene C&PD knows that Greer dies.  What I can't figure out is why, if this story is now at the beginning of Ryan's career in the CIA, couldn't they have bought back Greer to guide him instead of Cabot.  Cabot didn't come along until much later.  I suspect the producers of the film didn't want to bring back Greer because fans of the story wouldn't accept seeing him back in the films since they believed he was already dead.  However the producers don't seem to think these same fans will mind seeing Ryan's character set back 20 years.  Go figure???Lastly,  I know Hollywood has to change novels storylines when they adapt them for film.  However this can be done with out bastardizing the plot and story line.  When I think of THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING and how close it stayed to the original storyline I appreciate all the more what Peter Jackson and that films producers did.  Seeing this abomination makes me cringe at what a perverse tragedy can be done to a storyline by those committed to making money verses their commitment to a good story.  The sad thing here is that Clancy novels have their own built in fan base and when Hollywood produces a piece of crap like this it's really insulting and robbing the fanbase that brought the film about. "},{"Title":"the sum of all disappointments...","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *** warning spoilers ahead ***let me preface my review by saying that i treat the seriousness and intelligence of a movie by the reality or world that it takes place in. for example, if the movie is a james bond type fantasy spy movie loaded with futuristic hi tech gadgets and beautiful women then i usually dont have too many problems with plot or logic flaws. on the other hand, when you have a movie set in the realistic espionage world envisioned by author tom clancy then i have to take issue with any reality flaws that show up.i wont reiterate all the glaring flaws in logic that other reviewers have written about but i have to mention the ones that bothered me the most. right at the start, we have to believe that some poor arab junk salvagers, after digging up a large unexploded bomb, would hoist it up and drop it to the ground, proclaiming it a dud. hmmm... suicide scavengers? not likely. then it gets worst as we find out the real villans in the movie are the neo-nazis!! yes, even in the 21st century they are still around and trying to rule the world!! finally, there are a whole host problems with the nuclear explosion and the ease with which jack ryan convinces the us military to give him communication access with the russians (during an all out nuclear strike!) and the that fact the russian president stands down even though it appeared that US would continue on with its attacks... its all just too much.this should have been a taut, intelligent thriller but it just doesnt measure up due to the numerous plot flaws. i also find it difficult to think that they can come up with another story for the next movie in the franchise. i mean jack ryan literally saves the world from the nuclear destruction in this one, how can you top that? bring in some alien invaders maybe?   "}{"Title":"Boys and their toys","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS Oh, where can I begin? Let's see, there's U571; WINDTALKERS; BRAVEHEART; WE WERE SOLDIERS; BLACK HAWK DOWN; SAVING PRIVATE RYAN; PEARL HARBOR; THIN RED LINE; PATRIOT GAMES; SPY GAMES; CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER; THE WIDOWMAKER; CRIMSON TIDE; I could go ON and on and on. What do all these have in common with each other and Sum Of All Fears? They all show white middle-aged men sitting around a table discussing what, when, where and why to use in attacking and blowing things up. It's all deeply rooted in psychology these men simply either have or are worried they have very small organs...They feel the need to blow things up to prove their power and size. As the great comedian George Carlin points out Even the rockets and the tankers are all shaped like d*&%s! This is the mentality of the U.S. What?? They have bigger d*&%s? Bomb them! We have to prove we're special and always the right ones in every situation. All that aside, there's still something BADLY wrong with Sum Of All Fears. Laughably, horribly, OBVIOUSLY wrong Somehow a huge nuclear bomb manages to blow through a football stadium, through a hospital - blowing away frat boy Ben's 'beauutiful' girlfriend, - through ALL of New York, and most people LIVE through it, including the girlfriend. She's up and running around assisting the wounded. Please. They even show a MUSHROOM CLOUD. Same thing happened in Hiroshima everyone not only died, they died so fast their shadows were imprinted on the wall across from them by the flames! So please don't try and tell me that they lived through that, especially when you as the filmmaker decide to even SHOW the bomb blow through the rooms of the people. I'm a little teeny bit smarter than that. And I think most other people are, too. But then again, most people don't care...they'd rather just watch a movie with frat boy Ben Affleck, and watch the white American men blow up anyone who tries to mess with them. Even if the Americans were just defending themselves in this film, which they were, it's still propoganda, as all those other films I listed above are. They perpetuate that mentality of What?! They have bigger d*%&s?! Bomb them! as George Carlin so eloquently observed. People, now more than ever, want to sit in a room and watch the fictional American government and militia triumph over a foreign nation - ANY foreign nation, it doesn't matter which to them, as long as America wins. Because America is always the winner. Not that I have anything against America. I'm American. And living in this country definitely is a great thing. But so is living in a whole lot of other countries. I don't use the fact that America has privileges to serve any kind of elitist, hierarchical mentality as so many others do. I don't hate anyone who wants to burn the flag any more than I hate the other one who wants to flaunt and wave it. I don't hate either, because they both have a right to express either viewpoint. Why? Because that's the true ideal of freedom. I just wish more people would realize that and stop this adolescent urge to wanna go blow stuff up to prove their patriotism. It sickens me. And the last thing we need is more propoganda like this. "},{"Title":"Wow, excellent movie!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I walked in to Sum of All Fears expecting some standard Hollywood least-common-denominator 'entertainment'.  I mean, I love Morgan Freeman, but have a low Ben Affleck tolerance and have grown ever more tired of the string of movies based on Clancy novels.  However, SOAF was a very gripping film, Affleck did an excellent job as Jack Ryan, Morgan Freeman was even more perfect than usual, the story was complex and interesting, the writing was significantly above-average, the supporting cast was recruited from the Character Actors Hall of Fame, and each gave a stellar performance.All in all, this is one of the best big-studio movies I have seen in quite a while.  Do yourself a favor and forget the paradox of a newly young Jack Ryan and go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie... one of the best i've seen, 9/11 or not","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Possible spoiler alert, i dont know if it's really spoiling anything, because many have discussed itThe movie is very strong, and I felt it had very good acting... the president-guy of Russia, you sympathised with him in a way, Morgan Freeman at times was hilarious (the early plane scene with Jack, especially), Ben Affleck, strong although imperfect. The girlfriend reminded me greatly of the wife in Imposter, however, still strong. My favorite performance was Liev Schrieber (sp?); as a fan of him from the Screams, he pulled off a strong minor performance. ?Semi-spoiler? One great thing about the movie, was that really, it was two movies in one. I had my friend check his watch, and it was about an hour and 10 minutes in when the nuke exploded, and then there was about an hour of Jack desperately trying to end the brewing war. If you just added filler to both and cut them apart, they'd both be pretty good movies in themselves (although the beginning, far better). One thing that was inexplicably barely mentioned was the radiation. It seemed that as long as you didnt hit your head and kill yourself, you were perfectly normal and fine. The president barely made it out of the stadium, yet he survives perfectly fine, except for the bump on his head. Odd. Still, a fine movie. "},{"Title":"You will check your watch often","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Even with my reserved expectations, I was let down.Have you ever seen a big action movie and thought, dang, I wish they'd take some of that effects budget and spend it on decent actors? I do all the time. Well, with The Sum of All Fears, that is exactly what they have done...and the result is surprisingly bad. Affleck aside, there are some really terrific actors on screen in this film. None get more than 4-5 lines, not enough to make us care about their characters. Entirely too much time is wasted on Ryan's asinine relationship with his Sandra Bullock-look-alike girlfriend. Not enough time is given to the truly exciting events which take place a nuclear device detonated on American soil, a US aircraft carrier attacked, a Russian airbase leveled.  All three of these events take up less than 5 minutes of screentime, which is about the same amount of time we waste on one scene between Ryan and his girlfriend in the bedroom.  Another fault the movie has no climax. You could tell everybody in the audience was waiting for a REAL climax they were tense, still waiting for the big roller coaster ride at the end of the film (it never came). Overall, a dismal production and not anywhere near as good as Ryan's first outing (The Hunt for Red October). "},{"Title":"Just see it!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one movie that lives up to the trailers and is even better. What the trailers cannot do is convey the visceral impact because of our recent history. Perfectly cast and everyone of them really deliver. It is well edited, and the music score by Jerry Goldsmith is, of course, PERFECT.  "},{"Title":"Forgettable Drek.  Trashy.  What a Waste.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For context, I have not read any Clancy books and the only other Clancy movie that I have seen is The Hunt for Red October, which is a great movie.In contrast, The Sum of All Fears is typical Hollywood crap and I gave it a 5 out of 10.  I expected to see a quasi-espionage film with some intrigue but instead they gave us a disjointed, jumpy action flik with poor plot development and little mystery.  It could have been much better.  They could have allowed the main character to piece together a complex, hard-to-decipher puzzle, letting us piece it together with him along the way.  What we got was a silly, contrived action movie with overly stereotyped characters and a dose of political correctness.Does anyone really believe that the perpetrators of such a horrific crime would not be radical Muslim Arabs?  According to other commenters, in the book it was the Arabs, but to keep from offending Muslim audiences the villians were magically transformed into Neo-Nazis instead.  Morgan Freeman got to play the rational, wise old black man role which is getting old and in his case, cliched.  The cookie-cutter American politicans were portrayed as being somewhat dumb and rather unreasonable.I could have thought of the entire plot and script on my own!  This movie offered nothing--no plot quirks or intrigue--that I cannot or would not imagine without the movie makers' help.  The movie carried the pretense of being quasi-intellectual (political)--I expected some political intrigue and complex plot development--but instead it's just a barely intelligible action film designed to bring in box office dollars from an undiscerning public.I don't believe Ebert gave it 3 1/2 out of 4 stars.  Has Hollywood's mediocrity finally poisoned his mind?  Or is everything else so bad that this movie looked good by comparison?The Sum of All Fears is a shameful waste of a simple idea that could have been a good film. "},{"Title":"Give it a break.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm tired of hearing that this movie does not fit into a post - 911 world. It is not like they wrote the movie after 911. It was in pre production, long before 911. I think the critics should do their jobs and rate the movie for what it is. I am in no way saying that this is a good movie. It's a 5. But, at least I give it low marks on its own merits and not what the climate of the world is dictating. Also if the movie invokes a sense of fear and shock in some, good. It is a movie. Movies are art. Art is trying to invoke emotion.  "},{"Title":"Sum of All Fears adds up to Nil.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (this review contains many SPOILERS)There's a scene about half-way through The Sum of All Fears where CIA Director Cabot takes a phone call from Jack Ryan while attending the Superbowl. He'd sent Ryan on an important mission concerning a potentially missing Russian nuke. Ryan is calling to tell him that the bomb is in play. Now, perhaps the words (if he heard them) lead Cabot to believe that one of the QBs was going to toss a long one, because, unable to hear over the rowdy crowd, he hangs up!The logic of the film had been steadily spiraling downward at that point, but that scene made it crash land harder than Ryan's helicopter in a subsequent scene. Why would the CIA director simply hang up? Ryan does call back, and is able to relay his message to Cabot, whose reaction is to look up at the dome ceiling as if the bomb is going to drop through - or perhaps he was watching the winning field goal being kicked.The rest of Sum reminded me squarely of Thirteen Days, but only in content, certainly not in quality. Thirteen Days makes this movie look particularly inept. The story shifts between Ryan's completely implausible exploits - why does he go to a warehouse on the Baltimore docks expecting the bad guys to be hanging around after a nuclear blast, for instance - to the conflict between the President and his freaked-out staff on Air Force One. The idea in the latter was to show the panic and potentially bad decision-making that could result from such a crisis, but it was handled so poorly, with such ridiculous dialogue and unbelievable acting that it made no dramatic impact. At one point, someone has a heart attack (to which someone says he has a heart condition - no kidding) but the consequences of that are never known. In fact, no consequences are ever made known, and too many important details are mentioned but not shown.Ryan's method of talking down the Russian President is comical, and an insult to the audience's intelligence, and is predicated by his having met the President during an odd photo shoot in the Kremlin. The Russian President doesn't trust the American President, but he trusts a junior CIA agent who once wrote a paper on him. Totally non-sensical.Regardless of the current climate in the world, The Sum of all Fears is simply a poorly constructed film, with a bland leading man, banal dialogue, and preposterous situations trying to disguise themselves as intelligent and relevant.  "},{"Title":"Better than Ok","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sum of all Fears is a movie that is based on a Tom Clancy novel which i never read.  However, I assure you the movel must be better because Tom Clancy novels always are.  This is a prequel to Clear and Present Danger, a great movie to see.  The movie has a nice plot, and at least moves along at a decent pace.  However, the movie lacked substance.  Not to mention my Russian friend informed me that Ben Af-wack Russian waas pretty bad. There are some flaws throughout that eventually add up and get to be a little annoying. SPOILER ALERT My favorite mistake is how Jack Ryan is somehow able to use the radio after is helicopter is brought down after a nuclear blast.  Let us suppose this happened in real life.  After the blast, ALL the circuitry would have been fried.  Nothing in the helicopter would work.  Even if his magical radio was able to survive the blast, which it did, there would be so much radio wave interference that commuinications would be impossible.The clash between Russia and the US is well done, and very realistic.  But dont expect a steller movie. "},{"Title":"AWFUL MOVIE 1/10 stars","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  if you have half a brain and kinda know what's going on in the world, then you'll hate this movie. Ben Affleck and all the other actors (save maybe morgan freeman) will just p*** you off. The screenplay sucks, and when this happens, it usually means the movie sucks too. i would recommend this movie if it wasn't 8.50 to go see at my theatre.Reasons I didnt like the movie 1. watching ben affleck act hurts 2. his girlfriend cannot pull off playing a young doctor because she's too hollywood 3. everyone seems to get their information out of no where 4. the CIA cubicle scenes are lame. 5. james cromwell has got to be the worst on screen president 6. scenes with john clarke are only half cool because we all know willem dafoe did it better 7. what's with the nazis coming back for another run at dominating the world?? 8. it was nice of them not including any arab terrorists in this movie (or would that be too obvious) 9. radiation doesnt seem to exist in this movie 10. i'd probably have a problem with the ending, but i didnt stick around long enough to find out how they resolved everything. oh well. "}{"Title":"Fear, Anxiety, Resolution, A new world","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In a post September 11 world, who wants to see terrorist attacks against the United States?You will.I've always been something of a fan of cold war movies, one of my favorites is Fail Safe (the original). Certain scenes in this movie brought back some of those same eerie, tense moments. There was no point where I was wincing at glaringly obvious CG.Although there are a very few bumpy spots, this ride is worth taking.Although Ben Affleck would NOT have been my choice as Jack Ryan, he still puts out a credible performance. Unfortunately, like many current actors, he tends to react more than act, but hey, we're starting to get used to this in today's movies.The story ramps up smoothly enough, accelerating to full speed quickly. We are privy to all three sides of the conflict, and it is paced very well.The theater I saw this in was packed completely full, and yet at the quiet scenes (powerful dramatic silence, actually) there wasn't a word, cough, rustle or movement. It grabs you that hard.This is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time, it was believable and intense. It makes you think... it could happen, right? It could, and you really want it to NOT happen.  "},{"Title":"Critics are wrong!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie because of the rave reviews it received from the critics.  For a movie based on a book, the script was a joke.  Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan is soooooooo not believable.  The action IS good but not anywhere close to advertised.  Morgan Freeman and L Schriber (sp?) stole the show, by virtue of their characters. The cinematography was very contrived.... Excessive camera movement and untimely close ups provided no contextual/artistic purpose.  I guess it was intended to  distract viewers from the butchered script/storyline.  If you are a Clancy/Affleck fan, you may actually enjoy this flick. "},{"Title":"A good movie, but lacks punch compared to the other Jack Ryan films.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck ignites the screen, replacing Harrison Ford, as CIA analyst, Jack Ryan.  While the character is visibly younger, and of lower-rank, than in The Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games, and Clear and Present Danger, the action is set in present day.  Paramount Pictures tries to revive the Jack Ryan series, and `The Sum of All Fears' delivers with a resonant bang. Directed by Phil Alden Robinson the movie ignites from the beginning, while the credits are being shown, the background shows how the nuclear weapon gets into the hands of the terrorists.  Morgan Freeman steps up with a strong performance, as Ryan's boss, CIA Director Bill Cabot.  James Cromwell also lends a substantial role, as U.S. President Fowler, who is confronted with the possibility of leading the United States, and even the world into a nuclear war.  As the movie begins, Ryan has just met his new wife, Dr. Kathy Muller, played by Bridget Moynahan.  While across the continent, in Ukraine, a rich diplomat commences a plan to blow up a nuclear bomb within the U.S. Of course, he does run into some trouble, as Ryan discovers his plan, and tries to stop it, before it is too late. The story line delivers a haunting reality of what could happen, if terrorists do get a hold of such a nuclear bomb.  `The Sum of All Fears' is packed with adrenaline, the main ingredient for summer movies, and the nonstop action takes you around the planet.  This `Jack Ryan' film, although packed with the essentials of a summer movie, lacks some punch compared to Harrison Ford's and Alec Baldwin's roles, but the fourth installment of the series, is a must see for any movie goers this summer. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Keeps the story going","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this next-Clancy installment was 'OK' to 'pretty good'.  It was at the same level of Clear and Present Danger, which was itself not as good as Patriot Games, which was not as good as Hunt for Red October.Affleck does a good job and the dialogue is top-notch as one can expect from a Clancy film.  However, for some reason, the film-makers decided to hold back on the special effects of the nucleur bomb (why I can't explain.. I know I'm not giving anything away because it's shown on the TV commercials.)Additionally, I always find it to be cheap-looking when you can't recognize the uniforms of the football teams who are playing during the movie.. why couldn't they just have suited up players in official NFL regalia such as the Baltimore Ravens rather than two teams that look like they play for small colleges passed off as professionals?At times a little tough to follow, but overall I'd recommend a trip to the theater for this one. "},{"Title":"A honest and truthful review of a great movie","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING THIS REVIEW TELLS A SMALL NUMBER OF LITTLE TIDBITS ABOUT THE MOVIE WHICH SOME MAY CONSIDER TO BE SPOILERS, BUT UNLESS YOU KNOW NOTHING ABOUT THE PLOT, THESE TIDBITS WON'T GIVE ANYTHING AWAY ABOUT THE FILMI saw The Sum of All Fears the first day it came out and definitely do not regret a moment of it.  This movie, although it may scare some because of the uncanny parallels it now has to modern American society, is thought provoking and offers some hope in today's world.  The movie is yet another one starring Jack Ryan, the Tom Clancy hero (this time played by Ben Affleck, which I must say definitely delivered an amazing performance) this time against a threat of a fission bomb placed somewhere on the east coast.  The acting in this movie is superb and the character of John Clark is truly one of the most amazing ones in the movie because of the true talent with which the role is done (next to Ben Affleck's performance that is).  Although there are some points in which the movie just doesn't work, such as the fact that Ryan and his girlfriend manage to go through a violent helicopter crash and get thrown across a hospital weapon from the blast, respectively, these things do not detract at all from the movie.  The dialogue is superb, the acting is complete and it is scary (although the latter is probably also in part due to the fact that the theater i was in was evacuated in the middle of the movie because of a fire alarm).  I would recommend this to anyone who doesn't get exceedingly frightened about the current political situation and likes a good movie that isn't another mindless piece of dribble.  In The Sum of All Fears Jack Ryan/Ben Affleck delivers what I consider to be the best performance yet!  SEE THIS FILM!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Huge Dud","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ugh, what a waste of time.  This movie was such a let down!  Ben Affleck was in no way believable in this role.  He simply just turns up in each scene while looking and acting more or less detached from the rest of the action. The words Pretty Boy come to mind.  The plot was, I think, unbelievable, character development was little to non existent, dialogue was thin, other elements seemed cliched or uninspired.  However, Morgan Freeman turns in his usual solid performance (though its gett'n a bit stale) and there were a few interesting scenes, like the bomb blast, which drew gasps from all in the audience.  But in the end, it's the usual Hollywood feel good turn around. This is video material people.  "},{"Title":"Gee, I'm just glad I'm working!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why do I get the feeling this movie was made only for money. The subject is outdated (was it 10 years ago the Soviet Union collapsed, has it been that long?)Also, the actors all seem to be happy they're working and not laid off like a lot of people. Total BS "},{"Title":"BEST MOVIE THIS YEAR!!!!!!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this movie was terrific from start to finish.... I havent seen any other Jack Ryan movies/prequals..... but this one was awesome.... a definite 10!!! I cant wait for the DVD so that I can purchase it... There was all the elements of a well thought script. I might add it makes you think about life, love and choices.  "},{"Title":"Destruction of Literature","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie completely destroyed a great literary work. What the hell were they thinking? They change the plot around, they remake the book to take into account modern happenings. The point of making a book into a movie is to remain somewhat consistent, to convey the story, not something completely different.   "},{"Title":"Fear it Doesn't stand up to earlier Clancy thrillers","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sum seemed to require this viewer to take a lot for granted unlike previous Clancy thrillers.  I didn't have to suspend reality watching Red October, Patriot Games or Clear and Present Danger.  The flow was natural and logical.  In this film, Ryan popped from heroic scene to heroic scene with ease and the viewer had to take his good luck on faith (finding Cabot, surviving the copter, etc.).  Did not hang together as well.  I also was unable to believe that Ryan had found the fountain of youth.  I could accept Ford stepping in for Baldwin, but had trouble believing Affleck could have the access and credibility given his age and peers in the film.  "}{"Title":"Bad education","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Compared to the real possibility of such a disaster, this movie will look like The Towering Inferno dwarfed by the real-life 911.The movie is just OK - worth a rental, not a trip to the theater.  What bugs me is the lack of imagination in creating characters with huge responsibilities - including the two Presidents - whose decisions are partially determined by petty personal motivations.  Morgan Freeman's character is the only one that breaks out of this cliche - and therefore it is more credible.Although Hollywood's primary business is pure entertainment, there are subjects where filmmakers should assume an educational role as well, where one should see a more scientific approach to life.  This was a mediocre story, with naive conventions (such as the drill at the beginning), targeting the lowest common denominator in its audiences.  "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit that I went into this movie expecting very little.  I thought Ben Affleck was a huge casting mistake, I thought that the release of a movie based on a terrorist attack was ill-timed, and I thought that the movie, in trying to modernize a book written in the political climate of ten years ago, would, quite frankly, completely screw it up.I was wrong.I was incredibly impressed with this movie.  No, it is not the cinematic epic of the decade.  However, it is a great spy flick, and very true, I think, to Clancy's vision for this book and the character of Jack Ryan.  I have read all of the Jack Ryan books, and I am a big fan of the character. I thought that Harrison Ford played him very well.  To be perfectly honest, though, Ford is moving up a little in years to be playing a character who is supposed to be in his early to mid thirties.  I thought that Ben Affleck did a wonderful job of conveying the confusion and helplessness that Jack Ryan would have felt as a young analyst in the CIA thrown into a high-stakes situation--the kind of confusion felt in Hunt for Red October, for example. This timeline change is poetic licence, and it's fine.  That's Tom Clancy's prerogative, and I feel that he has done it while staying true to the character.  The makers of this movie have modernized the story while keeping the spirit of the original book.  That, to me, is not screwing it up--it's a good screen adaptation.  I think the modernization of the story will give a real breath of fresh air into the Jack Ryan series of movies (Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games, Clear and Present Danger), which is so heavily based on now-outdated Cold War realities.This film conveys well the frustration, stress, helplessness, confusion, and hope of its characters.  It is not just an action movie, it shows how people who make decisions can react in stressful situations, and how the fate of the world can change in an instant.  You feel for the characters.  Many characters were dealt with incredibly well--Liev Schrieber, James Cromwell and Ciaran Hinds were fantastic.  I left the movie very satisfied, a little drained, and more than willing to see it again.I highly recommend this movie for not only fans of the Jack Ryan books, but also for people looking for a great summer movie.  It is a great ride--I wouldn't buy a large soda, because you won't want to leave in the middle! "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie, with an implausible story","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum of All Fears is an entertaining movie, but it's plot is inconceivable.Warning, do not read if you want to be surprised by the movie.1. The Israelis would never have left a nuke lying around in the Golan Heights.  If they sent up a jet with a nuke on board and it got shot down, they would have immediately sent in a recovery team in order to prevent that bomb from falling into the wrong hands.  I don't care if they were at war, that's a risk they can't afford to take.2. Given the events of September 11, 2001 the US will never say anything to Russia about what they do to the Chechneyans.  If the Russians were to nuke them, poison them, etc. We will look the other way, as the Russians fight their war on terror, we will be free to fight ours.3. How the hell did the Russians know where our Stealth Bombers were?  I thought the whole idea of a stealth bomber is that you can't see it on radar, which is what makes it so dangerous.4. Why did the Neo-Fascists order the attack in the first place, it's not like that guy was a leader of a nation or something.  Even with the US and Russia out of the way, he still wouldn't have had any power.Still the movie was interesting.  The special effects were good, the story was fairly chilling, given the events of September 11, and the standoff currently going on between India and Pakistan.  "},{"Title":"both good and original","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is both good and original.  the part that is original is not good and the part that is good is not original (apologies to S. Johnson)we only hope our government has better minds than shown here  "},{"Title":"Good Flick... But very disturbing...","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'd have to say that this was a very good movie and is an edge of your seat nail biter... My better half and I went into this film without having seen ANYTHING about this film... No Trailer or even anything on the TV... When they would come on we would leave the room... A friend of mine told me that Baltimore was to be in the film so we figured we would see it opening night because Baltimore is my home town... Powerfull performances by all... It really keeps your eyes glued to the screen when you know there is a Nuke in the wrong hands and in America and you just know that we are gonna find it and stop it... Right??? Right??? Please Tell Me I'm Right... Wrong... I could have not been more wrong and the reality hits you like a ton of bricks... Having viewed the tailer since seeing the film I can tell you that I've giving away nothing that the trailer doesn't show but let me just tell you that they handled the Nuke Disaster with some Class and respect so they didn't show the buildings exploding like 'Independence Day' or anything cheesy like that that would have been out of bad taste... Very well made and I can tell you that there were a lot of people crying (Some sobbing) in the theater after the realization set in... My wife became VERY upset during this film... People that really take films to heart might want to pass on this flick... A Very Powerful Film To Say The LEAST... GO SEE IT!!! "},{"Title":"Not Believable","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck is not Jack Ryan.  If I was the president, I wouldn't believe him while trying to avoid war.  There were too many holes in the plot and no Alec Baldwin or Harrison Ford to save us.  Visually the film was stunning and the action kept my interest, but the world was saved in spite of Jack Ryan, not by him.  Get Harrison Ford back. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is extremely entertaining. Has alot of comedy and tons of action which make up for a bit of a confusing story. The film brings reminders of September 11 though which makes it hard to watch in the last half of it, but it's still very suspenseful in the final minutes. Great job "},{"Title":"Lots of action & suspense.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, just forget about the book, the previous actors that played Jack Ryan, and the previous history of Jack Ryan.  Just take this film for itself and have no preconceived notions about what it should be or what he should be. You will have an enjoyable movie-going experience.  Perhaps if you have very delicate sensibilities related to the events in the world now, then any kind of action movie may not be for you.  This film does deal with a scary subject as you well know by now.  Is it a GOOD MOVIE?  Yes.  "},{"Title":"Impressive; Affleck and Freeman at their very best!!!","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let me first start off by saying that I am neither a Tom Clancy fan or a huge fan of the previous films that have been made of his work. I went into this film not expecting much! However, what I got was the ride of a lifetime. Ben Affleck is the best Jack Ryan that we have seen! He is tremendous in the part as is Morgan Freeman, who is always entertaining. Also good is former Coyote Bridget Moynohan (soon to be seen in yet another movie involving the CIA, The Recruit a.k.a. The Farm, with Colin Farrell and Al Pacino). Even with the heavy subject matter that this film deals with post 9/11, it pulls it off and remains highly entertaining. As  a matter of fact this movie gave me what I have yet to see after the 9/11 bombings--CLOSURE! Yes, we get to actually see the terrorist die in an excellent end fight sequence (LIEV SCHRIEBER you rock!)where as in the real world I have yst to see Bin Laden's head on a stick! Great stuff! I was cheering the whole way! Ben, if your out there, continue to make Jack Ryan films (and Daredevil sequels, I'm sure you'll be awesome)but stay away from mediocre fare like Changing Lanes -- that movie didn't really know what it wanted to be (was it a drama, as it a thriller, was it shit). Props to Samuel L. Jackson tto but Sum of All Fears is  a teriffic movie! Kudos to the rest of the cast as well (Phillip Baker Hall and the rest of you, you know who you are)! Don't listen to what critics say when they say that this movie hits too close to home because it actually made me feel a little better about the situation if anything can! Terrorists need to die and in The Sum of All Fears they do! "},{"Title":"Affleck does a great job taking over for Ford...","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was very well done.  Before seeing it, I was a little worried that Affleck couldn't take over the role from the talented Ford, but he did quite well in the role of Jack Ryan.  As long as you overlook the whole is it a prequel or not? problem, the movie is great. "}{"Title":"all the good parts are on the trailer.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Everything about this film was just totally bad! The trailer basically showed all the good parts so nothing was a shocker. We all knew that Baltimore was bombed and that one of our aircraft carriers was attacked and thats really all the action you get. I never did care for any of the characters and nobody was believable so all I wanted was my money back! The Sum of All Fears could have and should have been so much better! 1/10 "},{"Title":"AWESOME and a WAKE UP CALL","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I do not agree that this film is offensive in lieu of 9/11.I believe it isa film that was great before 9/11 and had to be changed some, however, too many Americans have already become complacent since 9/11.Well, this movie brings it home in a well written well acted and directed way that entertains us buts gets us thinking again. Thats what a good movie does..entertains and gets discussions started as people begin to think about the things that really matter. I loved it!! I think it will be well received./ Only the Jack Ryan in 2002, not yet married scenario was confusing. They should have kept it in the year 1991. Thats the only flaw I saw "},{"Title":"Good movie, from a better novel.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It was good, but the book was better.  You hear this so many times that it gets annoying, but most of the time it's true.  Hearing about this movie made be think this even before I saw it, but that's just because I knew the chronology of the novels wouldn't be followed as it should.  The movie as a whole was very good, but I've been long awaiting the next Tom Clancy novel adapted to movie.  I was leery of Ben Affleck being cast as Jack Ryan, but it fit pretty well with the movie, and Morgan Freeman was a great addition to the Jack Ryan story.  The problem I have with the movie is that it neither follows the timeline of Clancy's novels nor an adapted-for-movie timeline created by only a few of the novels getting chosen to be movies. The novel is older than the other's made into movies (PATRIOT GAMES & CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER), so it makes sense for Jack Ryan to be younger... but the novel is also about a different time of unrest in world history.  This would have all made sense in the movie if it had indeed been a prequel, but it isn't.  The story tries to combine an early chapter in Ryan's life with a modern story/timeline.   The vagueness of references to the other movies is a way of drawing attention away from this discrepancy, so you can just get into the movie.   It's a good watch, though, and relevant to current world affairs.  It's exciting, suspenseful, well written, and despite the inaccuracies with the timeline, it's pretty accurate in it's technical aspects & fun to watch. "},{"Title":"The Sum of All Fears = Nothing","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is impossible to review a movie like The Sum of All Fears without referring to the events of last September.  The images up on the screen will take you back there -- and probably not pleasantly so -- but so may what ISN'T on the screen  namely, realism.  We, as an audience, now unfortunately have an idea of what really happens after a catastrophic event like the one depicted in this film.  Presidents address nations, military responses are contemplated in matters of days and weeks, not mere minutes, and we feel, for the most part, that we are in capable hands.In other words, thank God our country is not in the hands of the characters portrayed in this mess.For a man whose stories are supposedly ultra-realistic due to his connections within the government and the military, Tom Clancy's The Sum of All Fears is shockingly inept.  The fact that none of the aforementioned responses to a national tragedy are never touched on in here is not a factor of desiring action over subtle drama, but of shoddy storytelling.  For something that is supposed to be chillingly plausible, The Sum of All Fears ultimately comes off as a James Bond wanna-be.Witness some of the dialog  This conversation never took place! If I don't talk to the president now, there may not BE a tomorrow! I'm not worried about the ones who have 27,000 nuclear warheads, I'm worried about the man who has one! and others of that ilk.  Do people in government really talk like this?  They do in spy movies, and this one does a good job of stealing every hoary cliche one can think of, topped of with a hackneyed, predictable plot that has so many holes and non-sensical moments (a key advisor to the president suffers a near heart attack halfway through, only to appear miraculously fine moments later -- yeeeeaaahh) that someone should have packed mothballs with the reel.  It doesn't help, by the way, that whenever Jack Ryan says something, we know that it's gospel, because Ryan is always right.  Bye bye suspense!Ben Affleck does a fairly capable job in the Ryan role, although he still looks more comfortable smoking a doobie in a Kevin Smith movie.  Morgan Freeman is completely wasted as Colby, the man who, for some unknown reason, drags Ryan into the whole mess then seems to want him to shut up the whole time.  Several other talented actors suffer the same wasteful fate, including Bruce McGill and Ron Rifkin (so good on ABC's Alias).  The only ones who truly come out unscathed are James Cromwell as the president and Liev Schreiber as Clancy favorite John Clark, who steals what few scenes he is in.From its ludicrous premise of a bomb surviving a heat-seeking missile attack in Egypt, only to be resurrected years later and sold on the black market, to its Godfather-like conclusion (yes, another rip-off), The Sum of All Fears adds up to zero. "},{"Title":"OK movie.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have not read the book, but nonetheless, I am a fan of movies based on the Tom Clancy novels.  Who knows why the movie strays from the book, but since Tom Clancy executive produced the movie, you'd think he had a say so in there somewhere.  Anyway, Affleck's portrayal of Ryan was OK.  Of course, he is not as good as Ford, but give him a chance.  The movie was better than I expected, basing that on all the negative reviews on here, and from other media outlets.  I enjoyed the movie, and it was worth the $5.50 ticket price.  The only problems I had with the movie were minor at best. First off, any nuclear explosion would not only render cell phones useless, like another IMDB user stated in his comments, BUT more importantly, nothing would work due to the electromagnetic pulse that emanates from the explosion.  Anything that used electricity or batteries would be useless.  As soon as the bomb exploded, the president's motorcade would have died right there, and the helicopter would've immediately fell to the ground.  It was refreshing for a change to see an aircraft crash, and not have an explosion though.  They also could've added another twenty minutes, and made the ending not so neat and tidy.  I was a Russian linguist in the US Army, and sometimes the subtitles did not match with what was being said in Russian, but most people wouldn't care about that.  I liked the movie, and would recommend to my open minded friends.  Id also say due to the amount of people in the theater that it wasn't callous of Paramount to release this movie in light of 11 September's events.  "},{"Title":"Great thriller, Edge of your seat suspense","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I previewed the movie and liked it very much. It is definitely in line with the characterization of Jack Ryan but note this is a prequel. Ryan is in his younger days before he officially joins the CIA. The bombings on 911 are definitely the reason for this movies release. If they had not occurred then this movie might not have made it to the screen. Affleck did an admirable job as Ryan, but if you compare his attitude to the one Ryan had in Hunt for Red October, you will find he is more aggressive and is more risky in Sum of All Fears. He also doesn't show the boy-scout attitude present in the other films Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger. Morgan Freeman did a great job as we are always accustomed to seeing. This film should be on your 10 best of the year based on the cohesiveness of the cast and how well thought out each character was. Great blend of attitudes keep you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"The Sum of All Hype","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you've seen the trailers to this film, you've seen every dynamic scene in the film. The rest is a simple detective story pitting the CIA against a foe everyone has loved to hate since the 1940s -- fascists. This is not to say that the acting was bad. It wasn't. But I got the distinct impression that the film was attempting to rush the plot ... almost as if a lot of it ended up on the cutting-room floor. Had this film been lengthened, it may have made a good TV mini-series. And, had it been lengthened, the character development might have greatly enhanced the film's enjoyment. The fascists would surely have come off as more than the cardboardish Colonel Klink type characters plaguing many other evil-fascist films. Jack Ryan would surely come off as more competent than lucky. And perhaps, the film's ending would have been more somber ... showing Ryan dying from radiation poisoning after his unprotected romp through Baltimore's nuclear streets. Less likely would be the possibility that Hollywood would not tamper with the frightening possible reality that made Clancy's novel great ... and not succumb to the politically correct fears of racial profiling by turning Islamic terrorists into Nazis. "},{"Title":"Forget the Sensitivity Nonsense -- Go See It!","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  All these critics who keep harping on the sensitivity issue obviously think that Americans are a bunch of whining wimps.  Perhaps they don't want the public to see a film where the President is strong, determined, and decisive as well as a war veteran (horror of horrors, a Marine!)and the CIA doing a good job.  The Sum of All Fears reminded me of the excellent film Thirteen Days and the Cuban missile crisis.  The film also reinforces the need for America to be vigilant and to take terrorism seriously.  Perhaps the critics don't like that as well.  They don't seem to think that Americans need to be reminded that something worse than 9-11 could happen if we aren't vigilant.  Our enemies would like nothing more than to unleash a nuclear or biological weapon upon one of our cities and I am sure all their minds and efforts are bent on doing so.  Send Hollywood the signal that we need more films like this.  Hollywood needs to react to the events of 9-11 like they did after Pearl Harbor.  Go see the film! "},{"Title":"Just leave your memory at the door","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film today, and I had to say it was very entertaining.I would strongly caution fans of Tom Clancy's book(s) to please ignore everything you may have read before entering the theatre. There are significant changes to existing storylines and timelines.There are several familiar names Pres. Bob Fowler, Bill Cabot, John Clark. But a great deal of the character dynamics have been altered, some to a significant degree. So, it is in the best interest of fans not to have any hope of the existing continuity to be maintained.First and foremost, the film is set in present day, and Jack Ryan is young, and single. Which means none of the other films stories have happened yet. Although they are set earlier in time. As you can see, the film simply doesn't fit in the storyworld, so trying to make it do so will cause terrible headaches.As far as the Politically correct decision to change the nature of the antagonists. I think viewers of Arabic descent should be more insulted by the portrayal of arabs in the film now, than they should've been had the original story been maintained.The arabs in this film were showcased as primitive, moronic, dupes of the antagonists. In the book, they were motivated and disciplined. I don't this change was for the better. But I understand the decision, as a great deal of the book rested on the relationship between Israel and the Middle East, the story was far too involved to be made practical, for filming. So I do understand the change even if I don't like the outcome.The decision to set the story in the present day is one I seriously disagree with. The only rationale I can manage is that the film-makers wanted to show off techno toys like the palm top computers and the laser guided smart-bomb footage, but in my opinion, the fact that this film rebuffed the entire existing story-line cheapened it in a very real way. I don't think the film would've been damaged if had been set in the past, the audience knows it's not real anyway, so does it matter if the story is present-day?The special effects, sound effects and explosions were top notch, the characters in the film developed nicely and the action was entertaining. So all-in-all, I think the movie, by itself, delivers. The directer did a great job with what he was given. But, the film is a great disappointment to me nonetheless, as I feel this production was hamstrung, before a single scene was shot.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie, Not so Good Ben","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum of All Fears is a fine entry in the thriller category, as the U.S. and Russia go eyeball-to-eyeball in a face off that could easily lead to a nuclear engagement.  The plot is not too fantastic and none the characters are asked to do anything that is unbelievable.  If anything, in the light of the events of September 11, the plot feels plausible enough to be quite frightening.As events spiral out of control, both the U.S. and the Russian presidents appear only responsive to the press of urgent events rather than being in control.  They do not try to bend events to their will, being responders, not initiators of action.  The two presidents are captives of their staffs. They make decisions in response to the proposals shouted at them by advisers as events unfold.  All proceed with imperfect knowledge feeling that they must act decisively rather than confirm the information that they are acting upon or appearing weak.  If our real leaders are as bereft of anything resembling real leadership, lord help us all.Ben Affleck does reasonably well as the lead, Jack Ryan.  This role has a nice balance between intrepid adventure stuff and a romantic match-up with Bridget Moynahan and he does both pretty well.  That said, it is difficult... very difficult, to see Affleck as having a PhD in History and speaking Ukrainian and Russian.  He just does not have the umph to sell himself as anything a laid back kind of guy who has never thought too hard about anything.  "}{"Title":"Guess I won't hide under the bed...","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Contains Spoilers! Keep in mind that I am not necessarily putting all fault on the movie makers. This movie was probably watered down to avoid critics of movies that so much as hint to events similar to 9/11.Anyone however, that is disturbed by this movie and any so called 'fear' that it may produce, had better just stick to Disney movies. I went to this movie with the INTENT on it scaring me. I expected to feel anxious about a nuclear threat and the what if's. Instead I was pushed into a cold war scenario that doesn't even remotely resemble the events of today. In the 80's this movie would stir the old cold war feelings of anxiety but today it just didn't wash. The title Sum of All Fears led me to believe that I would soon be 'afraid'.I will be citing a few actual events in the movie so be warned. Don't want a hint, don't read any more of this. Although suffice it to say, if you have seen the trailer, you have seen the best the movie has to offer.The nuke  Ooooooh...I was scared. The fore shadowing of the death of thousands of unsuspecting people in the Super Bowl was nice until the bomb goes off and you aren't even reminded of them. The Super Bowl was treated as contrived plot enhancement. Until the moment you see the stadium you don't even have a hint of it. Oh, by the way- bomb's at the Bowl... They could have developed that much better. Not to mention the 'oh, just stay down wind' tag they put in to justify people running to and fro with no regard for radiation. The images of horror 4 cars going off the road, a helicopter crashing and 5 or 6 people getting thrown against a wall... (like I said before, everything you saw in the trailer....) The aftermath about 20 people in a makeshift trauma center. This just doesn't quite instill fear of nuclear terrorism to me. I have seen worse on CNN even before 9/11.Movies depicting mass death with the intent to shake us up abound and many put the point across better. Titanic's mass floating death scene was most disturbing, done much better and affected me much more with only a couple thousand dying. Oh, if I want to use my imagination and picture the thousands of off camera deaths resulting from the blast in this movie it works but hey, I can do that at home without shelling out 8 bucks. The effects budget for this film must have been about 2 grand. I was very disappointed there especially when this movie opens in the summer block buster season against movies such as Spiderman and Star Wars 2. I suppose the fear of public outcry due to 9/11 reared its ugly head here but it made for a weak movie. The biggest fear involved here is Hollywood's fear that they'd make people mad showing American's dying due to a terrorist attack. Well duh, the movie is about a nuke exploding in Baltimore MD....Hello...(maybe if we don't show people getting hurt by it... better yet, let's just make a little bomb....yeah...)The performances who cares. No really. Ben Affleck's performances always seem to get panned so when they hired him on they were asking for it. He did do a decent job in the film but this film did not stand on the merits of any actor. He managed to not ruin the effect Pearl Harbor had on me (that movie having a better treatment of massive loss of life I might add) Sum of All Fears lives or dies depending on how it affects the public. Perfect example The Day After- similar theme, terrible acting yet the way it treated us emotionally overshadowed its laughable performances. What that movie did to the great actor John Lithgow (the pre- 3 Rock Lithgow that is) this movie does to Morgan Freeman. Morgan could read a restaurant menu aloud and make it interesting but after the nuke kills him his absence kills the movie. His performance was the only thing this movie had to offer. Sadly his usual role of superior to a bumbling, brash young side kick was done better in Seven.So what did we learn kids? Don't buy cigarettes. They make your hair fall out and give you the runs. Confused? You wouldn't be if the movie handle the nuke better. This movie should have told you that nuclear radiation makes your hair fall out and sends you to the hopper. (The bomb being hidden inside a cigarette machine in case you dared read this far and ruin the movie for your self.) The movie was ruined for me when the ticket booth guy said, That will be 8 dollars please.... Scared of nuclear terrorism? Thanks to this movie- No. Afraid of Ben Affleck movies....that's another story... "},{"Title":"How did Jack Ryan become a capitol hill novice again??","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie started a little slow, but turned out good, I didn't like that Jack Ryan started over again.  He already prove himself getting a Russian Sub, killing drug dealers and attempted assassins, so why is he starting over?? "},{"Title":"What would have been a surefire blockbuster in any other time is now a very hard film to enjoy post-9/11.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sometimes you've got to wonder what studios are thinking when they release films at inopportune times. Usually it's just a case of bad timing on the release date itself or just a bad film. In this instance, though, it's a case of insensitivity and poor planning on the studio's behalf. While this film may have been enjoyable before September 11th, it's very hard to appreciate it now. While we don't usually analyze particular plot points here, it is important for people to know that halfway through the film the city of Baltimore gets leveled by a terrorist attack. There you go. Is that a spoiler? No. It's a warning. If that's something you'd rather not see right now, do yourself a favor and don't go. It's obviously a sensitive topic right now in our country and moviegoers should know what they're getting into and what is now suspiciously passed off as entertainment. While made before the tragedy, it seems as though the studio spent too much money on a potential blockbuster to just not release it. Maybe not releasing it isn't the right move, but would waiting until next summer be so bad? It hasn't even been a year since the tragedy and we're supposed to load up on the popcorn and watch as a city gets leveled and a mass amount of people die? Movies are usually a good escape, but this is a painful reminder. Director Phil Alden Robinson (Band of Brothers) does well with the action sequences, but just a little too well. While a portion of the film takes place at ground zero, there's just something that feels so wrong from that point on. For those of you that are still interested in the film, it does have its good points. As usual, Morgan Freeman , James Cromwell, and Liev Schreiber give good performances, but Ben Affleck kind of holds the film back a little. While it must be tough to fill Harrison Ford's shoes as Jack Ryan on this franchise, he doesn't come off as very believable as someone who will save the world. He's back in his usual young, successful business guy with an adverse situation mode and just seems a little awkward in the role. While he's easy to root for and the girls love him, he doesn't make for the best action star like Ford does. Speaking of which, does anybody wonder how Ford's character got younger while other characters got older? This is set in present day but Ryan is now young and single with a lower level position in the CIA, yet this isn't a prequel. The inconsistencies are probably the only initial fault, but most likely the studio is hoping you'll forget about that and just take the story for what it is.  Again, the images hit very close to home. While this is something that potentially could have been last summer's blockbuster, it will be interesting to see how people react to this one now. While a surefire hit in any other time, it looks like Tom Clancy's franchise may have found a snag. Studio heads might try to pass this off as relevant to the times and important, but that's just a buffer to put you in a different mindset. While they did the right thing by putting the disastrous sequence in the newest previews, it's still hard to enjoy after about the halfway point of the movie. Go check this one out if you want to, but don't say you weren't warned.  "},{"Title":"The Sum of All Fears - PC Version","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***MINOR SPOILERS***I previously commented on the film Rules of Engagement and its unrealistic and stereotypical portrayal of Arabs and Muslims. A one-legged girl toting an AK-47? A crowd rioting for no conceivable reason? Donkey bombs? That is audience manipulation right there. What was Friedkin thinking? I stand by those comments I made. But I also said I enjoy movies that send a chill up your spine because you could imagine something like that happening.It appears now that Hussein Ibish and his CAIR friends got a hold of both the novel (in which the bomb is planted by Arab extremists eager to disrupt the Mideast peace process) and the preliminary screen-play for The Sum of All Fears and decided to pressure the producers into changing a few things. Arab terrorists? God forbid. To portray *ARABS* as terrorists in this post 9-11 world would only lead to discrimination. Let's change the protagonists to angry Swedish monarchists? Displeased Italian anarchists? Oh how about...NEO-NAZIS!Yes, neo-Nazis. When was the last time an act of international terrorism was claimed by neo-Nazis? It doesn't matter. As a matter of fact, who actually planted the bomb and what they were trying to achieve is of no significance whatsoever. It is all just building up to That Scene (which everybody will recognize from the trailers) which I have to admit is quite enthralling. But like Pearl Harbor, it makes the movie feel more like a Hollywood Summer Blockbuster(tm) than the complex political thriller I was hoping for. Oh well.Aside from these admittedly minor gripes the film is a heck of a rollercoaster ride. It exceeds in quality probably any of the other low quality junk that the box office is going to be saturated with. So I will join the majority of reviewers here in recommending this film. Just don't expect caviar and enjoy the beef pate. "},{"Title":"Ben Afleck is no Harrison Ford! But...","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just came back from The Sum of All FearsIt was a well made movie. Ben Afleck is no Harrison Ford, so he's missing the appeal of Ford's charisma, but Morgan Freeman makes Ben Afleck look good.Jack is a younger CIA analyst. He's good at what he does, but young and naive. They are chasing a nuclear bomb that some Nazis (I Understand that movie started with Arab bad guys, but the baddies were changed to Neo-Nazis after 9-11) built. It had the baddies making a videotape of why they did it, shades of  The Peacemaker  with George Clooney.The cast is strong, James Cromwell (LA Confidential), Morgan Freeman, and the typical old politician bunch. I thought the Russian President was well played. The Juxtaposition between the Russian leaders and the US Leaders was nicely done.The story is typical Tom Clancy drama. Gripping, thorough, tight. For me, the appeal of this Jack Ryan movie is that it's believable. It's a real world where Ukranian security guards don't open fire within the first three seconds of hearing English. People talk, people get excited, but it's more real.Also supressed was the bang up pyrotechnics of the typical action genre. Wannabe armchair commando will be disappointed. Don't get me wrong, there are F16's dropping smart bombs, a Nuclear explosion, Russian (Tupolevs? Bear? Couldn't get the nomenclature of the Russian bombers) bombers bombing a US Carrier (The Deck # Was 74, Was that the Enterprise, does anyone know?), and plenty of mayhem...it's just done intelligently. You don't see Russian planes blow up in living color. Instead, it was the muted CNN/Schwartzkpopf B &W monitor shot from a drone. Crosshairs getting closer, then the explosion, sans sound. I thought it was more effective than a typical kablooey you see in the Rambos.Also, the surprise about the bomb...the Savannah River deal. That was a very gripping twist...what's the deal? well, go see the movie!Now, what was bad...The scene on Air Force One...the president gets p***ed and looses his cool...a couple of times... the drama that lead up to the decision to the snap count is not what I would characterize as realistic, considering that the leaders of the world are talking about the escalation of hostilities. I would think that leaders of that caliber would be more controlled and composed...they are, after all, contemplating the escalation to global nuclear devastation.Overall, I liked The Sum of All Fears. It was gripping, exciting, dramatic, tasteful. There were a few scrapes and unclear scene progressions. However, I would say it's worth seeing.uhh...did I mention, Ben Afleck is no Harrison Ford?  EnjoyRegards,Gil Lee "},{"Title":"Hollywood BS","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, did they pay for the title and create a new movie so they wouldnt upset Arab Terrorists and Israelis supporters?????Read the book, this movie isn't even from the book except using the name Jack Ryan.Wont spoil the book for anyone wanting to read the real book, but forget this movie. Fantasy writer.Tom you shouldn't accept the check for this movie if you believe in your writing. "},{"Title":"Great summer blockbluster that delivers much more...","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum of All Fears, starring Ben Affleck and Morgan Freeman, breathes new life into the franchise of movies begun by Alec Baldwin and Harrison Ford. The world was introduced to Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan in 1990's The Hunt for Red October and the follow ups Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger. The Sum of All Fears examines how Jack Ryan, Ben Affleck, began his journey in the CIA to become one of the most powerful men in the world; in Tom Clancy's universe, of course. Affleck plays the wet-behind-the-ears rookie, Ryan, a young CIA analyst from the Russian desk whose job seems to involve keeping tabs on the diplomacy of ailing Russian President and the rampant sex lives of Russian politicians.  Jack Ryan is thrust into a position of the informant to the President once the pyramid of power in Russia has toppled, allowing the ascension Alexander Nemerov.  Ryan is brought in as the authority on the new and seemingly volatile Russia President, played by Ciarán Hinds, as long as those in power listen to what he has to say..Affleck does not act alone here; he has an incredible troupe of supporting actors, if they can be called just that. The young analyst is taken almost immediately under protective wing by CIA Director, Bill Cabot played Morgan Freeman. Not atypically, Freeman picks up the mentor role for which he has become famous for yet manages to inject a different kind of flare. Freeman isn't grasping at straws here; he's confident in the knowledge that he has and in his established role as the President's adviser. It's Ryan that has the come to grips with what he knows and the inability of the leaders of America to use what he knows to their benefit. Yet, thankfully, The Sum of All Fears doesn't degenerate into a simple film about a CIA guru rising above everything to save the day. Well, it is that, but its also so much more.This film is obviously about the depths to which terrorists will go to see the mighty powers of the world destroy each other and the attempt, by seemingly one man, the clear the cloud of deception. But The Sum of All Fears resounds in its ability to combine the chaos of diplomacy and the real men who could order the end of the world, as we know it. The incomparable James Cromwell as President Fowler is, as always, fantastic. He brings such evocative emotion and reality to the greatest fears of not only Americans, but also all people. Aboard Air Force One, after the nuclear explosion that rocks most of Baltimore, Fowler argues with Defense Secretary Becker (Phillip Baker Hall), National Security Advisor Revel (Bruce McGill), and Secretary of State Owens (Ron Rifkin) in gut-wrenchingly honest and intense display of emotions.The only glaring errors in The Sum of All Fears are the inconsistencies when comparing the film to the previous films based on Jack Ryan; such as taking place in the present instead of following a more realistic timeline considering and comparing Ryan's age. But this is nit picking, and there's no need for it. Fans and non-fans alike (of Clancy's books or movies) are given a world in which they can explore on any level. However, Clancy-readers will rejoice to find John Clark played perfectly by Liev Schreiber. The occasional glimpse that the audience is given of the most intense character Clancy ever created is exciting.As for the villains of the film, Alan Bates as Richard Dressler is perfectly chilling, once labeling Germany as unable to handle the power that Nazism gave to it and Hitler simply stupid, not insane. That Neo-nazi Fascists have replaced the intended Arabian terrorists from Clancy's original work comes across as fresh and conceivable, not like some pathetic attempt to try and gloss over Sept. 11and the nationalities of those true terrorists. And of course, the nuclear explosion is haunting and breathtaking at once. The implications of its impact that director Phil Robinson gives us only hints of, is perfectly terrifying, never taking the cliché route of overexposing the audience to the horror of the fission bomb.To be honest, it's the relationships that make The Sum of All Fears work so well. The exploration of the strained relationship between Ryan and Cathy Muller (Bridget Moynahan) is effective in its simplicity and subtly. The development feels natural and the strain on the relationship because of Ryan's increased responsibilities, unbeknownst to Muller, fits perfectly. But this love affair thankfully takes up a comfortable position on the back seat as the major players come to&#133;well, play. Hinds' Nemerov is electrifying and played to perfection as a ruler whose power is used in the attempt to destroy him. Both the power and vulnerability of this character is tangible, which can be said of Fowler as well. And Ryan (Affleck) is the perfect foil to them both. If only he can get them to listen.The Sum of All Fears is, by far, one of the better movies that has come out this year. By no means are we to forget its supposed to be a blockbuster, but thankfully it's a little more than that. A little more intelligent, funny, and a hell of a lot better acted than most. And damn&#133;its Ben Affleck&#133;and he's good!  "},{"Title":"Phenomenal- Ben Affleck did a great job","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is suspenseful, action packed don't miss a moment.  Subtitles when russians are speaking are easy to read.  Affleck did a great job taking over the character of Jack Ryan.  Wonder why Tom Clancy chose to drop the bomb on Baltimore MD, I think he lives in Maryland.  It was nice to see some Baltimore landmarks before the bomb. "},{"Title":"solid, suspense what-if which should please the Clancy fans.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this at prescreening which was packed to capacity. The ads have been all over the tube, and Clancy has a built-in following. Let me say that this is a good film, a B+. Phil Robinson showed he could handle suspense with films like Sneakers, and he has done a wonderful job of managing all the logistics of a global shoot filled with intelligent scripting and realistic acting.Ben Affleck does a credible effort as a younger Jack Ryan. I didn't have a problem with a different actor playing a popular character. Look at James Bond and Batman. It just makes sense and makes things interesting. The supporting cast is very strong especially Morgan Freeman and Liev Schreiber (who may have created a potentially recurring character, John Clark).The plot involves a blackmarket bomb that is being used by NeoFascists headed by Alan Bates to create a war between Russia and the U.S. Of course, you know from the ads that an explosion does detonate (and quite awfully convincing), but when? and where? who gets killed? This film rates favorably with the other Clancy adaptations. Word has it, he loves Affleck, and the actor also contacted Alec Baldwin and Harrison Ford for their blessing. Most fans will approve of this version. Perhaps it was missing an extra tension relieving laugh here or there or a bit of extra in a scene or two (e.g. the President never asks, where's my wife after a terrible incident or Ryan doesn't cover up a dead friend with his jacket). Nevertheless, I am being too picky on a film that works-Paramount has another actor now to fulfill its franchise for a long time.  "},{"Title":"Good suspense film, adhering to Clancy spirit; Affleck?","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I, too, am a diehard Clancy fan and was concerned about what changes would have to take place to have Ben Affleck be a credible Jack Ryan. He is at his best in the action scenes, but not quite convincing as the analyst Ryan.The quality of the remainder of the cast, however, keeps the movie on track, in spite of some deviations from the written story. Morgan Freeman, Liev Schreiber (who should have been the new Jack Ryan), James Cromwell and a host of other experienced performers do a great job escalating the tension and making the certain ending not so certain. "}{"Title":"Terrific action film that delivers.","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Worry not.  Ben Affleck does a wonderful job as a wet-behind-the-ears-soon-to-be-transformed-into-a-save-the-world-hero. The pacing is good in this film, the script and direction terse and right on key.  The supporting cast starting with Morgan Freeman is first rate. It's been a long time since I've seen an action film that is as rewarding as this one.  The only negative comment I would make is that casting Ben Affleck as an unmarried Jack Ryan would naturally make you assume that this film is a prequel to the Harrison Ford pair.  However, it is set in current day which is necessary given the climate between Russia and the US the film establishes, but nonetheless jarring.  Although I remained conscious of this throughout the film, it did not really detract from the satisfying feeling this film affords.   "},{"Title":"Only good if you didn't read the book.","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Definitely don't read the book first, if you haven't yet. The movie itself was decent, good action, fairly consistent to plot. It irked me that plot points were missing and other things changed rather seriously. The book is NOT a prequel, as this movie kind of implies. In the book, Jack Ryan has already established his character in the CIA, in fact, he's the deputy director. He's married, he has kids. I don't know why they changed that, except maybe due to Affleck's age. Affleck's performance surprised me in a good way. I wasn't sure he could pull off the intensity of this role, but he handled it really well. It's definitely worth seeing on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"happily surprised","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was not sold on Affleck as J. Ryan, but  was very happy with how he did.  I have not read the book, so I cannot compare how true the plot is.  Some very good plot twists, and decent script, great effects.  See it, and see it on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Unlike movies such as `Independence Day', this film knows that human nature is much more terrifying then the chance of aliens attacking our planet.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Based on the bestselling Tom Clancy novel of the same name, this latest instalment in the Jack Ryan franchise manages to not only stand alone, but stand out from its predecessors serving us a story that parallels the real life tragedy of 9-11. For this reason I insist you keep in mind while watching this that you are in fact watching a movie, developed by some top Hollywood players to entertain and perhaps cause you to think a little. Be sure to understand that the book, and most importantly this film, was made prior to that infamous day, and certainly does not mean any harm. So in all fairness I will rate this movie based on my viewing experience which in fact was a good one.The story revolves around Jack Ryan struggling to uncover a terrorist plot to trick the United States and Russia to go to war against each other. Falsified information between countries is what ultimately leads to the ego trips that bring this film to a climax. Things certainly move quickly for Ryan, who goes from a desk job to being the only man with the right information that will stop what could possibly be World War III.  I liked this story quite a bit and found myself munching down on my nails, a good sign. There is a lot of serious tension going on here and it hits quite close to home these days,Ben Affleck is turning his career around completely, going from `Forces of Nature' and `Reindeer Games', to carrying `Pearl Harbor' on his shoulders, and turning in fine performances along the way with `Changing Lanes'  and here (not to mention his under-rated work in `Chasing Amy'&#133; one of my all-time favourites). He steals the show though he is not really on his own, making up what is a strong ensemble cast. His wit, charm and boyish looks suit this `fish out of water' Jack Ryan just fine, never once making me think about the `Ryans' of the past. With a slew of interesting films along the way (Daredevil should solidify him as a bankable star if everyone does there job right) it seems Ben is finally showing the presence many thought he had.As for the rest of the cast, featuring acting heavy weights such as Morgan Freeman (Seven, Along Came A Spider), James Cromwell(Babe 1-2) and Phillip-Baker Hall (Hard Eight, Magnolia), as well as some up and comers like Live Schreiber (Scream 1-2-3) and Bridget Moynahan (Serendipity, Coyote Ugly), all look comfortable in their parts and never make this film feel like it belongs to them. Perhaps that is a testament to this films director, Phil Alden Robinson (Field of Dreams), who had managed a similar feat when he directed Sydney Poitier, Robert Redford, Dan Akroyd, and River Phoenix to name a few in the spy film `Sneakers'. Personally of the two I got a bigger kick out of `Sum'.Unlike movies such as `Independence Day', this film knows that human nature is much more terrifying then the chance of aliens attacking our planet. Plain and simple, these situations can really happen, we humans can destroy ourselves, we have that power and it is proven to us everyday without looking any further than a news broadcast or headline. These issues are well exploited to keep us in our seats and leave us with a message, though we all know this message.I thought the Harrison films were fine, and Alec Baldwin did a great job in `Hunt for Red October', but here and now seeing Ben in this role taking place at the very birth of Jack Ryan, I know that there is more exciting stuff to come. This is an entertaining film, a smart reintroduction to the character, and I am glad to say that the story doesn't take the back seat. I'm in for the next one.  "},{"Title":"Right movie for a military crowd","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film a week before opening at the local Coast Guard Training Base... for free;-)  So you can believe it was packed with crewcut types who were into every bit of the movie.  Even the dry militaristic humor got a reaction that civilians might have groaned, moaned, or more likely, not even caught.A new Jack Ryan?!  What gives? was the consensus going into the movie. Watching it brought around a bunch of nitpicking, but hey, that's Hollywood. The actors were all capable and believable, and yippy-hooray, the love interest isn't a 20-year old bimbo.The action sequences were excellent, and the satellite-view location changes helped the audience keep track of where we were.  Tom Clancy got an Exec Producer credit, and it shows.  A great adaptation of the novel.... as an aside, it was great fun seeing the shock on the faces of those who hadn't read the book when the inevitable came;-)All that said, the movie was a bit dry/slow/dramatic, and I suspect that the general public, who I have -zero- faith in, will probably pan it.  So catch it while you can!  8/10 "},{"Title":"Worth the viewing despite some flaws","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Once I got past the prequel? But it can't be! idea I found this film chillingly realistic.  After the groundwork is laid and the film takes off it is entirely too plausible to be comfortable.  It dawned on me while watching this that we have returned to the nuke scare I grew up with (I'm a baby-boomer)in the 50's, only now, since 9/11, the scare is real.  For viewers who might drool in anticipation to see the effects of a nuclear explosion you will be disappointed. Even Atomic Train and The Day After deliver more along that line.  Rather, Sum of All Fears is a thriller along the lines of War Games.  I know the paid critics are going to tear apart Ben Affleck's performance, but I found it one of his best efforts. As a wet-behind-the-ears CIA agent, he is believable. Morgan Freeman, too, is fine.  However, the problem with the rest of the cast--especially those in uniform--is that they are all well-known character actors. I spent more time trying to remember what other films I've seen them in that what they were doing in this one. Is it a bad thing to have new faces in minor parts once in a while?? "},{"Title":"good, but not great","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the acting was decent, but to me it just didnt have the drama i expected for two countries on the brink of nuclear warfare.  Sure, this may be because i was watching this on my computer as the sounds of TV were being heard from the other room, but i still stress that this movie wasnt nearly as good as i had hoped. "},{"Title":"Read the Book, Forget the Movie","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The fundamental problem with this movie is that it is only very loosely based on Tom Clancy's novel of the same name.  And I stress very loosely.  Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan is a ludicrous piece of casting.  After all, Ryan is supposed to be a married, middle aged Deputy Director of the CIA.  And while I really like Morgan Freeman, why does he need to be in every third movie to come out of Hollywood?  Is it in his contract?  In addition to bogus casting the, the plot has been contorted beyond recognition.  Bottom line is, read the book and forget the movie. "},{"Title":"It has its shortcomings, and i presume the book would be much better but it is still well worth watching","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is slightly unbelievable -mostly during the time that it takes for things to happen, travelling around the world or around a city seems to take as long as entering 4 digits or answering a question yes or no...This really makes me think the book -which i haven't read- would be much better, but if you, as i did, take it on its merits as a film, then you will really enjoy it...it is surprisingly unpatriotic almost, which makes a pleasant change for the Europeans around, and the characterisation is as good as could be expected from a 2 hour film. I really was sweating when i watched the film, and there are a couple of surprises, whilst you need to follow the occasional subtitles carefully to fully grasp the roles each character plays. I highly recommend seeing this film, play along with some of the gaps that exist -fill them in yourself with your imagination -it might even improve the film, and sit back and enjoy the action and suspense, and some brilliant acting, especially by Freeman. "},{"Title":"Jack Ryan is back ! A little younger !","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Great picture, just seems strange that family man Jack Ryan is now young and single. If this is a prequel, does that mean the other Ryan pictures are set in the future ! Good story, great visuals, and as usual Morgan freeman is terrific. A great new addition to the Ryan series. "}{"Title":"Too disjointed and Ben Affleck is no Jack Ryan","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***WARNING**** - Some major Plot points revealed in review **** Read at your own riskI saw the preview of this movie. I am a big fan of Tom Clancy's books and the films that have been made from them, but this one was poorly adapted.Ben Affleck is a poor choice to play Jack Ryan. I can live with the fact that they made him younger and single, but he just doesn't fit in the role. The main problem with the movie is not the actors though - it is the adaptation of the story itself. If you've read the book, you know how incredibly complex it is. They tried to stuff that entire 500+ page book into a 2 hour movie and it just does not fit. The movie has no flow and no logical progression.Ryan also travels from one end of the city (Baltimore in this case) to another, with seemingly very little difficulty, despite the fact that a NUCLEAR BOMB just exploded at the Super Bowl in the very same city. Hello?!?!?!? In one 4 to 5 hour period, or less, he travels from where his helicopter crashed (out away from the city) to Ground Zero to the docks, to the hospital and then to the White House. Uh huh.His cell phone works too - very annoying when you KNOW that it wouldn't - they rarely worked in NY on 9/11 and that was only taking down one block of the city. Compare that to the devastation of a nuclear bomb and ask yourself if it's logical.It's one redeeming quality is the ending - very fraught with tension - and the effects are pretty cool. Knowing what I know now, I wouldn't PAY to see it in the theatre, but it is rentable. I'd give it a 2 of 5. "},{"Title":"got better and better","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My friend and I went into the movie expecting lots of good looking Ben Affleck, and not much else...  Another cheesy action movie, Pearl Harbor, you know??  A movie where you love looking, but the plot makes you wince.The first five minutes of slow, drawn-out music didn't help.  She and I were leaning back in our chairs, with me barely containing my yawns.  But, about three-quarters of the way into the movie, I realized that both my friend and I were on the edges of our seats, mouth gaping at what was happening on the screen.  I think more than anything, it was the concept of what was happening in the movie that astounded us.We saw this as an advance screening at Cal, so there was all of your usual catcalling at Ben and Morgan, and clapping when John Clark did his thing at the end (if you saw the movie, you know what I'm talking about... if not, see it!!!!) "},{"Title":"Amazing film, with some minor flaws.","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went into the screening of this movie quite skeptical of Ben Affleck being chosen to replace Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan.  As a devout fan of the original three Jack Ryan films, as well as the Clancy books, I was worried that this movie would turn the franchise into one boasting of celeb status instead of quality suspense drama.But by the end of the movie, I was absolutely awed.  I left the theater with the thought firm in my mind that no other actor could have possibly taken the role from Ford than Affleck.  He was, in a word, phenomenal.  And the movie and supporting cast performances surrounding him were nothing to scoff at either.  Although the format of the film still had some minor corrections to be made (as it was in prerelease format) it was a film I would recommend to everyone, Jack Ryan fan or not.The flaws I speak of in this movie are within the story itself and its consistency with the previous films in the Jack Ryan series.  The film places Affleck's character as a CIA analyst without a family to speak of. In the previous films, Ryan's family is not only present, but fundamental to Patriot Games.  At first I summed this up to be a prequel to the other movies, which would make sense - Ryan is younger, he has yet to achieve his place in the CIA, he has yet to marry and build a family.  Soon into the movie, however, we find that the date is current - 2002, which obviously does not concur with the rest of the films. This is a very minor point, but it bugged me throughout watching the film. Because of the minority of this flaw, and the fact that in the movie itself this has no relevance, I give it a perfect 5/5. "},{"Title":"I thought it was quite decent. It has enough thrills to make two hours go by nicely","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I would consider this movie to be a prequel. Choosing Ben Affleck to take over for Harrison Ford was not a very popular decision, and I was one of those people. I was so livid I decided to boycott this movie. It turns out I really had no reason to. This movie is not as good as Patriot Games or Clear & Present Danger, but it's far from an embarrassment. It's competently done with some pretty good build-up in the first half. I especially enjoyed the banter between Ben Affleck & Morgan Freeman. I did feel it was a bit too political heavy at times, but that's a minor carp. It's not filled with action, but it does have more than enough tension to keep you on the edge of your seat. Ben Affleck is actually quite alright here. I didn't think he was great by a long shot, but he managed to hold his own for the most part. Considering he's the reason I boycotted this movie, I have to commend the man. He tried hard and did a fairly decent job. He's proved to be a good actor these days with stuff like The Town, Argo, etc. Morgan Freeman adds a touch of class. He's a joy to watch, as he is in almost everything. James Cromwell is OK as the president. I liked his intensity, not much else. Final Thoughts Not bad. Not bad at all. I don't know why I waited so long when this first came out, just because of Affleck. It's not perfect, but it's a pretty decent film. Well worth a look6.4/10 "},{"Title":"Sleepy Affleck Saves The World","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This type of movie is always fairly predictable after the first ten minutes...and this one, is no exception. There is so much going on (mostly nonsense) that the actors can get away with going through the motions. Ben Affleck looks half asleep and...considering he has to save the world...it is not an inspiring condition to be in. Morgan Freeman, James Cromwell, Philip Baker Hall are wise old foxes. They know they can do these roles standing on their heads---look convincing----yet forget the name of the movie ! The patriotism shown in this type of American (aren't we great) film is always disgraceful. This review is not really complete. I fell asleep for 5 minutes. I am quite sure I missed nothing. The movie The Sum Of All Fears..???....Let me be kind, and say..Its not very good. "},{"Title":"Memo to Hollywood The Cold War Is Over","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Sum of All Fears is the fourth film in the Jack Ryan franchise, but no attempt is made to maintain continuity with the earlier three episodes. No longer is Ryan the middle-aged family man portrayed by Harrison Ford in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger; Ben Affleck's character is far younger than Ford's, younger even than Alec Baldwin's in The Hunt for Red October, even though that film was set in 1984 and The Sum of All Fears in 2002 or 2003. Whereas Ford's character was married, Affleck's is a bachelor, although he has a girlfriend with the same name, Cathy, as Ryan's wife in the earlier films. At a time of rising international tension between America and Russia, the city of Baltimore is destroyed by a nuclear device. The real culprits are neo-Nazi terrorists, but everyone in America assumes that the Russians are responsible, an assumption which is strengthened when a rogue Russian general orders an air attack on a US aircraft carrier. Ryan, a CIA analyst, is one of the few people in America who realises that the bomb which destroyed Baltimore did not come from Russia, and has to try to persuade the trigger-happy American President, J. Robert Fowler, before he can order a revenge attack. This was one of the few films from the early 2000s which did not earn Ben Affleck a Razzie nomination. He has never been my favourite actor, but at least he is better in The Sum of All Fears than in many of his films- certainly a lot better than in, say, Pearl Harbor from the previous year. Even so, he never quite brings the authority to the part that Baldwin and Ford did in the three previous Ryan films. The best acting performance comes from the normally reliable Morgan Freeman as Ryan's boss, CIA Director William Cabot. The script makes a few changes from Tom Clancy's novel, but these were largely made for the sake of political correctness rather than plausibility. Clancy's terrorists were Arab nationalists; here they are neo-Nazis who make convenient villains because virtually everyone hates them and they won't alienate any ethnic groups among the target audience. Director Phil Alden Robinson declared that he did not wish to promote negative images of Muslims or Arabs, but he seemed less concerned about promoting negative images of Russians. Early in the film were hear that the Russian Army has launched a massive chemical warfare attack on Chechnya; although it transpires that this was carried out by maverick commanders without the approval of their Government, the Russian President nevertheless decides to take the credit for it on the grounds that it is better to be seen as a mass-murderer than as an incompetent weakling. It is a general rule in the cinema that political thrillers, if they are to remain thrilling, should be set in the present or the near future. There is a partial exception for films based on real events, like K-19 the Widowmaker or Thirteen Days about the Cuban missile crisis, but this does not apply to purely fictional stories. There would have been little point in making The Sum of All Fears as a Cold War period piece set in the sixties or seventies as everyone knows that nuclear war never broke out between the superpowers during that era. Unfortunately, I was never sure what the point was of making the film at all. As a thriller, the film is fairly exciting, but its main problem is that it is stuck in the past and reflects American/Russian relationships as they were in 1962 or 1982, not as they were in 2002. The second half of the film concentrates too much on political intrigue and not enough on what is happening in the devastated city- we never even learn how many people have died. The plot-line seems more suited to the Cold War era than it does to the early twenty-first century, and indeed was looking a bit rusty even when Clancy published his novel in 1991, shortly before the collapse of the Soviet Union. Given that the 9/11 attacks took place shortly after filming was completed, and several months before the film opened in May 2002, Robinson might indeed have looked more prescient had he made a film about Middle Eastern terrorism rather than trying to rehash something like Fail-Safe for the modern age. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Sum of all... Blahs...!","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ... Ben Aflack? Are you kidding? What an insult to Mr. Clancy's creativity and the legacy of Harrison Ford. At least pick an actor who possesses a modicum of acting ability... Almost anyone else... Well, except Tom Cruz, of course! Now I must write more. The movie is on my TV right now. And I would rather be writing this review. If I write any more, this will become as boring as the movie. But, we must fit the guidelines. Again... Ben Aflack? Who was the casting director? I think I have bored all of you almost as much as the movie will. So, now you have no need to suffer through watching Mr. Aflack say lines or wasting time enduring this disappointing movie. "},{"Title":"Another Clancy disappointment","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Others have pointed out - and I am fully aware of the fact - that a movie based on.. need have little in common with the book. This is certainly very much the case in The sum of all fears. In spades.As a great fan of Clancy's books (well, the early ones anyway the co-authored ones and his later titles could have been written by someone else), I appreciate the interwoven, complex subplots, the technical detail, the characterisations and the scene settings. Difficult to compress into a film but not impossible. Unfortunately, none of the Clancy movies so far has come close to doing justice to its original story.Where to start? Well, the casting is pretty dire. Affleck is just plain wrong as Ryan, and not only because he's not Harrison Ford. He just doesn't *look* right in the part. Neither does Schreiber act or look the part of Clancy's Clark. The US President is adequately depicted by James Cromwell and Freeman is, as always, good. But the rest of the cast, I am afraid, are once again just plain wrong.There are several scenes that are more reminiscent of a James Bond, tongue-in-cheek comedy drama than a story of this kind again, just downright *wrong*. Nothing to do with misinterpretation of Clancy's subtleties, more to do with poor screenplay development.In fact, poor screen writing is the hallmark of this movie the plot, as developed, almost relies on the viewers' knowledge of Clancy's novel in order to make head or tail of what's going on even as it abandons any semblance to it. It's an odd feeling, having at the back of one's mind how the plot was originally written while at the same time watching, on screen, something entirely different - and yet superficially the same. Frankly, without having read the original I would be pushed to follow what on earth was happening, the plotting is so haphazard and disjointed. It's almost like watching a series of cameos that bear little relation to one another.I wish I could say something positive about this movie, but I can't. Clancy's fans have been waiting in vain for a film of his novels that would do something like justice to them, and Sum is probably the biggest disappointment. Red October made a pretty fair hand at the task, Patriot Games too. The common factor - Harrison Ford. Yet even Ford couldn't really rescue Clear and present danger from an oversimplified interpretation of the book and he couldn't have saved this one either.Come on, Clancy let's see you get together with a first class scriptwriter and make movies of your books that does something like justice to them. "},{"Title":"Wake me when it is over","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was one of the most boring movies I have ever seen. I have no desire to read the book either because I am not into this kind of stuff but my brother in law told me it was one of the best movies I would ever see so I gave it a try. I was so bored I am surprised I even got through it. It is slow moving and the climax is very disappointing. This movie was a waste of time. I bought it at a pawn shop for $2.50. I will have to stick it in a yard sale and get rid of this worthless movie. I thought there would be some good exciting scenes but the whole movie was just boring. There is never an entertaining part in the whole movie. If this movie is entertaining to some I would like to know how so. "},{"Title":"the only good thing I can say about Ben Afleck is...","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nobody can act like Ben Afleck like Ben Afleck can. I mean, as far as acting like a wooden emotionless awful actor as Ben Afleck is, nobody can act as good (or bad I guess depending how you look at it) as Ben Afleck.But just making a casting choice of putting one of the worst actors of our times with the most hype of Ben Afleck acting like Ben Afleck (kinda the opposite of how Jack Ryan would be) the rest of the movie is also full of just horrible inaccuracies and goes so far from the book from whence it was adapted, the even call it part of the series is as laughable as calling say Space Balls part of the Star Wars series, only Space Balls was almost good, it certainly had better acting than, say, Ben Afleck. Which it's all a shame, it's clearly a big budget piece, the backdrops and some of the actors excepting the stereotypical, laughably bad Neo Nazis which, what a stupid choice to do considering the book's bad guys would be much more relevant in todays world (what the heck was Hollywood thinking?!?), you could feel the money being dropped into this clunker. Granted, it's not 100% laughably bad like, say, most movies Matthew McConaughey is in lately, say the uberly so bad even the actors were laughing at their lines Sahara, I mean, that's a steaming pile of a movie there were it reeks of bad. This movie reeked of trying to be good but with a leading man (sic) choice like weak pathetic Afleck, then changing the story from the book, then implausibles about nukes and radiation, this flick devolved into one big you've got to kidding me fest.I'd give this movie a zero except the explosion and some of the hardware and aircraft looked cool, that and sadly IMDb doesn't, but should, allow zeros, and should go one step further and automatically give any movie Ben Afleck is in a zero. "}{"Title":"To 'Sum' it up... (with DVD details)","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" My Take An enjoyable political thriller set amongst turbulent times combines paranoia and cinematic thrills. With THE HUNT FOR RED October, PATRIOT GAMES and CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER before it, CIA analyst turned spy hero Jack Ryan returns (and even hits the Fountain of Youth) in this fourth adaptation of another TOM Clancy bestseller, in which certainly the most relevant of the time. With the ominous and unforgettable events of 9/11 behind it, THE SUM OF ALL FEARS has become more than a mere adaptation of Clancy's bestselling novel, and more of a warning of one of the world's greatest fears international terrorism. And while this thriller doesn't especially crackle until the second half, THE SUM OF ALL FEARS is still a terrific thriller with crisp plotting and crackling tension.However, in comparison with its hit predecessors, SUM doesn't compare to those highly superior previous films (which I really liked). Firstly, the film's approach as a prequel really leaves much plot-holes and time-lapses as it goes. While it is a prequel to the original films, SUM takes place during modern time. Instead of bringing back Alec Baldwin or Harrison Ford to portray the role of CIA analyst Jack Ryan, producers opted for a much younger Ben Affleck who, while offering his best, is quite a disappointment, considering that his predecessors Baldwin and Ford are so much better, and sometimes his pretty-boy attitude gets in the way of the accurate CIA character we since have come to know. In this prequel, Ryan is still courting his future wife Cathy Muller (Bridget Moynahan) and has only just graduated from a CIA historian to analyst.For his first CIA job, Ryan is asked by then-CIA director Bill Cabot (Morgan Freeman) to accompanying him on a meeting with the new president of Russia, who is believed to be a hardliner. At the same time, they are sent to survey a nuclear base, where Ryan discovers that some of the scientists are missing. The people in-charge give a logical explanation, but Ryan knows there's something behind it all. At his quest for the truth may just lead him to the discovery of a nuclear bomb being detonated in a Baltimore Football game, in one of the film's landmark moment. The said moment may be the most show-stopping scene in the entire picture, but the rest of the film is as much a thriller is it should. Director Phil Alden Robinson does a superb job providing the tension that comes with the crackling plot, even if it leaves much to be desired when it comes to romantic moments between a young Jack and Cathy.While comparison rises between this and its predecessors, THE SUM OF ALL FEARS turns out to be the thriller it promises to be. Packed with crisp plotting and smart thrills, this is one of the more satisfying summer thrillers. Switch your brain on and pop this in your DVD.Rating **** out of 5.The DVD The film is featured in a 2.351 widescreen format guaranteed to fit the screen, and the picture quality seems clear except for some scenes shot in the dark. Special features include Audio Commentaries (with director Robinson, cinematographer John Lindley and one with novelist/executive producer Tom Clancy) as well as a trailer. Includes English, Cantonese, Mandarin and Thai subtitles as well as English and Thai languages. It's also featured in a crisp Dolby Digital sound, so if your sound systems up for it, the nuclear explosion scene will be a real knockout in this new DVD. Also included in the JACK RYAN DVD COLLECTION along with the first three Ryan films. "},{"Title":"dull, plodding, unwatchable","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is an excuse for extremely low budget movies to be dull and boring, or for a drama. This was supposed to be adventure, and it flopped horribly.The casting is okay, but not spectacular. A lot of the major characters are so over the top it is pathetic, particularly the Russian head honcho, who is terribly written. He is absurdly stereotypical and predictable, being the same character from half of all the movies made in the last thirty years. There really isn't anything fresh or novel in this. Everything is a mesh of all the stock characters and plots of movies in this genre.The effects are also over the top and silly, but who cares? We never get into the movie, because it just drones on and on with terrible directing. You can't wait for it to end. You will be looking at the clock, believe me. It is an ordeal. Plodding and boring. "},{"Title":"The Sum of The Quality of this film is my vote.......","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" About an hour into this picture I very nearly stopped watching it as I found the story line ridiculously and unnecessarily complicated, and quite frankly the whole play is nonsensical.Also I have tried to read some books by the author who inspired this movie, and gave up after a short while as too much detail and not enough to hold my attention.The movie is about a bomb being sold to terrorists to explode in the States. Its a pity the people who produced this film could not have simply told us the tale without so much extra baggage.Our 'hero' so called is a nuisance with an equally obnoxious girlfriend; both being unattractive and generally quite irritating.Around half way through the film matters improve marginally so just able to get to the end.And in typical Hollywood fashion Germans and Nazi's are to blame for everything. Can't film-makers ever get real?!3/10 "},{"Title":"Watchable, but with Torpid Pacing","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a Ben Affleck fan, but I don't hate him either. He's just colorless, which is kind of how the Jack Ryan character is written, but that's not my cinematic problem to fix it's the writer an director's job to make it work.The rest of the cast is an enviable crowd of who's-who in supporting actors and character people of Oscar calibre. So, with an interesting plot concept concerning alleged post-Cold War trickery from Russia, one has to ponder the culprit for such a slow film. I found the editing weak and therefore the director probably takes the blame for how un-thrilling this film is.For those of you not in-the-know, Jack Ryan is a (spy/military ops writer) Tom Clancy character. He is an anti-Bond style character who is, ostensibly, not anxious to meet the bad guy or involve himself in the action. He nevertheless seems to find himself in it. What is rather annoying about this film is that Ryan stumbles conveniently into everything and has more than 9 lives. So why even bother making him an anti-Bond character?There are also laughably unrealistic scenes involving The President and his cabinet shouting at each other in a totally overly dramatized way that rings hollow both culturally and technically in view of the crisis. The lack of grittiness, authenticity, and energy that fuels this kind of film, just causes the whole vehicle to flop right off the rails. Having said that, the visual effects are very good with lots of pyro work and in particular, a sequence involving an aircraft carrier is a deft combination of live elements and computer generated enhancements. The third act is hard to follow and a culminates in a tedious, preachy little wrap-up that tries to be cute and ends up being about as fresh as a Murder She Wrote plot. But you might fall asleep before that, so don't worry too much about it. "},{"Title":"fourth movie in the Jack Ryan Series(second best next to The Hunt for red October)","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" this fourth movie in the Jack Ryan series,features Ben Affexk as Ryan,who surprisingly does an OK job.but there are two supporting performances that really stand out for me,first is Morgan Freeman,who is amazing in his role.and Liev Schreiber,.both are equally effective.for me,the movie is almost worth it just because of those two performances.the rest of the supporting cast is also very good.i like the story.i found it very relevant and realistic.i also thought way the characters behave in the movie is realistic,as well.the special effects in this movie blew me out of my seat.they were seamless,as far as i can tell.there's also the unpredictable aspect of the movie.and there is a lot of suspense and tension to keep you riveted.by the way,the first movie of the Jack Ryan series is The Hunt for red October with Alec Baldwin as Ryan.the second one is patriot Games,with Harrison Ford as the title character.the third is Clear and Present Danger,also with Ford.but for me,The Sum of all Fears is the second best of the series,next to The Hunt for Red October.the other two,i didn't really care for too much.for me,The Sum of all Fears is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Clancy series is dead.","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is, at best, disheartening to see a movie franchise so thoroughly spoiled as the Clancy/Jack Ryan once-diamond-in-the-rough series, now turned into fool's gold with bad direction, bad adaptation, and a myopically teenage star. Combine that with a goofy Wargames-like ending that just leaves you shaking your head, and you've written your own summary (or is that obituary?) for Sum of All Fears. Fears was an obvious and failed attempt to resuscitate the blockbuster franchise started with the Alec Baldwin megahit, The Hunt For Red October. Correctly departing from the misguided effort to bring Harrison Ford into Ryan's role when Baldwin opted out, producers swung too far the opposite direction with Ben Affleck. Affleck's youthful appearance is likely more in keeping with the intended nature of the Ryan character, but Affleck comes off more as a ditzy wannabe rather than a CIA protégé.Fears carries with it not one-tenth the intrigue of its written counterpart, and not even half the credibility of Red October. Its mock intrigue truly is nothing more than a phony Hollywood ending, one that reduces Ryan to Matthew Broderick in doubletalking the computer into self-destructing at the end of Wargames.Worse still is the sellout to political correctness in Fears, wherein the book tells a story of all-too-relevant political intrigue that is replaced by a plainly fractious substory about Russian racial and ethnic stereotypes. Ahh, the comfort of warm milk before bedtime.This movie well deserves to put an end to the Clancy series, never to reclaim its October glory. And for the lost potential, moviegoers everywhere are the end-game losers.-intrepid "},{"Title":"An action-packed, edge-of-your-seat, and intense action/drama/thriller which will leave you breathless and on the edge of your seat","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" THE SUM OF ALL FEARS is an action-packed, edge-of-your-seat, and intense action/drama/thriller which will leave you breathless and on the edge of your seat. The nuclear bomb was the scariest thing about this movie. If this movie was scheduled to be released in late 2001, I think that it was definitely a good idea to postpone it. Ben Affleck, Morgan Freeman, Bridget Moynahan, and the entire cast gave outstanding performances. In addition, the entire crew did an outstanding job. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, This is a must-see if you're a fan of war movies. Now, in conclusion, I give THE SUM OF ALL FEARS three stars. "},{"Title":"Eh?","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not a bad thriller by all accounts, but not as good as the Bourne films nor as good as other aw-hell, World War III is about to erupt films like Crimson Tide, or even Wargames! And what's going on with the chronology of the Ryan films? At least the leap from Red Oktober to Patriot Games was reasonably convincing, but now it's gone backwards yet the settings have gone forwards. It makes the chronology of some of the James Bond films look completely realistic. 7 stars then... Perhaps if the film had followed on from the last three another star would have been merited for continuity, but I think the franchise is well and truly bu66ered now! "},{"Title":"Utter Butcher Job on the Script and Jack Ryan","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not that I am a big fan of Clancy or his hero Jack Ryan, but after Baldwin and Ford played this character, Affleck ruined the whole Ryan persona with his usual lack of grace and gravity. The worse atrocity was replacing Muslim Arab terrorists in the novel(who could imagine that?) with a composite phony crew of Russian Nazis(uh huh, why not German Nazis or Russian Communists, the real Nazis had no great love for Slavs). This is a good example of the phonies in Hollywood trying to bury Islamic terrorism by pretending everyone but Muslims are terrorists.Other than that, the film was boring and unreal, Baltimore is leveled, yet a car crash on the local news has more depth. It was the same warmed over stuff that any procedural nuke flick like The Fourth Protocol or the The Peacemaker offered up much better. If you can see it for free, go ahead, it's not horrible, but don't spend a nickel or go ten feet out of your way for this one. "},{"Title":"It's amazing to see...","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...how such a great book could be turned into such an utterly mediocre movie. I recently read Tom Clancy's book on which this movie is based, an while the book is a bit unfocused, it still made for a great read. I rented the movie to see if they managed to turn it into a decent adaptation.Alas, it is not. The movie certainly is based on the book, but the story has been simplified and unnecessarily changed so much that what remains is a very, very weak extract of a great book. Whereas the book was very convincing and detailed, the movie version doesn't make an awful lot of sense, and changing the villains from Arab terrorists to Nazis is, while understandable in the wake of 9/11, very bad for the credibility. Tom Clancy says it himself on the DVD commentary I'm the guy whose book you chose to ignore.Like the book, the film takes a while to get going. The problem is that it never really gets up to speed. Throughout the entire running time, the pace is horribly slow, with endless shots of airplanes, boats, cars and other means of transportation that add absolutely nothing, and endlessly drawn out scenes, many of them consisting of dull melodrama. What could and should have been an exciting political thriller turned out to be more of a one-man show for Ben Affleck, that never gets even moderately suspenseful.There are a couple of action sequences, but they're few and far between, and they don't really add up to much, either they're generally just some shots of aircraft shooting some missiles, and consequently something blows up. Wow. It's neither spectacular nor suspenseful.The movie's one saving grace is its excellent cast. Morgan Freeman and James Cromwell can obviously do much better than this, but they still deliver good performances. The supporting cast is generally good as well. Ben Affleck, however, is just plain horrible as the lead.The Sum of all Fears turned out to be a huge disappointment for me. It has some good acting, but its slow pace, lack of excitement and terrible lead actor, combined with the fact that the makers mutilated the story it is based on, make it a movie that's mediocre at the very best ** out of ***** "}{"Title":"Decent adaptation of an intricate plot. Good entertainment.","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I find some of the reviews, of this film, on this site surprising. Many seem to point to a massive plot change as a negative factor and the casting of Affleck as Jack Ryan a poor one.On the casting issue Harrison Ford worked on the original screenplay for the film, but, as the work evolved it became clear that a younger actor was required to fill the role. He moved on and Affleck expressed an interest.To fit the plot into, as the 'making of' feature on the describes, a 120 page screenplay meant that complex story lines, requiring careful and thorough explanation, from the book could not be included and a more simplistic alternative found. The 'bad guys' may be unsophisticated and shallow, but, if you wish deep plot lines and extravagantly detailed explanation read the book. No film could ever match, in two hours, what a book can convey in the days you may take to read it. Indeed 'The Hunt for Red October' in film format saw huge segments of the storyline from the book mysteriously vanish - the hundred-plane USAF airstrike on the Russian Navy warships and the presence of the Royal Navy and HMS Invincible are just two major subplots that disappeared totally.If you are willing to accept that this film clashes in timeline with 'Red October', deviates from the Clancy original by necessity and contains several technical military errors (an aircraft carrier sailing without escorting cruisers/destroyers and a squadron of Russian bombers that can fly halfway across Europe without triggering a single alert anywhere in NATO are both quite implausible) you can watch an enjoyable thriller that offers some very clever plot elements and some fabulous imagery.Affleck plays a very young Jack Ryan, in Clancy's timeline he would be at a stage in his career prior to the events in the book 'Red Rabbit', and he makes a fair attempt at portraying him as both headstrong and out-of-his-own-depth. He wasn't as strong and assured as Baldwin or, especially not, as Harrison Ford's version of the character but then he wasn't supposed to be.Morgan Freeman lends class to any movie and he plays a very smug, cryptic, but, intelligent 'king spook' here. His character is stereotypical and limited in development, but, Freemans charisma and presence make serious criticism difficult. I found Leiv Schreibers performance as John Clark equally impressive despite being given little chance to develop the character. What chances he did get painted an impression of the character that I found to be very close to that found in the Clancy books.In summary condensing a Clancy sized novel into a 2hr screenplay is never an easy job, look at what Battlefield Earth got turned into for the big screen for any proof of that, but what the production team have achieved is an intelligent, fabulous-looking, exciting thriller that leaves you, at the end credits, satisfied with the way you've just spent 2hrs. "},{"Title":"A good thriller that sets a gathering of bangs!","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum of All Fears held me in a good spot throughout the movie. Morgan Freenman did an excellent job like usual in his performance. The movie was just a good thriller. The ending and at the football game just got me blown away. It ended out good and bad at the same time but still was enjoyable and entertaining. I haven't seen this movie in a long time but I can fully remember what all happened in the movie. I liked this movie, I mean I'm not going to buy it or anything but it still was fun and I like these kind of thrilling movies. I recommend it if your looking for an action packed thriller at a movie store.Hedeen's outlook 8/10 *** B  "},{"Title":"Great movie. But why was Ben Affleck in it?","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"        The Sum of All Fears is a great movie based on Tom Clancy's best selling novel. The cast was good except for Mr. Ben Affleck who played the part like he wasn't even trying. Morgan Freeman was great as well as James Cromwell and the rest of the supporting cast. This was a tense movie and was a good adaption of Clancy's novel. Jerry Goldsmith provided a great music score which as usual helps tell the story. Another fault I spotted was the sound effects of the Phalanx cannons on the Aircraft Carrier which sounded fake but that didn't make a bad impact on the movie at all. If they would have chosen somebody other than Ben Affleck to play Jack Ryan, this movie would have been better and possibly would have gotten some attention at the Oscars. "},{"Title":"The Most Boring Tom Clancy Film Yet","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When adapting Tom Clancy's novel The Sum of All Fears for the big screen, Hollywood executives decided to replace the Arab villains in the novel with elderly Nazis in order to avoid causing a terrorist backlash. This decision to randomly swap antagonists results in a strange film with an unconvincing plot that was needlessly muddled.Like Native Americans in old Western movies, the evil, evil Nazis have become a tired cliché employed by unimaginative Hollywood screenwriters. In reality, one imagines the Aryan Nations' annual jamboree in Utah has a dozen attendees, none of which had college degrees or their own teeth. Utah hicks, with the exception of the Mormon Church, tend to be poorly equipped when it comes to grandiose plots for world domination. Then again, if such racist groups actually did pose a threat, Hollywood film-makers would have picked other bad-guys to avoid any terrorist repercussions. As such, the elderly Nazis were chosen as the villains because they are the least dangerous group in the world today. Bizarre, isn't it?Ignoring the unrealistic villains, the film still suffers from many other plot clichés The hero is a young, industrious American who must juggle his responsibilities between country and love. Blech. Tacked upon this is another plot cliché of an ambitious careerist who is struggling for respect by senior policymakers. Ugh. Tacked upon this is another plot cliché of the inexperienced agent thrust into a world of action and adventure. Groan. The viewer wonders, if the subplots are so predictable, what about the overarching main plot?The main plot, still partially intact from the novel, is a reworking of Ian Fleming's Thunderball premise. In this case, a nuclear bomb is stolen from the Israelis by radicals. Ugh. In fact, the evil, evil, evil Nazis -- not neo-Nazis mind you, but traditional Teutonic-accented cardboard-cutout Nazis taken right out of the Indiana Jones' series -- seem to be as equally inept as James Bond villains. Of course, during the requisite plot exposition by the super-villain to a computer camera, we are never told how, after Russia and America have destroyed each other, the Nazis are supposed to magically reappear. It seems that China and Britain have no say about any of this.As for the acting, Ben Affleck makes a truly uninteresting Jack Ryan. He lacks both the charming vulnerability of Harrison Ford (A Clear and Present Danger) and the smug confidence of Alec Baldwin (The Hunt for the Red October). When Morgan Freeman outshines the lead actor, you know things are bad. And as for Liev Schreiber as John Clark? Ouch. Someone fire the casting director!Despite all the jet-delivered rockets, titanic explosions, nuclear warheads, evil, evil, evil Nazis who are about half-a-century late -- did I mention these guys are evil? -- and gigantic disasters, this film is the least exciting, least realistic and least interesting of the Tom Clancy films. Skip it. Rent The Hunt for the Red October instead. "},{"Title":"Suspense, and some realism","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, well, the comments made by others are true, of course. It is strange to see a much younger Jack Ryan. They changed major things from the book. And that the electronic gizmos kept working after the nuclear blast is not very strong. But, what I really liked, was the depiction of the hotline. In many Hollywood movies this is a red phone. In fact, the hotline between Washington and Moscow is a teletype system. Call it a text chat system. This allows for proper translation, and reduces the chance of misinterpretation. It is still tested hourly, usually by operators exchanging recipes or testing each others translation skills. After all these movies with a red phone on the president's desk, finally something that looks like the real thing. "},{"Title":"Gritty and absorbing","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After the success of Hunt for Red October and Patriot Games, theJack Ryan saga went off the rails a little with Clear and PresentDanger in 1994. By the time producer Mace Neufeld decided todust down the series, interest was not that high. Full credit to himthen that he managed to deliver one of the most absorbing thrillersof recent years. Ben Affleck delivers a fine performance as theyounger Ryan while Morgan Freeman is as watchable as ever asthe CIA VIP who takes him under his wing. The direction by PhilAlden Robinson is also excellent, mixing gritty documentary styledrama while nail biting stylistic tension. The supporting cast,including the excellent Ron (Alias) Rifkin and Alan Bates aresplendid while Jerry Goldsmith delivers a stylish score. Well wortha look. "},{"Title":"Blockbuster Garbage","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is based on the Tom Clancy novel, is a big budget blockbuster, and is pretty much worthless. The plot itself has some major flaws, but the main qualm one has is though the actors and scriptwriters are paid millions here, the high budget ironically cheapens the film. The actors speak their lines very quickly and very loudly, Ben Affleck is one of those everyman megastars, but with no real talent to warrant the stardom.Morgan Freeman, a great actor, has made some real junk lately from Deep Impact to this one. And Pragna Desai is obviously more intelligent than the lines she is given Yawn...double yawn. Liev Schreiber was good as usual as a CIA operative.But the most laughable aspect is certain parts of the plot. Okay I'll accept that Israel was dumb enough to let a nuclear bomb get lost in the desert. I'll accept that some Arabs found it and sold it for $400. What I won't accept is that Russian scientists would help Neonazis make the bomb operational, or even the reasoning of the Nazis. Namely to get the Russians and the Americans to fight each other as times have changed. Really? So the Cold War didn't really happen? And the one Nazi with qualms tells the others he is out(what does he think will happen?)But most incredible of all is the top advisor tells the President, If they did this to make a point to stay out of Chechnya... Yes, you heard that right. I mean I know in real life Presidential advisors are dumb, but Russia nukes us to say stay out of Chechnya??!! So the President authorizes full scale nuclear war based on hearsay. God help us if we ever get a Dead Zone President such as that.I understand you have to suspend your disbelief for this stuff, but it should have some semblance of reality.Even the special effects are disappointing, as the blast is shown for about one minute, and most of it is a helicopter crashing in slow motion and an obviously fake mushroom cloud. "},{"Title":"It could have been so much better","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a fan of the Clancy novels I was looking forward to seeing this movie. I am pleased to say that I only wasted my money on a rented dvd.The book is great.  And there's the rub, if you enjoyed the book the film will be an immense let down.  In fact you'd be forgiven for thinking that perhaps there's another Tom Clancy and another completely different Sum of All Fears.Harrison Ford was a quite believable Jack Ryan.  Ben Affleck could be Jack's son!  Where has Jack's wife (and children) got to?  In this movie he's only just started dating Cathy.  Why has Baltimore replaced Denver? Why is Fowler at the game, rather than Camp David?Of course if you have not read the book, the movie will probably be broadly acceptable.   "},{"Title":"Garbage, total sellout garbage","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To start with, I am a Tom Clancy fan, I have been for years. I have actually met Secret Service agents and confirmed that his info tends to be rather accurate. Jack Ryan is a great character, but this movie was junk.When I heard this movie was coming out, I was excited. I had thoroughly enjoyed the book, and thought they couldn't possibly screw this up at all. Then I read a brief synopsis. Suddenly, in the post-9/11 era, when fanatic muslims would usually be the villain of choice, anyway, somebody decides to jump on the P.C. bandwagon, and changes the bad guys to redneck white supremacists. I was floored. I can understand rewriting certain parts of a storyline, but completely switching the polarity of the bad guys is just silly. I finally decided to see the movie when it came out on DVD, and was even more disappointed. Suddenly Jack Ryan is just starting out at the CIA as an analyst? Wasn't that back around 'Hunt For Red October'? He hasn't even gotten married yet? His wife suspecting him of cheating was a major part of the plot. How can she suspect him of cheating if she hasn't even married him yet? This story takes place AFTER 'Clear and Present Danger', yet we have all these inconsistencies? I just can't understand why this movie got such a high rating in the first place... To me, this was a sellout from the beginning, and I can't believe Clancy gave his blessing on this. If he felt that Harrison Ford was getting too old, there was much more he could have done, and still saved the integrity of the series. Ben Affleck could play a late-twenties/early-thirties hero with no problem, but instead we get an obvious 'money-grab' by hiring the young actor and playing the story to a younger crowd. Who cares that Jack Ryan met 'Mr. Clark' ages ago, and he and Ding Chavez are actually Ryan's bodyguards by this point? And by the way, how come Jack Ryan's 'wireless internet' PDA was working after 1 a nuclear blast that would have most likely caused an EMP blast knocking out such silly things as cell-phone towers?, and 2 How was it connecting to the internet with no wireless plug in card or anything to make an ordinary PDA bluetooth compatible? Personally, I would give this movie a 1. "},{"Title":"Flat Unexciting","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this to be a flat unexciting movie b/c I was never convinced of the drama. While Ben Aflick did a good job of acting he failed to convince me of the immediacy of the moment. Morgan Freeman was convincing as the DCI, but his part wasn't large enough to carry the whole movie.The cast was mostly weak b/c of the casting of the President and his staff. 6/10- Zafoid "}{"Title":"Great","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Finally a very great movie! From beginning to the end it was never boring and my expectations were met. The story keeps you guessing all the time what happens next. The mix of adventure, espionage, terrorism and war was well timed with much suspense in this film.Sometimes I was shocked how near we are today from such an event when everywhere in the arab countries terrorists attacks with suicide bombs or just think to the 11th September 2001.It is a real edge-of-your-seat thriller. Morgan Freeman, James Cromwell, Ben Affleck and the other actors fulfilled a very good job. Congratulations to the director and to all the stuff. The special effects were very real and the picture was very nice. The russian music from Jerry Goldsmith remembered me the one of AIR FORCE ONE that I highly recommend too. If you liked TSOAF watch THE PEACEMAKER, BROKEN ARROW, ATOMIC TRAIN, COLLATERAL DAMAGE, PATRIOT GAMES or all the James Bond-Series.8,5/10.  "},{"Title":"Didn't liked it at first...","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...maybe it was because I was expecting another Harrison Ford like Jack Ryan movie. But then I saw the movie again...The story is disturbing realistic which is a very big plus. There's nothing in the movie that couldn't really happen today or tomorrow.I admit that Ben Affleck wouldn't have been my first choice as young Dr. Ryan (not even my second of third) however I must also admit that he actually does a nice job, something I didn't expected. The other actors are also fine, especially James Cromwell (President Fowler) and Ciarán Hinds (President Nemerov)Visually the movie looks great. There's a nice atmosphere throughout the whole movie and some outstanding special effects. Jerry Goldsmith delivers a surprising good soundtrack (especially the beginning is superb!)The first halve of the movie is only average and nothing special with some weak action and a almost predictable story. The second halve however makes up a lot. The second halve of the movie can be described as Dr. Strangelove like where the 2 biggest world leaders have the faith of the world in their hands. Another big plus is that it shows the story from both the American and Russian side with Jack Ryan in the middle trying to prevent a nuclear war between the both countries. Like I said before it's extremely realistic, a good example of this is the scene in Air Force One right after the nuclear explosion, all the people on board are in panic and talking at the same time just like it would happen in real life.At first my opinion was that the movie lacked a villain, all the villains in the movie are minor characters and everything they do seems to be happening in the background of the movie. Then I realized that the events in the movie are already shocking and disturbing enough and that there aren't any villains needed at all.The movie is recommendable for everybody that want to see a realistic movie with a good quick pace and some nice special effects and dialog.At first I would have rated it 6/10 however I now rate it a8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Enjoyed the movie.  Liked it better than Games and Danger","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was a generally good movie.  I was not looking forward to another Ben Affleck plays the hero movie, but I was pleasantly surprised by his ability to play Young Jack Ryan.  He seemed to follow a guideline that Harrison Ford layed out for the older version in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger, with his calm but serious responses to some serious situations (e.g. the lab in the Ukraine where he saves the guards' lives and when he was on the hotline to the russian government), but I am not sure it was all that close to Alec Baldwin's Jack Ryan in Hunt for Red October, for which I am not disapointed.  It was good to see a young Jack Ryan, just developing his romance with Kathy, or is it Cathy?  The youthful attitude and inexperience with the government policies and CIA attitude was enjoyable and refreshing, but Ryan's determination to stand up for what he believed, and his knack for taking responsibility was also good to see upheld.The action scenes were not over the top, which was a very welcome breath of fresh air to a viewer who is tired of the current trend of pure adrenaline and no brains in new movies.  I am not sure how close the movie is to the book, and I am glad for that as well, since knowing has reduced my enjoyment for many movies, including Spiderman and Jurassic Park.  Everyone does a good job in their roles in the movie, most especially Morgan Freeman, who seems genuinely likeable, although you know that his is one role that the american people hate.  The Man.  I am not sure Cromwell's performance is up to par with the rest of the cast.  His attempt to portray the rage filled president who survived a nuclear attack on Baltimore seemed like he was acting, which is not a good thing for an actor.  He is better as the calm, collected, and sinister villain he played in L.A. Confidential.The movie does have a very realistic background and a very believable plot, in theory.  I am not sure about the half-life for the plutonium that came from Savannah River in 1968. but I know that the reason we can make nuclear bombs is because the materials we use are unstable and decay quickly. Maybe that is why the investigators in the movie said the explosion was much smaller than Hiroshima.  Also, the effect that dealing with the bomb had on the original finder of it was even taken into account in the investigation for those responsible for the attack when it is revealed that the finder has radiation sickness.  The probability that the governments will act in such a way in such a time of crisis is very likely, given history.  Of course, I am referring to the cuban missile crisis when the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. almost went into nuclear war over the ability to strike against us.  I imagine war would happen if a nuclear bomb actually was detonated on U.S. soil, even if it was thirty years later. Governments still act the same way. The special effects were good, and not all obvious, and the sound was good. I've already said the casting was very good, and the plot was believable and enjoyable.  A very good movie, I have to admit. I thought that the time seemed to pass consistantly, and I didn't get bored, which I had done many times watching all other Ryan movies, even though I liked them.  "},{"Title":"Very spotty and uneven","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Liked Morgan Freeman, James Cromwell, Alan Bates and Ciaran Hinds. Warning ***minor spoilers*** Had trouble with Ben Affleck in the role of Ryan, some of it not his fault as he laboured from an unbelievable script and a totally laughable ending where he is negotiating with the Russian Premier against the instructions of the US President. One man saves the world again and knows it all in spite of all the intelligence around him.  Home Alone for grownups. Some of the characters were so thinly drawn as to be tissue paper, the role of the girlfriend for one who was supposedly a doctor. Just arm candy for Ryan as not one intelligent thing comes out of her mouth apart from disbelief at his job. Also would not all these people around Baltimore be suffering from nuclear burns and like - um - cancer??? This was never addressed.  And the terrorists like hung around the stadium after the event?  And everything like fits together in a neat trail? 6 out of 10. Glad I did not pay to see it. "},{"Title":"Even better on DVD.","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum Of All Fears was one of best movies released during the summer of 2002.  This cautionary tale based on a novel by Tom Clancy deals with the possibility of a nuclear bomb destroying a US city.  Once again, the US's survival is in the hands of CIA operative Jack Ryan.This film in now available on DVD and it has some great features.  The feature I enjoy the most is the commentary audio with director Phil Alden Robinson and Author Tom Clancy.  Clancy is brilliant.  He is so straight forward and he gives a unique prospective that makes the movie even more understandable.  He shows the audience what is real and what is not about the movie.  I could listen to him all day.  Another feature is a featurette with the actors who are in the movie.  They give insight to how they got or were offered their parts in the movie and how they fit in the story.  The Sum Of All Fears DVD doesn't have a lot of features, but the features it has are real good.  They make a good film even better.     "},{"Title":"Best of the Jack Ryan movies so far","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not a huge fan of Clancy's Jack Ryan movies, but this one is the best I've seen so far. I usually watch them when the come on TV, but I got the DVD for this and have enjoyed it every time I've watched it. Some have criticized its plot as being somewhat out of sync with current events, but I found it to be very plausible - perhaps TOO plausible for comfort.I would make a few changes, however. Mainly, rather than reprise Jack Ryan as a younger man, why not simply introduce another character? The nuclear explosion scene is chilling in its realism.  "},{"Title":"SAVE YOUR MONEY, GO TO A PETTING ZOO","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS DO NOT PROCEED IF YOU WANT TO LOSE TWO HOURS OF YOUR LIFE.First off I want two hours of my life back.  I am an avid Tom Clancy fan, and Tom Clancy's alter ego Jack Ryan.  I do not understand Hollywood's attraction to Ben Affleck; he is an overrated cheba monkey who was lucky to befriend Matt Damon.  Ben Lopez I mean Affleck's last great work was playing O'Banyon in Dazed and Confused.  Maybe Jack Ryan should paddle people now.Second, I have read Tom Clancy's other books, but have not read Sum of All Fears.  If the movie is supposed to take place before Ryan gets married, why is everything else in present time, yet we are ten-fifteen years earlier in his career?  What happened to the fact he graduated from the naval academy, if this is still the case Ben Lopez portrays Ryan as a whinny overly shy third grader and not someone who shows the discipline of an individual who spent threes years in a military academy and spent the fourth completing his degree in a hospital bed.  Last time I checked most people who overcome great adversity such as a helicopter crash aren't whinny yuppie b*****ds. And did I mention that Jack Ryan's balls shrank, and when did his wife become a model?  Did anyone notice that all the doctors in her hospital were beautiful people?Third, the director should be rolled into a rug beaten and then dropped off at a carnival next to the Chimpanzee pen, because he should be directing the chimp's dancing and not a Tom Clancy piece.  When is Hollywood going to realize every action movie doesn't have to be the matrix with hundreds of slow motion shots, and off color film.  Just tell the damn story, too many special effects is like a salesman who won't shut up, he's just hiding that fact he doesn't have the skill to sell.Fourth, Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan?  He's about as good as Timothy Dalton. The Actor who played Capt. Winters in Band of Brothers would have been a perfect fit for Jack Ryan.I just can't stand the saturation of the Mocha Latte super sized, crap that is coming out of Hollywood.  It upsets me, maybe its just a clear indication that most of my generation just values beautiful people, and bad plots. Hey maybe Emminem could be Jack Ryan, and Doctor Dre can be the President next time, and Brittany Spears can be Catherine Ryan.  Am I bitter about attractive people, no I'm bitter I spent $4.95 on pay per view, and lost two hours of my life.  "},{"Title":"Better than expected (warning, possible spoilers)","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I shied away from the theatrical release and waited for video, and I'm sorry now I didn't see it in the theaters. Ben Affleck's Jack Ryan is a bit too young and cocky -- any stint in the Marines, as Ryan is supposed to have, would have knocked that out of him years before he ever saw the inside of the CIA. (The fact that we have a new/young Jack Ryan who hasn't lived/aged consistently with previous film releases didn't bother me at all.) That said, I thought the story was gripping and suspenseful, and I was delighted that the story eschewed the magical James Bond nuclear rescue in favor of portraying the what-if of a genuine nuclear disaster.I though Liev Schrieber was terrific (give this guy a James Bond-type series!!) as was Michael Byrne (I hope I got the right character in mind the old advisor to the Russian Premier, Grushkov, who turns out to be 'Spinnaker' in the end). Watching him throughout, I was constantly in mind of former NSA head Brent Scowcroft, knowing where all the bodies are buried, probably because he buried them there. "},{"Title":"A Sobering Meditation on the State of Our World Today","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We all want to think that the world in which we live is safe and secure, that bad things only happen to the `other' guy and that evil-doers always get their just deserts.  The reality of it, however, is that we all live in glass houses built on foundations anchored in the shifting sands of happenstance, and a `reality check,' courtesy of the entertainment medium of film is not a thing to be taken lightly, discounted or dismissed out-of-hand.  `The Sum of All Fears,' directed by Phil Alden Robinson, is a cautionary tale that is thought provoking and all too valid, especially in the wake of 9/11.  As a film, it may have some minor flaws and the story is certainly disconcerting, but in light of recent events in America, as well as around the world, it makes us aware of the importance of being ever vigilant, and it's important in that it reminds us of things that must not be forgotten lest they be repeated, just as a film like `Schindler's List' will forever be a kind of safeguard against another Holocaust.  A single film may on it's own be just another brick in the wall, but if filmmakers persist, eventually that wall will perhaps become a kind of fortress that may help prevent a repetition of the blunders and crimes perpetrated throughout the history of the world.  The screenplay was adapted by Paul Attanasio and Daniel Pyne from the novel by Tom Clancy; the story is a proposition of what could happen if a nuclear bomb fell into the wrong hands, how the preeminent governments of the world would respond and what the outcome would mean to the average citizen living in the Ukraine or in Podunk, U.S.A.  It's a hypothetical situation that, quite frankly, a few years ago would've been perceived by most as being as close to reality as `The Martian Chronicles.'  But not anymore.  Looking beyond the drama of the story and the way it's presented, the actual events depicted here are almost too close for comfort and will no doubt evoke a sense of denial in many viewers who still refuse to accept the state of the world as it is today.  The film itself is, of course, a big budget, Hollywood production-- which in not a BAD thing-- but as such the drama is a bit stiff and stilted at times, and the presentation by director Robinson lacks originality and imagination; too often we see exactly what we expect (when a member of the Russian cadre, for example, demurs to the cold reality of their plan and announces his withdrawal, we know that he's signed his own death warrant.  Seeing him garroted by the silent, hulking henchman before he reaches the door is anticlimactic; it would have been entirely more effective had Robinson taken a page from David Lean's Book and left it up to the viewer's imagination).  But the performances are to the last actor solid and convincing, and late in the film the story takes a decidedly unexpected turn that allows for a suspenseful climax; after a point you can speculate as to the final outcome, but you cannot know absolutely until the very end.  As Confucius (or was it Yogi?) once said, It ain't over till it's over.The real strength of the film, though, lies in the very honest depiction of the events and the way they play out, from the unimaginable success of the terrorists to the confusion, uncertainty and irresolution of those in power.  Initially, the ease with which much of what happens is seemingly effected may evoke a reaction of disbelief and incredulity; but in retrospect, in reality this is more than likely exactly the way such things would happen.  But we're conditioned by not only by what we've seen in other movies (James Bond ALWAYS saves the day, doesn't he?), but by what society tells us is so and by what we WANT to believe.  Al-Qaida, however, is real; 9/11 is real.  It's just not something we want to acknowledge, just as we do not want to believe that a handful of people control the destiny of the entire world, including a leader like this film's President Fowler (James Cromwell), who excels at waving to fans at a football game, talking tough and telling the people what they want to hear, but just may be clueless, ineffective and governed by personal agenda behind closed doors.  Which is precisely what this film points out in terms that are at once subtle and overt.As Jack Ryan, Ben Affleck gives an acceptable performance, and though he's convincing he lacks the intensity of his predecessor in the role, Harrison Ford, or even that of Alec Baldwin, who first created the character in 1990's `The Hunt for Red October.'  Buy this is a younger Jack Ryan, new to the C.I.A. and not yet married, which may provoke some confusion in fans of this series, as on one hand this story predates `October,' and yet the events seem to reflect more recent incidents, subsequent to all that happened in the first three `Ryan' films.  But taken as a separate entity, this film is contextually intact and stands on it's own; just be prepared to view it as an independent entry in the series with a value that supersedes any sequential necessity.The most notable performances are turned in by Morgan Freeman (Cabot) Liev Schreiber (Clark), Philip Baker Hall (Defense Secretary Becker) and Ron Rifkin (Owens).This is the kind of film that many viewers will subconsciously attempt to distance themselves from emotionally, and will take great delight in concentrating on minor technical flaws as it will enable them to sleep a little easier at night.  But in the final analysis, `The Sum of All Fears' says something about who we are, `where' we are and the state of the world in which we live today; things we would probably rather not contemplate, but nevertheless, must.              "},{"Title":"Hmmmmmmmmm","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Possible SPOILERS below! Several of Tom Clancy's novels centered around Jack Ryan have been made into films and I think that most of us are accustomed to an older, already married (with children) Jack Ryan. To all of a sudden have Ryan 15 years younger and single is, well, difficult....for me, anyway. Ben Affleck does OK as Jack Ryan, but as I said, he's so YOUNG. Anyway, enough of my hangups. The film is made around a very good story (but has Tom Clancy ever written a bad story?), with sufficient twists to keep most anyone interested. The execution of the story itself is pretty fair except for the SFX, especially during the missile attack on the US carrier. That didn't look real at all. Nor did the SFX after the nuclear blast. The best acting job of this film was James Cromwell as President Fowler. He played his part brilliantly. Morgan Freeman did well as DCI William Cabot. I gave it a 6. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good (spoilers, blah blah blah)","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it was because I wasn't expecting much, but I found myself pleasantly surprised by this film.  As many others have already pointed out, the villains of the book are considerably safer in the movie, so for the purpose of my review, I'll ignore that.Even without that change, this film is flawed.  Most of it's glaring flaws have already been pointed out, like how the nurse survives what happens, a number of things that the governments do and don't do, and the silly ending. These are all obvious, and obviously added out of simplicity's sake, to make the film easy to understand for the naive among us, and for a happy ending.  While I do believe these flaws are obvious and not necessarily necessary, I forgive them because there is too much that's good about Sum.The cast, including Ben Affleck, was very good.  I almost can't believe how much restraint Affleck showed in portraying Jack Ryan.  There was really very little of the pompous and arrogant prick that Ben Affleck seems to play in every other film.  A lot of the credit goes to the screenwriter(s) who kept intellegent words coming out of his mouth.  Even the scenes where Affleck had to get excited, like when he has to convince the Department of Defense to let him talk to the President, don't seem like the overpronounced auditioning for a part in the community theatre production of Bus Stop that he usually gives us.James Cromwell, despite the villainous look I can't shake (LA Confidential), plays a terrific and emotional president.  I loved the human traits exhibited by his swearing and ranting to and with the other members of his inner circle.  It's refreshing to see realistic outbursts of emotion rather than calm and detached reason that we usually see in these situations.  Liev Schrieber (and many of the other supporting actors in this film) is really a throwback to the studio system days where great character actors were as important to great films as the leads were (think Casablanca).  Given the right material here, Schrieber is fun as hell to watch and owns every scene he's in.  Morgan Freeman, aside from his silly death scene, is solid in a role that should have been bigger.Tom Clancy serves as author of the original material and as executive producer, so what I'm sure is a great deal of expertise is not lost from print to celluloid.  Of course, I don't know the first thing about the inner INNER workings of the government (and neither do you).  Clancy may not know too much more, but he at least seems to know considerably more than the average hack in Hollywood that writes subject matter similar to this.  In other words, the inner workings seem much more realistic than the average film of this genre.  A lot of the cliches are not present in Sum, and those that are are not lingered upon.  The average Hollywood hack would have written a scene where Affleck is pounding the bottle after Freeman's death, asking himself Why, Why!!??  The direction and cinematography shined throughout.  They were creative, interesting, and original (at times) without OVERLY TRYING to be those things.I do question the filmmakers' use of the montage for the justice of the perpetrators in the end.  I wonder if they got Coppola's permission to rip that off, by the way?  In the Godfather films, that montage of death for the enemies works because 1) they are relatively insignificant enemies in the first place (others will easily take their place) and 2) The Godfather films are not about action and plot nearly as they are about family and characters.  In Sum, they've written a whole movie around the actions of these villains and the consequences of their actions.  A more satisfying resolution is needed.All in all, a very enjoyable film, I thought.  I would have liked to see it a little bit longer, mainly to see more of the aftermath of the disaster because it was so well done.  But in a way, I'm almost glad they kept it to a minimum because that would be the typical thing to show.  Lots of crying, homes and businesses destroyed, CNN reports moving the story along.  The kind of crap we saw in Deep Impact.Again, flawed, but too much good to not give it a solid.......B+ "},{"Title":"Another Near-Perfect Transition of a Clancy Book-to-Film","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I discovered after quite a number of years another Tom Clancy novel of political and international intrigue had made its way to the big screen, I was ecstatic, in no small measure by the fact The Sum of All Fears was one of my most favorite by Clancy.  The book was fast-paced and held my attention raptly through its five-hundred-odd pages from start to finish. Naturally, I wanted to see how the movie compared to the book, so off I went.The movie's first few minutes followed the book's events letter-perfect. However, I expected there would be some major changed, given the great political upheavals that had occurred in the world since the novel's initial release.  For one thing (and no small thing), events in the book set in certain Cold War-Era hotspots, such as Berlin, were no longer viable.  The fall of the Soviet Union did leave some pretty significant plot holes for the movie to fill in light of the book.  I think they did so nicely, up to, and including the ironic (and darkly-humorous) placement of a major plot device in the movie.  Overall, I think the basic tone of the novel was captured on-film and done well, like the earlier efforts of Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games, and Clear and Present Danger.My principle grievance with the film makers was with the handling of the story's principle protagonist, Jack Ryan. Played adequately (but by no means memorably) by Ben Affleck, he was portrayed in the movie as being very young, green and somewhat unsure and cocksure at the same time; quite a letdown from Harrison Ford's forrays as Ryan in the previous two films. In the novel, however, Jack Ryan was much older and experienced in his position in the CIA (as Sum is further down the timeline than the previous two films' novel bases).  It's clear the moviemaker's intent was to attract a younger audience to the movie by casting Affleck, but it was a significant turn from the novel's version of events by making Ryan the action hero of the story.  Other than that, the movie stands quite well on its own for those who never read the book.Good performances by Morgan Freeman and James Cromwell also made the movie worth a look, and a rental or two.  Overall I thought this movie the most satisfying of the year and one of the very few to live up to the billing in the light of the other so-called blockbuster let-downs of the summer.I look foreward to more Clancy Novels being brought to the big screen at least as competently as this one. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, yet not flawless","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I actually love this movie for what it is. It is a realistic thriller which tells a fascinating story of what will happen if USA and Soviet turn against each other and start a nuclear war. Yes we have seen films with theese storylines before, but I think that this one is quite unique, with the nuclear bomb actually exploding for real. Many other movies break up and solves the problems just in time to save the world from the nuclear bomb, but SOAF actually tells the story of how impossible it is to track down the bomb in time.A few things with the movie could surely have been done better, but hey, if the movie is fascinating, I'm fascinated, and the flaws easily disappear in the story. Things like Ryan surviving both this and that, the more or less not so impressive deaths of certain characters which I will not name to ruin the film for you and the fact that the Israeli can completely forget a nuclear bomb in the middle of the desert does not affect the completeness of the movie for me.This is definelity a good 8 or a minor 9. Way to go Clancy!PS! This movie should not be seen like I want to see it because it's Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan, but try to forget some of the flaws there are in this character from the other Jack Ryan movies. "},{"Title":"Worst Film Ever","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Its A Shame That IMDb's Votes Can Go No Lower Than 1.  That Film Only Just Ranks Above, Deep Impact, And Jurassic Park 2 as The Worst Film Ever.Poorly Acted, And Poor Script.  I Wish I Had stayed At Home I Really Do. "},{"Title":"The Franchise Takes a Turn for the Better","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *****Spoilers*******Recasting Jack Ryan was an excellent idea. Not just the replacement of Harrison Ford with Ben Afleck, but also in recasting the Jack Ryan character as a young, inexperienced, low-ranking CIA employee. In the The Sum of All Fears, Jack isn't even a field agent, and a far cry from the uber-agent the Harrison Ford character had become.  Very good, and somewhat against the grain for all too many action adventure heroes today. I like my characters believable and wince when they defy the laws of physics.Morgan Freeman is also very good as Jack's CIA mentor as he, Jack, and the agency try to make sense of sudden Russian belligerence and apparent acts of war. But who's really behind it? And who has the missing Israeli nuclear bomb? The first 2/3 of the movie is gripping as unseen hands maneuver Russia and America toward nuclear annihilation. But after the attack on Baltimore, the movie begins to drift into unreality. Hollywood must have felt that the ending had to be upbeat, so Jack, while not quite a superman, surely becomes the luckiest CIA employee ever. He's abetted by heretofore cunning terrorists who suddenly lose their collective IQs. And changing the terrorists from the Arabs of the novel into European neo-fascists is a blatant cop-out to political correctness, is totally unbelievable, and an act of artistic cowardice.The Sum of All Fears is an effective popcorn movie, and moves the Jack Ryan franchise in the right direction. My only hope is that the next director/screenwriter has more guts.  "},{"Title":"** 1/2 out of ****","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Substandard Clancy thriller lacks both charisma of Harrison Ford and the political intrigue found in other efforts in the series.  Affleck plays his standard performance without standing out.  Some good special effects, and some interest through the first half of the movie or so, but towards the end it becomes muddled and uninteresting, and falls into a standard happily ever after ending that resolves everything nicely.  Good for some entertainment, but definitely the worst of the series. "},{"Title":"one half of a pretty good thriller","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jack Ryan thriller chronicles the young analyst in his early days as a new, inexperienced CIA operative hoping to make a big impression with his superiors. An unexpected terrorist strike occurs on American soil and the perpetrator is thought to be the new President of Russia. Ryan is the only one who knows the truth, and races to try and resolve the crisis before a war can begin between the United States and Russia and potentially destroy both nations. Slow at first, with a story that would probably falter under close scrutiny, but it holds your interest and provides plenty of tension and excitement in its second half. Imperfect material that's elevated by a first-rate cast. **½ "},{"Title":"Racist, propagandist ... typical American film","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We are again told that if your an American, and an Israeli your a good person, while if your and Arab your stupid, greedy and heartless, and if your Russian you are bomb-happy and care nothing for the lives of others.The movie is another propagandist film that again tells us how brave the Israelis and Americans are and how bad and naughty the Arabs and Russians are.I went out of the film thinking how many times do the American's need to reinforce in our minds on how bad Arabs are. It was an unthoughtful, uncaring, propagandist film that runs the same way as `Behind Enemy Lines', `Black Hawk Down' and all those American movies were the Muslims, Russians, Germans are the bad guys and the Americans are the one trying to keep peace.The film starts of with them saying how the Syrians launched a surprise attack on the Israelis, and how they bravely decided to retaliate with one bomb. The plane goes down and crashes into the sand. The movie then shows a couple of Egyptians finding the bomb, and deciding to sell it, because as we are shown Arabs are greedy for money and have no sense to report the bomb to the government. They send it to be sold, and the person buying it knows its worth, but sells it for less. He tells the man that he will give him four hundred dollars for the loss of his son, who died between the 1972, and guess what the man smiles at him. So again, Arabs are heartless as they will be happy to accept four hundred dollars for the loss of ones son.While the good, innocent guys are trying to maintain peace, by going to Russia and telling the president that there concern is for peace, never knowing that a bomb has been sent to their country.These films are so predictable, it's not funny. I am sure more will come out, from the result of September 11th on how bad Muslims are.  "},{"Title":"Effective thriller","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I suppose that, if James Bond can be portrayed by five actors, Tom Clancy's CIA agent Jack Ryan can be played by three (but in the space of just four films?). Following Alec Baldwin and Harrison Ford, we now have the much younger, lantern-jawed Ben Affleck relying more on his command of intelligence than his physical prowess.After the horrific events of September 11, the idea of a nuclear device exploding in an American city is not beyond the realm of imagination, but would the Americans really suspect the Russians? In fact, the bad guys are portrayed like cardboard characters from an early Bond movie.However, if one can suspend one's critical faculties over the plot, the film still manages to be an effective thriller, aided by some good performances - especially from the consummate Morgan Freeman as Head of the Agency - a considerable deployment of military hardware and some exciting photography. "},{"Title":"Too September 11th conscious","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThough the central themes and some of the main characters remain in tact,those who have read the book to TSOAF by Tom Clancy will notice a lot is different in the film.Which did,undeniably,bear quite a huge resemblance to the terrible events of September 11th.But it has sent the film version quite totally off course.It was a mistake to replace Harrison Ford with Ben Affleck.The original story didn't require Jack Ryan to be younger,and although they said Ford was too old to be playing the title role,he can still headbill films like K-19The Widowmaker.And,in comparison to the book,most of the characters are very poorly developed ,and are never given very clear motivations for their actions.And the explosion is very underwhelming,and has a rushed look to it.If you read and enjoyed the book,do go and see how the film version looks just to satisfy your curiosity.Just don't expect it to be anything like the book.Or as satisfying.** "}{"Title":"Pearl Harbor all over again. the worst film of the year so far * out of five","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Though not quite as bad as Pearl Harbor this is very close. and that is saying something. This truly horrendous. Only Morgan Freeman manages to give a remotley good performence. He is a great actor but he could play this character in his sleep. Cheesy, Sentimental, boring crud. * out of five "},{"Title":"Can One Man Save the World - Again?","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `The Sum of All Fears' raises the question of just how appropriate it is to use a subject like global nuclear warfare as window dressing for what is, essentially, a pretty run-of-the-mill action/adventure melodrama.  No subject matter is, of course, off limits when it comes to filmmaking &#150; and that includes nuclear annihilation &#150; but one can at least demand that the context and the treatment it receives be commensurate with the gravity of that subject.  (One need only look back to 1983's `Testament' to see how this can indeed be done successfully).Even putting aside the questionable nature of the material, `The Sum of All Fears' turns out to be a pretty weak action film overall, surprisingly lacking in tension and suspense despite the high stakes nature of its premise.  It's November 2002, and some higher-ups in the American government have discovered that a rogue nuclear missile is out there somewhere, most likely developed and planted by the quickly de-stabilizing Russian government.  Or was it?  Jack Ryan, that erstwhile hero of many of John Clancy's most popular novels, is the lone holdout who firmly believes that the bomb is NOT the work of the Russians but rather of some splinter terrorist group bent on setting off the device for their own nefarious purposes.Ask not how Jack Ryan, in his current incarnation in the form of young Ben Affleck, has managed to shave a few decades off his age (we should all learn that secret).  What is amazing is that he seems to have regressed in stature as well.  In fact, for most of the film, Ryan seems like a wide-eyed schoolboy, completely incapable of holding his own with all the heavyweights in which he comes into contact.  Affleck, who managed to do some actual acting in the recent `Changing Lanes,' is here reduced to a mere cipher, registering little more than openmouthed insipidity and rendering dull, emotionless line readings in the face of some pretty bland dialogue.  Despite the fact that he somehow manages to save the world (I thought Chris Rock did that just a few weeks ago in `Bad Company'), Ryan never establishes a core of gravitas that might make his character even slightly believable.  He is, in short, a mere bantamweight hero.The first half of the film suffers greatly from the plodding direction of Phil Alden Robinson, whose style consists in having characters sit around in dark rooms talking to one another.  This is a particularly deadly technique when done in a wide screen format, since the effect of all those overblown close-ups coming one after another is to render the film strangely lumbering and static.  Things pick up a bit in the second half, but the filmmakers are forced to level an entire American city to accomplish it.  And even here, the pivotal scene in the film feels oddly truncated and aborted (one suspects that this depiction of urban destruction might have originally been longer and more elaborate but that sensitivity to the fears and emotions generated by the real life events of the past year may have encouraged the filmmakers to downplay it.  I know the trailer appeared more graphic).When all is said and done, there just doesn't seem to be all that much urgency to anything that happens in `The Sum of All Fears,' which is ludicrous considering the subject matter with which it is dealing.  This tone is particularly egregious in the final scene, a devil-may-care, happy-go-lucky conclusion that reminds us that Hollywood is never at a loss to find ways of demeaning even the most grave and sensitive of material.  In `The Sum of All Fears,' even the possibility of the end of the world through mutually assured self-destruction turns out to be a yawner.  "},{"Title":"This movie was TERRIBLE!!!!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I read the book The Sum of All Fears by Tom Clncy and it was amazing!! It was definitely one of my favorite books. Tom Clancy is an amazing author and I love to read his work. So I was obviously appalled by the fact that Tom Clancy would allow this terrible movie to carry the same title as his amazing novel. The movie did not go by the book at all. I mean, Jack Ryan was married with two children and the Deputy Director of the CIA in the book and Morgan Freemans characters name was Marcus. They couldn't even keep simple facts like that in the movie. John Clark was Jack Ryans driver and close friend, not some man Ryan went to Russia to assist. President Fowler did not have a wife and was actually having an affair with his National Security Advisor Liz Elliott in the book. There was no mention of the Vatican Treay or of the trade problems with Japan. Details suc as this defined his excellent novel and Hollywood took it and destroyed it. Even if I had not read the book, I still would have thought it was a terrible movie. It was hard to follow and just overall the worst movie I have ever seen. I am a HUGE fan of Ben Afflect, but even he could not save the movie. I also do not think that he was the best choice to replace Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan. I enjoy reading Tom Clancy novels and I hope that next time a movie is made based on a Tom Clancy book that it is based more closely to the book. Tom Clancy is very creative and while I would NOT RECOMMEND any one see the movie, I would recommend the read the book. But then again, they always say the the book is always a million times better than the book.  "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman SUMS this up for me.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It was a thinking man's movie and if you don't pay close attention during every line of this movie, you will be lost.  It's a good movie where Ben plays a spy and Freeman plays a spy as well but with more experience.  It has to do with some Nazi sympathy folks pitting the US and RUSSIA against eachother.  There is a scene where a nuke goes off in BALTIMORE and blows away the entire city pretty much.  That was an intense scene and reminds us of how dangerously close we may be to such an even with all this terrorist stuff going on.  I feel that the movie was a good two hours well spent.  It makes me want to see Patriot Games and that other one with Alec Baldwin as the spy.  I have seen neither.  As far as Ben goes, I can take him or leave him.  He kind of bugs me but he plays the part well.  The tension between Russia and the US is very realistic and the man who plays the Russian president is very convincing as a Russian leader who commands respect and who we know is really a good guy deep down inside.  I would suggest seeing this movie as it is very realistic and very well acted thanks to MORGAN Freeman. "},{"Title":"Sum of All Cold War Fantasies","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In this movie, Tom Clancy and his associates have let their imaginations run wild.  For this type of film to work, the plot and the situations have to be believable.  Not so.  Had the movie stayed with terrorists and left the Cold War buried, all might have worked.  Also Harrison Ford is sorely missed. Since the action takes place today, why have a young Jack Ryan?  Not a turkey but not what it should be either. "},{"Title":"A butchered waste of time, and to think Tom Clancy was executive producer","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While the film was well put together,  it is clearly obvious this film was made  for all of the wrong reasons. The producers  simply wanted to put Ben Affleck in front  of the screen to try and get some money.  I'm appalled Tom Clancy let the series  take this turn. Instead of progressing after Clear and PresentDanger, he allowed the series to be  butchered for the sake of catering to an  inferior actor. Jack Ryan magically had  no wife or family, suddenly a plebe within  the confines of the CIA again, and the  producers expect no one to notice! The  football team they even used was terrible  and stupid looking (why did they play in  a dome when there is a football field  visible in some of the sweeping helicopter  shops). Anyway, all of the really good  characters such as Liev Schrieber, Philip  Baker Hall, James Cromwell and Morgan  Freeman were all subjected to secondary  status for the sake of Affleck, who doesn't  deserve a role like this. While I liked this  film, I will give it a 6/10 for the fact Affleck  was his usual, terrible self. His brother  Casey must be wondering what he did  in a previous lifetime to instill such praise  for the clearly inferior actor. "},{"Title":"May have minor flaws,but it packs a whallop","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Its been eight years since the last Tom Clancy novel turned movie Clear and Present Danger,to feature the character of hotshot CIA informant Jack Ryan. This late-blooming entry shows that none of the luster has worn off the series;in fact,as far as spy games go,the Jack Ryan line has largely proven to be immensely more enjoyable than the recent 007 adventures of James Bond which stars Pierce Brosnan. In the role previous essayed by Harrison Ford(who starred in the last two from the early and mid-90's Patriot Games,and Clear and Present Danger),and Alec Baldwin(who starred in the first Tom Clancy movie The Hunt For Red October,which was made in the 80's during the final days of the Reagan Administration),Ben Affleck takes over the role as a younger,more naive Jack Ryan,an CIA analyst who's ordered by the company director(Morgan Freeman,who takes over the James Earl Jones character in which Jones play in all three films)to lend his expertise to a matter in which American-Russian tensions could possibly lead to World War III. Ryan figures out that the real villains in ther matter at hand belong to a third party(neo-Nazis to be exact)yet he has his hands full trying to convince his superiors of this fact before events turned explosive. Working from a script by Paul Attanasio and Daniel Pyne,director Phil Alden Robinson has crafted an intelligent and very well suspenseful thriller that patiently lays out the necessary expository groundwork in the first half so that matters can come to used a little more grit and a little less slick,but overall,it packs an emotional whallop that has some very disturbing moments that relate to the events of September 11th,and its a welcome throwback to 60's era Cold War dramas that inevitably starred the likes of Micheal Caine and Richard Burton.The thrill ride event of the summer. "},{"Title":"Affleck is miscast in a heavily outdated plot","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Affleck, bless his heart, tries mightily to be a convincing action hero, but he just isn't up to the task. Even with his youth, his Ryan should be sure and steely - he has to persuade world leaders not to annihilate each other. Instead, Affleck comes off like a frat boy trying to finagle his way into grown folks' business. He's such a featherweight, no one would listen to him if he offered an umbrella during a rainstorm.Btw. Whatever happened to terrorist movies are a big no-no?? Or is it more like Troyka-riding, vodka drinking bad guys - ok; camel-riding head-diaper-wearing sand monkeys -- no way? It's time for Tom Clancy to stop beating the Russian horse. It's been dead since the end of the Cold War and the collapse of the Soviet Union. Look around you, Tom. Watch the news every once in awhile. Maybe then you'll be able to come up with a more plausible, reality-based plot. Speaking of plausible missions. The Sum of All Fears should have been properly titled Mission Implausible. Chances of anything like this happening are almost as slim as Mars Attacks! (except the latter was intended to be a comedy). The novel itself was already kinda irrelevant even back in 1991, and its screen version 11 years later is older than my great-grandmother; her birth certificate says 'expired' on it. Tom Clancy should write about bin Laden and the modern day clear and present danger. The Russians of today are a threat only to themselves. They dug a deeper grave for themselves than anyone ever could. Leave them alone. Fight the real enemy!<tearing up bin Laden's photo on Saturday Night Live> "},{"Title":"A different kind of summer blockbuster","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum Of All Fears is one of the first summer blockbuster's to come along that has a lack of action but is none the less entertaining. Ben Affleck plays Jack Ryan as a young cat with inexperience and his co star Morgan Freemen radiates the screen as always and Liev Schribber is good in a supporting role. The action sequences directed by Phil Robinosn are good and the film is all around enjoyable. If you're looking for a good poltical thriller then this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"The Pearl Harbor of 2001.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I do not know how Tom Clancy lost control of the screenplay but playing fast and loose with it made it veer totally against what the book was about. Neo-fascists? Who the heck are they? For entertainment including a 12-page explanation of the nuclear explosion (at the Superbowl with Minnesota and San Diego) not a soccer match between Chicago and Florida as was shown in this movie, read the book. This movie was too PC and illogical for me. "}{"Title":"Awful Movie","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was awful. Ben Affleck was a huge miscast, and from there the whole story falls apart. They do not follow the story from the book, and make the film all the more dated because of this. Save your money, and go see something else. Rent the other three Jack Ryan movies, they will make you long for the good old days "},{"Title":"I liked this one a lot.  I like Ben Affleck, and the rest of the cast","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm a 64 year-old male. I thought this movie was quite well-made. It's very suspenseful, and I think Ben Affleck did just fine. He's pretty damn good. Liev Schrieber did his usual great job, and what would we do without Morgan Freeman and John Cromwell, Alan Bates? Bruce McGill is in this thing, as are Ciarin Hinds, Philip Baker Hall, and Ron Rifkin, (from Alias). I thought the decision-making of the Soviet and American presidents, as they get ever closer to mutually assured destruction, was depicted quite well. And yes, the special effects were very good. Like the helicopter crashes. How do they do that stuff? Anyway, in real life, we don't need third-party bad guys to lure us into a needless war. We elect people who do that, and THEY bring in guys like Chalabi to help out. And, I don't know. I think some reviewers are just too cool for school and need to get out there and show us their own hit-movie-making talents. "},{"Title":"Average fair","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I read the book this was based on many years ago.In Tom Clancys' book (if I recall correctly..) it was a Palestinian militant group that recovered the undetonated nuclear payload from an Isreali fighter. This was then used by the group against the United States for it's (perceived, although arguable) propping up of the 'Isreali Terrorist State'.When it came time for Hollywood to make a film of it however things changed course and it was a radical right-wing group working for Aryan(?) supremacy that became the villain.I have to laugh when a book following the fictional, although believable, course of events when a Muslim group bombs the financial backers of the Jewish state gets engineered into 'euro Nazis' attack the U.S for world domination.The idealogical stranglehold of Hollywood continues and anyone who questions it is usually sanctioned and/or accused of antisemitism.Let's see if this one makes it to the board... "},{"Title":"Oh My Deary God!","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can't even begin to convey how utterly awful I found this festering turd of a film. It is an insult to everyone's intelligence. Surely there must be some law which prevents films like this being released? Or at least a health warning beforehand? Okay, specifics. Ben Affleck is a terrible actor, if I can use the word, the plot is badly conceived and the characters are all two-dimensional. Goodness knows how the opinions and advice of CIA agent Jack Ryan are supposed to hold weight with those in power because from where I was sat he looked like a delivery boy who had accidentally strayed into a top-level meeting and wanted to see how long he could stay before someone noticed. He has absolutely no intellectual weight or consequence about him whatsoever.I've written this review only because I saw someone describe this film on amazon as deep and emotional, and that made me very sad.Stop all the clocks. The cat's just shat out the worst film ever. "},{"Title":"Interesting reinvention of Jack Ryan","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When it was first announced that Ben Affleck would be assuming the role of Jack Ryan, I was utterly horrified. It's difficult enough for anyone to follow Harrison Ford, much less the star of Pearl Harbor and Armageddon. And, of course, any semblance of continuity would be destroyed - we could buy Alec Baldwin and Harrison Ford were the same character, but Baldwin, Ford, then Affleck? So, it was with low expectations that I approached this adaptation of one of my least favorite Tom Clancy novels - and I was pleasantly surprised. Of course Affleck is no Ford (or Baldwin, for that matter), but is surprisingly effective in this re-imagined version of a younger Jack Ryan, which still feels enough like the original character to work. And Morgan Freeman, as a reworked variation of the character previously played by James Earl Jones (though with a different character), steals every scene he's in. Phil Alden Robinson's direction is taut and exciting.While The Sum of All Fears doesn't equal The Hunt for Red October or Clear and Present Danger, it stacks up favorably against the uneven Patriot Games, and is a welcome addition to the Jack Ryan film franchise. "},{"Title":"One word sums this movie up....awful!","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved Clear and Present Danger, Patriot Games and Hunt for Red October, so I figured I'd like this one.  Oh, how wrong could I be!You would have thought they would have spent a little money on LIGHTING!! So many parts of the movie are so dark, you can't tell what's going on!And the plot, if that's what you can call it.  Way too jumbled to make any sense.The Feds should start requiring movies to open with the lead actor/actress looking into the camera and tell us if we are about to waste 3 hours of our life watching crap!There are many worse movies out there, but this movie is one to miss.I give it .13 stars out of 4!  "},{"Title":"A Good book, miscast.","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If we recall, the character of Jack Ryan was married and had two children in all of the previous books.  What happened to his wife and kids in this movie? All of a sudden he's this jock.  Ben Affleck is too soft, this is not his kind of movie. Jack Ryan needs to be more mature, experienced.  And, lets not mention the character of his girlfriend in the movie, does anyone really believe that she's a doctor? "},{"Title":"The latest installment in the brilliant Jack Ryan series from Tom Clancy falls tremendously short of it's predecessors.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum of All Fears is exactly what it was advertised to be - a fast paced military/political thriller, and it even comes out bearing more weight than originally intended because of the effects on the world of the September 11th attacks, which occurred before the film was released but after it was filmed. Ben Affleck stars as Jack Ryan in this film, but is not able to capture the same power and effectiveness of Harrison Ford' or even Alec Baldwin's Ryan. I've heard a lot of people complain that Jack Ryan is younger in this film than he was in the last ones, and that this is somehow supposed to count against the film. Maybe this is a prequel. Maybe they wanted to give the series a boost with young actors. Maybe it took place earlier in Jack Ryan's career. Who cares? Did you not notice the lowly profession that Ryan was also given in this film? It doesn't matter even a tiny bit that Jack Ryan is younger here than he was in Clear and Present Danger. I would think that if you missed the plethora of ligitimate reasons to pick this movie apart and had to focus instead on Ryan's appearance, you would at least be more concerned about his strange ability to morph into completely different people from film to film. As far as being an involving and tense thriller, The Sum of All Fears delivers spectacularly. It has a brilliant story that involves a right-wing neo-Nazi with the idea that with the use of a nuclear weapon he could create a war between two of the most powerful nations in the world (America and Russia), and the Aryan fascists could take over in the radioactive aftermath. I was particularly impressed that the film has the guts to portray the Americans as the primary aggressors (although also as a country led by a lot of men capable of yelling at each other like high school kids at a time when their focus is more crucial than ever) and the Russians as the ones that are the first to agree to back down. The film starts to trip a little bit when it pits Ryan, now a lowly analyst with little to no say in the proceedings during the government meetings, as the only man capable of preventing World War III because of information that he has about the origin of the bomb that was detonated in Baltimore at the Super Bowl, killing thousands and thousands of people and infecting countless more with radiation (as well as providing the most shocking scene in the entire film). It's such a disappointment to see such a strong film brought down by so much cheesy Hollywood crap, it's almost like a Schwarzenegger movie or a Van Damme  movie or a Steven Seagal movie, where everything is up to one man to come in and save the day. If there is only one thing that The Sum of All Fears has more than it's share of, it is cheesy Hollywood crap. Aside from the hero-of-the-day structure, the film races along at a fever pitch as the tension between Russia and America comes to a head, with each country holding a twitchy finger over the big red button, but it is anchored down by a lumbering romantic subplot that, like just about every Jerry Bruckheimer movie ever made, does nothing but stop the film in its tracks and vainly attempt to attract a female audience. The film is weighed down by things like this, and by it's awkward attention to detail, which is tremendously informative about things like military tactics and national security, but glosses over things like a missing nuclear weapon (I would think that there would have been at least ONE person who casually mentioned at any point after the bomb went missing in 1973, Hey, what ever happened to that nuclear weapon that we sent up on that plane that no one ever saw again?). (spoilers)  I'm not even so concerned about the sudden installment of a girlfriend into Jack Ryan's life, but more with the fact that the movie is so reductive about the tragedy that occurred in Baltimore, and this goes on throughout the entire film. When William Cabot dies, for example, the last thing that he says is to ask if Ryan's girlfriend is okay. On the one hand, I can understand that in such an explosion, most people would be most concerned about people they knew who may have been hurt, but in the film, this is done so that when we see them having a cute little picnic on the White House lawn at the end of the film, it means that all ends happily and thousands and thousands of people were not really killed in that explosion we saw earlier. The end of the film is one of the most intensely disappointing endings I have ever seen, by far overshadowing the weighty drab of the romance and the hero plot and the fact that we never find out what that gift was that Ryan's fairy godfather gave him for his and his girlfriend's anniversary, which he mysteriously knew about. I am not saying that The Sum of All Fears is a trashy or bad movie, it is a capable thriller with an excellent story that is able to survive the characteristics that it has in common with the typical  Bruckheimer films, but it's weaknesses are emphasized by the juxtaposition of it's enormous potential and the goofy crap that was thrown in and which had such a massively negative impact on the film as a whole. Like Pearl Harbor, this movie could very easily have been a truly great film with real life meaning, but instead they chose to gloss it over and sugar-coat the painful content, making the audience look the other way at the cute couple at the end of the film and convince themselves that if such an event occurred in real life (an event which has been described as `inevitable'), a picnic on the White House lawn is how it would all end. Sadly, in real life, I think people would be a lot more concerned about the burning radioactive rubble that used to be Baltimore than they would be about that cute couple eating sandwiches in front of the White House.  "},{"Title":"Good film which shows the senselessness of nuclear weapons and war.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Critic Ebert, as usual, has a very accurate review of Sum of all Fears. However, I don't rate it as high as he does. My overriding thought as I watched the depiction of USA and Russia about to go into nuclear war with each other for no reason, how senseless it is to even consider destroying a large part of humanity with nuclear bombs just because we think the other may be about to strike. Which is in essence what the whole film is about. Old-fashioned war, where you have to send troops over on boats, gives enough time to sort out those issues. Having ICBMs which can destroy large cities in a matter of minutes makes it a whole different issue. That's progress, the ability we humans have to destroy things faster and faster!!My main gripe? All those shallow-minded reviewers who say the book was much better, or some nonsense like that. Books are written to be read over days or weeks, and we create images in our own minds. Films based on books, like this one, make no attempt to recreate the whole book. It contains the director's vision of the story, not ours. Enjoy the book for what it is, enjoy the film for what it is, just don't show your stupidity by comparing the two. The DVD is fine, the sound and picture are good. There are extras, but I didn't view any. I am getting tired of watching people and nations fight each other. Can't we just all get along?? "},{"Title":"If you liked the book, don't watch the movie.","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oh my goodness.  I've seen some bad movies in my time, and I've seen some bad movies that were based on good books.  Clear and Present danger is one of them.  I figured they would have learned their lesson.  Nothing in the movie is as it should be in the book and, to make matters worse, any connection to previous versions of Jack Ryan are also destroyed by ignoring or completely changing aspects of his personal life.  They couldn't even keep character names the same!  I know they changed parts of the movie for PC reasons.  I don't agree with that but I understand.  Arabic people have, as a rule, been the enemies of far too many movies.  They are underrepresented in Clancy's works, but unfortunately, Clancy does not publish in a vacuum.There are numerous plot holes in this book, and reasons for character motivation are unrealistic.  If you've read the book, don't watch the movie.  If you've seen the movie, don't take it out on the book. "}{"Title":"WHAT A WASTE OF TIME...","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...and another example how to recognize a bad movie.Atomic bomb explodes in the heart of the U.S.? What happened? Is the whole world in shock? Anything left from the city? Any survivals?Surprisingly, NO. Just some handsome-young-Bond-wannabe walking around, using cellular phone and trying to save the world. Sure. Is he capable? No doubt. After leaving office, he manage a spy mission in Russia, survive helicopter accident, drive a car through a city devastated by atomic bomb, fight with a man twice as bigger as he is and finally convince everybody, that he is the only one, who can stop the war. And for the grand finale, the morning after, he proposes his girlfriend, who obviously survived atomic bomb without a scratch, to marry him. Well done, Ben. Or should I say, SuperBen.Anyway, I decided to see this movie, after seeing the IMDB rating for this one (7 out of 10). And i must say, that I haven't seen such an overrated movie for a long time. Intelligent viewers, please, do yourself a favor. Skip this one. 3 out of 10     "},{"Title":"I can say nothing good about this film!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is just bad and boring. It takes ages until all characters are placed and the film shuttles back and forth between scenes. I didn't like this technique with Bad Company and it's even worse here. Is this supposed to be a way of increasing suspense??? It doesn't work!!! In general, although Bad Company is not a good film either it's better than this one in every respect. The characters are not interesting. Their interaction is clicheed. The plot isn't really plausible either. This film is not worth watching!  "},{"Title":"poor poor poor","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having read and heard so many great reviews about this film, I threw away my unfounded skepticism about the film being terrible and viewed it.  It was horrible.  Three quarters through the movie it occurred to me that I didn't care about any of the characters at all.  Their development was poor, Ben Afleck wasn't exactly the greatest man for the job, and it seemed like a series of jumbled events were just thrown onto film.  I don't know what else to say about it, just save yourself two hours of your life and stay away from this awful film.   "},{"Title":"Even Video Won't Help","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Geez, this thing is a total snoozer.  Too many flaws and the storyline is rather ridiculous.  In one scene, when the nuclear bomb goes off, we see Ben Affleck's love-interest  blown away only to return a few moments later absolutely flawless helping the victims around her (she is a nurse or a doctor, I can't remember this was such a bad film).  The victims, of course, are burnt to a crisp, writhing, dying, screaming, pleading but she is Holly Go Lightly barking off orders to other nurses.And that's just one of the many flaws in this ridiculous film.  Baltimore is blown up and we all know this country would freak out over any city being nuked but not here.  It just seems like an afterthought - Oh yeah, we can't go to Baltimore...  James Cromwell (the farmer guy Babe the talking pig pictures) badly plays our U.S. President (heads up here they didn't go for a George Dubya lookalike even though Cromwell's character fits the Dubya personality perfectly) but what is so dumb is that Ben Affleck literally takes over the presidency with only we the viewer seeing him do it. The film's director couldn't really let the world know that Ben was in control of the free world.   And then there's the guy who knows and sees everything at all times and who follows us all the way to the end of the film and even suprises Ben & lover with a wedding gift before they've even set the wedding date.  Give us all a BREAK! -(Just an awful film.   Avoid it even when it comes out on video.P.S.  for those of you wondering whether or not Ben Affleck provides his trademarked tear rolling down the cheek from his one crying eye - he doesn't do it in this film.  (Thank GOD!) "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I read the book in anticipation of the movie (and now I'm hooked to Clancy) and was so excited to see the movie.  Then I heard that Affleck was playing Ryan.  Then I remembered that there was no Bob Zimmer in (the movie) `Clear And Present Danger'.  Then I heard that Ryan and Cathy weren't married, but he was working for the CIA.  Then I heard that it was Nazi's instead of Arabs.  Then I heard they had changed the National Security Advisor from a woman to a man! The movie was so unlike the book, it shouldn't have been given a different title and Clancy's name shouldn't have been on it.  The only real things it had in common with the book were the names (and not even all of them) and the fact that terrorist set of an aotmis bomb in America trying to insinuate war between Russia and the USA. First off, if this was to be a `prequel' to the other Clancy movies, Ryan shouldn't have been in the CIA and it should have been in the 1980's. The whole movie was confusing because of that.  And just because of what happened on 9/11 they didn't have to go changing the whole storyline.  I read the book after 9/11 and had no problem with it.  It's a dose of reality to be sure, but if you can't handle it, just don't see the movie.  The fact that Jack and Cathy weren't married played a huge role because in the book the President's NSA, with whom he was sleeping with, falsely accused Ryan of having an affair with Bob Zimmer's wife.  Those who have only watched the movies have no idea who they are.  The whole entire movie was insane and I can't believe I wasted eight bucks on crap. The only good thing I have to say it that they picked a MUCH better John Clark this time around.  "},{"Title":"Horrible Fourth Installment In The Jack Ryan Series","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was absolutely too hard for me to watch. There was such little believability to the story, terrible casting and even worse acting. (That last aspect falls to Ben Affleck alone by the way) Perhaps if they would have made an effort to make this movie a prequel instead of a sequel it would have made some sense Ryan and Clarke seem to be about 20 years younger. I guess they got some top secret CIA age regression therapy or something. The concept of Nazi's causing some type of World War III had raised an eyebrow with me at first. But by the end I was dumbfounded! Absolutely nothing was explained! Suppose Russia and the United States did end up nuking each other like mad. Ok thats fine, thats what the Nazi's wanted in this movie, but then what? Are the group of 5 Nazi's in the movie somehow supposed to take over the world then or what? That fact makes the entire premise of the movie absurd, the villain masterminds behind everything have a plan that makes little or no sense! On to Affleck's performance. Let me first say I do like him as an actor. That being said he was just terrible! Part of that was not his fault, the role was lousy, his character seems far more interested in having sex with his girlfriend then finding out about the nuclear bomb plot. He goes so far as to be conflicted about answering the phone because it might be the CIA making him go to work and help stop the nuclear plot. God forbid we interrupt CIA agents in the mist of passion to protect us the nuclear attack. I hope its not like this in the real CIA or we are all in big trouble! Let me say one last thing. If you have any intelligence, concept of world affairs, politics or history do not watch this movie! You will hate it! "},{"Title":"Hit The Snooze Button","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe I was expecting more after hearing about this movie from friends and the media, but overall this film was utterly boring. The first hour dragged on and on slogging through the over used Hollywood formula of long drawn character introductions with a heavy dose of country jumping. I found myself hoping Harrison Ford might show up and save the stiff acting portrayed on the screen. Affleck was terrible as Jack Ryan and Morgan Freeman gave what I consider his weakest performance. A sample of Sum Of All Fears dialogue Freeman - We didn't have this conversation Affleck - What conversation?  WOW! - give these men Oscar nominations. The special effects were used sparingly to maintain a realistic portrayal and took up maybe 5 minutes of the movie. By the end I was wishing I had seen Insomnia instead because The Sum Of All Fears is enough to cure insomnia *yawn*. Time for bed. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly disappointing.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I felt that the film was terribly disjointed. I don't think that enough attention was given to parts of the plot that one would feel is important.It was a shame to wast the acting talent that was used in the film. Most of the performances were pretty good, given the weak script. The one exception was Ben Affleck.Although Affleck is usually a good match in the roles he takes, in this film, I think he was terribly miscast.Spend your money seeing some other film, you will be happier. "},{"Title":"A sign of our times!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In 1995's 'Crimson Tide', the U.S. and Russia come to the brink of nuclear war but a nuke is not dropped.  In 'The Sum of All Fears', the U.S. and Russia are tricked into nuclear war, nukes are used and the world is on the brink of destruction told with a realistic feel.  It is convincing and even more so in the wake of September 11th where the unthinkable happened and now the world is ready for anything.  I didn't like the youthful Jack Ryan played by Ben Affleck although I did like Affleck in this role.  Partially, it doesn't make sense in the present day when the other Jack Ryan stories such as 'Clear and Present Danger', 'Patriot Games' and 'The Hunt for Red October' with Harrison Ford and Alec Baldwin show them much older and married with children.  With this Jack Ryan story, they decided to start all over again with Ryan new and fresh in his duties at the CIA.  Aside from that, 'The Sum of All Fears' is suspenseful and a film you will not forget about anytime soon if you care about the state of the planet earth!  A good job by 'Field of Dreams' director Phil Alden Robinson who proves he can create tension and suspense just as well as sentiment. "},{"Title":"Garbage even before 9/11","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is just another stupid, cynical Hollywood con job.  Rememberhow Hollywood talked about changing their ways after 9/11?  Thatlasted a record week or two and then it was back to business.But guess what...this movie would be terrible even if it came outbefore 9/11.   If thousands of people dying is a mere plot point,then you have a movie that has completely slipped through thefingers of its creators.Idiotic filmmakers and actors have proven time and time again thatthey don't have the talent or the insight to handle subject matter atthis level of seriousness.  This movie is no different.  This movie isso lame and stupid that it might as well have had Steven Seagalas the lead.Please Mr. Freeman, I know you like to work, but as a role modelfor future actors I would think you might take a smaller paycheckfor a film that is actually worth making. "}{"Title":"If you've read the book, prepare to vomit.","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hunt For Red October is still the only film of a Clancy novel that has remained remotely faithful to the original.  The very things that make the books popular (multiple dense story lines) make them impossible for the most part to film.  The Sum Of All Fears is the latest example of this.  They pretty much took the title of the film and a couple of scenes, names of characters, and made a different film.  Setting it in the present doesn't help, changing Arab terrorsts to neo nazi's is completely ridiculous, taking the family aspect out of Jack Ryan's character diminishes his depth. Clancy is somewhere counting the dollars, and I know that previously (Patriot Games) he has refused to let them use his name in advertising, but dang. Affleck's acting is adequate, but he will never be able to get past the fact that he's Ben Affleck.  He has plenty of charisma, but none of the intelligence and depth of a Ford or Alec Baldwin.  Whenever he tries to be intense, it's the same facial moves and vocal moves that he's used in stuff like Mallrats.  Ah well.  Luckily it was a free preview.  Didn't have to waste any money.  "},{"Title":"the beginning of the Jack Ryan series","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For those of you who have seen The Jack Ryan films or read the Tom Clancy novels (Hunt For Red October, Patriot Games, Clear Present Danger) you would likely be familiar with the character of Jack Ryan. For those of you who have not, The Sum of All Fears is chronologically the first in the Jack Ryan novel/films. To some degree, I liked this movie. I mostly don't care for Ben Affleck though he did not do a bad job in this one. I won't spoil the plot for anyone who has not seen this though I will say if you have read the book 'sum of all fears' than don't expect the film to follow the book accurately because it doesnot. Anyway, while the movie held my interest for the most part, I was very perplexed by an event in the film that falls out of line chronologically with the Jack Ryan series. Since I did not check the contains spoilers box, I am obligated to not reveal which scene I am referring to. So I will just say that since the sum of all fears is supposed to be the first in the series, this one scene that I am referring to led me to believe that the producers of the film overlooked a major script flaw. Despite that, I found the movie to be interesting though not quite as good the other Jack Ryan films. "},{"Title":"The film does not give the full horror of what might happen.","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having lived through the 2nd world war and cold war eras I can say with absolute confidence that the under thirty generation is clueless concerning the horrors of the plot of this movie or the 'Dr Strangelove' movie. They have not gone to bed during the 'Cuban Missle Crisis' hoping they would wake up the next morning. At that time I was in my early twenties and fully aware of the impending confrontation in the waters near Cuba. The world had already come to a condition called 'M.A.D.' (Mutual Assured Destruction) and bomb shelters were being built all over the U.S.A. and other countries. The knowledgeable people understood that their continued existence hinged on certain buttons not being pushed. Fortunately the Russian premier had the common sense not to go any further. (just like the movie) and we still exist. The condition called 'M.A.D.' still exists, and I for one hope that no country attempts to start a war between any two nuclear powers as that will be the beginning of the end. You younger people need to find a way out of the situation my generation got us into. or else oblivion will be the rule. As an accurate rendition of the book, the movie fails miserably. as for being believable, the characters are weak and ineffectual. The entertainment value is limited. But the potential for teaching is nearly insurmountable. This movie and certain others like the aforementioned 'Dr Stranglove' along with 'Fail Safe' should be taught as a required course in High Schools and College to the inheritors of this ball of constantly increasing pollution called Earth. If taught in the correct way, these self-absorbed progeny of this generation might just have the cojones to make the needed changes so that their hoped for offspring will come to exist here also. "},{"Title":"Fear of WMD","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having read the Tom Clancy book beforehand, and having heard some comments about this film, kept me away from seeing it when it was first released. Now I know why my fears about what I thought would come out on the screen were proven correct. It is a messy film, to say the least.First of all, in reading the credits for the film, I realize that Tom Clancy, himself, was involved in the project. How could he have agreed to change the plot?, it is beyond imagination. The whole point of it the novel is done away with in the screen treatment it received.Who knows why Ben Affleck got the role of Ryan. In past installments, this character has been played by Alec Baldwin and Harrison Ford. Mr. Affleck pales in comparison with those two, in stature, as well as in screen presence. On top of that, having him acting next to Liev Schreiber, who is an actor's actor, only exacerbates the contrast. The film, directed by Phil Alden Robinson, is a puzzle at times because the tone of it just doesn't make much sense. An international cast with different accents and different acting techniques doesn't improve in the over all result. Thankfully I saw it in DVD format that was borrowed from a friend! "},{"Title":"Awful... Just Awful","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Someone noted that it was stupid to compare a movie with the book it is based on. Personally, I think it is natural to do so when the quality of the plot (the aspect both mediums have in common, a plot) is considerably changed between the two, either for the better or the worse. In this case, the movie chooses to change the baddies from Arab terrorists to Nazi's??? The one thing that makes a Clancy novel so good is its ability to project verisimilitude in its fictional scenarios - one feels like this could happen while reading, that is what makes it thrilling!Why, oh why, did the film maker choose Nazi's over Arabs as the villains - the real Nazi's need walkers to get around, they are so old. The new neo Nazi is so laughable as an international threat... Rejects from Jerry Springer launching a complex plan to steal a nuclear warhead!!! Hah! If you listen to the comment track on the DVD, Clancy snorts and laughs when this topic is brought up; it is obvious what he thinks about the plausibility of Nazi terrorism. I got the impression that it was the director's wishy washy smooshy PC politics that motivated this lame change in the plot - if he had problems with the plot he should have passed over the project, not wimpify it as he did. Finally, the choice of Affleck for Ryan! This casting choice bewilders... he seriously lacks the gravitas of either of the previous Ryan choices. They should have used Liev Schreiber who plays John Clark for the Ryan role instead - when they are on the screen together it is so obvious who one follows and takes seriously on screen, Schreiber just blows Affleck away. This lousy choice of leading man ranks up there with casting Lazenby in the Bond series.Lame, lame, lame. I hope they just put a bullet in the series rather than use the same creative team again. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I have ever seen.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts out quite light with very impressive music.  20 or so minutes into the film, real action begins.  One of the better performances by Ben Affleck and James Cromwell.  Morgan Freeman is his usual superb self.  One thing I want to mention is the spoken Russian in this movie is VERY realistic.  Most movies that involve Russian speaking actors very bad, this movie is very realistic.  The photography is superb and will keep you at the edge of your seat till the very end.  Many many familiar faces make this 2 hour shy film one of the best ones.  Out of 10 stars.  I give this film 10. "},{"Title":"Ford Power","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers.Not since Marky Mark replaced Charlton Heston in Tim Burton's remarkable film about ape-poo, has there been such an inadequate, impotent re-imagining of a well-known filmic character. We went from Alec Baldwin's Runway-Model Jack Ryan (equivalent to Roger Moore's Bond), to Harrison Ford's REAL MAN Jack Ryan, a presence to be reckoned with (definitely the William Shatner of the Ryans), arriving now at the girl-child Ben Affleck, shouldering a character which he has not the imagination, let alone the acting prowess, to flesh out, trying to command respect by keeping his hairstyle trendy.Again, as in Marky Mark's Planet Of The Apes, we have the unpopular guy at school being made classroom monitor and having shoes thrown at him when he asks for quiet. Would anyone feel an inkling of reassurance in the case of a nuclear strike if Affleck's dandelion Ryan was swishing about yapping counterstrike measures in that girl-scout alto squeal?All we needed was Jason Biggs in the role of Liev Schreiber, Eric Roberts in the role of James Cromwell, and Todd (whatchoo talking' bout Willis?) Bridges playing the role of Morgan Freeman and we'd have a quorum on our hands.And didn't Harrison Ford have a full-fledged FAMILY in his Ryan movies? In this movie, with Ryan being such a young-un, did these events take place BEFORE or AFTER the first attack on the Death Star?We see Affleck in some 'steamy' embraces with his plain girlfriend, to disprove the theory that he really is Jennifer Lopez's lesbian love-interest, but there's more heat in the iceberg that rammed the Titanic.There is also some intriguing plot twist involving weapons that Americans sold to Israelis being used against America itself - ooooh, like THAT'S something new!The second half of the film, Affleck composes many exciting Instant Messages while stealing a truck, and shouts into a cellphone a lot, trying desperately to grow into the mantle of action hero which has been thrust upon him. And makes James Cromwell look like Arnold Schwarzenegger in the process.An insular world of political 'leaders' all making threats, weaponry, war-gamery for their own agendas, caring nothing, DOING nothing for the rest of us in the trenches, only involving us when things blow up and it's reported by CNN. To make a movie about nuclear threat even remotely interesting these days.. DON'T make it. It's BORING. It's POINTLESS. It's not even ORIGINAL - it's yet another re-telling of Macbeth (do unto your neighbor BEFORE he does unto you).At movie's end, specifically for the Great Unwashed, James Cromwell delivers a wildly original, ineffectual speech about eliminating nuclear weapons, obviously to quell fears that were aroused during the attacks of September 11, 2001 on the American World Trade Center - yet, I seem to remember no nuclear weapons were used in that attack.. (No one quite 'gets it'. As Michael Corleone tells us 'If history has taught us anything, it's that you can kill anyone.' Which propounds that even the fairytale eventuality of No Nuclear Weapons will not curb Mankind's bloodlust and religious superstition - which means that even if you take away all the drugs and cigarettes and booze and guns and terrorists, people will STILL find excuses to kill each other and ways to do it.)27,000 nuclear weapons. One is missing. Who cares?The Sum Of All Fears that Ben Affleck will be the next James Bond.(Movie Maniacs, visit www.thedunmore.com/POFFY-MovieReviews.html) "},{"Title":"An exciting movie","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is exciting and suspenseful and that has more than a little bit to do with the talk of terrorism and nuclear threats are so pervasive in the news today. Oliver Cromwell plays the dumb president, Morgan Freeman plays the slightly more intelligent Seceretary of State John Cabot, and Ben Afflect plays our hero, CIA operative Jack Ryan. We've supposedly seen him before in Clear and Present Danger, but it was a different actor from a movie that has long since been forgotten since its release a decade ago, so there's not much of a sequel feel to it. This leads to the only real drawback of the movie since we're expected to be familiar with these guys, there's virtually no development of the characters. I'm not criticizing the actors, but at the end of the movie I left knowing nothing about the characters other than their names, their job titles, and that they all shared a common goal of preventing the nation from being blown up. However, the story in which CIA analyst Jack Ryan tries to uncover a plot to bring Russia and the United States to the brink of nuclear war, more than makes up for the lack of characterization. It moves at an exciting pace, it is packed with plenty of action, and it has the same draw as TV shows like Alias, 24, The Agency, and West Wing, taking us behind the scenes of an important government agency which we otherwise wouldn't have access to. The difference here is that we know we're seeing something authentic because Tom Clancy does his homework. The story is bold and unpredictable but Affleck's character comes through in an exciting climax, where he has to give a persuasive speech to both his own president and the leader of Russia to avoid an all-out war. If you don't live in the Greater Baltimore Area, it's a happy ending! *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Watch this movie for Morgan Freeman's performance","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A nuclear war! Ever since the first atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima in Japan, all people fear it. During the Cold War period (1945-1990), many movies were made in which the Americans had to fight off the USSR. Think for instance of Top Gun, one of the most popular movies about this subject at that time. But even today the fear for nuclear attacks hasn't diminished. Today they fear extremists and terrorists rather than the Russians and that's exactly the idea on which the story of this movie was based.The Sum of All Fears starts with the sudden death of the Russian President. He is quickly succeeded by a man whose politics are virtually unknown to Washington. The CIA is convinced that he is a hardliner and because the United States is very critical of the Russians' treatment of Chechneya, they fear the man. And their fear becomes truth when the Russian President tells them that Chechneya is an internal issue and none of their concern. CIA analyst Jack Ryan, who did research on the man, doesn't think he is a hardliner, but while Ryan and his boss, Bill Cabot, are inspecting disarmament at a Russian nuclear site, 3 Russian scientists have mysteriously disappeared. Although the Russians have explanations for their absence, none of them are true. In the meantime in Austria, a neo-fascist has developed a frightening plan to incite a war between Russia and the U.S. He will use an unexploded Israeli bomb from the deserts of the Middle East. And than the unimaginable happens a nuclear bomb explodes in U.S. city and America is quick to blame the Russians...What I probably liked most about this movie was the acting by Morgan Freeman. That man really is a class of his own. I don't know many other actors who are able to save a rather mediocre movie like this one from complete oblivion. For the rest I don't see many other reasons why you should watch this movie. The rest of the acting is in a range from 'OK' at best to a 'could be worse' and the story is rather far-fetched, although not necessarily unbelievable. Even though I don't consider it to be very likely that a Neo-Nazi group would be able to start a nuclear war between Russia and the U.S., that doesn't mean that a terrorist attack with a 'dirty' bomb isn't possible.Overall I would say about this movie that Morgan Freeman's performance the best reason to watch it. The rest of the acting isn't very special and the story didn't really do it for me. That's also why I can only give it a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"What's wrong with everyone?","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I hopped on USER COMMENTS for our little movie here to help give me a little more breathing room for my limited diction. SUM OF ALL FEARS is a rough movie to review because, well ... it's good! But what do I see when I hop on? Personal beefs, such as, Clancy you let me down, this and, this movie offers nothing special, that. Nothing special? BALTIMORE WAS BLOWN UP! DUH! With a nuclear bomb too! It was realistically and intelligently approached to point as well! And 90% of these bummed out reviews are from Americans? With crap like INDEPENDENCE DAY, and THE CORE blowing every monument up, I guess you miss the ones that could hit closer to home.Terrorists plan to make the United States and Russia blow each other up and poor Jack Ryan is back with the answers to everyone's problem and no one to listen.When the World Trade Towers went down, were there sane conclusions immediately available and calm escape methods or were people scrambling for the answers while people ran for their lives terrified and confused at what was going on? In 1997, before 9/11, came PATH TO PARADISE, the story of the '93 bombing. What did the terrorist say? Next time we'll bring them both down. THE SUM OF ALL FEARS is good enough to show probably what will inevitably happen in the future, but smart enough to let everyone walk away with a happy ending and what everybody on this site loathes standard cliches for a typical Hollywood movie. But I couldn't care. It's a movie and whether you rent it or not is your choice. But argue the message as much as it ... you are all smart enough to see this one, right? "}{"Title":"Bad, bad, BAD!","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can think of a few adjectives to describe this movie, clichéed and predictable particularly come to mind.  The movie starts out normally enough, with a decent setup for the climax.  Nothing spectacular, but nothing bad either.  However, as it moved into the heavy action the plot became rather trite.Cliché #1 The young upstart with great potential but no experience (Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan) who is right about everything, but the old guard (James Cromwell as President Fowler and his advisors) refuses to listen to him.  Cliché #2 The car that won't start.  As Jack Ryan is rushing to get to a site where he can get further information, he swerves to avoid a fire truck and crashes.  After a quick message session on his palm pilot, he tries to restart the truck and it fails.  It was this moment that spoiled the movie for me.  The car that won't start has been used so many times it's sickening.  I expected better.  Cliché #3 The crisis is resolved with less than 30 seconds until total disaster.  I'll avoid detail there so I don't spoil the ending -- not that there's much to spoil -- but we've all seen this scenario plenty of times before.The special effects were good, as was the acting, but I wouldn't expect an Oscar for any of it.  The plot was decent, but I got more and more frustrated as I watched, because it was a constant state of escalation.  It was a movie in which you feel the need to scream at the screen, yelling NO, NO, NO!  This movie is worth watching, however be sure to rent, not buy.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This doesn't work--should have probably just blown more stuff up.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Really disappointing. Acting was really stiff and unconvincing (although I never expect much from Ben Affleck who is always wooden and stilted like he just swallowed a bottle of Valium--I was counting on the rest of the movie to carry Affleck). I've never been a Tom Clancy fan, and, as expected, the plot was not very believable, but unbelievable plots can still work well if the right elements of the rest of the movie come together properly. Unfortunately, that was not the case here. For instance, there was absolutely no chemistry between the love interests--Affleck and whoever she was. Argon and Neon would make a better matched couple. This movie just dragged on and on (and on) and could not sustainably build suspense. In this case, it would have helped a lot if had just Michael Bay'ed it and blew up more stuff--that might have given me a halfway decent shot at remaining conscious during this snoozefest. Again, really, really disappointing. "},{"Title":"i saw this movie","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I mean I own it, bought it on VHS for one dollar American, was it a good deal? I'm asking you,'was it a good deal?' Naw, OK, if you love Tom Clancy books and you don't hate Ben Affleck just out right, pretty sure you will enjoy this movie. So some complain that casting a younger Jack Ryan character doesn't make chronological sense, but this movie is actually a prequel to Patriots Games, so the character would be younger, way to go everybody good job. This movie would be perfect for watching while you wait at the dentist, in the crummy sterile lobby with other creeps waiting for the dentist, got a circular like coffee table covered in magazines and issues of Highlights, also there is a TV showing The Sum Of All Fears, its a big success. "},{"Title":"Quite good film","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well, the film wasn't as bad as people say, it was actually entertaining and kept me going for the 2 hours I watched it. I haven't read the book, so I don't know how bad or good an adaptation it was as other people say. I'll say this Surely a film adapting a book will nearly always be bad because a) They film has 90-120 minutes to develop plot, characters etc, while the book has all the pages it needs b) We are always expecting much more from a film adapted from a book we read c) The director/screenwriter will take the book on a different take, and that's the point of an adaptation. An adaptation is a different version of the pre-existing story. It takes an idea and develops it in a different way. I am always disappointed when I see film adaptations of books following the books to the letter, because it's just like reading a book for a second time. If you want to read the book a second time then do it. I myself will not pay a ticket or rent a DVD just to see what I have already read once or twice.I liked the fact that the bad guys were actually Neo-Nazis instead of Arab terrorists. Nazis are as much a cliché as Arab Terrorists being the villains, but instead the film reminds us that not all Arabs are evil, and certainly not to forget the legacy that fascism has left the world, and that the movement of neo-Nazis and extremist nationalism is indeed frightening and at the rise. It serves to remind people that evil can come from anywhere if we let it space to grow.The characters admittedly are not built enough in the film, but the situation is actually quite realistic. I liked the fact that the American and Russian presidents' cabinets had both warmongers and peace-lovers. Bureacracy almost got in the way of preventing a nuclear holocaust. There were people willing to sell their countries and the future of mankind for a few dollars more. That some people, although traditionally enemies, were working together to safeguard the world. It both gives faith to governments but also brings the viewer to criticize them. "},{"Title":"Feels good but less practical.","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You talk about strict policy for spoilers and I find spoiler in the IMDb description of the movie itself.Whatever, talking about the movie, the problem with most of war movies that are not based on the real events is - they are not entirely practical.The change of events told in the movie are such that can't probably happen in any diplomacy. If some country is really gonna bomb you, they won't wait for your reply before striking you again. They will definitely try to disable your defenses.Watch the movie and you'll know what I am talking about. Another reason why I didn't like the diplomacy in the movie is that you start comparing it with the movies like Thirteen Days, which are more apt and based on actuality.Overall, it is a decent watch if you like the genre. "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Pound for pound the best adaptation of a Tom Clancy novel after Hunt for Red October.Robinson was able to extract a terrific performance from Affleck (no easy feat) while Freeman did not disappoint - as always.The production design and cinematography were outstanding with some of the most incredible set pieces of any action film.The score never missed a beat.And the story was wonderfully developed with pitch perfect dialogue all directed by a director, Phil Alden Robinson, who needs to make more films. There is too much garbage produced for him to be standing on the side-lines. "},{"Title":"Exciting, just don't think about it too much","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ben Affleck has a go at playing Jack Ryan, the Tom Clancy hero, in The Sum of All Fears, a 2003 film also starring Morgan Freeman, James Cromwell, Liev Schreiber, Alan Bates, and Bridget Moynihan. I'll admit I'm not familiar with the books, but it does seem that either the screenwriter or Clancy made this an earlier story - by Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger, Jack, Harrison Ford in those films, is married to Cathy; here, they're just dating. Also, Affleck is younger than Ford. That's odd, because this film seems to be cashing in on 9/11, so it should really be after the other films...so I'm confused.That's what I mean about this movie - I enjoyed it, but it's one of those things that, if you think about it, makes very little sense. Here, some sort of Nazi splinter group has purchased an old bomb and is making the Russians think that the U.S. has attacked them and vice versa. Amidst the chaos of a huge atomic explosion that wipes out a stadium, it's up to Jack to reach someone in power before they push the red button and each country wipes out the other, leaving the world free for - who, Germany? - to take over. Not that there will be much left.There's a lot of action, and the movie goes fast enough so that you don't notice the holes right away.Affleck is likable, but you'll have a hard time lining him up with the Jack Ryan of Ford. Alec Baldwin has also played Jack; that's maybe a closer comparison. James Cromwell is terrific as a no-nonsense President; Morgan Freeman underplays and is very good.People that have read the book hate this movie, so if you've read the book, I wouldn't bother seeing this. "},{"Title":"Math does scare a lot of people","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have not read the novel(I understand that this follows the/his style well, however), and all I know about the series is what I gathered from the three prior films. I suppose a good place to start is admitting that neither I, nor my fiancée whom I watched it with, particularly care for or understand the casting of Ben in action(not that there's necessarily an awful lot of such in this) movies. We don't see how he fits that(and his lack of screen presence and charisma shows). Beyond that, this is actually quite fine, if it should maybe not have been connected to the franchise(restarting it as it were, and do note that they are now, evidently, little more than half a decade after this, rebooting it yet again). Baldwin made a determined, if reluctant hero of Jack, Ford took that over well(obviously, since that sums up most of his career), and this time, Affleck... kind of turns him into a whiny pretty boy(although the writing of the role doesn't deviate that strongly from that of the others... it lies in his performance). Not to mention that Dafoe's Clark'd kick the ass of Schreiber's, which is not to say that the latter does poorly. The characters, in general, aren't bad. The casting is spot-on, save for the two aforementioned exceptions. The acting, as well. This has positive aspects to it, and even if you like the other entries, you could still enjoy this, as my wife-to-be suggested, merely think of those parts, Ryan and John, as not being the same, previously(and better) established ones. The story has well-done elements(possibly rehashed from earlier incarnations of the universe, but not all, and not the fundamental concept), and has realized potential(not the full extent of it, though). It is particularly sound until it all derails near the conclusion, succumbing to the agenda being pushed(no matter the implausibilities that occur along the way... and creative license is taken with the technology to move this along smoothly). The president's advisors in this aren't terribly well defined, in specific government jobs... they are basically just a cacophony of voices telling him what to or not to do. The pacing is reasonable, never losing the audience. Save for the distinctly corny and/or hokey lines(and TMI), the dialog is decent and serves its purpose. There is scattered language(on that, mostly Russian and the other foreign tongues are spoken when they would be so, yet it's not difficult to follow) of varying degrees throughout, seldom too harsh. The tone is fairly light, arguably inappropriate(think of the subject matter... this almost goes entirely in the other direction, and underplays the severity of what takes place), and the youthfulness of this got to be downright silly, as did the excessive modernizing. The former can probably be attributed to the director, and while that worked for Sneakers(we do consider that to be a well-produced effort, mind you), it should perhaps not be found in a serious, political thriller with the intention of being smart. That might have also have affected the feeling of danger, presumably inadvertently, as the first half of this really didn't have us on the edge of our seats. With few exceptions, the way this was shot and edited is rather nice. The gadgets and some of the situation resolutions seem out of place. A fight comes off as tacked on. This doesn't go as far as certain things indicated it would. The Hollywood factor(not eternally present here) of this(above what the preceding pictures had), and the abrupt and oversimplified fix-all ending hurt the credibility and value of this. The special effects are marvelous, albeit a single sequence did inspire my better half to point out how much it looked like a video-game. The DVD contains several well-done and interesting enough featurettes, the theatrical trailer(it does reveal important plot, as does the description on the main page here, new viewers may want to avoid them until after, if they're worried about spoilers) and a commentary track with Robinson and the cinematographer, and a second with Clancy(who picks it apart mercilessly, and adds his dry, biting wit and irony, as well as swearing, expertise and name-dropping) in addition to Phil(both are informational and worth the listen). I recommend this to any fan of Jack Ryan, the people who made this and/or Tom Clancy. Do bring a solid dose of salt, for all the stuff in this that is best taken with a grain of that. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A daily comment from Midget Emma The Sum of All Fears (2002)","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It was boring. It was good but hard not to look away and when you do you miss something. So if your like me and get bored watching people talk for 2 hours then skip it but you don't mind it then see this.It wasn't all talking there was a couple of action scenes.I am not a fan of Ben Affleck. Apparently his a better director then actor. I am planning on seeing Gone Baby Gone. In this film he was OK. He didn't feel intense enoughI don't recommend this. But if you get a chance see it. But only if you don't get bored if people are talking for 2 hours.5/10 "},{"Title":"All of some fears","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What do you know... a movie about a terrorist attack. I guess this is the sum of all our fears in this day age. Well, since I'm commenting on this movie six years removed, the sum of our fears now are GAS PRICES!!!!!This movie was not impressive at all. There's not much to say about it and there is not much more to it than the trailers suggested. Terrorist attack America, thousands are killed, seek and destroy. It was a forgettable movie, one of those high octane action movies with one liners and no real substance. Don't get me wrong, I love those types of movies... just not this one. "}{"Title":"Good movie but lots of unnecessary content","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed the storyline and plot. I found it thrilling, interesting, intriguing, and exciting. I liked Morgan Freeman's role as know-it-all CIA agent. I didn't think Ben Affleck was the man for Dr. Ryan's role.In spite of it being a good movie, I wouldn't watch it again because of the excessive profanity and unnecessary love story. There was a bedroom scene that didn't do anything to enhance the movie. Pointless, and I don't want to see it. Also, as a Christian, I take offense at hearing the Lord's name in vain. I was disenchanted at all the unnecessary use of God's name and I felt like it was rather unbehooving of the character's to continually use that kind of profanity. I know it's Holleywood and they'd probably laugh at this review, but for all you Christian's out there, try to get this one edited for language before watching it and I think you'll have a more enjoyable experience. "},{"Title":"Interesting but Confusing","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Sum of All Fears (2002, Dir. Phil Alden Robinson) When a terrorist faction plans to turn American against Russia by placing a nuclear weapon in a Baltimore, DCI William Cabot (Freeman) calls in CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Affleck) to figure out the plans behind this faction and prevent a total catastrophe occurs.'The Sum of All Fears' is the first movie I saw in the Tom Clancy franchise, and although I found the film fairly interesting, I ended up confused on who the actual villain it. There are no problems with the cast whatsoever. Ben Affleck gives a suitable performance, as does Morgan Freeman and Liev Schreiber. James Cromwell also gives a fantastic performance as the President. His speeches really do come across as powerful. There are some lovely scenes, with an amazing scene of the blast from a bomb in the stadium. Throughout the film, the storyline could be followed just about, but by the time it got to the end credits, I wasn't aware at all of who the actual villain is. Names were said, but apart from Jack Ryan and the President, none of the individual names were memorable enough to remember. It was an OK thriller, but is hard for me to clearly say without viewing the other films in the series.What are three Russian atomic scientists doing in Ukraine? &#150; DCI William Cabot (Morgan Freeman) "},{"Title":"Underrated portrayal of how WWIII might happen","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After 9-11, it's surprising that anyone thinks a nuclear bomb is not a threat to the USA. This film is an original concept in that it explores this angle and leading towards World War III in a highly realistic manner similar to the Tom Clancy books, giving us a peek into the workings of true government. This is not a James Bond style silliness where racing boats and magnetic wristwatches win the day.There's humor, good acting, the dialogue is great... the fascists are a little silly but they don't appear in the film much. Please note, immediately after 9-11 when this film came out, it was seen as divisive and possibly too painful to have Middle Eastern terrorists in a film. That's why they put in fascists instead.In short I think they do a lot with a little, using real drama to move the plot forward and not needing everyone to swing from vines and ski off of cliffs constantly.I also think that, at the time this movie came out, a lot of people were fed up with Ben Affleck and his tabloid persona. Since then, Ben has matured and produced top films such as Gone Baby Gone. I hope we can leave Ben-hatred to the past.Finally, a lot of people who read Tom Clancy's book -- as I have -- seemed to feel that any film that didn't stick perfectly to the plot must be awful. It's a black or white world for them. I disagree. Re-starting the Ryan franchise (like Batman Begins or Casino Royale, which restarted the Batman and James Bond franchises) was a good idea, in my opinion, and the script neatly places the new Ryan in the center of all the action without requiring goofy coincidences.This film is the story of a possible World War III, done perhaps in the most realistic possible way that can be dramatized. Give The Sum of All Fears a shot despite its lower rating. You'll be pleased you did. "},{"Title":"Political war science fiction is always propaganda","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film could have been a good one. It came out after 9/11 but before Iraq, at the time of Afghanistan. It is about the final confrontation between the USA and Russia. A nuclear terrorist attack is organized in Baltimore so that the USA may believe it comes from the Russians and may start the procedure leading to a full out nuclear war. From the very start the theory that is illustrated here is that terror in the world is organized by the Israeli secret services with the help of some western autonomous adventurers and with the complicity of the hard liners in the Russian and Ukrainian armies. Then the whole story is difficult to believe because of the total lack of real believable hard facts. The American president appears as quite manipulated by his own military personnel and his State and Defense Secretaries, without speaking of the CIA. The Russian president appears just as much manipulated but with maybe a little bit more nerve. The whole plot fails because a small CIA intellectual agent manages to speak to the Russian president directly via the red telephone and make him take the decision to halt his alert, a decision that the US president immediately imitates. How can we believe that. The Weapons of Mass Destruction are quoted in some remote small sentence somewhere unimportant but the propaganda is clear. The various actors of this plot are then eliminated one after the other in the most radical way possible. That's a shame in a way because the film is rather well made and acted but it is obvious war propaganda that supports the theory pretending the world is being manipulated if not controlled by the Israelis, a resurgence of sorts of the old hitlerian anti-semitism of old. I guess some believe that good old hate-theories can always be revived in a way or another, with a little bit of upgrading if necessary.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Not so bad- watch it!","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First of all i just want to say that i have read other peoples reviews for this movie, and whilst i appreciate those i would like to offer my views on this film! Before i do so i would like to inform you of this1. I have never read the book or any other Tom Clancy books 2. Prior to watching this i had not seen the Harrison Ford take(s) on Jack RyanThe reason i am telling you this is because i love movies, and watching this film with no other mediums influencing my verdict of this, may be the reason my view is different from others.Personally i thought that this movie was pretty decent. A modern day action film where you don't have to think about the movie too much, you just sit back have some munchies and enjoy- If you like the films of say, Bruce Willis, you will enjoy this!This film is not perfect and i wont tell you its the best film i have ever seen but it is enjoyable and has a decent story, Morgan Freeman is as reliable as always, and i thought Ben Affleck did a good job on this movie! A lot of people jump on the i don't like Ben affleck bandwagon without watching the films. (and i know how bad Gigli and Phantoms were but trust me this is better)Maybe not as good as the previous films or the book but a highly enjoyable flick, watch this film again and tell me you don't think the same!!! "},{"Title":"Long & Drawn Out Film","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ben Affleck, (Jack Ryan) and Morgan Freeman, (DCI William Cabot) held this picture together and gave it great supporting roles. In this film there is a plane carrying a bomb twenty-nine years ago which never explodes and is buried in Egypt. This bomb is discovered and a very sick person obtains the bomb and plans on blowing up a football stadium. This story involves Russia and America drawn into a Cold War battle with nuclear devices being blown up in Baltimore and President Robert Fowler,( James Cromwell), trying to prevent the entire world from being blown up. DCI William Cabot is a mentor to Jack Ryan who gives excellent advice and is paid very little attention. However, Dr. Cathy Muller, (Bridget Moyhnahan) creates some female romance between Jack Ryan who is thinking about getting serious with Cathy and getting married, much to her surprise. "},{"Title":"Too many flaws and minor frustrations to make this a truly memorable espionage thriller.","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Although not being heavily into espionage films on a personal level, I do enjoy the odd spy thriller every once in a while. The fact I was brought up on James Bond films from the Connery era through to end of Moore's reign is probably the sole ingredient that my liking of an espionage film every once in a while is a matter of fact. The genre has also been given a recent boost thanks to films like Goldeneye and the Bourne series. Even if this was my first expedition into the Clancy/Ryan world, I was overall, a little disappointed.The film is steady, if not unspectacular pretty much from the off. Various characters are introduced and the actual situation is introduced in a steady and very planned manner. I liked the idea of a nuclear warhead out in the open from the very beginning; going against what Goldeneye did by revolving the early part of its plot around the planning and stealing of the device although it probably, in truth, worked better that way. Credit to The Sum of All Fears though; as the way it did it was refreshing.As for the characters, we have the president of the United States played by, as ever, a middle aged aging man that has a miniature army of suits running around him doing most of the work, we have an expert and mentor to the film's hero who is at first above the protagonist in question and then we have the man himself Jack Ryan. Even though I'm no expert, I know that this isn't Ryan's first adventure and having a young Ben Affleck play the lead did misfire but I don't blame Affleck because the character, by now, is so experienced thanks to his previous expeditions, does he really need all the mentoring and 'kid' small talk thrown in his direction? It would seem the producers used relatively elder actors such as Baldwin and Ford for the first films but then opted for youth for the latter film in the series&#150; odd film-making. Thanks to this, I got the feeling this was his very first assignment.What slows the film down is, ultimately, a poor script. We hover around Ryan and his girlfriend too much in the early scenes; something that turned out to be a pointless exercise when we should be spending this time introducing the villain and having him set up his plan as a good spy/espionage film needs a villain of some sorts. As it is, we get about ten seconds in total of a guy I didn't actually catch the name of talk nastily down the phone to some Arabs or something about the bomb that has been found. All that I conjured was that he was a South African. This lack of a villain came back and bit the film later on, as well.Another nag I felt consisted of everything up until the bomb exploding in Baltimore. It felt that everything was really, just building up to this one moment and when it actually came; I distinctly felt the film speed up in an odd way; it stuck with the same subject matter of people bickering and talking to one another but now, everything actually meant something as a terrorist attack had actually occurred. Shortly after this event however, we see Jack Ryan running through the remains of Baltimore or some other place affected by the blast. He manages to use a cell phone or something, gets in contact with a V.I.P and the use of slow motion as he gets out of the situation was all a bit silly.Like I was saying with the lack of a villain, the film suffers in its middle third as there are no real obstacles for Ryan to overcome. There are no fights for him to fight apart from maybe a scrap with a guard in a warehouse from whom he wants information from but Ryan leaves without it; just as his allies arrive and subdue his enemy. In the end, the tension between America and Russia and their nuclear war threats are rather predictably concluded.Although scraping by with what it does, the film never really feels like a roller-coaster ride of suspicion and intrigue as good espionage films should. Ryan gets by on the rare occasions he's tested, mostly thanks to impossible logic, and the only 'bad guy' or thing that does any destruction in the film is actually the nuclear bomb everything revolves around at the beginning. Not good, not great but not a total disaster. "},{"Title":"Sven Ole Thorsen and Back Door Intelligence Gathering","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What does Sven Ole Thorsen and Arnold Scharzenegger have in common with the Sum of All Fears? Back door intelligence gathering, otherwise known as counter-intelligence? Sven Ole Thorsen can play his role in the Sum of All Fears as the tough guy clamping down on loose ends. While Governor Scharzenegger can refute his fascist right wing past and play by the rules with the United Nations according to the laws of the United States of America. You'll notice that Arnold keeps track of his past like he was human clock ticking with his father's past inscribed on his conscience. Arnold is also always on camera proclaiming the victories of the 6th largest economy in the world within the State of California like a proud parent of something he alone developed, with so much charisma as from his boyhood. Luckily the Sum of All Fears is just a movie and Sven Ole Thorsen only plays the part of Russian intelligence officers in other cinema acting roles.I do not think Sven Ole Thorsen morally would conceal his ability to speak Russian or do business in Russia concerning the military as possible communist sympathizers may have during WWII. I do not know the actual account of deserters from the German military who did conceal their ability to speak Russian during this era. Concerning morals and military ethics with film The Sum of All Fears history has taught some lessons concerning this already, involving the ethics of war and the political economy. German V-2 rockets into London without chemical warheads just as Russian Katsusya rockets landed in Israeli. The golden rule of war-fare seems to be universal, those who have all the gold rule.Sven Ole Thorsen plays a terrific role in the Sum of All Fears film strangling his victims with superior upper body strength like a real terminator. I wish he was a counter-intelligence operative working with the CIA in this film so he would not be detained. I like to see him as a terminator. "},{"Title":"great political film","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Maybe it's just me and my political interest, but The Sum of All Fears was a great movie to me simply because of the political intrigue and aspects of the movie. Not only did Mace Neufeld manage to create some great political scenes that would have seemed corny done any other way, but he also managed to intertwine some tense action into the storyline. I also just love the screenplay 'Hitler was just stupid. You don't fight Russia and America. You get Russia and America to fight each other. And destroy each other.' And the reference to JFK (the only really sane US President) at the end, matched alongside the great Michael Byrne's acting, is a brilliant way to end a movie. The actual Baltimore explosion and the dying Cabot scene are both powerful moments in the movie, and every actor and actress in it did a wonderful job. I can't wait to see Affleck in another Clancy-adapted movie, and he played Jack Ryan the way I pictured him in the books detailing his early life in the CIA. Out of all, Ciaran Hinds and Michael Byrne were both brilliant and Morgan Freeman too, as usual. "},{"Title":"I Think My Faith in Ben Affleck Might Finally Be Shattered","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have heard the director of this film did not want his work compared to the work of prior directors working on Jack Ryan films. He also did not want people comparing Ben Affleck to Harrison Ford or Alec Baldwin, because this was to be a whole new incarnation. I am willing to do that, especially since I am unfamiliar with the other Jack Ryan films. But either way, one thing is clear Ben Affleck can't act his way out of a paper bag.The movie overall was very nice. The content was timely and interesting, and I believe that the situations presented in the film are very plausible. Certain liberties were taken with how a nuclear explosion works, I think, but I'm no expert in that department so I'll just ignore what I find to be a glaringly outrageous premise.But yeah, Affleck really didn't come through for me. Every so often his character would say the same things over and over again (I know this guy!) and did not come across as someone the audience should be cheering for. I was on the side of the government, thinking he was a pretentious brat who should shut up and go home. If that was the film's intention I'm even more confused -- that would leave me hating both the government and the main character. How am I supposed to feel good about that? But yes, the plot was interesting and held me very tightly through the film. I'm tempted to make a connection to Broken Arrow (another film about a stray nuclear warhead), but I think I've already tainted this film enough. "}{"Title":"Over all, an excellent action movie, but it looses me in several places","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ever since 9/11, terrorist attacks have been on our minds, what would happen if there was a nuclear attack on America? What if someone tried to turn countries against each other? Well, Sum of All Fears touches that subject and did a great job with it. The story is actually believable and very scary when you think past the film and today's society of fear and terrorism. Although, this movie ended on a good note, I think we doubt that it's going to be the same in reality.The movie itself is good with some great actors and very cool special effects. The film is very intense and I would recommend it for a watch on a Saturday. But this isn't something I'd really watch again because it lost me in a few places in the story. Maybe I should watch more West Wing. P 6/10 "},{"Title":"James Cromwell as President? Need we say more","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie adaption of Tom Clancy's thriller, this movie is about a confusing terrorist attack on America.Ben Affleck (in one of the most powerful performances since Christopher Penn in Footloose) stars as Jack Ryan, an expert on Russian history and politics. When the Russian President dies and a newcomer is ushered in, the Government calls on Ryan for his expertise on the new relatively unknown President. When a bombing of Chechnia occurs shortly after he is sworn in, the US thinks they have a lunatic to oppose. Ryan assures them it's not the new guy's work, but they don't agree. The chaos escalates and it seems Ryan is the only one who really knows what's going down. Will he avert a full blown nuclear war between the superpowers? See it to find out.Also features Morgan Freeman in some of his most ordinary work. "},{"Title":"Tom Clancy should have known better.","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 1. The Golan Heights are not a desert. It's a mountainous region where a large part of Israel's water supply originates. And of course there are no Bedouins there. 2. If the bomb was found in Syria, why did they ship it through Haifa and not through a Syrian port, and how the hell did they cross the Syrian-Israeli border? It's one of the most closely-watched borders in the world, on both sides. 3. How could an atomic bomb lie buried for 30 years without being recovered? It should be easy enough to detect due to its radioactivity. 4. Why would anyone be so stupid as to send an unescorted jet with a nuclear weapon on patrol after so many other jets have been shot down by Syrian AA missiles? As an executive producer, Tom Clancy should have been more careful not to make such gross mistakes. It seems that he is an expert on the US armed forces, but totally ignorant about the Middle East. Clancy was right on one fact, though Israel indeed was prepared to use its nuclear weapons in 1973 when it seemed to be on the brink of defeat. "},{"Title":"the sum of bad explanations","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Sum of All Fears is nothing but a sum of bad explanations to keep the lame plot going. To be afraid we need something to be afraid of. In the film it is a bomb, but that's not strong enough, so let it be a nuclear bomb. Better. In addition to that we need someone who owns this bomb. But let's face it, one single person is not scary unless he has his hands on your throat, so we better take a group of scary people. This group is planning to attack the United States and, of course, the government is trying everything to prevent this from happening. We are to believe it's the Russians planning an attack, but we know that already. It's always the Russians and it's becoming pretty boring. It was time for something new. Enter Nazis. (They are not really new, are they?) One of the basic questions is how they got that nuclear bomb. (Damn, I knew we forgot something while writing the script!) The film starts with a Israeli jet flying over a desert (I think it was Sinai, right?). The pilot is busy fussing with a picture of his family and is then downed (surprise!). I find this rather unconvincing. No pilot is looking at a picture while flying! Who is to believe that? Then all this It's the Russians, no, it's not the Russians! is getting on my nerves.There are some funny moments (the T-Shirt saying I am a bomb technician, if you see me running, try to catch up!) and some nice visuals, but the story makes no sense.If you don't want to waste your time, don't watch it. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've seen historical fiction","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie I initially went to see b/c it was one of the few movies that looked appealing (plus my cousin said- oh, Affleck's in it- it must be good) at the time we went to the movies.It exceeded my expectations. With the language being the only problem, I would highly recommend this to anyone who especially thinks the terror strikes (against terrorism) are bad.Five stars to this movie...Cabot's especially very well played, as are President Fowler and RyanIt takes a while to develop but once it does it will be a very enjoyable movie, but don't go if you don't like any other war movies. "},{"Title":"no Ford=no good","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For the first hour there is almost no action at all which isn't necessary a bad thing, it has a fairly intelligent build up that reminds you of The West Wing, then in the last part all hell breaks loose which turns it into a different kind of film altogether. I'm not sure it totally works but it's watchable stuff. But what definitely didn't work for me was Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan, he's good-looking, he's likable but he's no Harrison Ford, he hasn't got the charisma to play a role like that, unlike Matt Damon who is excellent as Jason Bourne. If Harrison Ford had played Jack Ryan again this would have been a far better film.(6/10)NB.The man playing the President is James Cromwell and he was born in Los Angeles.  "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't read the book, so although I'm not a Ben Affleck fan, I was not disappointed in the pace of the film, except for one thing. Mr. Clancy has a reputation for doing his homework. Apparently, the casting department did not follow suit. How do you have a nearly all Caucasian audience in a stadium in a city that must be 50% or more black, to say nothing of any other demographic? Since I am from the East Coast, it didn't just lose its realistic edge for me - it lost its credibility at a most unfortunate point - its climax. A Greyhound ticket might have been a useful line item in the movie's budget! Some of the newer films seem to be written or cast as though there is a psychologist on the staff. While I don't know whether this actually happens, I would go as far as to put a sociologist or demographer on the staff if I'm shooting a film in a city of any complexity. playfair  "},{"Title":"what a dud","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the sum of all fears. well, I read the book and it was a real page turner, the movie is so far removed from that story as to be a different product. the sum of all my fears is that ben affleck will be offered the next jack ryan role and accept.what on earth was Tom Clancy thinking when he got involved in this project? is he so enamoured of the idea of getting his name in the credits and starts to believe all the critics on his books? please Tom, if it aint broke don't fix it.Harrison Ford was fantastic in the other films of this series, but please Hollywood if you need a replacement why does it have to be mr gigli?read the book, much more excitement. get it? the book = excitement;the movie = excrement. and morgan freeman, after stuff like driving miss daisy and bruce almighty, why oh why do you permit your face and voice to be exploited in this manner??contrived suspense, implausibility abounding, poor camera work, etc etc4/10  "},{"Title":"Great movie, but...","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  it would be alot better if Harisson Ford will be as Jack Ryan.spoilers warningthis movie is so great ive already watched it almost 7 times. great acting by Morgan Freeman, and Liev Schreiber(sp?).John Clarke was a great spy/assassin in the movie. i give this movie 8/10. "},{"Title":"don't judge a nook buy it's cover","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At first you one thinks that is just another Hollywood action movie but after seeing it is infact quite a good movie.It contains elements of suprise and intense action that keeps you plastered to the screen throughout the movie.Based on an excellent book by Tom Clancy this is recommended.7-8 / 10 "}{"Title":"Osama All Fears","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie would have been much more fun if Ben Aflek had worked harder at playing a young Harrison Ford.  The most boring nuclear bomb explosion I have ever seen.  Next time they should get Dennis Quaid to play Jack Ryan. He recently did a wicked Harrison Ford impression in Cold Creek Manor. "},{"Title":"It would have been a great thriller if it was released during the Cold War!!!","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on the Tom Clancy best-selling novel, The Sum of All Fears had the potential of being a very sobering and timely thriller this side of the original Fail-Safe. Unfortunately, because of a plot change from the original source material (Middle East conflicts in the book; neo-Nazis in the movie), I believe it muted the story's effectiveness. Adapting books to film has always been and always will be a risk. I have never read the book but just from watching the movie I sensed that it could have been a more effective and more potent film if the writers and producers did take some creative chances and make the movie more current instead of playing it safe. "},{"Title":"Nearly Completely Dreadful (Spoiler Warning)","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers ahead!This movie was terrible, with a few redeeming features. Aside for the nuke making it into Baltimore and actually blowing up (finally, I have been watching movies my whole life, waiting for a nuke to actually hit its target), none of the rest of the plot made sense. Not that the events themselves (old nuclear bomb found, stolen, converted, shipped to the US, detonated - nuclear standoff ensues) could/would never happen, but the way that the story connected all the events was simply preposterous. This should not have been a Jack Ryan story. In order to involve him in the story (i.e. allow him to save the day), they had to twist the plot around far too much. It simply did not work. I could not suspend my disbelief because it did not even make sense how one thing connected to another.The worst thing about this movie, though, was the casting of Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan. He ruined the Jack Ryan character for me. When Harrison Ford played Jack Ryan, he was a MAN - a tough guy who took charge, stood up for his family and his principles, and kicked ass against the bad guys. In this movie, Ben Affleck (possibly the script, too) turns Jack Ryan into an office nerd who does not deserve or command respect, other than for the accuracy of a report he wrote back when he was an even younger agent. What kind of a hero is that? I felt like I may as well have been watching his character in Chasing Amy - he seemed that helpless and inconsequential. That is why it made even less sense when the screenwriters made him into the hero. But the best way they could come up with for him to save the world was by typing on text chat to the Russian President? I know it is 2003 and Instant Messenger is everywhere, but come on! How is this exciting? If I choose to see a standard Hollywood thriller about nukes and terrorism, I want it done right. They could have cast Adam Sandler and had him save the world by getting drunk and suggesting that we launch flaming poo instead of nukes at the Russians, and it would have been more interesting than this movie. 3/10 stars, and it gets 3 instead of 1 only because of Morgan Freeman's solid performance and because they actually had the guts to nuke a city. "},{"Title":"Nice, smoothly running spy thriller","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am not a big Tom Clancy fan, but his movies always seem to satisfy.  They tend to the James Bond end of credibility, but still leave you with something to think about.  This one is about some right wing fanatics who scrounge up an old nuke and detonate it somewhere in the US.  Their mission is to pit the new Russian state against the US in a nuclear war that would usher in global fascism.Ben Affleck and Gordon Freeman do a lot to keep things moving along. "},{"Title":"I AM A BIG FAN OF TOM CLANCY!!","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tom Clancy does it again!Jack Ryan is still alive and fighting the Russian bad guys, who aren't so bad in Jack Ryan's book.I've read THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER and, although it took sometime to do so, I am readily looking forward to reading the novel for this one, also.  Clancy's blend of people, politics, and spies put me on the edge of my seat the whole movie.  I am a little biased towards giving this movie a vote of 10 because ...October is one of my favorite of all time.  Whenever I watch one of Jack Ryan's movies (...OCTOBER, PATRIOT GAMES, CLEAR & PRESENT DANGER, SUM...) my significant other always asks me the same thing How many more times can you watch this? Hasn't Jack Ryan taught you enough Russian, yet?Kudos, Mr. Clancy! You're all right, in my book, too! "},{"Title":"Urban renewal in Baltimore!","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This would have rated a 10 were it not for the goody two shoes ending. (Thank God they didn't put happy endings on Shakespeare's plays.) But it still is a taut, tense tale that makes Dr. Strangelove or Fail Safe look like The Good Ship Lollypop. There also are some technical flaws. (Amazing that cell phone towers remained standing when everything else was flattened.) But the music and the tight, moody photography create an atmosphere of armageddon. Despite its minor flaws, Sum Of All Fears is a great suspense movie.   "},{"Title":"Very suspenseful","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie turned out to be a lot better than I thought. I wasn't expecting much out of this action movie since Ben Affleck's Pearl Harbor was horrible.  But, the story turned out to be really good.  I thought the plot flowed along good and certainly wasn't to complicated to understand. I liked how we get to see Jack Ryan solve the mystery and prove the Russians didn't set off the bomb. The end was very good with the President and the Cabinet on the plane trying to decide what to do.  It just seemed really realistic as they debated and would yell although I don't think any country would consider retaliating in such a short time.  If they did, it would be a political disaster.FINAL VERDICT  Tense, entertaining, a cool nuclear explosion(but we don't get to see much of it).  And for once Ben Affleck is actually OK and not horrible.  But, he certainly isn't the best actor that has played Jack Ryan.  This movie is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie,but,could have been great","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Another example to prove that novels are always better than movies, especially when the author is frederick Forsyth or Tom Clancy. U can spend millions in creating the war sequences., but no way can u create that spy-thriller atmosphere! thats the problem with spy thrillers.but sum of all fears was a very good movie. i would have preferred harison Ford for the Ryan character. Could'nt belive Tom Clancy modified his story so much for the screenplay. The first half is damn good. however the second half, after the nuclear incident, could have been better. The length of the movie is really short. Many interesting parts of the novel were left in the movie. Morgan Freeman (in the novel, he comes for a very short time..non-existant character in short) was cool.For those who havent read the novel...it is worth watching.overall = 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not Clancy","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"     The Sum Of All Fears was possibly Tom Clancy's best book, about Middle-East nasties out to set off a nuke in a US city.  This is the filming of politically correct, neo-Cold War claptrap trading on that title.  Kind of like those dreadful Op Center books that use Clancy's name.  Not like the faithful filming of Clancy novels has been all that great, but at least follow some portion of the book or use another title. "},{"Title":"Hollywood fluff version of nuclear catastrophe","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although somewhat entertaining, this has too many plot holes to be effective.  The actual nuclear explosion is as intense as you would expect, but after that things take a turn for the absurd.The main characters are in the vicinity of a nuclear blast, but the words 'radiation poisoning' are never mentioned.  Ben Affleck drives a pick up truck through nuked out Baltimore without a problem.  Bridget Moynahan's hair should be falling out, but it's not even out of place.While we're at it- Wouldn't the people investigating ground zero have a direct line to the President, telling him, not Ben Affleck, that it wasn't the Russians? If an Israeli jet carrying a nuke was shot down, especially over enemy territory, wouldn't someone try to retrieve it?  Did they just hope no one would notice a nuclear warhead in their backyard?Even popcorn actions films like Broken Arrow and almost any given Bond film get this stuff down.I did like Liev Schreiber's character, as well as the Godfather-esque revenge ending, but the plot makes this a lesser film.  "}{"Title":"Not Worth It","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sure most of you here already know the general plot line of this film, so I won't go into re-summarizing it for you and go straight to reviewing.First, we are hit by the continuity mistakes.  Jack Ryan is suddenly younger and doesn't have a family.  Then we have the US and Russia coming to confrontation?  I'm sorry, I like most of Tom Clancy's work, but this is just silly.  What decade does he think this is?  The Cold War is over.  We won.  Get over it and quit living in fear of being nuked.Morgan Freeman was alright, and he was the only one of the good actors in this film that wasn't underused.Affleck is another story.  He's not a bad actor, but he's not good, either.  He's one of those 'personalities', a real celebrity; he comes off much better in interviews.  There's a certain quality a person has in their face when expressing emotion, and you can always tell when someone is bull sh*tting you.  Affleck had that 'fake' quality in his performance here.  I didn't really believe it.  I also didn't believe that he could run across town after it was nuked and not be affected by fallout, or that the US government would let a rookie CIA agent mediate between our President and the President of a large, powerful nation we were on the verge of war with.I was a bit disappointed by both the film and the book.  And I noticed, even when they tried to tone down the ethnic stereotypes for the movie that were in the book, the Arabs here are still portrayed as dirty, rural bumpkins.  What is it with Hollywood and their obsession with villifying anyone from the Middle East?  A rather forgettable film. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can suspend my disbelief in a sci-fi movie, or in a good comedy. As long as the world portrayed is consistent with itself, I have no problem.But when a movie that pretends be a cautionary tale of what may happen, presents an implausible plot, the only thing I can do is laugh.MINOR SPOILER The movie starts with a fighter/bomber plane carrying an atomic bomb that crashes and somehow no one searches for it. Anywhere in this world a plane crash would lead to a search & rescue being sent, especially when the stakes are so high. Not in this movie. END SPOILER.The characters are underdeveloped and cliched. Everything is pure Hollywood. The movie doesn't even point out that in the event of a nuclear war, it doesn't matter who strikes first, since immediately after the launch the other side would launch their missiles too, so in the end there are no winners, only losers.  "},{"Title":"Nice action-thriller","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good movie. It is a thrilling film, with great action sequences from finish to start. Don't expect to see a masterpiece or a very realistic movie, although it shows a possible thing to happen.We have a nice story with some surprises and twists, told in a simple way. From the beginning we know more than every character in the movie, but that doesn't matter; it is fun to watch. We have a nice Jack Ryan played by Ben Affleck. We have some nice visual effects. We have a pretty good action-thriller. 8/10. "},{"Title":"SHAME SHAME ON YOU TOM","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  God this movie is so screwed up, I can't even begin to point out the time line errors with regards to Jack Ryan and all the other main characters.It is so messed up Ben A over acts in every scene and I cant even point a single saving part.  Lord knows what they were thinking in making and editing this movie.I was laughing my butt off during the bombing attack on Baltimore and from then on the tears were rolling due to the comedy.I will say again SHAME ON YOU TOM CLANCY "},{"Title":"Affleck playing a hero, not really worth the time.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, having missed this movie in the theater, I finally saw it on DVD. I have to say I'm glad I didn't pay admission prices for this.We start the movie with Jack Ryan (Ben Affleck) being a historian. Due to some changes in the Russian government, he is suddenly catapulted into being a one-man NSA/CIA. We see Ryan, who just yesterday was a nobody, turn into the hero that controls both US & Russian war policy. Not bad if you're looking for a brain-dead action movie, but don't come looking here for any type of believable plot. "},{"Title":"Huge disapppointment","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you are expecting a film in the same league as previous Tom Clancy movie adaptations, then you are in for a huge disappointment.  The story is difficult to follow, and the movie appears so dark. This movie finally shows that Ben Affleck can not act !!  This is a horrible case of miscasting Affleck in a role that he is too young for. Try any of the other Clancy movies instead, Patriot Games etc. "},{"Title":"Useless sum.","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Boring, and fruitless entry finds a younger Jack Ryan trying to prevent World War 3 and trying to find his way around the White House. Ben Affleck is fine but the Movie is a real bore feast, and drags it's feet int'l the last twenty minutes. Morgan Freeman, who is an excellent actor, does not do much with his role, and The movie does not even follow the novel, or the other movies in the series. Where's Harrison Ford when you need him?  "},{"Title":"Sum of all BS","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has some good action sequences but its spoiled through being unbelievable. There are just too many stereotypes. The evil South African, the Austrian Nazi. It seems to be aimed at the mentally challenged. The fact that right wing parties in Europe are gaining so much support is overlooked and why the US helped the middle east go nuclear are not dealt with here. This is fast food for the mind. Well packaged, lacking in substance and not very nutritious.SpoilerThe biggest danger to world peace in this film is actually the USA who in this account are the ones that give the bomb to Israel in the first place. The Israelis are perfectly prepared to use it and by chance it gets into the hands of some unlikely villains. The film implicitly assumes that Israel and the USA can do no wrong of course, which is irritating but par for the course these days. "},{"Title":"Probably the weakest of all the Jack Ryan films to date.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say I was underwhelmed by this movie. It started off with a lot of promise and then just kind of stumbled along. There were no surprises and nothing to really make you sit up and watch. Just a slow decline to an inevitable end.That said, it's not a bad film. Though I thought more could have been done with the special effects. This had the feel of something that had virtually no budget for effects. SPOILERS. Only the attack on the carrier showed any promise. The retaliation on the Russian base was filled with stock missile-cam footage. Even the nuclear (or nucular, as many news presenters still idiotically insist on pronouncing it) blast was limited to a few shots of a mushroom cloud and a few lame blast effects.It's also worth noting that I had more fun watching the character of John Clark than that of Jack Ryan. It's always a bit of a concern in a movie with one main lead character, that you prefer to watch another, bit-part character, because his character is more interesting than that of the main character.I'm guessing also that this film may have been a prequel of sorts, since the Jack Ryan portrayed here is a bumbling idiot, to put it bluntly, with no clout whatsoever in the CIA. A far cry from the portrayals by Ford and Baldwin in the previous films. But I'm not a fan of Tom Clancy and haven't read the books. So I can't be sure.Probably the weakest of all the Jack Ryan films to date. "},{"Title":"Not bad actually.  Just don't read the book.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't read the book, but it'll be deteremental if you do. I attempted to watch this movie without the knowledge of the past three. (spoilers??)Simply because he's married, has a daughter.  But doesn't have one in the movie.  It would simply make no sense at all if you included this with the first three movies.But setting that aside, it is rather interesting.  Though not as good as Hunt for Red October, it's a bit better than the last two Jack Ryan films.  Unfortunately, it's also less believable.  Though it is a scary thought, the idea of someone blowing away Baltimore is unlikely.The small atomic bomb scene was also fake looking.  The neo-nazi connection is bizarre.  Though this movie wasn't an obvious money monger like the Arnold movie was.  I did like the actor who played the russian president.  Hope to see more of him.The ending but rather stupid.  Kinda ruined the movie.  Wasn't overtly military until the end.7/10Quality 5/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 6/10 "}{"Title":"2 hours of pure boredom.","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I heard so many things about this movie, seeing how popular it seemed I decided to watch it.Summary Jack Ryan is a CIA analyst, who made a report of the possible candidate president Nemerov, who suddenly becomes the President of Russia. Anyways, some time back in the 70's a plane went down that was carrying a nuclear bomb, but the bomb never exploded. After so so many years it was found in the rubble in Israel. That bomb was then sold to a secret Nazi militia that wish to put Russia and America to war against each other. In comes in DCI Cabot, who takes Jack Ryan with him to Russia to inspect their nuclear bombs, but get suspicious when a few scientists are missing. As they return the President of USA heads for Baltimore to see a football game, but Ryan discovers a nuclear bomb is going to blow up there at the stadium.Extremely pointless and boring movie, I thought every Nazi plot thing was over and done with. The only person in the movie that seemed to know what he was doing was the undercover agent John Clark (Liev Schreiber) other than that, the movie was bad. Ben Affleck and Morgan Freeman, two talented actors were wasted in this movie. I rate this movie 3/10.  "},{"Title":"it's good, if you don't have a brain","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Once again, Hollywood has given the salivating dogs something mindless and pointless.  This movie has what every other ridiculous suspense has a good-looking hero, an even better-looking girlfriend, mean bad guys, a stupid plot, lots of things blowing up, an impossible solution thought of by our hero who, at the last second, saves the world from disaster and captures the bad guys.  If you haven't seen this type of movie before, you're either dead or avoid the theaters like the plague.  Avoid this one and do yourself a favor  3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"MISCAST AND MISDIRECTED","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck is hopeless miscast as Jack Ryan. He has no gravitas whatsoever in this movie. I also disagree with changing the villians. I suppose neo-Nazis are more politically correct, as who can protest the portrayal of a bunch of racist white guys? "},{"Title":"Done to death a decade ago.","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's bad enough to be a cliché, and this movie is cliché' grande. What's worse is a self contained system of clichés. Clancy has done this story before, and much better. Alec Baldwin and Harrison Ford were much better Jack Ryans, and once you realize that a writer makes an unbreakable contract by introducing a concept like an atomic bomb that that bomb will actually be used, you can see that this film has one and only one linear destiny that leads nowhere.Despite amazing supporting talent like Morgan Freeman and James Cromwell, this movie begins to drag almost from the beginning and even a mushroom cloud can't obscure the fact that Clancy is out of fresh ideas and living on glory.Ben Afleck, terrible actor that he may be, renders a game performance, but there's nothing there that wasn't done to death more than a decade ago. The only good thing about this dull rehash is that Clancy lives in Baltimore. Maybe the bomb got him too and we won't have to suffer through yet another incarnation of another Jack Ryan as the naive ingénue teaching the CIA how spying ought to be done - AGAIN. "},{"Title":"Effective thriller","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The entire idea of a nuclear war is indeed frightening,and this film does an interesting take on the prospect.The only problem I have is that it did not spend enough time depicting the potential devastation that a nuclear blast can bring.The moments leading up to the blast are edge of your seat quality without question,and the acting is excellent, particularly by Morgan Freeman(who I happen to be a big fan of),and Ben Affleck.As for James Cromwell as our nation's president,I have seen more effective performances,and less effective.This film is not a beginning to end thriller,but from about middle to end,hang on!You're in for quite a ride. "},{"Title":"Same Ol' Same Ol' Stuff","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In spite of the great casting and pretty good acting, this movie was pretty much the same old thing going all the way back to Dr. Strangelove.  Also, it didn't seem to know if it was a terrorist movie or a Cold War one.  I also had severe problems with the plausibility.  I can't believe Affleck is going to do a series of movies like this!  I'm a big fan of Freeman, but I don't think he worked too hard on this one (i.e. paycheck). "},{"Title":"Clear and present failure","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum of All Fears is all about Affleck running around trying like hell to be the hero he is so obviously poised to become while US and Russian war machines are teetering on the brink of being duped into a holocaust. Hmmm. What's wrong with that picture? This slick flick fails on all levels. At the peak of the action/excitement, I found myself looking at the elapsed time and wondering when the flick was going to end...bored. Nothing in this uninspired flick works and the whole thing comes off like so much trite and very flawed busy-work. Best saved for broadcast. (C+) "},{"Title":"*Gasp*","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, I can only say this. This is the ultimate what if situation, that makes us think a lot about the world we live in. Jack Ryan is a CIA newcomer, forced by the circumstances to be more than a simple analyst. The world is at stake here, a nuclear bomb was stolen and the terrorists' goal is to put Russia and the USA in a collision course. The tension is gradual and bone-chilling, and the climax is too much for words, specially in a time when terrorist attacks are so vivid on our minds. I won't go into details. I'll just say that this one is a winner all the way Morgan Freeman provides a stable, professional sidekick, Ben Affleck is a perfect Jack Ryan (although I won't care to know how they change from Harrison Ford to a man so much younger), and the direction is accurate and with some interesting details. It makes political thrillers worth existing, and continues the usual quality of Tom Clancy-adapted movies.  "},{"Title":"It's not the warfare, but the THREAT of warfare...","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was really a very good movie illustrating the way a tragedy can very nearly lead the super-powers of the world to outright nuclear warfare. The only part that I didn't agree with was in the beginning, where an Israeli fighter jet carrying a nuke gets shot down, and the nuke is never recovered. I would expect the Israelis to know exactly where there plane went down and quickly retrieve their weapon.  That said, the path the weaponry and terrorists follow has been proven to be very accurate.  This is a well thought out story showing how uncomfortably easy it could be to get a weapon into the U.S. and detonate it.  It also shows that Russia is not the threat we Americans really need to be worried about, but smaller bands of extremists.  Clancy used clever twists as usual to make it perfectly logical why things HAD to happen the way they did.  When the bomb detonated under the football stadium in downtown Baltimore, it was this surreal, and rather sickening feeling of This isn't real, it has to be a nightmare and was all too familiar.  They explain why the blast is able to send out enough force to damage buildings all through the city, without completely leveling it, or even putting off that much radiation, that it was an incredibly small bomb. Even that makes sense, as a terrorist wouldn't smuggle an ICBM into the country.  In the end, this movie has far less to do with the blowing anything up, as the real struggle is to get the two super-powers to stand down before World War Three is started, since their open hostility for each other has made it so easy for them to be puppeted into conflict.  This was a great movie for people who like high-stakes political intrigue movies, like Crimson Tide, and all of the actors involved are stellar. "},{"Title":"Fears Confirmed!","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Whoever goes to a Clancy Movie knows what to expect. With the right mood in mind this film is quite good. Good pace, a reasonable script, at least until the authors wants to make us believe that really the good American hero can save bare-handed (well, he has a phone) the world. The big and main problem is the casting. None of the two presidents (the Russian and the American) are really what a Russian or American president are supposed to look or act like. Ben Affleck is the bigger mis-cast of all. First, he is too young for the role, then he is so much lacking any personality that I am pretty sure I can cross the stree near him and not recognize despite the fact that I am told I saw him in at least five films.Despite this, if you enjoy good action, if you are not saturated by news and can afford a political thriller you can actually enjoy this movie.  "}{"Title":"superb action film","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite all of the newspaper and TV reviews, I enjoyed this film immensely.  It contains all of the elements of a mind boggling action adventure that simply glues one to ones seat until the very last minute.  Even at the end, one finds the Washington background a beautiful sight.  I can highly recommend this picture to the young and restless audiences in search of shear excitement. "},{"Title":"Silly brainless nonsense containing nothing new","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oh boy - it's Oscar Winner Ben Affleck! He's playing Jack Ryan, a young hot CIA recruit who is drafted into top brass because he's a specialist on the new Soviet leader, Nemerov. Nemerov seems bent on antagonising the world - can Ryan's insider knowledge help avert a war? Well can it?! What do you think people!The plot is typical Clancy nonsense. That is - to have a load of far flung locations around which your characters zip. Throw in a dose of international factions. Season with some high tech gadgetry and throw in a decent lashing of explosions, machine guns, and `Boy's Own' fun for flavour. It's by no means particularly dumb, but it is all rather silly. At least you've got an event (you know, that one that occurs in the movie) that helps shift the tone of the movie. but really do we need another consortium of evil Neo-Nazis? No (and the original plot from the book doesn't sound much better).Acting? It's Affleck. He rarely does anything that could be construed as decent acting. To be fair his character here is more faceless and cardboard than even he's used to. but I have no memory of his role here. His girlfriend, Cathy (Bridget Moynahan) is, amazingly, even blander. They've about as much chemistry going on as an NaCl tightly bonded molecule. The others. shrug. Old, gruff, president (James Cromwell), expert operations man (Schreiber) and a host of TV-imports have as much depth as you expect. Which is none really.Directing? It's not too bad. After the Big Event, Robinsonadopts a nice bleached tone to illustrate the aftermath. The action scenes are well shot but the score was unmemorable. There's nothing outstanding about the work, but it's all shot well and I won't blather on about it too much.`The Sum of All Fears' is what I expected it to be - enjoyable enough nonsense. It's very much forgettable (despite the Big Event) in all stakes but it'll do for a disposable night's viewing. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Formula stuff with a miscast Ben Affleck","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this film to be very disappointing. I only thought Ben Affleckregistered in the quieter moments of the film. He did not measureup to the prior performances of Harrison Ford and Alec Baldwinwho played the same character. I realize that Ben Affleck is playingthe character at an earlier age but still did not believe him as thebudding heroic character, Jack Ryan. Morgan Freeman, however,gave another good peformance. "},{"Title":"Too heavy on visuals and lacking plot cohesion","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have always been skeptical of books made into moves. More often than not they don't follow the book closely enough and are worse off for it. The Sum of All Fears is a prime example of this.Admittedly SOAF is not Clancy's best novel. There were significant problems with the novel I thought which don't warrant going into here. Anyway the movie seems to have magnified these problems. The main one is the character of Clark. In the novel he is fine but in the movie there seems little point to his character. He does a lot of investigating but little reporting to a higher authority or anything of the sort. He just ran around seeming to have little impact on any of the events or the plot in general. This is emphasised when he goes to see the radioactive poisoning victim. If that wasn't the most goddam useless scene I've ever seen in a movie then I don't know what is.Another gripe I have is with the minor details of the movie. Names for one. Why change Marcus Cabot to William Cabot? Why change Narmanov to Nimerov? There seems little point. Also the neo-nazis are a stupid idea. I know that with current sensitivities the use of Islamic terrorists wouldn't have been a good idea but the neo-nazis were a cheap way out and a stupid idea in my opinion.Overall, a very disappointing movie. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Better than you could really expect","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Warning - Some minor spoilers below...OK, I had my opinion of 'Sum of All Fears' well and truly finalised before I saw it. Another patriotism-heavy Yank action thriller, probably going to be quite good fun, but nothing else to speak of, and maybe quite sickeningly stoic in the face of the new adversity blah blah blah blah. In part, I was right, I suppose. Ben Affleck provides very typical American smouldering-but-wooden star fare, in fact he was disappointingly off his best form, not that it would have made much difference since the fella could never have made himself look all that great when paired with Morgan Freeman, who produced the sort of fantastic role that we have come to expect of the film legend. But did the film fall victim to the temptation of a 'Stars and Stripes' flag-waving-fest, a sort of Pearl Harbour amplified by the emotions of the war on terror? Yes and No. Of course, the film leaves you with a very serious concern about nuclear proliferation and global terrorism - probably just what Cheney, Rumsfield and co. would love us to be feeling right now - and the film evokes a very palpable poignancy with lines such as 'there has been a terrorist attack on America' which clearly plays on the 'gulp factor'. However, the film is far from merely a shameless wallowing in national pride in the wake of terrorism. Let us not forget that the villains of the piece are primarily Europeans, not Arabs, and the film breaks fresh ground in acknowledging the US's own culpability for the spread of nuclear weapons outside the superpowers. Above all else, the film - in particular the sound and cinematography, which should both get Oscars - is captivating, and it is a rare thing indeed that I have actually been moved by a film as much as I was two-thirds of the way through this one. The Baltimore episode left me absolutely awestruck - to be honest I just didn't see it coming - and really quite emotionally drained. Such a catharsis is just not something you expect from a self-proclaimed action thriller 'Sum of All Fears'. A few loose ends around the edges demand a slight willing suspension of disbelief, but it is a suspension I for one was more than willing to give after the middle section of the film. As well as the usual top class performance from Freeman, Liev Schreiber was for me a surprise class act, capturing a character few films have focussed on in the 'invisible' secret agent. Indeed, the portrayal of the secret services is one of the highlights of this movie, and the wry post-West Wing humanisation of the political heavyweights in the movie (another more-than-decent performance in James Cromwell's President, for example) only adds to a great all-round spectacle. One to watch if you want something to make you go 'wow'. Trust me, it will. "},{"Title":"Come on Harrison do one more.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is a very good film. It has excellent pace and the atmosphere is also superb. Just one thing. Who's the little turd playing Jack Ryan? Without being too cruel, Ben Affleck gives the role a good shot, but comes off quite bland and wooden. His voice and character aren't purposeful enough, although in the final few scenes he again has a good shot at this but unfortunately falls short. Morgan Freeman; as always, pulls in a dependable performance, although he is slightly wasted as Bill Cabot, but James Cromwell as President Robbie Fowler ( yes that is his name ), is very convincing and conveys his scenes of panic and frustration effectively. Liev Shrieber is excellent as John Clark, the role first played by Willem Dafoe in CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER, his timing and silent lurking is very chilling and he is an excellent foil for Jack Ryan, whose desk antics, look like they annoy Clark's C.I.A field operations. Good entertainment, tense and atmospheric, it's just a shame Harrison Ford couldn't have done the deed. "},{"Title":"A unique blend of thriller and government satire with great performances.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Before seeing this film I thought it would be another paranoiac, terrorist-fueled,good guy versus bad guy thriller. Luckily it was much more than that. The Sum Of All Fears didn't seem like a prequel to Clear and Present Danger but rather a fictional probability.  The movie is a little confusing at first but if you stick with it, it will become engaging and unique. A one of a kind basically. The acting is better than ever. Ben Affleck stands out on his own and although Dogma and Good Will Hunting etc. were good, its better to see him break away from Matt Damon. Morgan Freeman is excellent at portraying his character (as usual).Its good to see Liev Schreiber in a more serious role and I see great potential ahead. Although the film goes on rather long its still an excellent and unique movie. 7.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just not the same","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck picks up the Harrison Ford role as Jack Ryan in the latest Tom Clancy book to be ported to cinema.  Much as he does well, it's just not the same.Morgan Freeman is the star -- isn't he always? -- in this thriller about terrorists using a nuclear device to try to set the USA and Russia at wart with each other.Pretty much what you'd expect, and well done at that. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad film. The first hour is quite boring, consisting mainly of imposing men wearing suits sitting in equally imposing rooms, discussing strageties etc.But it picks up and becomes quite an enjoyable film. Ben Affleck isn't a bad actor, but here he is out-ranked by maverick Morgan Freeman, and excellent supporting actors such as James Cromwell and Liev Schreiber. "},{"Title":"A Good Film Made Better by Its Timeliness","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Five years ago, you would leave this film saying this could happen. Today, in the post 9/11 world, you leave this film saying when will this happen.The movie follows Jack Ryan, now played by Ben Affleck as a young low level CIA operative on the trail of a missing nuclear weapon. Where is it, who has it, where are they sending it. The clock is ticking, you as a viewer know without a doubt that the bomb will go off, but this skillfully crafted film still packs great suspense and intrigue. The Sum of All Fears points out all to clearly that our free society is vulnerable. Changing the villains from Arab terrorists in the book to right-wing extremists in the film may have been an political correctness move, but it undoubtedly adds to the film. Think about it, is not a threat from a group of American born citizens scarier? We are dealing in this movie with a villain who believes that Hitler was not crazy, just stupid.There is a parade of veteran character actors, all giving great performances as high ranking government officials. There are numerous speaking roles, and a wonderfully assembled timeline without once being crowded or confusing. From the opening sequence, which flashes back 30 years to explain the origins of the bomb, to conclusion, The Sum of All Fears combines action and special effect with the exact dosage or paranoia to make a great film. It plays with our fears of another horrible domestic terrorist attack, but does not exploit them.The relationship between Ryan and his girlfriend could have and should have been cut. The girlfriend wades through the checklist of female companion plot devices from start to finish and adds nothing to the film.Pay close attention to how the film is cut and how the director neatly unfolds the plot lines (the construction of the bomb, its value as a simple commodity on the black market, the American/Russian politics, the search for the terrorists and the plot of the extremists) all to one point - the detonation - and then scrambles everything into chaos.I did not like the ending of this film - the final scene not the conclusion of the plot. It is a little too sugar coated when you remember that at least 100,000 people were likely killed.It is hard to say how well this movie would play in a different world. We can only judge in the world we know. ***1/2 out of ****. "}{"Title":"Thank God!!!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was so worried about the future of this franchise upon hearing Ben Affleck was cast as Jack Ryan.  But, after seeing this movie, I thank the gods of Hollywood and producer Mace Neufeld for knowing what they're doing because this franchise is safe in the hands of Ben Affleck. 'The Sum Of All Fears' is Awesome. I've never been a fan of Affleck, always thought he was an over-rated pretty boy. But, the guy's really doing his best and his acting is getting better with each movie. He just needs to stay away from those fluffy romantic nonsense for awhile. He's a pretty good action star. This will become very apparent with 'Daredevil' and 'Red Rabbit', the next proposed Jack Ryan adventure, based on Tom Clancy's upcoming novel of the same name.Jack Ryan will return. "},{"Title":"Tom Clancy at his best","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie, Went to see it 6 times already. Has one of the best catch-phrases, Im sure you know which one it is. I have to agree with Fil-5, I am confused with the year and family thing, Everything is too modern, and he isn't even married yet, But it is still a good story. "},{"Title":"Clancy's dress rehearsal for 9/11 II?","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Set, in part, in a post-nuclear Baltimore in which Ben Affleck runs purposefully through downwind-blowing fallout, THE SUM OF ALL FEARS is more than FAIL SAFE on a post-millennial,  infrared-goggle setting. It represents an autumnal centerward drift on the part of America's cold-warrior pulpmaker, a late-Clinton-era spin of the ideological compass that at times is as  technology-crazed and brutish as James Cameron at his most fervid, at other times waxing peacenik like a square,  movie-of-the-week STRANGELOVE.Affleck is an odd choice to replace the stolid planklike manliness of Harrison Ford's Jack Ryan--his shrugs, giggles and girly-ogling define him as quintessentially gen-x, the inverse of Ford's implacable efficiency. The notion of a Colin Powell-like Morgan Freeman, the wise and hardnosed Director of Central Intelligence, playing mentor to Affleck in both nuclear and romantic hardball is one of the movie's more charming fairy-tale conceits; the sumptuousness of the veteran Jerry Goldsmith's score assists the feeling of inhabiting a never-never land on which current paranoid tropes have been imprinted as if in a dream. There are queer felicities, such as James Cromwell's President's resemblance to the worst aspect of Bushes Sr. and Jr., and the elegant performance by the Putin-like Russian premier, who resembles an aging eighties British rock star. There are also oddities that seem exclusive to Clancy's patch of squaresville, like the romance between Affleck and a darn-smart nurse that makes the love duet in PEARL HARBOR look naturalistic. (Between PEARL HARBOR and SUM, Affleck seems to have his future role as 9-11 firefighter smooching a nurse en route to the holocaust sewn up.) The director, Phil Alden Robinson, better known for the New Age contortions of FIELD OF DREAMS, brings a standard-form Paramount-movie economy to the material, but one can't help walking away feeling a bit of a shudder that SUM's apocalyptic chess match between the U.S., Russians, and haughty Euro-Nazi terrorists was intended as blithe, ideologically uncoded, airport-novel fluff. The movie's seeming lack of position hides the fact that SUM is as potent an unconscious expression of our collective political fears as studio movies have produced in recent years. "},{"Title":"An edge of your seat thriller that delivers!","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies that will make you afraid to leave the room out of fear of missing something.  The film is fast paced, realistic and will give you a sense of how tremendous forces could conceivably be misguided into doing the unthinkable. While I know that some on this board have complained that the villains  didn't represent the kind of terrorists we're currently facing in the post September 11th world, I didn't think that detracted from the potential realism of the plot in the least.  I feel that Ben Affleck did a terrific job at playing Ryan and Morgan Freeman was great too.  Did this movie have flaws?  Probably.  But did I notice them? No.This movie was exactly what I expected and it delivered.  To those that like a great action/thriller, this is it.  I highly recommended it. "},{"Title":"This one is named right...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If ever a movie was named right, this one is. All cast members pulltheir weight. You find yourself believing it could happen - - andpraying it won't. It is worth the time and money... "},{"Title":"An excellent Political Thriller!!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  During the time that we live in currently, it's refreshing to sit in on a movie where we are put right in the center of political conflict.  This movie is less about Jack Ryan (played by Ben Affleck) and more about a group of leaders on the brink of nuclear war.  It's reminiscent of course of Kennedy and Kruschev but keeps us riveted because it goes far closer than even they ever came.  Ben Affleck unfortunately plays Jack Ryan, taking over the role from Harrison Ford and before that Alec Baldwin.  He's not bad, but he's Ben Affleck...and to me that doesn't add up to first class acting but he's all right...fortunately for him the script and the remaining cast is first rate.  James Cromwell (that'll do pig, that'll do) stars as The President...he's believable, intense, and very much has Presidential qualities which is very important in my opinion to making a good political movie.  His staff, such as The Secretary of State and Defense..are equally as believable and intense.  Morgan Freeman fortunately saves Ben Affleck's acting by being by his side most of the time and he's excellent as the CIA director.  The plot is this....a rogue Neo-Nazi militant group kidnap a group of Russian Scientists to build them a nuclear bomb from an old Israeli A-Bomb and then plan to use it on the US in order to make the US believe Russia (who has just taken on a new President) is attacking them and flexing their nuclear arms.  Russia in fact has nothing to do with this attack but when one of Russia's rogue military men orders an attack on a US aircraft carrier...literally all hell breaks loose and tension begins.  The movie unfolds perfectly...the plot is flawless EXCEPT for timeline compared to the other Jack Ryan movies.  Really you must set this aside not as a sequel or as a Prequel but a movie all on it's own. When you realize that this movie takes place in present 2002...which is clearly stated that would make movies such as Hunt For Red October (The original appearance of Jack Ryan), Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger about 40 years in the future which quite obviously they are not. So in order for this movie not to annoy you, set it aside as a movie on it's own and not part of the Jack Ryan series.  Or do as I did...and pretend it's not taking place in the present but in the past which it very well could be with the exception of the military weapons.  The last hour of this movie will have you sitting there with your mouth open waiting for the blast to happen...waiting for it all to hit the fan.  The tension is just remarkable and the movie clocks in at 2 1/2 hours which is perfect for it.  It's not too long or short, and you don't notice it being long.  If you're looking for a blow it up action movie, with a weak story line but great action...go elsewhere...this movie is true tense drama with a little of everything. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent action thriller","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At first, I had some reservations about seeing this movie but the more I heard about it after it was released, the more I thought that I'd be willing to give it a try.  Once I did, I found it to be two hours very well spent.  The story was excellently written with some awesome acting to go with it.  This movie does have some elements that may make you think but all in all, it's a fun ride. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie without ever having read the book.  I went into the theater not knowing what to expect and came out again absolutely loving every second of the movie.  Ben Affleck gives one of his greatest performances ever, like him or not.  All the supporting actors do a fantastic job.  A must see movie for anyone who likes the action genre. "},{"Title":"Teh cool!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is great, very true to the spirit of the book (well, as well as it could with the modifications). An amazing movie and Ben Affleck is *great* as Jack Ryan. Everything is very tight, the cinamatography, the sets, lighting, etc. A very good movie both plot-wise and in the stuff that the critics look for. VERY RECOMMENDED! "},{"Title":"Excellent..with a few reservations","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Of course the whole plot was improbable and hopefully impossible...and the Nuclear blast would surely have done more damage..but , for a fantasy movie getaway without too much blood, guts, gore and sex this was a great trip.I loved Ben as a young Jack Ryan.  If you look at his innocence and his determination, I think that does grow into a Ford type character, as well as even the Baldwin character.  I am fond of Mr Affleck anyway, but have not thought much of most of his recent material, but this should relaunch him as a great fun star and successor to the Tom Cruise ilk at least.I also remember Harrison Ford's early movies and we thought he would remain a lightweight too.....but look what happened!!Any way, well worth the entertainment dollar, and safe for most kids, but they probably will not understand it until 12 at least.  "}{"Title":"Packs a good punch","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tom Clancy's The Sum of All Fears is a fascinating and exciting examination of the worst of situations.  When looking last year at Pearl Harbor and seeing Ben Affleck's talent squandered so horribly in a action picture it's good to see him in a movie of this magnitude, that echoes of post 9/11 fright and paranoia of the end of order with other countries. Here, he plays Jack Ryan, a young Ryan (despite the mis-order of chronology that Ford and Baldwin were both older than Affleck is now when they played Ryan years before this took place which is one of the films odd flaws), who is entering the CIA via Cabot (Morgan Freeman, funny and interesting here) and investigating three missing Russian scientists.  Then what unravels is something I shouldn't reveal here only to say that it involves the city of Baltimore- and the events that follow bring the film to tight suspense involving the President and his cabinet and Ryan trying to contact the President, and so on.  Some parts drag, and the very ending is way, way too Hollywood for the rest of the picture, but fans of Clancy, and the actors, will be delighted.  A- "},{"Title":"Great Jack Ryan Movie","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    I'll be honest, I have yet to read any of the Tom Clancy books, but I loved the films Hunt For Red October, Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger.  I will also admit that I was a little skeptical of this film because I'd never heard of director, Phil Alden Robinson before, and that kind of scared me.  I loved directors John McTiernan (HFRO) and Phillip Noyce (PG and CAPD) from the other Jack Ryan films, and I just hoped that Phil Alden Robinson could do as good of a job.  I have to say that I was impressed, I thought the movie was very well done and definitely kept me interested.  This movie is definitely one of those films that I'm going to need to see two or three times before I fully understand it (I don't do so well with the political thrillers).  So, I look forward to seeing it again, and hopefully pick up on some things that I didn't catch in the first round.  All the actors in this film did a great job with their roles.  I don't think there was a single actor in the film that I didn't like.  Ben Affleck did a great job as Jack Ryan and Morgan Freeman did a great job as Bill Cabot.  I also really liked Liev Schreiber as John Clark.   The only complaint I have about the film is that I wish they hadn't shown any of the nuclear explosion scenes in the trailers/previews for the film.  It would definitely have had more of an impact if they hadn't shown any of those scenes in the trailer.  But, oh well, it still got me in the theater right?  Well, I want to say that if you liked the other Jack Ryan films then you'll probably like this one, but I know that everybody's opinions are different, so I hope you like the film as much as I did.  Happy viewing, and thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Doesn't add up","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THE SUM OF ALL FEARS (2002) **1/2 Ben Affleck, Morgan Freeman, James Cromwell, Liev Schreiber, Alan Bates, Philip Baker Hall, Bruce McGill, Ron Rifkin, Bridget Moynahan.  Affleck assumes the Jack Ryan mantle from predecessors Harrison Ford and Alec Baldwin in the Tom Clancy franchise but lands flat footed in this atypical geopolitical potboiler focusing on a rehash of Cold War fears (i.e. nuclear war) with a smart yet leaden screenplay (the film falls apart by the third &#150; and crucial &#150; act) by Paul Attanasio and Daniel Pyne and able direction by Phil  Alden Robinson. "},{"Title":"Jack Ryan seems to be getting younger","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved the movie, however it seems that Jack Ryan is getting younger with age. Just how old is Ryan supposed to be. I could understand if he were maybe Jack Ryan Jr or something to that effect, but to replace Harrison Ford with an actor that is half his age seems like going back in time and not forward. "},{"Title":"This film was disappointing (Spoilers inside!)","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Due to my love of political, complex stories, I was naturally drawn to this film. After seeing the preview, I was hooked. But after finally seeing the film last night, numerous things disappointed me- The best parts of the movie were in the preview! Now I know that in order to get the public to see the film, the preview must be appealing. But one would hope that there are more exciting things in the film BESIDES what's shown in the preview. There are none!- Morgan Freeman's character dies! To kill off the best actor in the cast was just horrible. Freeman basically held the movie together when half the audience was on the verge of sleeping during the first 1 hour of this film, due to its REALLY slow start. He was the most entertaining aspect of the film while he was in it. His character dying was VERY disappointing...especially seeing that I saw this film for him!- Why didn't the nuclear bomb explode when the Israeli plane was shot down? Then to be found 'buried' in the ground as if the plane crashed instead of the exploded was just illogical. Also, why did it take 30 YEARS for it to be found without ANY inquiries from Israel in that long period of time?- Was I the only one who thought that Ryan's girlfriend was the one we saw getting basically BLOWN away by the nuclear blast at the Baltimore hospital?Seeing her still alive really confused me, and the whole thing in the end with Ryan and her at a picnic and everything be happy-go-lucky with them was the EPITOME of cheezy!!- Ben Affleck is nothing special in this film. Now this really didn't surprise me, as I'm not a fan of Affleck and I basically went to see the film to support Freeman, who's one of my favorite actors. Affleck is in no way convincing in this role. The Sum of All Fears had the potential of being great; with such a good cast (the majority of the actors playing political figures are known to play such roles and don't disappoint) and the subject matter...this could've been a much better film. But with all of the plot holes, illogical action sequences, and a script full of clichés...it ultimately doesn't deliver. "},{"Title":"Tense. Taut. Powerful. Thriller to the end.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has been nit-picked to death. Forget about the lack of continuity and the variance from Tom Clancy's novel. A war monger(Alan Bates)buys a nuclear bomb on the black market to avenge his father's death. Baltimore, MD is the target of devastation, which in turn is intended to make the U.S. think it was a Russian bomb. CIA agent(Morgan Freeman) brings young Jack Ryan(Ben Affleck) aboard as an advisor to President Fowler(James Cromwell).F/X are super. The story line wiggles around a little, but the viewer is anxious and loving every minute of it. This is a thriller to the end. Everything you would want in a movie. A major problem, grand explosions, destruction, a hero and you get to see that the bad guys get taken care of. I am not an Affleck fan, but he does a very good job with what he was given to work with. For me, Freeman was the pivotal character and when he got killed...the movie too started to die. Cromwell is a down-to-earth President. Very strong supporting cast that includesJohn Beasley, Ciaran Hinds, Philip Baker Hall and Bruce McGill. Despite the nay-sayers, this is the best movie I've seen this summer. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Another Jack Ryan movie.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The story started slow in the movie. Watch it was hard to get a connection in what the characters and plot in the film. The point was difficult to get a cross through the whole thing. I do not know if I go to watch this film again. I would rather see director Phil Alden Robinson Sneakers first than The Sum of All Fears. I fell that this movie needed more character development in the movie to understand the plot more clearly. In other words to keep the Jack Ryan franchise going by writing better screenplay to make the character more interesting.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly, Affleck is perfect -- the film isn't. 7/10","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum of All Fears is your typical Tom Clancy movie not terrible, but never anything more than average.  This is a fine popcorn film, with a couple of great performances.  Stand-outs include James Cromwell and Liev Schreiber, but the surprise comes from Affleck.  Affleck makes a much more likable and human Jack Ryan then Harrison Ford and Alec Baldwin ever could.  Action scenes are few and far between, but when they do pop-up, they entertain.  The film feels a tad overlong and the villain is not memorable.Overall I liked this film.  Nothing fantastic, no eye-popping action scenes and it's never as smart as Spy Game, but it delivers in the usual Clancy style.  "},{"Title":"COMPLICATED, BUT WELL DONE MOVIE","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very well done movie, and kept you on the edge of your seat, as long as you could keep track of who was who, and what was what.  Morgan Freeman once again gave a great performance, and Ben Affleck was good in the lead role.  Go see this one for a thrilling evening. "},{"Title":"Really Makes You Think","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this film and it blew me away with its powerful images of nuclear destruction.  There are scenes that I won't forget such as the mushroom cloud rising above the detroyed city of Baltimore and the men and women who are suffering from radiation poisoning.  This film really makes you think about the possibilties, especially in the Post-9/11 world.  While Russia seems like less of a threat now than the rouge terroists of the al-Qaida network, the message is still clear once some of us are in, we are all in, and there is no getting out.  While this film has a feel-good ending, it doesn't take away from its power.  It is also very well acted and keeps you on the edge of your seat.  Overall a good intelligent summer flick. "}{"Title":"The sum of all my fears","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is one of the most forgettable films of all time, at least the most forgettable thriller. In the forums, in almost all the cinema magazines, people say that Ben Affleck's acting is wooden, he is too straight faced and he is always the same in all his movies. I disagree. He is not a great actor yes, but not that much. They exaggerate. Therefore, the problem of the movie is neither Ben Affleck, nor Morgan Freeman, it is the movie itself. By the way, it is too painful that its rating is much more higher than some very good action thriller movies, especially made in 1990s. The movie is an action movie which includes almost no action. This is the first fear. I had started to watch the film by the hope of seeing an exciting, action thriller movie like Mission Impossible movies, for example but all I got was a too slow paced movie. No car chase, no pursuit, no gunfight. There is an explosion scene, but even it is not remarkable at all, because we cannot see the explosion, wee see the events after that. The rest of the movie is conversations, phone conversations and conversations again. Additionally, the movie is not stylish, 'normal'. Another fear. As said, this is not a remarkable movie, no prominent scene! My third fear. The movie is not enjoyable at all, from the first minute till the last, even that off screen explosion scene. You know, there are some movies, not good movies, but real enjoyable. This movie is not one of them. The third fear. The Sum of All The Fears. "},{"Title":"very, very bad writing","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very, very bad writing requires supposedly bright, competent characters to act like morons to move the plot along.  This movie has that in spades.  Laughable bad-guys make laughable good-guys do ridiculous things in an attempt to build to a nuclear armageddon climax.  Along the way, every so often somebody mouths some rockheaded thing, presumably the writer, director, actor or producer's political feelings.  Just be aware that the world doesn't actually work like this, most particularly the world's nuclear arsenals.   The only acting  bright spot is Liev Schreiber, solid as always, but even he cannot save this turkey from Ben (Morgan Freeman is fine, of course, but mostly he just stands around looking alarmed.)  Give this one a pass.  "},{"Title":"SPOILERS - why was it afraid to decide if it was a piece of comment or piece of entertainment?","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When President Zorkin of Russia dies suddenly he is replaced by Nemerov, an unknown in the field.  However junior CIA advisor Jack Ryan had recently written a paper about him and is brought into the fold under DCI Cabot. While on an inspection of a decommissioning site in Russia it is uncovered that three key mean are missing.  The discovery of what these men are doing beings a race to uncover who is planning to attack the US and spark a war with Russia.  Jack Ryan finds himself working against the clock to prevent world war III.I had mixed hopes for this, but I saw it for free (thanks Empire Magazine!) so can't complain.  It started well enough - a thriller plot with some nice humour thrown in, nothing out of the ordinary.  The plot moves nicely in interweaving strands in the early stages, clear in the fact that we're building to something.  However a key moment of the film is it's undoing. When `the attack' happens, the action changes.  The first failing is that Ryan gets separated from the action until the last 5 minutes, he is off in another film while the President etc wrangling is where the real drama is. This affects the momentum of the plot and, although it is still dramatic and exciting I never really got back into it enough to totally suspend belief.But suspending belief itself is a problem isn't it.  On one hand the film wants to accept that this is real (in the wake of 11/9) but on the other - it still needs to sell popcorn, so what we get is something in-between. So the film makes the point that the bomb itself was from the US (just like Bin Laden was trained by the US) but it also needs a `happy' ending, so we get a silly little denouncement of the three main baddies getting offed.  The `scene' of the attack itself is heavily cut - rightly so, I wasn't ready to see that just yet, and the film tries to be respectful and tasteful. However this sudden sombre tone again drags much of the enjoyment out of the film, which isn't a problem - until it tries to get the action moving again.In fairness the use of washed out colours after the attack in comparison to the colours before the attack works well, but the way that it was to entertain us without making a terrorist attack look like an entertaining thing, means that it feels like the film is walking on eggshells for much of the second half.The plot has minor irritations.  Why didn't they just create a new character instead of using Ryan (making him way younger, forgetting his family and everything that's gone before?).  Also Ryan's girlfriend is seen sent flying by the blast but next time she's barely scratched!  Litte things like this bugged me!The cast are a weird thing.  On the one hand you've got heavy hitters like James Cromwell (the only thing to stay consistent in the series), Rifkin, Bates, Hall and the like.  But then on the other you've got too many `that's the guy from...' actors, and this distracts from the film cause you're thinking where do I know him from?  I don't mind well known faces but in the first five minutes there are so many it is really distracting - `that's the guy from Scrubs', `that's the guy from 32 short..' and my personal favourite `that's the guy from `'Allo, 'Allo' - that's all I could think when President Zirkon was onscreen!  It really put me off the story!Affleck himself is OK, but can't be passionate in a believable way - when he gets desperate and starts to shout about what could happen etc, I didn't believe it!  Schreiber puts me off in most films I've seen him in cause I don't like him, but here he was one of the better characters.  Freeman was good and the big names and faces all delivery well (even if they were underused).Overall this was an OK spy film.  However the fact that it isn't fiction anymore means the film tries to do two things at once.  It wants to be political and sombre and not show too much that will upset people.  And it manages to be serious and make some good political points (the US's foreign policy coming back to hunt it?!).  however it also wants to fill a cinema on a Friday night, so it tries to be entertainment at the same time - but it feels like the producers felt guilty for making entertainment out of terrorism.  As a result it falls clumsily between two stools - enjoyable to watch but really muddled with no consistent tone or action. "},{"Title":"POLITICALLY CORRECT Unbelievable Potboiler","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman is always good. But this plot is absolutely contrived and unbelievable, and entirely in bad taste with the reality of terror attacks on the U.S.What is absolutely INEXCUSABLE is the gutless Politically Correct garbage that has turned Islamic terrorists into some sort of Neo-Nazis! Is Hollywood too PC to show Arabs as terrorists and mass murderers?? It wasn't Swedish nuns or Japanese businessmen who hit America on 9/11.  How lame this movie is. Skip it. Go see Minority Report or Bourne Identity instead.  "},{"Title":"Is our memory that short?","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Rather than go on about why I think this movie is not only terrible, but also reflective of a deep American moral failing, these quotes by Sean Burns of the Philadelphia Weekly sum up what I think is the best reaction to the film Are these people out of their f**king minds? It hasn't even been nine months since the most devastating civilian massacre in our nation's history, and Hollywood has the balls to choose four days after Memorial Day to release a stupid popcorn crowd-pleaser about an even more horrific terrorist attack.... It's hard to describe just how dirty and sickened The Sum of All Fears made me feel. Has this sort of tragedy already become fodder for senseless entertainment? Is it really okay to kill off 200,000 innocent people in the middle of a silly action picture and then try to leave us cheering at the end?  I understand the film was already in production when the WTC slaughter occurred, but was it really too late to ask for a rewrite?It's downright impossible to watch the chaos and destruction of the film's Super Bowl sequence without terrible memories of last fall flooding back to the surface--all sorts of horrific associations and dark feelings the film has not earned.Obviously, even an event the magnitude of September 11 wasn't enough to effect any sort of change in Hollywood. This movie exemplifies that. "},{"Title":"It just doesn't work!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Poorly cast, simplistic plot that badly deviates from the book and a pathetic formulaic hollywood ending. That about sums it up.This is a pale version of the previous Tom Clancy novels translation onto the big screen, The Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games & Clear & present Danger. Its no surprise that Harrison Ford & Anne Archer didn't appear in this one. Ben Affleck just doesn't carry the weight of character in the Jack Ryan role & neither did the female playing Cathy, his love interest.Given the complexities of the book and the lengthy buildup to the climax a high quality long running TV thriller would of been a better vehicle. After the success of 24 I think this is a far better way of delivering a big story. "},{"Title":"Politically correct and dumbed down rehash of a 1990 HBO Movie.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Even while I was subjecting myself to this PC attempt at a thriller I couldn't help but think how a old HBO TV called Movie By Dawns Early Light (1990) did it better. It has the president being injured in a helicopter crash cause by a nuclear bomb, it has the Russians and Americans trying to convince each other that they're not trying to start a war, all the while escalating to the next level of preparation. It even has the last ditch effort to save the day by contacting the Russian premier directly when our own forces will not listen to reason.I highly recommend this movie to anybody who can find a copy of it, it's definitely worth seeing, especially if you felt 'sum of all fears' could have been done so much better. "},{"Title":"See Ben Affleck suck as Jack Ryan","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The biggest flaw this movie had was the fact that it changed the leading man to the horribly inferior Ben Affleck, who rejects this movie like a body rejects can organ. He totally plays the role as though he is more like he is on heavy doses of Thorazine. In other words he puts nothing of himself into the role of Jack Ryan at all. Ben Affleck is a horrible Jack Ryan. He is completely lifeless and devoid of the passion displayed by far better actors in the role of Ryan. The other problem with this movie is that the story is played far more scary then exciting, which makes it not the least bit entertaining. Unfortunately, the movie is also at a loss for necessary drama. Sum of all fears tried desperately to be a good movie, but it's not even a half-way decent one. You can thank Ben Affleck for not being able to camouflage himself into the role for that. "},{"Title":"very good movie","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I would recommend everybody who gave this film a bad review to watch it again!!I cannot believe the bad review this film gets!! And for the record it was very good to stray from the book. Look at the Bourne Trilogy!! There was hardly an element of the book left in the film.Having Muslims as the Bad Guys would have been too convenient. Maybe the Neo Nazis were to convenient, too, that is arguable and I agree, yet the film is about third parties profiteering from the clash of two civilisations and does not deserve less than 6 out of 10. And ***spoiler*** The good guy never fires a gun at his enemy ***spoiler end***. Which film does do that?? Not many, that's all I want to say thanks for reading this rant, R "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me?","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a damn good movie. Not a great movie, but a real good movie. I watched this after reading all the negative comments stating that it's no where as good as the book. But common&#133; give me a break&#133; name one movie other than LOTR which is as good as the book. The book handles the story in a different way. So what? The matter at hands is quite sensitive. Books do not reach many people but movie will. And so the director was real careful in designing the characters.The story line is real powerful. Although there are many loop-holes, the movie keeps you guessing till the end.Ben Affleck is no Jack Ryan. He is boringly cute and does not demand the respect or attention as that of Harrison Ford. May be Matt Damon would have been a better choice for the role. Morgan freeman was wasted. Bridget is hot. Ciaran Hinds is a perfect fit for the role. His presence is ominous. The dialogues are quite well written. The phrase when the Nazi guy describes Hitler is quite fascinating and amazing true.I like the ending discussion between Jack Ryan and KGB guy is fascinating and hope there will be more.Leave the negative comments. If you see the movie first, before reading the book, you will enjoy it. (6/10) "}{"Title":"Sum of All Fears- You'd Be Afraid Too **1/2","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A rather muddled thriller with the U.S. and Russia on the verge of total conflagration. Ben Affleck, the doctoral scientist, knows that the Russians did not cause the nuclear explosion that destroyed the eastern part of the United States. He has to prove it before President Cromwell nukes Russia and they fight back.There is a rather confusing beginning with the 1973 Syria, Egypt surprise attack on Israel. It takes a while until we can relate this to current happenings.This could have made a good film for 007. Wasn't that chaotic organization always trying to stir up trouble between the U.S. and Russia? "},{"Title":"It's a movie ... not a book!","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I beg you to consider a few points.First, this is Tom Clancy's story. And as the executive producer of this project, he can modify the story as he sees fit to make an entertaining film. Michael Crichton, Jo Rowling and many others have done the same thing many times.I agree with the point that the movie is not as good as the book. That is usually the case, and exactly why, if given the opportunity, I will see a movie before reading the book. The definition of insanity is to do the same thing over and over again, expecting different results. If you know that books are almost always better than the movie version of the same story, why go to the movie after reading the book? Especially if you somehow expect it to be better this time? Next, regarding the age and marital status of Jack Ryan, please remind yourself of my earlier comment. This is Tom Clancy's story and Jack Ryan is Mr. Clancy's character. Is there a rule somewhere that I missed stating that a novelist's recurring character has to follow any kind of timeline? Take it for what you will, but I suggest that when viewing the movie version of a novel you enjoyed, do your best to disassociate the two. See the novel as one piece of art and the movie as another. When reading, we tend to decide for ourselves what the character looks like, sounds like, acts like, etc. If the movie is similar to its book version, wonderful! If (especially under the supervision of the author) the story has been changed from the book, look at it as a different story.I think it is safe to say that you will be happier spending your entertainment dollar if you don't waste time trying to find fault when watching a movie, attending a play, listening to a concert, whatever. Take it for what it is and judge it accordingly. "},{"Title":"Should have cast Nick Faldo as Jack Ryan","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Faldo is the British golfer who looks exactly like the 40 year old Harrison Ford and that's what is missing here. Instead they chose Ben Affleck and i have nothing against BA but he's miscast here. It's just impossible to accept that this skinny 20-something pretty boy knows more about geopolitics than the president and all his advisors. Al Pacino was miscast in Godfather1 and did a great job, but in general it doesn't work to cast a young pretty face as a tough guy.SPOILER - Best part of the movie was when the nuke went off. The scene was cast in a football stadium so i expected a tactical nuke that would take out the stadium but no--- they blowed up all of baltimore! Worst part of the movie were the worthless love scenes between ben and his girlfriend.Morgan Freeman has a big part as a presidential adviser and as usual, dominates every scene he is in. In so many films he plays the part of the cool, soft-spoken, super-intelligent guy and he has perfected it. "},{"Title":"Humiliating of Clancy masterwork!!","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I can't choose other word than humiliating.Serious Clancy's fan will surely leaving the cinema in great dissapointment. The plot is extremely simplified, and the different timeline between the movie and the novel (Jack Ryan's age and position) will make you find that this movie is a ridiculous. Moreover, Affleck is really inappropriate to perform Jack Ryan.Just don't see if you're a truly Clancy's fan.  "},{"Title":"Can it get any scarier than when the President of the United States is rushed out of a football stadium while thousands of clueless spectators look on?","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Sum of All Fears is much scarier than it might have seemed a year ago, that is, before the free world became vulnerable post 9/11. But today, it's stomach-turning. Oh, yes, there is a horrendous blast that takes place that annihilates thousands of innocent people, and is actually more explicit than one might have guessed. Of course, the movie had completed production before 9/11 and probably required some changes in some of the scenes.Is the movie any good? Oh, yes. It's one of those smart espionage thrillers from a Tom Clancy bestseller which brings hero Jack Ryan to the screen for the fourth time. Ryan has been played by Alec Baldwin in The Hunt for Red October and Harrison Ford with the so-so Patriot Games and the mildly engrossing Clear and Present Danger. This time, Jack Ryan's shoes are filled by Ben Affleck, which is like a revisionist way of looking at CIA analyst Ryan during his rookie years. He has a low-level analyst position where he writes reports, but then a key dissertation on the newly inducted Russian president (played by Ciarán Hinds) gets him the attention of CIA director William Cabot (Morgan Freeman). The story has multiple locations that jump all over the map from Western Europe, Russia and the Middle East. It all has to do with a fission bomb that has been missing for nearly thirty years, when it was dropped by an Israeli fighter jet that was shot down. American president James Cromwell holds Russia responsible once a nuclear explosion wipes out a Middle Eastern nation. Ryan's theories are shared with the President, but his shallow reports don't earn him any stars and stripes. Instead, particular details that the Pentagon may have overlooked may lead to World War III.The most suspenseful and terrorizing moments occur when a nuclear bomb is transported through customs into the United States. A trail of clues leads Ryan and CIA undercover operative Liev Schrieber to the terrorist perpetrators. Well, maybe not on time. How late is too late? Ryan is ultimately the hero of the story but he doesn't come out entirely clean after a grave disaster. This is a goosebump, lump-in-your-throat thriller that leaves one nearly exhausted, if not distraught. Spy fans will relish its complex plotting and multiple story lines. Clancy fans will be engaged by its behind-the-scenes look at government operations and with its world politics. This is yet another role where Freeman is perfectly suited as the world weary mentor and Affleck makes a game effort in playing the intractable Jack Ryan. All principles of filmmaking are excellent in a movie that seems timelier now than ever. There are some difficulties in watching it though.  You see, I can't help but be bothered by the fact that we are watching a Jack Ryan movie that takes place after all the previous, but it seems our hero, Ryan, has gotten younger.  Maybe the fountain of youth is actually inside the CIA building in Langley.  This is the exact reason why I feel that Red Dragon will be most difficult to swallow.  Watching the aged Hopkins as Lector will be difficult in a film which precedes Silence of the Lambs.  In no way should this keep you from seeing the film, it is Jack Ryan's best adventure! "},{"Title":"A Formula for Failure Becomes a Rousing Success","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I first heard that Ben Affleck was cast to play Jack Ryan, I shook my head. I have never been a fan of Affleck or his normally lackluster acting, and Clear and Present Danger is a sorely lacking movie. Using that movie as a template, I went into The Sum of All Fears expecting an action flick with Ryan author Tom Clancy's usual political subplots. Instead, I saw and heard something much more. The Sum of All Fears is a thought provoking work of art that is more than worth my money. What I saw was one of those rare films that grab your mind and keeps you thinking long after the credits roll.On the surface, this film could have been a monster failure. It relies less on action than the previous two Ryan films, and involves more politics and emotional drama. Furthermore, incumbent Harrison Ford turned down the offer to reprise his role as the protagonist, so Ben Affleck earned the part. Drama plus Affleck should equal a bad combination, but in this case that equation does not balance.I sometimes wonder if Ben Affleck played hooky in acting class, but, for the first time, I saw him produce a convincing character. No longer is he stone faced and monotonous, but he finally puts some expression into a role. Perhaps it was the script, which was well written and executed by all parties. Maybe it was the director, who brilliantly mixed the ingredients together to bring out a powerful final dish. In any case, we now know that he can be a convincing and likable actor.Morgan Freeman and James Cromwell are my two favorite actors. In fact, my admiration for them is at the same level as Roger Ebert's towards Harry Dean Stanton and M. Emmet Walsh. This movie is their second appearance together, the first being Deep Impact, a movie which should be ejected into space. Cromwell brings his usual sharpness to the table, literally and otherwise. Freeman shows up with his usual Morgan Freeman performance, and few compliments are higher.The story begins with the finding of an Israeli nuclear bomb that was lost in 1973. The plutonium is sold on the black market to a European terrorist group bent on sending America and Russia on a collision course for nuclear war. The leaders of both nations are portrayed as peaceful, intelligent individuals agonizing over the decisions they are faced with. Opposite Cromwell is President Nemerov of Russia (Ciarán Hinds). The interplay between the two is always intriguing. Each desires to trust the other but fears making a critical mistake. Neither wants a war, but they need to defend their people. This is where Ryan, armed with priceless information, comes in.There are also some notable differences between the novel and the movie, such as the affiliation of the terrorists. It is also a prequel to the other Ryan films, a decision that was made when the 30 year-old Affleck was cast. Bridget Moynahan plays the future Cathy Ryan, and manages to be convincing. Her character is laid back, but as a doctor and natural leader she needs to remain perfectly calm. Some may find her personality underwhelming, but with knockout looks like hers it is easy to fall in love with Ryan's girlfriend.As my final point, I would like to give my most sincere compliments to director Phil Alden Robinson, who adds a lot to the film with his use of colors and shadows. He also lends visual symbolism to the worldwide impact of the story with many aerial shots. The special effects are astounding and disturbing. This is all augmented by the best soundtrack of eighteen time Oscar nominee Jerry Goldsmith's career. The action scenes are few and spaced apart, but that factor is immaterial. The Sum of All Fears is thought rousing drama that stands as the best Jack Ryan movie. Kudos to everyone involved in the making of this gem. "},{"Title":"Weak Plots and Murder Godfather Style","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story is simple enough, get Russia and U.S. into a raving frenzy and kill each other while the third party watch from behind. The problem about the third party plot which stands enough to benefit from U.S. and Russia killing each other just doesn't add up in the movie, since we do not know how the third party stand to benefit anything.Most wars are actually created to benefit the larger richer nations for some economic benefit, either oil companies, gain of control of land, lots of gold, oil, etc. In this case it is pure hostility plain and simple. Take for instance U.S. takeover of Iraq, with Saddam out of the way, the oil are no longer selling in Eurodollars, that would straighten U.S. dollars. With Taliban out of the way in Afghanistan, the oil pipeline deal was much easily built without paying anything to the Taliban (court case on payment is still pending in Texas). With the E. Timor being an independent nation from Indonesia, oil concessions now belong to the U.S., I can go on and on. But for a Third party to stand to benefit is a weak plot - now you really have to convince me on that. I am not that smart. If the writers are determined to go this direction, then convince me why they are doing what they do. Hitler's dead, so what's the deal for the Neo-Nazis? If Russia, or U.S. have some kind of an economic benefit unbeknownst to the public, the story would be more believable. Even the ending of the movie was somewhat hilarious for me as it really reminded me of Godfather Part II. I would die laughing (thank god they didn't do that) if they shot a gun through the eye while in the massage parlor. But hey, car bomb explosion Godfather style was funny already. I mean a tyrannical crime of this size, I think should be decided by world court or something for the public to see, not Al Pacino style murder.Even the idea of putting bombs in a stadium was truly not a creative act of terrorism - reminds me of Bruce Willis' Boy Scout. Now, most terrorism are quite creative, grant you the anthrax mail or hitting commercial airlines on World Trade Center. These things are totally unexpected, which is how acts of terrorism exists.And looking back at Tsunamis, an act of terrorism in creating tsunami's is in my book would be quite creative. Imagine a line of fault under the water of Marianne Island off the Atlantic Ocean, using a conventional cheap underwater missile or underwater detonation to trigger the most massive Tsunamis in the history of mankind causing 500 foot waves traveling at near speed of sound hitting and destroying the entire eastern Coast of U.S.A. destroying totally Washington D.C, New York, etc. Could it be, in a movie that this act of terrorism is already being done using a conventional bomb under the water in S.E. Asia? Destroying an economy is easy, and the fact that there is a possibility that S.E. Asia has the world's largest oil reserve (at least that's what I've heard) from South of Asia all the way to Brunei, is something a movie can look at, from an a Hollywood point of view. I am not promoting any conspiracy theories here.Sorry to nit pick, perhaps I am not smart as most of the critics who watched this movie and for this I apologize. I rate this movie 3/10. If you want a more believable movie I recommend the classic Dr. Strangelove. It is funny, and the scenarios and the plots are quite solid and I rate that movie 9/10. "}]