[{"Title":"I Sweet but Flawed Little Movie","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Despite the Dogme trappings, there is a story here.  It is about lying and its consequences.Kresten, a young go-go company man is marrying the boss's daughter, but hides, then fabricates his country past.  He doesn't get away with it for long and ends up shamed and divorced.  Likewise, a young prostitute, Liva, tries to flee her surroundings, but they follow her and in the end visit -  literally - wrath on her new home.The only spiritually pure character, content in his surroundings, too innocent of wit to lie, is Kresten's retarded brother Rud.  It seems that everything he says, no matter how far-fetched, turns out to be true.  He is also the teacher of kindness who, since he is inarticulate, can only teach by example.Actually, I think the most unambiguously satisfying relationship here is between Rud and Liva's beastly little brother Bjarke. It is Bjarke who can't handle the truth about himself and his sister.  Quickly, the stereotypes he has learned to brutalize in the social Darwinian hell of boarding school confront him with their humanity and teach him that life doesn't have to be the daily exercise in cynicism that he and his sister suppose.There is atonement for all three, visited in different forms, but ultimately redeeming and providing a hopeful ending to the story.Unfortunately, there are a few problems in Mifune which marred my viewing.  A major one is the text, which is badly abused in translation to English.  For some reason, the translator has seen fit to turn words which in Danish mean damn or hell into f**k.  Perhaps he or she thought it would give the dialog more impact.  He or she was wrong.    Another problem is the unresolved and perhaps unnecessary character of the ugly and despicable Gerner, whose purpose I'm not exactly sure of, other than as a kind of agent of punishment - perhaps a devil - descending on the hapless Kresten.  In any case, we need at least to know more about him, or perhaps even have him whacked or otherwise disposed of for dramatic purposes.Anyway, as with most European movies, Mifune is more about character  than story.  I strongly recommend that you meet Kresten, Rud, Liva and Bjarke.  I think you'll like them in the end.  "},{"Title":"Touching!","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was the first film I had seen from the Dogma series and I didn't know quite what to expect.  Mifune is actually a very moving and personal insight into the life styles of a small handfull of characters.  The acting in the movie is superb and it follows the rules of dogma down to a tee (natural lighting, no sound effects etc.).  The film at face value is also very funny, although the source of comedy is rather disturbing.  This  is a film that will stay fresh in your mind long after you leave the cinema. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Only for the real fans of European cinema","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've always been a fan of European cinema, mostly because it has something more to offer than Hollywood's mass production. Don't think that I hate every movie that comes from Hollywood or that I love all European films. As well in Europe as in America, they have made some excellent movies as well as awful ones. If it isn't a better story or more profound characters, than it is the style of filming that makes European cinema a little different from the American. And this movie has it all. The story is very good and original and the characters are very recognizable. I really got the feeling that I got to know them better, even though their lives are sometimes completely different from mine. But most important is the way everything is shot. For those who aren't familiar with the rules made up by Dogma yet, I'll give a small explanation the director promises not to use extra light, special effects, extra sound effects... They want to make the story speak for itself and show everything in a natural and realistic way. To some this may seem like the most boring concept ever. I guess many people who like movies like The Lord of the Rings, Star Wars, Spiderman,... movies that are full of special effects, huge scenes and nice visual effects, may not be blown away by this movie. I know that many people may hate the concept, that many people don't want to see this kind of movies, but personally I find this a very welcome concept in a world where everybody seems to feel the need to copy what works, without being original.Kresten has moved from a small Danish island, where his parents farm is, to Copenhagen in order to pursue an excellent career and unconcerned life. He marries his boss's daughter and is sure that he'll become the new boss as soon as his father-in-law decides to retire. But on his honeymoon he gets a phone call that his father died and that he'll have to return home. The only problem is that he has never told his wife that he had a father and a retarded brother, living together on the family farm. Once he arrives at the farm, he sees that much hasn't changed or been done since he left and he decides that they will need a housekeeper to clean up the mess. He sends an advertisement to a local newspaper and he immediately gets a reaction from Liva Psilander. Liva is a prostitute who wants to start a new life. She wants to escape from an anonymous psychopath who harasses her by phone and needs a lot of money to pay her brother Bjarke's school tuition. When Kresten's wife discovers the truth, or at least what she thinks the truth is, she breaks off the marriage and makes sure that Kresten will lose his job at her father's company and that he'll never get it back. Now Kresten will have to live together with his brother, with Livia and her little brother in the old farm on the island...I can assure you that you'll have to get used to the way of filming at first. Perhaps you'll need two viewings to fully appreciate this movie, but once you can see past the style of filming, you'll see that this movie has a very beautiful and hearth warming subject. Personally I really liked it and that's why I give this movie at least an 8/10, even an 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"MY MOVIE!","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie... I think that all the actors and actresses did a very good job!... go see it! I think that Jesper Asholt did the best part!.. you can't tell if his like that in real life ) but i know he isn't... because I know him! then there is Iben and Anders who is unbelievable good actors! I just loved the movie.. a great little lovestory! I can't say that much about Emil playing Livas little brother... I can only say that he is NOT like that in real life... because I also know him! ) .. but i believe it was a great role to play and I think he did it good!Best regards Emil Tarding  "},{"Title":"still wonderful in 2005","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mifune is in my top five movies. I have probably watched this movie over three hundred times, and every time I am delighted by a small detail the camera angle, the dialog, the consistency, the absolutely beautiful setting. The script/story is full of a vibrancy and living in a such a simple and classy way that you can't help but smile and believe in the immortality of these characters throughout human time, to be played out over and over again. And thus revealing the truth of the matter of love. Iben Hjejle, who plays Liva, is gorgeous and natural, an amazing amazing actress. She shines like the sun because she is allowed to. You can see she was allowed to play this character as she felt, and with heart. Anders Berthelsen, who plays Kresten, really absorbs the character, becoming this man who has survived the farm and made it to the top of monetary success, but finds love in the land and in Liva, as well as his brother Rud. Rud, played by Jesper Asholt, has to be the secret genius of this film. Every moment of every shot he is the gentle loving giant child. One actor who is going to be a huge success is Emil Tarding, who plays Liva's little brother Bjarke. What a smart clever funny young man. They all shine because of the writing, first and foremost, and because of the Dogma rules, second. Dogma is a revolution, pure, true, allowing movement and flow, like a mountain river in comparison to a polluted ditch, making it hard to watch our American 100 million dollar movies with any respect. Mifune is personal. It is obvious there was a small crew. One gaffer for example, so that it's as if you are there, the only one, inside the story, watching like a fly on the wall, enjoying the struggle through the confusion of life, as everyone. A massive crew of hundreds disturbs the acting, disturbs the vibe, becomes the movie, rather then the film being the focus. Somehow these larger and larger films just become money vampires for people to fill their bank accounts, rather then go to make something beautiful, as this. Anyway, one can see in watching this film how a movie should really feel. You can understand that the actors felt comfortable and the whole thing came very naturally for them, rather then forced. One can immediately understand that the director Soren K. Jacobson was excited and felt the artist, allowing himself the opportunity to touch base with why we make films in the first place, art. When I get sick of Hollywood films (every other day) I watch Mifune and feel refreshed and I believe in the poetry of film once again. I can believe that a simple story is capable of being entertainment and moving, rather then great big complicated stories that consume the characters, and miss the mark. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very emotional and romantic movie. Real love story, not a Cinderella fairy tale.MSS is about small town people. The main hero has moved to the big city, succeeded in business and had married the right woman. But within a day he is forced to come back to his old house, to his ill-minded brother, to the problems and life of different scale. To the old samurai Toshiro Mifune, who lives in the cellar. But there he finally realizes how people from there are dear for him.The main idea is the life is not just roses, we have to overcome difficulties and always stay human to each other.Lively actors performance and light atmosphere together with an exciting story make this movie a must-watch. "},{"Title":"They ain't heavy, they're our brothers","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terrific acting and mesmerising locations make this an easy movie to love. Denmark's hazy, almost dreamy summer light lends a touch of magic to this tale of a prodigal son's enforced return.The main characters are exquisitely drawn. Berthelsen plays newlywed Copenhagen yuppie Kresten, who has denied the very existence of his family in far-off (or so he thought) Lolland. Rud, his retarded brother, is brought to us with great sensitivity and charm in a show-stealing performance by Jesper Asholt. Iben Hjejle sparkles as Liva, a city prostitute with steadily mounting problems, many of which can be traced directly to her brattish younger brother Bjarke, for whom she seems to have assumed parental responsibility.Before long (and to nobody's great surprise), we see these two pairs of siblings brought crashing together by life's twists and turns. Kresten is summoned back to Lolland in the middle of his honeymoon by news of his father's death. He soon sees that Rud is incapable of looking after himself and is forced to stay on temporarily in Lolland. His advertisement for a housekeeper attracts Liva's attention just as she finally wears out her welcome in Copenhagen. Bjarke lasts about five minutes in the big city without her, and soon follows her to Lolland.The interplay between these makeshift cohabitees is wonderful, particularly Rud's relationships with Kresten and Bjarke. Endless summer evenings spent in Lolland's rural idyll with these four for company will soon have you believing in crop circles and cellar-dwelling samurai heroes.On the back of some audacious tricks to get us this far, Kragh-Jacobsen delivers a transcendent hour or so in the middle of this film that reminds me of just why I love the cinema so much. Having created this beautiful, shimmering landscape (both emotional and physical), and reminded us that love for your family - and perhaps, in a special way, your siblings - is its own reward, the movie finds it has nowhere particular left to go. There are supporting characters - some of them reasonably well-formed, others not - but once our quartet is established and the relationships between them start to blossom, any involvement from outsiders is unwelcome, unfulfilling and only likely to bring trouble.It's no spoiler, for I mean it purely in structural terms, when I say that we are brought to a bumpy and unsatisfying ending to this ride through the lives of four people we soon grow to care a great deal about.For me, though, despite its shortcomings, Mifune was a beautiful movie that I'm sure I'll watch again, many times. "},{"Title":"A fine movie, whatever the Dogma","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know much about this movie going in, but I got a very nice surprise. The Kresten plot -- a yuppie summoned home to deal with his redneck past by the death of his father -- could have been a dull family drama, but this movie was much better than that. It turns out that he has a number of things about his past that he's kept secret from the people in his city life -- his retarded brother, the badly run-down farm he grew up on, and more. Some of his story is serious, and much is played for humor, with good taste separating the drama and humor.The Liva plot -- a woman escaping prostitution into an honest common job -- was completely opposite the Hollywood presentation of prostitution. (Hollywood either glamorizes it, uses it as an opportunity to add gratuitous sex before switching to the gratuitous violence.) Liva's prostitution pays fairly well, but it's clearly miserable, degrading, full of fear, and sometimes danger. The movie shows why she wants out with understated drama -- instead of rubbing her misery in our faces, it shows us hints of it, but leaves room for us to imagine just how bad it is for her.When Liva escapes prostitution with a job as Kresten's housekeeper, the her part in the movie switches from drama to comedy, in the form of funny situations and events that feel natural, rather than contrived gag situations.The acting was very good, particular Iben Hjejle's portrayal of Liva. Anders W. Berthelsen played Kresten well, and Emil Tarding's smaller role as Liva's young brother Bjarke was also very good.I had never heard of the Dogme film series until after seeing this movie. The only one Dogme rule that really matters to the movie was that the plot must stick to real life and avoid superficial violence. That demanded a plot where the characters and story matter, and Søren Kragh-Jacobsen delivered. The simple camera work, natural lighting, minimal set dressing, etc., didn't improve the movie. But neither did the simple movie-making detract from the quality -- they deserve praise for doing so well within their rules of simplicity. One additional benefit of the movie-making simplicity rules was that it kept the budget low, so that more good movies like this could be made. "},{"Title":"Dogme 95 films are at their best in the story.","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mifune starts off a little slow and at first you are really not sure where it is going. Thankfully this does not last for long. The characters have many dimenions and the viewer quickly cares and grows more curiousity towards the characters. Yes, many of the Dogme 95 guildlines are in this film however (must like Festen... another fabulous film) it is the story that makes this such a great film.All characters in this film are completly different from eachother. The dialouge itself is not what makes this film great, it's the story of all these people combined.Dogme films often show things that an American audience may have a hard time dealing with. If seeing something and learning from something that Americans can hide from is something that holds an interest than I highly recommend this film.  "},{"Title":"Dogma with a smile!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I´m a big fan of the innovative and daring Danish film scene and the Dogma has of course a big part of its success. Mifune follows in the right tracks but unlike previous dogma history I was delighted to encounter a happy ending for a change. Iben Hjejle and Anders W Berthelsen are perfect as the fumbelers that finally find each other and of course a Danish film, any film really, is not full without Paprika Steen. "}{"Title":"Individual more than social critique","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With Mifunes sidste sang, Søren Kragh-Jakobsen continues the Danish Dogma group project (Idioterna, Festen) of providing us with original pictures from Denmark. We know the rules by now camera on the shoulder, no added light, no added music, and all properties to be fond on location. This gets us as far as Wonderful Copenhagen -- The official slogan of the Danish capital city -- as one could come Dogma stands for a dark realism, although the critique is more individual than social. And Mifume confirms the Dogma's ability to deal in an innovative way with as important matters as deviance, everyday's violence, or modern loneliness. "},{"Title":"Delightful.","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mifune is a surprisingly easy film to watch, delightful in many respects and certainly original.  The comedy is in many ways unique; nothing hits you in the cinema, but you still leave with a smile on your face.  The acting is, in my view, superb, the locations fitting, and the plot; well, original and refreshing. If you need cheering up or it's a rainy day then I recommend this film. Very refreshing indeed.  "},{"Title":"An excellent and VERY funny movie","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, I was expecting something like Festen. A bit experimental and very serious movie. I was, however, positively surprised. Mifune is one of the best and funniest movies I have seen in a long time. I consider it the best of the 3 Dogme-movies I have seen. Way to go!! "},{"Title":"A tarte charmer","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is in a class by itself. It is it by turns funny and frighteningly violent.It reminded me a bit of Gilbert Grape, since it is a about a man who lovingly cares for his retarded younger brother. The retarded brother Rud looks a bit like a troll. He is repulsive at first and gradually he grows on you as you realise he is not dangerous.The pace in very slow, like a Sunday afternoon picnic in the Danish countryside.Counterposed to this is the frantic life of a prostitute trying to get away from her perverted and violent clients, and the way the hookers band together for mutual protection.One of the charming themes is the way Rud wins over the obnoxious younger brother of the prostitute, and in a way tames him.The title Mifune comes from a game the brothers play, with the older one pretending to be a terrifying samurai who lives in the basement.The pace can be maddenly slow, somewhat like the Unbearable Lightness of Being, with nothing much happening, just like real life, then POUNCE some momentous event lands out of the blue. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've really enjoyed all the movies I've seen from the Dogme movement, and Mifune is no exception.  Stripped down of all the special effects and glitz and glamour that has subverted the movie business in Hollywood, the film makers who adhere to the Dogme principles are able to focus on those elements that really make a film worth watching and memorable - good characters, good acting, good dialogue, tight editing.All it takes is a small cast and crew and minimal technology to add these things to a movie, and create a work of art that stands unique and challenging.  So why is it that George Lucas with his billions of dollars and millions of special effects technicians can't manage to get these fundamental elements right?  (To pick one recent prominent example of Hollywood squandering time, money and talent).Thank goodness there are still places in the world where the cynical marketing dollar doesn't control all, and real movies can still be made! "},{"Title":"My favourite Dogma film.","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mifunes Sidste Sang is brilliant!It's very humorous and funny and there's a good balance between irony and sadness.The acting is excellent and the direction is even better.Usually I'm not a fan of comedies but this film totally cracked me up!Gotta love especially the performance by Jesper Asholt(Rud).My highest recommendation. "},{"Title":"At the forefront of Danish Cinema's rebirth","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Arguably the best of the films adhering to the Dogma 95 Manifesto, and the first to be shot on film rather than video, MIFUNE'S LAST SONG is a genuinely enjoyable film. Unpretentious and optimistic, MIFUNE is funny, affectionate and entertaining. This is the one which illustrates the brilliant new path which Danish film has taken in the past few years. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Danish Dramatic Romance in Dogma 95","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Minor SpoilersIn Copenhagen, the yuppie Kresten (Anders W. Berthelsen) has just married Claire (Sofie Gråbøl), the daughter of his employer. While in his honeymoon, he is informed that his father has just died. He had omitted his origin from the country and the existence of his family, composed of his father and his mental-ill brother Rud (Jesper Asholt), to his wife and his father-in-law. Claire wants to travel with him for the funeral, but he says that it is not necessary and he would travel alone and be back to Copenhagen in a couple of days. Once in the simple family's farm, he feels the need of a housekeeper to help him with his retard brother. The young prostitute Liva Psilander (the gorgeous Iben Hjejle) applies for the job and is hired by Kresten. Liva brings her troubled brother Bjarke Psilander (Emil Tarding) to live with them. Meanwhile, Claire arrives in the night without previous notice, and when she sees Liva drinking wine with Kresten, she returns to Copenhagen. Kresten is fired by her father and she asks for the divorce. Kresten and Liva falls in love for each other, and Rud and Bjarke becomes friends, forming a weird family. This Dogma 95 film is a delightful Danish dramatic romance. The story is very nice, without being corny. The title of this movie is a game of samurai between Kresten and Rud, and a homage to Toshirô Mifune, the Kikuchiyo from `The Seven Samurai'. The beauty and the smile of Iben Hjejle highlight in a movie without any special effect or lighting. Another great example that it is possible to make a great low-budget movie. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) `Mifune'  "},{"Title":"Marvelous...a film that is completely underrated (aka, why don't you people go watch some pseudo-postmodern BS movie like Fight Club or Lola Rennt!!!!!)","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Happiness is when Mifune comes up from the basement...I did not expect much from Mifune. This past summer, I had gotten a chance to see Lars von Trier's Idioterne (Dogme 2) in a theater. I loved it, while so many others hated it. Then I saw Festen (Dogme 1) over Christmas. It was great. For completion, I searched out, with much pain, Dogme 3, _Mifunes sidste sang_, _Mifune_ in America. Like I said, I expected nothing. The highest rating I ever saw it receive when it was in the theaters was 3 stars, average. Good - not great. Most critics, however, scored it lower.I finally did find it, and I sat down to watch it, slightly past 130 AM. At first, I was slightly surprised. Having fallen in love with Dogme 1 & 2, I expected more insanity, more daring-do. The sex scene near the beginning of the film set that up, and then the introduction of a clandestine past and a family follow up on that promise, as well as does the introduction of a prostitute. But then it goes the opposite way. Mifune actually becomes a rather relaxed family drama, and a rather satisfying one, too. The mood of the film sort of resembles the final scenes of The Unbearable Lightness of Being, where Daniel Day Lewis and Juliette Binoche retreat from the corruption of the big city to simple life on a farm.Mifune is slow, in that it allows its characters to develop, and they blossom into a great depth. And we see the relationships between the characters bloom. Kresten has not seen his retarded brother, Rud, for some time. Now he has a chance to get reacquainted. They seemed to have been friends when they were younger, but Kresten had moved, and was determined to erase all traces of his family (in fact, the reason he must go home when his father dies is to make sure his brother is not harmed). He finds himself unable to leave; if he does, his brother may be committed to an asylum. Through a very amusing incident, they are able to afford a much-needed housekeeper to help them, Liva, the prostitute we met a short time earlier in Copenhagen. I have heard her character described as a one-dimensional, typical character, the Hooker with the Heart of Gold. This is untrue. She is not that kind of character, nor is she the opposite, the cheating, lying, thieving, I've-done-it-all-and-you-can't-change-me hooker. She seems like a normal human being who may not have made the right choices in life. She doesn't exactly regret the choices that she made. It is not as if she ever laments in the film being a prostitute. She leaves Copenhagen not to change her life, but to get away from some possible harm that may potentially come from a stalker who has been harassing her on the telephone. It's just that, when she gets to Kresten's and Rud's home, she does not expect to develop feelings for them (hey, they're both great guys! It's difficult not to like them). Eventually, she invites her brother, Bjarke, to live with them for a while, too. Although a rebellious teen, he quickly feels at home at the house. The plot is never thick, nor should it be. For the longest time, the characters just develop before our eyes. The problems seem like those that anyone might face in their life. Everything develops beautifully, the plot points are completely unforced. They feel real when they happen, and they brought me along with their emotions. The film takes a big misstep at the end, though. Actually, two. A character, Gerner, who exists during the whole film, but never seems to belong, attacks the peaceful household. His character is completely unnecessary. And then there is this weird attack on the house, especially on Kresten, on the same day as Gerner has attacked, by an entire brothel of prostitutes, Liva's friends from Copenhagen. What they are doing in Lolland and at the house is a mystery to me. The attack is utterly silly, they pin Kresten down and pour alcohol down his throat until he passes out. The very end of the film is also a little weak. I kind of wish it was a little more drawn-out. I would have likes some sort of exposition, instead of a bunch of unconvincing events.One more thing Iben Hjejle. She is a great actress. I saw her in High Fidelity earlier in 2000, and thought she was good. Here, where her part is much more substantial, she shines. The other actors are all great here, too, but she is wonderful. I predict that she will be a pretty big star in the US one day. She is unconventionally beautiful, yet beautiful all the same. If I ever meet her, I will have to say, Hey, I thought you were great in Mifune. I give the film a 9/10, one of the best films released in the US in the year 2000.  "},{"Title":"good, a bit overacted","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw the film last night on TV, but have been wanting to rent it for the last 5 years, but never did. The story reminded me a bit of Rainman, but being a Dogma movie gave it it's special charm.Especially the isolation of the location on an island and the harshness of living on such an isolated farm were brought over very well by the dogma principle of using only natural light. I thought the acting of Iben Hjejle was fantastic as the prostitute who is on a crossroad in her life and has to find out which road to take. The other characters (except for Kresten's wife)are also played very believable. The only thing that bothers me is the overacting. Dogma pretends to be as close to reality as possible, but i cannot believe that in Denmark, when there is a small disagreement, everybody starts to scream at each other in such an overdone way. Still it remains a good, entertaining movie, so watch it!! "}{"Title":"The best film of the decade.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The third Dogme film, Mifune is the best film of the decade. Characters are nicely developed, and pictures are beautifully shot.  I can't believe that it is shot without filters and only available light. Nice plot.  Kresten's Toshiro Mifune is wonderful.  I just want to say Thank you for showing this wonderful piece  10 of 10  "},{"Title":"Movies like this are why I like foreign films","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is exactly what I look for in a foreign film culturally different but still understandable and entertaining.(I DON'T look for are huge budgets, big name stars or fiery explosions -- Hollywood has plenty of those.) Yes, the movie has a few flaws -- mostly some mis-directed acting -- but don't let that scare you away. If you're even considering such an obscure movie as this, then you can probably tolerate a few flaws in an original movie. A real highlight is the main female protagonist, Iben Hjejle. She has this fantastic Sandra Bullock think going-on and I could watch her face all day.Jesper Asholt also gives a memorable performance as Rud the developmentally disabled brother. His portrayal of mental retardation is the most convincing I've seen since Giovanni Ribisi in The Other Sister (which was also 1999).Bottom line if you're the kind of person who like foreign films, you'll probably like this one. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but unaffecting.","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Of all the Dogme films I've seen, this is the least offending and also, sadly, the least affecting. Both Celebration and The Idiots (and mostly the latter) shocked, and thus had great impact. Neither were true masterpieces but they did leave you with something to think about once you left the theatre. Mifune, on the other hand, plods along at an easy pace. We know how it's going to end (though I'm not going to give that away), and we know how the characters are going to act. It's nothing we haven't really seen before, and nothing we haven't seen done better (e.g., Leaving Las Vegas).I may now be misleading you, because I didn't at all think this was a bad film and it gripped me from start to finish. This was due to some superb acting and some inventive direction &#150; something that's attracted me to each and every Dogme film. Jesper Asholt is impressive as the retarded brother of the main character. His performance was believable and understated, where it would have been so easy to over-act. Emil Tarding was also a joy to watch as the young son, Bjarke. Compared to many young actors he held himself well and wasn't overshadowed by his older counterparts.The style of Dogme gives realism to any film but couldn't save this one from being, for want of a better phrase, &#145;Hollywoodized.' I guess I was just expecting something a little bit more challenging when I approached this as a Dogme film. This made me slightly disappointed when the credits rolled. However, the meandering of the plot and the rich multitude of characters made for an entertaining film. This it where it differed from a typical Hollywood film; the characters didn't always serve to move the plot onto the next page. Something perfected in the modern masterpiece, Pulp Fiction.While an entertaining film, this lacked any real punch, separating it from both The Idiots and Celebration. For those that care, I gave this film 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Most beautiful actress","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had already watched several Dogma-films but this one made me really feel both nice and somehow optimistic.Firstly, Hjejle performs a supremely touching and realistic acting,taking into account how difficult her role is.Honestly,i never saw such an elegant woman playing a disadvantaged role like the particular one. Actually,all cast is excellent.I'm getting highly excited as i realise the fact that such dramatic stories turn into happy-ends in real life too! A very significant picture... "},{"Title":"If you're in trouble with yourself, don't work it out to those who are precious to you","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mifune was the second dogma film i saw. The first Festen, is one of my all-time favorites. I recommended the film to many friends but the reactions were rather disappointing. However I will recommend Mifune also to them. The actors are great, especially Iben Hjelje, the characters are well developed, except Gerner (we never know what's his problem) and the story is touching, although there are some scenes which could be left out. On one or to occasions the film made me laugh and there are certainly some lessons of life in it. Being settled in life is surely a nice thing to go for, but not if you have to break up with people you love to accomplish that. (Kresten) If you're in trouble with yourself, don't work it out to those who loves you. (Bjarke) So, for the people who are hesitating to watch the film  don't, watch it. For the people who already watched it and liked it  watch the French film Ma vie revée des anges I'm sure you will like this one too. For myself  Take time to watch The Idiots  "},{"Title":"touching story about the harshness of life","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A movie by Soren Kragh-Jacobsen. The third movie directed according to the principles of Dogma95. A touching story that I particularly liked about a carreerist who suddenly realizes that his idea of leaving his wretched family behind and starting a new life is wrong, about a hooker who is trying to escape from the harrassing phone calls by an aberrant and their brothers who are also miserable and helpless. As the story develops these people manage to realize that even though they cannot change the harshness of their life, relying on each other's empathy and love can make things easier. As the hooker says at one point (no guarantee on the exact words) Life is s*** and you will taste it with large spoons every day, but this is not an excuse to hurt the ones who are close to you. The happy ending suggests that there is hope for these people I would be inclined to believe so... "},{"Title":"It's absolutely not a comedy!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mifune's last song is a typical Danish dogma film. I am amazed that the film is announced as a comedy too. But where are here the comics? In think in our owns brain. It's a beautiful film which shows the conversion of everybody in the film to a real, not hypocritical, life. And when Kresten is laying down his head in the center of the open circle in the fields, he encounters the light which his disabled brother has used as a symbol that light is coming from heaven.And this light of live had disabled hitherto everybody until that moment. "},{"Title":"Do not pass up the chance to see this film.","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Never is there a moment wasted in Mifune. The film remains human and natural throughout even its most dynamic shifts from pure comedy to heartbreaking drama. Yet the most inspiring and uplifting element in Mifune is the way in which the mentally retarded Rud instills the film with a profound sense of hope. Almost as an antithesis to Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men, Mifune centers the misshapen characters around Rud in such a way that ultimately lifts them to a point of self-discovery and redemption. Jason Devin  "},{"Title":"What's the big deal?","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sorry I don't think it was any thing special. I thought Festen was great but his movie is just mediocre. With dogma the movie rest on the strength of the story and acting, (and the directing although they say other wise). Just another guy falling for the hooker with a heart of gold story to me. The plot was sort of dumb and silly and not all that believable and characters did things that made no sense to me at all. I'm not saying it was horrible, just that it wasn't all that great. "},{"Title":"brilliantly witty","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i really enjoyed this film - the character are all great and the premise is good.  the shooting style suited the subject matter very well.  rud was great!  many belly laughs.  the dogma 95 manifesto has produced several films (not all approved) and while i don't entirely get the reason for a manifesto i applaud the 3 legit films i have seen.  this one is not as dark as celebration or as distressing as the idiots, but they all still seem to run in a similar vein.  possibly something to do with the sense of irony and humour.  try to catch this one. "}{"Title":"Teaching Hollywood a lesson...","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mifune is one of those films that has more to say about the industry than the subject matter in the medium. This was the first Dogma film I have seen, and I was very impressed by the use of available light, employing natural surroundings, and the acting, particularly that of Jesper Asholt (Rud) and Emil Tarding (Bjarke). Mifune shows that a film need not have the budget of Titanic to make good cinema. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"It's relaxed and very entertaining","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great movie ! Better than Idiots and much better than Festen. It's relaxed and very entertaining. I'm curious about the next Dogma-movie. I recommend this movie if you just want to relax and see a movie which is not so simple as most Hollywood-comedies "},{"Title":"delightful","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i saw this film at a festival in the u.s. it was the talk of the viewers there.  it has an oddball story that won't be duplicated  by hollywood every month, which i find refreshing. the honeymoon night scene had the audience roaring.  you can see the conclusion coming from a long way off, but the film is worth more than its ending.  the part of the teenage boy who enters the story late was well acted.  i would like to see more of the films of this unique studio reach the u. s. "},{"Title":"Film is guided by good emotion as films should be","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really don't think that the film has been completely planned in the strict (and too rigid sense), for this would also have taken away much of the emotional power from the film, as is the  case with many too commercially calculated/that is, too strictly preplanned films from the USA. Nevertheless, the story always has to be thought out, but I really find it is an advantage of the film that many scenes are played in a very spontaneous manner (that in my opinion also is seen in the fun of the actors to play it). It's really the human and optimistic feeling of the film that counts.  "},{"Title":"Big Time!!!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really liked the movie very much, found it really funny, even if sometimes it was addressing serious issues. I enjoy much more a film like that than a cheap US film that doesn't reinvent anything. This movie is DIFFERENT! Godt gjort Iben, Sören og Anders! "},{"Title":"Dogme-rules...","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is just a comment to the two comments about the Dogme-rules. 1. Music IS allowed in Dogme-films. They just have to play while the camera is running, and it's not allowed to put it on after the cutting of the film. 2. It's not all improvised in the film. Anders Thomas Jensen and Søren Kragh-Jacobsen wrote it together, and I think they did a pretty good job.I really liked the film - it was easy and beautiful, and (I'm sorry) I don't find the attack in the end of the film too much - it's stuff like that that makes it a comedy! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What makes Mifune stand out from standard Hollywood movies are the painfully real characters, who make it feel like a real-life romance between two people rather than a hypothetical story about hypothetical characters none of us is ever going to meet. And it's really funny, too!  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and disturbing at the same time","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was really confused when I left the cinema. On one hand, I very much enjoyed the way characters felt down to earth, human, with all their faults. On the other hand, there were a few passages where the plot seemed TOTALLY unrealistic (particularly in the end), that people just can't feel and act this way in the particular situation. All that not in the glossy Hollywood way, but from the hands of European filmmakers, who usually draw very realistic plots and characters. It was a shame, as I would have remembered the film for its better traits, it wasn't for the end that spoiled much of it for me. "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable...","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Most of the comments made on this movie are rather critical, and   admittedly not all aspects of the film are equally satisfactory. However, it seems to me that you must judge it by what it seeks to achieve. It is not an ambitious movie in any sense and against that background I think it succeeds quite well. Both Iben Hjejle (her in particular) and Anders Berthelsen give very convincing performances and very much carry the film. This is the sort of film that makes you feel good without the shallowness and emptiness that so often mar the typical 'Feel-good' Hollywood production. For me, the pros weigh up the cons - and therefore I think it is well worth worth watching. "},{"Title":"Most conventional Dogme movie of the first three, but still excellent.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well this is my third Dogme movie, and it makes three great movies in a row. 'Mifune' isn't confrontational fare like 'Festen' and 'The Idiots', but shares a similar honesty and naturalness that is usually missing from most contemporary American movies. Plot-wise it is by far the most conventional of the three, and isn't a million miles away from quirky indie relationship based comedy/drama like 'Bottle Rocket', 'Palookaville', 'Walking And Talking', 'Trees Lounge', etc.etc. Fans of any of those movies or early Tom DiCillo will appreciate 'Mifune's subtlety and wit. Iben Hjejle went on to 'High Fidelity', a movie I enjoyed to a certain degree, but is given a much stronger and more complex role here. However she is overshadowed by Anders W. Berthelsen and Jesper Asholt as the estranged (and strange) bothers, who are both superb. In fact there isn't a bad performance in the whole movie. I highly recommend 'Mifune' and hope Dogme keeps up their high standards. I have been impressed by their work so far and want to see more.  "}{"Title":"Welcomed unAmerican flavor.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was pleased to find this film on cable here in the US. I understand why it got little notice in American theaters. Its welcomed unAmerican flavor, like a unPasteurized blue cheese, was delightful, but not box office unfortunately. Kresten, the lead male character, is a modern urban male in a global sense. Cell phones are commonplace in the film. However, the dynamic between him and Liva, the female lead, who is a prostitute hired as a domestic, illustrates some basic differences between American and Danish cultures. The sexuality in the film is very real, even though it is fleeting. The moronic brother, perhaps overplayed, seems an anachronism in comparison to American mental hygiene standards, anywhere outside of the Ozarks. I was particularly fascinated by the sharp dichotomy between city and country in a highly developed nation the size of some American states. The world's oldest profession was also portrayed without all the typical American barbs. It just seemed like a job. Finally, the credits are probably the most stunning I have seen in years. They are done as multimedia paintings on film, complete with flies crawling around them. Brilliant and beautiful. I highly recommend this film.   "},{"Title":"A fine film","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mifunes Sidste Sang is the third Dogma 95 film, and it's no disappointment. Now, don't get me wrong, I don't care much about the rules of Dogma 95, according to me Festen and Mifune would have been just as good films even if they didn't follow the rules of Dogma 95, it's the humanity of the stories which make them interesting. This film is entertaining and well-acted (Iben Hjejle is perfect and I look forward to seeing her in High Fidelity) and in the end it's one of those feel-good films. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Dogma95 is a poor excuse for a film group.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was quite excited to see this movie as it would be the first of the Dogma95 series to play in my town.  As many of you know Dogma95 is a film group that requires it's film makers to agree to some different rules, among these being the use of natural light and natural sound, as well as not crediting the director of the film.  Sounds like an interesting concept, but it doesn't work... at least not in the case of Mifune.  First off, there are some crucial scenes in the film that just don't make any sense.  Second, there are some severe timeline problems (ie. Kresten says he is going to Copenhagen tomorrow for 4 days in a row.).  And finally, there isn't any sort of climax and resolution the film just meanders for nearly two hours and wraps up with a generic ending.  Not a well written film, surprisingly the only thing about it which is enjoyable is the directing which Dogma95 would like you to not pay attention to. "},{"Title":"Touching...","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's really sad watching a review comparing this amazing and touching film to average, american, pop-films such as Rain Man, which, don't get me wrong, I like, but is simply in another league compared to this film. This is one sad film, and is probably the only one I've ever cried at, which, judge for yourselves, perhaps goes to show you something... ;) Rent this movie, and get some tissues in hand..... "},{"Title":"Nicely acted","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mifune was an entertaining movie.  I thought the acting was well done especially Jesper Asholt as Rud.  Some aspects of the story were confusing to me like the lottery tickets.  Did they win or what?  Plus I'm not sure of the ending.  I might have read more into it then was expected but maybe that was the goal.  Unless you are familiar with Seven Samurai the significance of the pot and gloves is lost.  Overall a good movie worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Lighthearted Mifune keeps the promises","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Søren Kragh Jacobsen has succeeded to make a liberating, lighthearted and entertaining film, that - unlike the other Dogmafilm (Festen and Idioterne) doesn't leave us disturbed and worried afterwards. The only thing Mifune leaves behind, is a simple smile (and not necessarily in the bad sense of the word).The casting is eminent, as the actors never let that feeling down of a fairytale-story from the Danish potatofields. Especially Iben Hjejle as a sensual and bright girl. You just want to take a bite of this woman. She has got that hot radiation and down-to-earth attitude that the Hollywood divas and plastic operations never have had, and never will get. Jesper Asholt reveals a great talent as the retarded Rud in such convincing style, that it brings memories to other outcasts and misunderstood loveable film-monsters like Quasimodo, The Elephant Man and King Kong!Being the third of the succesful series af Dogma film, makes it impossible to avoid comparisons. Whereas Vinterberg and von Trier in their contributions deals with deep psycological traumas and tragedies; confrontation used as therapy and finally; defeat turned in to victory - Søren Kragh-Jacobsen doesn't dig deeper than the first inches in the Danish soil. And that's why Mifune won't be catagorized in the same extravagant league as the two highly rated foregoing movies deserves. But maybe that's just what's good about this third one. The last thing the Dogme brothers and sisters would like to see, was if the concept got locked in some genre or in a pre-fabricated pattern. In a way this film - hopefully - serves as a link between what started it all - and what we can expect to come from Dogma in the future. (6/10) "},{"Title":"A lighter, quirkier Dogme film","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In its opening scenes, depicting a bourgeois wedding and post-nuptial sex, the film seems likely to ape last year's 	Dogme	 offering The Celebration, not only stylistically but thematically. But whereas that overwrought and overpraised film ultimately had little to offer except familiar skeletons, Mifune follows a distinctly unpredictable path involving a relocation to a rundown farm, a mentally challenged brother, a prostitute who seeks a career change as rural housekeeper, such odd digressions as an ostrich encountered in passing, and much quirky (if perhaps at times largely arbitrary) psychology. The protagonist's reference to a nearby town called Inhibition, midway in the course of shedding his buttoned-up big-city (well, Copenhagen) trappings, is an example of its occasional excessive underlining, but there's a pleasing ambiguity in the narrative and much distinctive observation, including a playfully malign view of sexuality. The much-feted 	Dogme	 style (hand-held cameras; shunning of artificial light; a general claim to a simplified style of filmmaking) makes relatively little impact here, which is probably not a bad thing. "},{"Title":"A worthy film with too many distractions.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mifune... is about a newly wed Yuppi groom who returns to his roots from his honeymoon when his father dies. There he takes charge of a run down old farm, his mentally challenged brother, and a call-girl/housekeeper with a wayward younger bro. The film seems to lose track of its purpose as the principal characters and the audience are distracted by a series of peculiar side events which contribute little to the plot. The result is Mifune... comes off like a love story with very little love and almost no romance. When the climax finally arrives, credits are rolling. "},{"Title":"Angry, not funny","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't think that this film was funny at all, I thought it was really angry. The anger doesn't seem to be structured to condemn anyone individual, except it maybe directed at mainstream society. There is one very irrational woman in the film and a large group of prostitutes. The men in the picture are all focused on sex, with the possible exception of a dim witted man who gets laughed at and yelled at throughout the film. There is a youth who drinks, smokes and swears, there is a near rape, a brutal beating and a lot of unhappy people. Maybe I just didn't get it, however I don't think those topics are funny and I don't think they were presented in a humourous manner. This film, while not terrible, is not a comedy and is not romantic. "},{"Title":"Fabulous!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not exaggerating when I'm saying that I was blown away by this movie. It is a great story, with a wonderfully witty script, and the whole cast put up top-notch performances. Especially Iben Hjejle shines as Liva. Fabulous! "}{"Title":"The wife liked it","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...and I suppose so did I - a little.The first thing to say is that Mifune is not a comedy.  Maybe it hits the Scandinavian funny bone, but if you are from just about any where else, you wont be amused by this one.....at all.  (A criticism of the billing as much as anything.)The acting is by and large v. good - especially the female lead.  (It was with great relief that I found out from a fellow reviewer that I had seen her before - in High Fidelity. This had been bugging me something rotten......I really must pay more attention to the credits). Anyway - she is going to big one day.  (Maybe the retarded Rud was a tad OTT - verging on Benny Hill at times...and not just because he looked like him)The story has been told before - but perhaps not with as much honesty.  (I suspect that honesty is probably at the core of the Dogma film making principles.)  It makes for an uncomfortable watch at times - visually and character-wise.  The two brothers are particularly nasty pieces of work.  One gets redeemed somewhat - the other appears to get away with it....  I guess they both nicely contrast their respective siblings.There are plot issues - a constant nag of mine.  I often wonder if there is ever a stage in the film making process when a bunch of people review the whole thing end to end for plot consistencies.  For obvious reasons this should happen 'after' the editing process.  The evidence is that if it does occur - it happens before anyone actually starts making the damn thing.But I can forgive Mifune for any discrepancies since it doesnt claim to be a 'plotty' movie - it's strength lies in the growth of the characters through interaction with each other and with their new environment.Strange but not bad. "},{"Title":"Good but uneven","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It was a good film, but the story is not properly connected.  There are gaps which make it difficult to see.  I expected more on the Mifune angle. "},{"Title":"A brief critique","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was looking forward to this film as being a fresh and interesting piece of modern cinema. I was disappointed, it was complete rubbish. Reasons for my comment would be annoying characters, dire script and boring direction. I may be wrong with this evaluation, I doubt it, but this my opinion. "},{"Title":"DOGME MANIFESTO (re-affirmed, 1999)","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (1)  We, the undersigned, intend to turn our back on cinematic history.  Our works will have nothing in common with the masterpieces of the past; they will, however, be ideally suited to the inward-looking, unadventurous spirit of the late twentieth century.(2)  We shall indulge in as little creation as possible.  No original music, no costume design, no art direction, no sets, no sound effects, and no images (with a caveat we'll get to in a moment) that weren't already lying around Denmark, so to speak, waiting for someone to come along and pick them up.(3)  Of course, we still intend to employ actors; we don't intend to restrict ourselves to using only those PEOPLE who were all ready lying around on location.  Nor do we intend to make documentaries.  Almost every single image will therefore be artificial, in the very sense we disavow, after all.(4)  We intend to make it impossible for ourselves to be as good as the best of our competition, while still running the risk of being as bad as everyone else.(5)  When we have strong story (like the one we used in Mifune's Last Song, for instance), its merits shall be made apparent by shackling it to our ineffective, theory-driven technique, to let people know that our story is so good we can afford to sabotage it a little.  The squandering of good material that results may even be heartbreaking.(6)  Conversely, our pseudo-realist technique should paper over any weaknesses in the story without removing them.  If the script calls for unmotivated violence we can jiggle the camera a bit in the hopes that no-one will notice.  In general our hand-held camera work will either drive people nuts, or be crafted so as to simulate the effect of a tripod, without, of course, actually buying a tripod.(7)  Our films shall all be contemporary - as we all know, being contemporary is in itself a virtue - and as unmagical, in every sense of the word, as possible, even when the subject matter cries out for a more romantic treatment.(8)  We will not credit the director.  Everyone will find out who the director is anyway, but for obscure reasons we feel it important that they not find out from us.(9)  We shall display a certificate of ideological purity before all of our works.(10)  These ridiculous restrictions will certainly hone our skills as film-makers, should we ever get around to abandoning them and making movies freely again.  In the meantime we may be able to persuade people to watch our academic training exercises.  Why not?  These days one can get away with anything. "},{"Title":"See any similarities?","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you ever saw Rain Man or What's Eating Gilbert Grape you'll know the similarities with Mifune are unarguable. But especially Gilbert Grape a guy is forced back to care for the remaining members of his family without his father, and also has to take the burden of caring for his retarded brother. Meanwhile (so the story doesn't get too bland) the guy falls in love with a pretty woman nearby who also has her share of problems. While this movie isn't bad it lacks any climax or irony in the plot. (Not to mention originality). Dogme films are really nothing special or new; in America, we call it independent film.   "},{"Title":"Unthreatening.","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In its style and deliberate compositions, MIFUNE is much closer to a conventional European art-movie than the previous Dogme films.  Like FESTEN, it is a fairy-tale in reverse, as the prince who has married the princess and is next in line to the throne goes back to his humble beginnings, a delapidated farm, an 'idiot' brother, and a redneck community. Just as the fairy tale is often an allegory for a boy becoming a man, the story's 'climax' in marriage being obviously a sign of sexual maturity, so this hero is sexually inept - his relationship with Liva can only truly begin after the bad sex.  It's pleasant enough - imagine THE IDIOTS or FESTEN without inconveniences like danger, spontaneity, innovation, excitement, truth. "},{"Title":"Over-hyped crap. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark..","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ditte Graeboel. She enters the house. Looks around. Hits the innocent fool over the head. It is the WORST piece of acting I have ever witnessed. This is Plan Nine.As for the rest of the movie, it is poorly written, poorly performed (that kid SUCKS, check out his opening scene, his laughter sounds looped!), loud and really un-interesting. Did I mention unbelievable ?Oh Denmark. In this time of dogme (Festen aka The Celebration was/is a masterpiece) we shun the big ole US of A and all that pink powder from Hollywood.Fine. Just remember that it`s gotta work both ways. Mifune is a pretensious mess. What where the Germans thinking when giving away their awards? Sick.Narhj, heeej skat....neeeej skat....ok skaat.Olsen Banden goes dogme. You are allowed to puke.  "},{"Title":"Amazingly awful and horrible to watch","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" OVERRATED ART FILM ALERT The following film is adored by sophisticated and with it film fans. The fact that the average person may find the whole thing unfunny and bland is due to their just not being smart enough to understand and appreciate this masterpiece.This was a very painful and dreadful experience for me--watching this Danish film. It's a shame, really, as I have loved all the other Danish movies I have seen and had very high hopes for this one. Plus, with the word Mifune in the title, I really wished the movie had SOMETHING to do with this great Japanese actor (which it really did not). However, because the director chose to use so many disgusting images (I felt a need to bathe after seeing it) and because everyone in the film ultimately seemed so awful and selfish, I really didn't care one bit for anyone--except maybe a bit for the very annoying and under-socialized mentally retarded brother. In fact, every time I THOUGHT I liked a character, the writers had them then behave in horrible ways that guaranteed you'd be turned off by them. While it is true that real human beings are complex (often likable and not likable), the dichotomy was just too striking and unrealistic in this film. And, because of this the characters just didn't seem real. So, by the end, I just wanted them all to go away---the girl, the smarter brother and even the mentally challenged one. Just go away and let me pretend I didn't waste my time seeing this depressing mess. "}]