[{"Title":"Colorful, Charming, Nice Story Most People Should Like","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Wow, there are lots of name actors are either in front of the camera or being used as voices in this unique animated-real life film. They use real people and animals (except for fake mouths when the animals talk) and an animated mouse (Stuart, voiced by animation favorite Michael J. Fox.) who looks incredibly life-like.The colors in this movie are terrific, especially with the house that the Little family lives in. The story has some clever stuff in it but it strictly played for laughs and reactions since credibility is about zero in many parts of this story. However, it's supposed to be outrageous. I don't think Geena Davis has ever played a nicer role than this. It was good to see. The husband was just as nice, played affably by Hugh Laurie.The jokes are good for the kids and adults. I know a couple of parents who liked this movie even better than their kids, so don't believe it when someone writes that this is a film strictly for kids. That is not so. I did object to some profanity in here at the end, which seemed so out of place, but it's hard to expect Hollywood to get everything right. The sequel to this film is even better! "},{"Title":"Think Big","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Truly a family movie, especially made for kids. That explains all; the absurdity, the irrational acts, the incredible story and yet the finale.Don't mess the story by thinking how can it happen in real life, because it won't.The casts are well chosen, unfortunately Jonathan Lipnicki is less adorable than his appearance in Jerry MacGuire. Geena Davis is very standard as well as the other casts. But look at that little mouse! He's so adorable indeed, very sweet and beautifully made to make you fall in love with him from the first sight.Well, it worked well, at least from the ratings and the gross income.A family classic movie. Watch it on a Sunday morning. It will lift your spirit up. "},{"Title":"Mouse with Pet Cat Saves Day","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If you told me five years ago that I'd be watching a movie about a mouse who is adopted by humans, I'd probably ask you what kind of drugs you were taking and how many would I need to take to enjoy such puerile piffle. But five years ago we didn't have the kind of technical wizardry we have now; witness Toy Story, the new Star Wars, or any of the recent Disney films. Five years ago, the mouse would have been a regular rodent with a not-too-subtle voiceover. Remember Homeward Bound, the movie about the two dogs and the cat? There was no computer animation there, and you were basically left with three animals who appeared to cavort onscreen while some humans talked in the background. So now here we have Stuart Little, a tiny little mouse (voiced by the always-fresh Michael J. Fox) who has lived his entire life in an orphanage. One day, the Littles (Hugh Laurie and Geena Davis) come to the orphanage looking for a brother for their young son George (Jonathan Lipnicki). Of course, with so many cute little boys and girls, it's impossible to choose - until they come across Stuart, who seems smart, funny, and wise beyond his years. George isn't too fond of Stuart at the start - he expected something a little... um, taller - but this is a kids' movie, after all, so eventually they bond as only a boy and his mouse brother can - by winning a boat race against a nasty bully.There are a few storylines jammed into this 85-minute extravaganza. Stuart wants to learn about his natural parents, the family cat wants to kill him, and the parents want Stuart and George to get along. The way most of it plays out will come off as standard movie fare - predictable to those of us over 10, perhaps - but the winning charm of Fox as the loveable Stuart coupled with an engaging and appealing cast of characters makes up for any familiarity you might feel. On top of it all - the special effects. Now, I'm not one to heap overweening praise on special effects, but at no point during the viewing of this movie did I consider Stuart (or the cat, voiced by Nathan Lane) to be an artificial computer creation. Sure, you have to suspend belief a little bit for this movie, but hey - don't you have to do that with almost any movie, anyway? "},{"Title":"Sweet and memorable movie.","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is really sweet, and I enjoyed it enormously. Sometimes it is a bit overly sentimental, and the human characters aren't as charming as the animal characters. Jonathan Lipnicki was sweet as George, but doesn't quite have the charm he brought to the The Little Vampire. Geena Davis and Hugh Laurie do amiably as the parents, but both seem subdued. Luckily, the human characters don't interfere too much with the animals, and still bring a certain charm to the screen. Stuart is wonderfully voiced by Michael J.Fox, and he joined by a hilarious Nathan Lane as Snowbell and a villainous Chazz Palminteri as Smoky. The script is intelligent and sweet, and there are plenty of charming scenes with Stuart and George. All in all, really sweet, fun and memorable. 8/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"This one is for adults as well as kids...","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A combination of seamless animatronics, puppeteering and computer generated effects make this a completely believable movie.You will be left wondering How did they do that?But once you stop being amazed at the wizardry involved in just making this movie there is a wonderful story behind it all.Stuart, who just happens to be a very charming white mouse, is adopted by a very special family -- the incomparable Gina Davis and the ever amazing Hugh Laurie.This is a story of acceptance, unconditional love and of a great deal of caring -- even though you may be a little different.This is a not to be missed film -- and adults will enjoy it as much as children do.In fact, the day that I saw it there was only one child in a nearly full theater; and I had the feeling that many of the adults there had seen it before.Don't pass up a chance to see one of the best written movies of the year. "},{"Title":"Believe me, just see it","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I didn't want to see this movie.  Oh no, it looked to cute for me.  But one day I turned on HBO and heard that voice.  That voice would be Michael J. Fox's voice.  He does the voice of little Stuart Little.  This made me start watching.  So anyway, not only does Michael J. Fox do an excellent job with the voice of Stuart, but Jonathan Lipniki who plays George Little is one of the best child actors, and this shows in Stuart Little.  Geena Davis and Hugh Laurie also do a great job playing parents Eleanor and Frederick.  This is a must see family film.  I promise you will find something about it you like.  I didn't think I'd enjoy it, but I'm already ready for Stuart Little 2.6/10 "},{"Title":"Overly sugary but still quite fun","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Little family are looking to adopt a boy to give their son George a brother.  When they go to the orphanage they meet an adorable mouse called Stuart and decide to adopt him.  Despite early resistance from George, Stuart makes himself part of the family, much to the chagrin of the house cat Snowball.  To get rid of Stuart, Snowball reaches out to some local alley cats to set up a whack on Stuart.If my plot synopsis has talked up the mafia connotations of the cats, it is because that is the part of the film that I find the funniest part of the film because it is lacking in the syrup that kind of takes away from the rest of the film.  The main story is quite sweet but also has a good sense of humour that will appeal to adults as much as children.  It's not perfect for, like I said it does get a bit overly sentimental at times although it just about manages to stay sweetly sentimental and not fall into being sickly sentimental.The animation is superb and only occasionally does Stuart look out of place in the frame.  For the most part it all flows well together and was deserving of the Oscar nomination.  Just as deserving is the animal training - anyone with cats will know how hard it is to get the little b*stards to do anything you want, so to have them do so much work is very impressive (although I understand it is all about food).The cast are all pretty good.  Davis and Laurie play it straight and are lumbered with carrying the emotional side of the film and don't have much comedy (a shame considering Laurie's talents).  Michael J. Fox does the best work - he makes his Stuart very sweet and likeable; a true prince amongst mice!  Lipnicki does OK but is basically just the `cute kid' that is legally required in all American family movies.  The funny stuff comes from Lane, Zahn, Kirby, Tilly and, best of all, Palminteri, who's mafia cat is hilarious and sends up his own characters by doing so.Overall this is an enjoyable family film.  It may not be hilarious for adults in the way Toy Story and it's like are but it is not dull.  It has characters for adults and plenty for children and it's all a bit of fun with a slightly overly sweet centre to it. "},{"Title":"A cheery little holiday film","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Stuart Little The Little family set out to adopt a child, and choose a amiable talking mouse instead, much to the chagrin of their son and the family cat.There are two words that describe this movie - words I swore I would never use in a review-   cute and sweet. Based on the children's story by EB White, the story is funny, cheerful, engaging and translates well to the screen.The filmmakers obviously realized that making Stuart look real was essential to the movie's success and spared little expense (approximately half the film's $60 million budget went to Stuart). The results are phenomenal - you can see each individual hair on his face, his movement is amazingly fluid and when he talks, you forget he's animated .  The same techniques are also utilized to make the film's felines talk. The voices - Michael J. Fox as Stuart and Nathan Lane as Snowbell - were ideal choices and help to enhance the experience.Everyone left the premiere sporting a big silly grin and I think you will too. One note - you'll never look at pest control quite the same again.  "},{"Title":"great family film with a good heart","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Both Stuart Little and its first sequel, titled Stuart Little 2 are two nice little family films that I recommend for their effective blend of drama, adult humor that never goes out of hand, controlled suspense and violence as well as language, and yet it never gets so immature as to become only for the kids. Some critics thought that the movie might have had some moments too intense or unsuited for young children. I was eight years old when I first saw this film and it never bothered me. I was surprised to find swearing in this film, but again, it didn't degrade the film because it was sparingly used and by that I mean it was only used once or twice.The character of Stuart is very effectively brought onto the screen. The mouse is entirely computer-generated in an efficient way and the contributions of Michael J. Fox's voice work out very well. The same goes for the other animated characters. All of the live-action performances were well-done and they blended in perfectly with the CGI characters.Stuart Little has a good heart and it is can be a very warm little family movie for everybody to enjoy. I still enjoy it nine years after I first saw the film and I do recommend it. It's a film that will suit audience members of all ages. As long as you enjoy family films. "},{"Title":"Idiotic Adoption.","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Stuart Little (1999) Dir Rob Minkoff / Voice Michael J. Fox / Cast Hugh Laurie, Geena Davis, Jonathan Lipnicki, Julia Sweeney A great computer generated mouse placed within a screenplay that bares no plot. Stuart is the darling mouse whose last name reflects that he is indeed small. One wonders what intelligence came up with that. He is adopted by Hugh Laurie and Geena Davis. He goes home to obvious problems. The boy of the house doesn't accept him at first but will eventually. The cat tries to tries to dine on him. He even gets caught in the washing machine. Eventually two mice arrive poising as Stuart's parents and the manic struggle to get home and avoid cats. While computer generated characters are dazzling the story is formula. Director Rob Minkoff fails to provide a back story to Stuart's existence. He had much better success with The Lion King. Michael J. Fox voices Stuart whose origins are not given therefore he isn't that interesting. Laurie and Davis react as if adopting a mouse in a three piece suit is normal, and Jonathan Lipnicki as the boy is a mere prop. This is the film's biggest flaw because it fails to translate the idiotic behavior. This film should be tossed to a box full of mouse traps for an entertaining final verdict. It is a family film out to sell computer generated creation with a screenplay that does as little as possible. Score 1 / 10 "}{"Title":"Great movie for all the Family )","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" note - This is a condensed version of my review Pros To start I felt the voice and on screen actors gave great performances. Michael J. Fox as the voice of Stuart little was a great choice as he brings in my opinion allot of charm and emotion to the role, now it may seem strange to cast him as the voice of a ten year old mouse even though at the time Michael was in his late thirties. It's really hard to comment on though because I thought the voice and the character design fitted perfectly. The rest of the voice cast are great too, Nathan lane as the voice of Snowbell is again another great casting choice, and he brings so much charm to the role as this reluctant and over melodramatic feline, not to mention Steve Zhan as Monty the alley cat who brings allot of wisecracking humour to the role. The on Screen performances are also very really great; Keep in mind that Huge Laurie, Geena Davis and Jonathan Lipnicki all had to work with thin air, literally. As Stuart was this CGI character, he'd later be brought onto the big screen through post production as all the on screen actors had to work with was maybe a replica doll of Stuart and then would have to do the actual take with just them imagining he was there on the set so it's pretty impressive considering that's what they had to work with throughout the majority of the film. I also have to mention that the score by Alan Silvestri is incredible. I felt the score truly brought Stuart little to life and made all of these small sized adventures seem more grand and captivating than originally thought. Now some may say that the score can get some what overly whimsical at times however I thought the score was perfect for this film and really stands out during the Central Park Boat Race. Alan Silvestri has performed scores for many films including allot of Robert Zemeckis productions including the Back to the Future Trilogy, Forest Gump, Cast Away and even the first two Predator films not to mention a couple Marvel films including captain America The First Avenger and the Avengers. I should also mention the direction of Rob Minkoff is great too; some of the action scenes in the film including the Central Park Boat Race and a car chase that happens later on in the film are very well shot and extenuate how daring these events must be for a mouse like Stuart. As I said at the beginning of this review Stuart little was nominated for an Oscar for best visual effects, how this wasn't for best original score, I don't know but considering the other two films nominated for best visual effects were the Matrix and Star Wars Episode One The Phantom Menace, I think the film got overshadowed by those two films but I do think the CGI for Stuart has held up incredibly well and considering the Film came out over 16 years ago, the Oscar nomination is well deserved and plus id rather take Stuart Little any day over, Jar ,Jar Binks. Cons Some of the dialogue is also a bit odd, like there's this scene when Mr little and George are preparing their boat for the Central Park Boat Race. George is unsure about the boat race and Mr Little asks if George is okay and George says he wants to go home. Mr little asks 'why' and George says 'I forgot to bring my lucky underwear, Mr little replies'you don't have lucky underwear' but George replies with 'well maybe we should get some and then come back for another race'. What? I don't know whether that was meant to be funny but to me at least it's a very strange piece of dialogue but then again this movie was written by M. Night Shyamalan so I shouldn't really be surprised one bit.I'm also not sure how close the movie follows the original novel and keep in mind that I haven't read the novel and I have heard that the worthy follow up Stuart Little 2 follows more closely to the original novel than the first film. I heard in the original novel that Stuart got caught in a window-blind while exercising, and then Snowbell places Stuart's hat and cane outside a rat hole, panicking the family. I believe they may have replaced this scene with the one from first film in which Stuart is accidentally thrown into the washing machine although the Central Park Boat Race is in the original novel. I think the biggest complaint that this film gets quiet often is how unbelievable it is because well, how can a mouse walk around New York without being stepped on by the foot of a human. How can you adopt a mouse as your son and take him home on the same day, how come cars and boats are operational with inner working parts without the use of an RC steering wheel, and Batteries. You really do have to go into this film with as much suspension of disbelief as possible; otherwise you'll probably hate this Movie for how unbelievable it is. Final Verdict Overall I think Stuart little is a great movie for all the family. Although the film takes some liberates with adapting the film from the novel and the dialogue is a bit odd, the excellent voice and on screen performances, Incredible score by Alan Silvestri and amazing special affects make this film one of my favourites, the film has also in my opinion has held up surprisingly well after the film was released 16 years ago, in my opinion Stuart Little gets an eight out of ten "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" a nice movie for entire family. a not ordinary hero and his adventures.nothing special but useful for Sunday afternoon. it seems be enough. but not at all. because something missing. a more convincing script, a better acting. but it is a good result and among the films for children, Stuart Little represents a decent work about fundamental values of society. it is not easy to ignore the bad parts but it is only a problem of inspiration and only sin who could be significant is the detail than the film is not very different by a lot of adaptations who are only expressions of originality. a nice film with a nice character. that is all. and, in essence, enough. "},{"Title":"The Little family just got bigger...","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When Stuart Little, an adorable little mouse with a big heart, is adopted by the Little family as a brother for their son George he finds a lot to adjust to in his new home. Whilst Mr and Mrs. Little fall in love with Stuart straight away, George doesn't know what quite to make of his new brother. And when Snowbell the family cat finds he has been displaced by a mouse, plans are soon afoot to get Stuart out of the Little house for good.This film starred Michael J. Fox, Geena Davis & Hugh Laurie.Stuart Little was release in 1999 and is a good family movie in my opinion, it isn't great but it is a heartwarming film about families and how much someone so little can mean so much to a group of three people. This film also has a hint of comedy which I found enjoyable and Michael J. Fox was really good as Stuart Little. I do recommend this film, and I highly recommend that you buy this DVD for your kids because I know for a fact that they will love it.***/***** Good film "},{"Title":"No, It Doesn't Follow The Book","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" But when you think about it, why should it? I read it as a kid, and wasn't really impressed. It felt like a bunch of different scenes rather than a story. Stuart Little is a mouse-like child born (not adopted as in the movie) to human parents in New York City, he gets into some scrapes, he doesn't get along with the family cat, he saves a bird from said cat and the bird would save him later, he goes on a miniature boat ride in Central Park, he receives a small gasoline-powered car, abruptly leaves his family in quest of the bird (who has vanished), goes to a small town, takes a job briefly as a substitute teacher (and does badly at that), goes on a date with a female like himself, but the boat ends up ruined and so does the relationship, and in the end Stuart drives further out in his car.I wasn't really satisfied with the book even then, and I get the impression that it was more of a satire than a real attempt at a children's story (which was true of the Alice In Wonderland stories), and truth be told, it was no shock that the movie would have little to do with the book, which felt more like a bunch of scenes than an overall story.So how is the movie? Standard children's entertainment which has a more likable Stuart Little than the book's, and predictable. But at least it's suited for the kids, unlike many other movies supposedly for the family. "},{"Title":"Cute for kids for the adults not really only if your a kid at heart like me.","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I saw this on TV and in the cinemas when I was 9 years old at the time,im now 22)and I found it really cute and adorable. The story centers on a dotting couple played by Genna Davis and Hugh Laurie who wants to adopt another child for their youngest child played by Johnathan Lippiki(from Jerry Maguire)as they don't want him to be a only child. So the woman from the adoption center finds the perfect candidate for them,but the problem is that the child isn't a human in fact his a MOUSE!!?! but his parents died along time ago and he wants somebody to adopt him. So since the dotting couple love him they decide to keep him(OK this is kinda of ridiculous adopting a mouse but hey its a children's flick just go with the flow on it). They do of course plan a special event for Stuart(that's what they called him voiced by Micheal J Fox) and have all his relations over little do they know that his a mouse and that Mr and Mrs Little's cat Snowball(voiced by Nathan Lane from The Lion King)doesn't like Stuart at all and wants to get rid of him by having mice pretend to be Stuart's REAL parents.Yeah yeah its kinda silly and a tad bit stupid but I liked this movie as a kid,today whenever its on TV I still watch it but if you've got kids around the house that likes a bit of fantasy then check it out.Again a 6 out of 10 like the sequel. "},{"Title":"Little mouse, big film","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Stuart Little is a great example of a film for all the family and takes the original best loved book by EB White and makes it a vivid and heart felt film.The story is simple but that's the beauty of this film. If you are prepared to suspend your disbelief a few times then you'll find this a funny film.Hugh Laurie tries out the American accent that would later make his fortune in the hit show House while Michael J Fox is a perfect choice as the voice of the title character.One of my favourite films growing up and no doubt this will be the case with children for many years to come. "},{"Title":"Not just a mouse - a brother","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Little family is the gentlest, most genial movie family in recent memory. They live in a quiet house amidst the hustle and bustle of New York City life. They are the straight-shooter Frederick (Hugh Laurie), understanding Eleanor (Geena Davis), and spunky tike George (Johnathan Lipnicki), who is excited as can be the day his parents set out to adopt a new member of the family. They go in hoping to walk out with a younger sibling, but walk out with a whole other creature. Literally.They adopt Stuart, a precocious, easily lovable mouse with the cutest smile you'll ever see, the most impeccably charming voice (thanks to Michael J. Fox), and the most adorable little clothes this side of Barbie and Ken. When the Little's take him into their home, they find difficulties plaguing them from the start. George is a tad underwhelmed when he finds out his new brother is a five inch rodent and the house cat isn't happy that his master also serves as lunch. The cat is Snowbell (voiced by Nathan Lane) and he develops a plan to get back at Stuart for coming into his house, allegedly trying to take over his home.But how you could hate Stuart? One look in those eyes and you melt under the weight of his cuteness. Rob Minkoff's (co-director of Disney's The Lion King) Stuart Little pays careful attention to little background details and cinematography, but refuses to shortchange the people in the story. The screenplay, written by Greg Booker and the unlikely M. Night Shyamalan is sensitive to the idea of sibling adoption and never seems to exploit this idea or turn it into a laugh riot. E.B. White's original story sort of muted the concept, while its film counterpart puts more of an emphasis on this event.There's a wide array of side-character voices you're likely to pick up on. David Alan Grier, Chazz Palminteri, and Steve Zahn are among them, as well as cameos by Estelle Getty, Harold Gould, and Julia Sweeney. All the characters are portrayed under a wonderfully positive light, but the writing doesn't hesitate to take a dark turn and punctuate some rather depressing sequences within its delectably sweet interior. There's a word for films like Stuart Little and that word is jolly. This is a completely acceptable and wonderfully told spin on the new brother formula.Starring Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie, and Jonathan Lipnicki. Voiced by Michael J. Fox, David Alan Grier, Nathan Lane, Chazz Palminteri, and Steve Zahn. Directed by Ryan Minkoff. "},{"Title":"Decent effort","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The animation is superb and only occasionally does Stuart look out of place in the frame. For the most part it all flows well together and was deserving of the Oscar nomination. Just as deserving is the animal training - anyone with cats will know how hard it is to get the little b*stards to do anything you want, so to have them do so much work is very impressive (although I understand it is all about food).The cast are all pretty good. Davis and Laurie play it straight and are lumbered with carrying the emotional side of the film and don't have much comedy (a shame considering Laurie's talents). Michael J. Fox does the best work - he makes his Stuart very sweet and likable; a true prince amongst mice! Lipnicki does OK but is basically just the 'cute kid' that is legally required in all American family movies. The funny stuff comes from Lane, Zahn, Kirby, Tilly and, best of all, Palminteri, who's mafia cat is hilarious and sends up his own characters by doing so.Overall this is an enjoyable family film. It may not be hilarious for adults in the way Toy Story and it's like are but it is not dull. It has characters for adults and plenty for children and it's all a bit of fun with a slightly overly sweet centre to it. "},{"Title":"Little is more than a mouse.","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film is for the whole family to enjoy with several great actors adding to it. Stuart Little (voice by Michal J. Fox)is our main character who is adopted so the Little Family can have another son. The son George (Jonathan Lipnicki) has hopes of another little boy like himself but he is disappointed by the adoption of a little white mouse. George turns around and really likes Stuart after Stuart helps George beat out the snotty little boy who always wins the annual boat race. Stuart steers the boat to victor and brotherhood with little George Little.The family cat named Snowbell (voice by Nathan Lane) has substantial parts in this movie, beginning by putting a hit on Stuart with the help of some bad cats, who send out fake mouse parents to abduct Stuart. But in the end Snowbell turns around to assist Stewart help defeat the cats. Stuart Little is simple movie but very enjoyable to watch. This film is suitable for all ages and the special effects are amusing. "},{"Title":"Nothing too mind-blowing, but a family adventure with a number of satisfying aspects","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The first time I saw this was on video in June 2000, late in my first year as a teenager. It had been about six months since the theatrical release of Stuart Little, and I was shown the film on the last day of school before summer holidays. I can't remember exactly what I thought of it at the time, but remember it did hold my attention for a memorable first viewing. I wouldn't be seeing it again until about ten years and four months later, but that has finally happened. I didn't know anything about the film's reputation when I first saw it, but by the time I finally watched it again, I had looked it up. I could tell that it wasn't one of the most popular family films from recent decades but wasn't generally despised, so I wasn't surprised when I found it to be a mixed blessing.George is the only child of Eleanor and Frederick Little, but his parents are planning to adopt, which the young boy is very excited about. As he leaves for school on the day of the adoption, he reminds his parents that he wants a little brother, not a big one. Eleanor and Frederick then go to the orphanage while their son is at school, and it looks like it's going to be a tough decision as they see all the human children, but then they find an intelligent mouse named Stuart. The couple is warned that adopting a member of a different species will not likely work out, but they still adopt Stuart and introduce him to his new home. When George comes back from school that day and sees who his parents have adopted, he is disappointed. This is not helped by the fact that the household's cat, Snowbell, is not happy about being the pet cat of a mouse, and when Monty, his alley cat friend, finds out about this, he inevitably finds it very funny, so Snowbell then seeks help from the neighbourhood alley cats to get rid of Stuart! This 1999 family adventure movie doesn't look that promising at the beginning, with a very enthusiastic George on the morning of the day his parents plan to adopt, but there certainly are some good parts after that. This includes some pretty funny moments, such as the segment with Monty the Mouth coming into the house and Snowbell trying to keep Stuart out of the visiting alley cat's sight, though Monty farting didn't amuse me. Aside from the humour, there are other memorably entertaining parts, such as the boat race, and the story gets more exciting later on. There are times when the film is a little too sappy, but this may be more of an issue near the beginning. Geena Davis and Hugh Laurie both play loving parents, but don't do an overly impressive job playing them. The live action performances in Stuart Little are generally not really that impressive, but there are some good voice-overs here. Michael J. Fox isn't bad in the title role, and the voices provided for the cats also stand out, including Chazz Palminteri as Smokey, the Chief Alley-Cat, who is like a mafia don. The CGI effects in this movie are excellent, with very realistic looking talking mice on two legs, and the way they made the cats' mouths open when they speak is also very convincing.I can see why this movie doesn't exactly have the greatest reputation, with all the flaws it has, but since I'm giving it a 6/10, I obviously think it has its merits. It's based on a children's novel of the same name, written by E. B. White and published over fifty years before this movie was made, and I've never read that book, but hear that this movie is only LOOSELY based on it. Maybe many fans of the book hate this movie, I don't know, and I obviously don't know how they compare and can easily believe that the book is superior, but judging this 1999 film for what it is, I would say much better family movies were made around the same time, but Stuart Little could have been far worse. With its positive aspects, which include the mild humour, some of the characters, good sentiment (even if it is overdone at times), nice visuals, and a story which may get better as it goes along, both kids and adults could find themselves impressed with this particular anthropomorphic animal story, more so than I was. "}{"Title":"I love this rat","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have watched only a handful of Hollywood movies including gems like Gandhi and Titanic. However today I am reviewing the Hollywood movie which is closest to my heart. It is Stuart Little. At the time of watching it for the first time, I was expecting it to be a movie mainly made for the children. However after watching it fully, not only I have got addict to watch it every time it is telecast on TV on any channel and irrespective of the fact whether the version is Hindi (dubbed) or English (the original one). This movie has gone so deep into my heart that it moves me every time I watch it.Stuart Little is a unique combination of computerised animation and live action. The central character - Stuart is a rat and there are certain other animal characters in the movie in the form of the cat - Snowbell, his friends (cats) and one rat couple playing the fake parents of Stuart. These have been managed through computerised animation (with their dialogues dubbed in human voices). And then we have human characters too which are the members of the Little family (husband, wife and male kid) plus the supporting characters. The activities and relationships of all these animated and human characters form the touching screenplay of Stuart Little which is undoubtedly an outstanding movie winning many awards.Little rat Stuart is adopted by Little family consisting of Mr. Fredrick Little; his wife, Eleanor; their son, George and the pet cat Snowbell. The Little couple loves its adopted son very much but George is not ready to accept it as his brother and Snowbell is not happy to have a new member in the house sharing the love of its masters. How Stuart wins the hearts of both George and Snowbell and finally settles down in the family after a short span of separation from them because of a rat couple claiming to be its parents, forms the remaining story.Director Rob Minkoff has excellently directed the story adapted from the book of E.B. White with the screenplay written by Manoj Night Shyamalan and Greg Booker. The movie is so engrossing that the viewer hardly realises when it comes to its end. It is well-paced, yet very touching movie. Right from the background score to the dialogues of the animals in the voices of Michael J. Fox (for Stuart), Nathan Lane (for Snowbell) and others to the camera work and art direction to the performances of the artists (Huge Laurie, Geena Davis and Jonathan Lipnicki as the Little family), everything is just superb. The animated white rat (Stuart) looks adorable and lovely. Seeing it wearing different style of clothes and doing different things like the human-beings is an experience to cherish. The scene of the boat-race is outstanding. The film does not let the viewer down even for a moment.Now the bigger question is - why do I like a children's movie so much that I am ready to watch it countless number of times ? In fact, I have given standing instructions to my children to call me immediately whenever they find Stuart Little being telecast on any channel whether in English or in Hindi (dubbed version). Let me explain the reason for being so much passionate about this movie. This movie establishes Indian family values which are universal in their appeal in the most effective manner. The love and affection among the family members, their adjustments and compromises to accommodate one another, their readiness to sacrifice own joy and benefit for the fellow member's sake; everything touches me deep within. Two members of a family may not look alike, they may not be associated biologically and there may be a plethora of apparent differences between them, still the bond of love, if well-knit, can keep them mentally close.The love of the Little couple (especially the mother) for the adopted rat and the rat's reciprocation is able to confirm my view that our love can find its genuine expression even for the animals. When Snowbell, the pet cat of the house (after first misguiding Stuart when it returns back to home and then consipiring with its friends to kill Stuart) finally saves Stuart's life from its friends, i.e., other cats; Stuart tells them (other cats) that it is not necessary for two members of a family to look like one another and the love can stand despite the appearance difference; is a lesson for all in the human-world too.Stuart Little has everything to recommend itself. It generates laughters. It generates amusement. It generates emotions and tears. Not only me, anyone who has seen it once, can watch it several times. I have seen its sequel too. However it is the first and the original part which has had a standing (positive) impact upon me.I end my review with the final dialogues in the Hindi version of the movie. When Stuart is finally back home in the ending scene, it asks George - Kya Ek Sukhi Parivaar Aisa Hi Hota Hai ? (Is a happy family like this only ?) and gets George's reply - Haan Jab Sapne Sach Hote Hain (Yes, when the dreams come true). "},{"Title":"Great Human Interest Movie","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I thought this Movie was just kid's stuff, but when I saw it at HBO-I realized how wrong my preconceived notion was. Stuart Little is a story of great human interest. On the surface, it appears like its made for children because the cast include animals led by my favorite protagonist, the mouse Stuart Little. For children, it is simple happy entertainment feature but I think, for adults, it is of great human interest because the animals (e.g. cats and the mouse Stuart Little really personify people's nature. The movie serves as man's mirror of himself-its very effective for self-evaluation and change. I think movies that have animals portraying human characteristics are the most objective means of letting people know with what they are identified with, to determine if there are some things in themselves that need to change in order for them to be useful members of society. This evaluation of the content of the movies is based on my analysis of the real substance of Stuart Little's story. Overall, its a very nice movie for general patronage- very wholesome and relaxing. Congratulations to the producers and all those involved in making Stuart Little - please have more like this-the pressured world need some therapy like this one. "},{"Title":"Sweet Family Film","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I went to see Stuart Little when it came out in 1999 and I absolutely loved it! In the movie Fredrick and Eleanor Little (Hugh Laurie and Geena Davis) adopt a mouse named Stuart(voiced by Michael J. Fox) as a brother for their son George(Jonathan Lipniki) who at first doesn't like Stuart Little until he learns he can be a big help with such things as building boats and winning boat races! But Snowbell the cat (voiced by Nathan Lane who I think did a good job as the voice of Snowbell just like he did Timon in The Lion King) is jealous of Stuart and wants to get rid of him but also later learns that Stuart isn't such a bad mouse either! My two favorite scenes are when Monty (voiced by Steve Zhan) says a mouse with a pet cat? And he rolls over with laugher That scene was just hilarious! I also liked it when Snowbell told the other cats that Stuart was apart of the family and the cats start laughing but Stuart manages to tell them that you don't have to look alike, act alike or like each other to be apart of the same family as Snowbell didn't like Stuart but still saved Stuart's life! Good message Stuart! Filled with wonderful characters, story, and setting Stuart Little is in my opinion one of the best family films since The Lion King. My mom and my Aunt Joyce didn't like it but I loved it! True family movie that the whole movie can enjoy! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Mustard on a chocolate cake","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Basically this is about a couple who want to adopt a second child. At the adoption agency they meet a mouse (Stuart) and they decide to adopt him. If you think that this is stupid, hold it, because it's getting worse.Stuart arrives to his new home, where he is treated like a human child. (Spare me!) The rest is pretty much the usual cliché, about family problems, jealousy from the elder brother, and at the end all issues are resolved and they are all a happy family. Boring and worn out as this is, it is also shown in the most blunt and unsophisticated way.I don't know if the director believed that he was being creative by introducing a mouse to the cliché, or he was just trying to fill in minutes, but he only upgraded the cliché from boring to abhorrent.Then why I gave a 3 and not a ZERO? Because of the family cat, who loves Stuart as much as the brother. And because of some funny gigs, where Stuart makes good use of his small size.On the overall I believe that the film would work reasonably well if a. Stuart was a PET and not a sibling. b. It had kept to the funny gigs, like Stuart trying to outwit the cat, and had left out boring clichés which don't even match with anything else. "},{"Title":"For every big kid and little ones too","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have watch this movie for the third time. This last time with my 21 month old son. I am not sure who enjoyed it the most. Stuart Little is what I class as a Saturday afternoon movie. Its great easy going fun. I love the story. I love the voices and the human characters. I didn't realize it was Michael J Fox until I looked at IDMB. He plays a great little mouse. I have to give this movie top marks because it is a good all rounder for all ages to a really nice sense of fun. I wonder who the writers were writing for adults or kids because there is 40 years difference between me and my father and 40 years between me and my son and we all loved this movie. How many movies can span the many generations and equally please them all ?Stuart Little made a big impact on my family. "},{"Title":"Excellent Family Comedy with many famous talents...","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Stuart Little is a comedy perfect for the entire family with may great talents.There are many familiar faces, such as Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie, known for playing Sarcastic Gregory House of House, MD., Johnathen Lipniki of The Littlest Vampire, SNL's Julia Sweeny, and a cameo of Golden Girls' Estelle Getty (She Played Sophia).There are also many great voices, such as Michael J. Fox (Currently associated in a controversy of his Parkinson's disease ad)as the little hero, Stuart, Nathan Lane and Vincent Pastore as a particularly menacing cat named Smoky.The CGI effects are stunning. Stuart looks very life-like and so do the cats, who are pretty much the real thing.The film is based upon the book by E.B. White, best known for his book-turned-film, Charolette's Web (Look for the Live action film in theaters December).The Little family is looking to adopt a child...and what they got was Stuart, a white, orphan mouse. Mr. and Mrs. Little immediately take to him and choose him. However, George Little is far from impressed...to have a mouse for a brother...but, whom is even more dismayed is the family cat, Snowbell, being his name would be ruined of his cat buddies were to find out about Stuart, a Mouse with a Pet Cat... So, as Stuart spends time to his new family the leader, Smoky, plots to rid the family of Stuart once and for all...But Stuart is ready for them...This is a sparkling, charming adaption of E.B. White's novel.Little Hi, Little Lo...Little Hey, Little Ho! "},{"Title":"So sweet it makes you sick","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Not that I dislike childrens movies, but this was a tearjerker with few redeeming qualities.  M.J. Fox was the perfect voice for Stuart and the rest of the talent was wasted.  Hugh Laurie can be amazingly funny, but is not given the chance in this movie. It´s sugar-coated sugar and would hardly appeal to anyone over 7 years of age.  See Toy Story, Monsters Inc. or Shrek instead. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Do not buy the Deluxe Edition!","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Columbia has decided they'd rather not have people watch widescreen versions of movies, which is why you won't see the letterbox version either in the standalone Deluxe Version, or the new combo Stuart 1 & 2 DVD.  Tell Columbia that you care more about movies than they care about you by holding out until they fix this blunder! "},{"Title":"Great little movie!","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My 3 year old daughter loves this movie although I originally thought it might be for an older group. She watches it very often. For those Stuart Little lovers, this one is for you. I gave this movie a better than average rate. "},{"Title":"Excellent childrens' film - superb CGI","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A sweet little story aimed squarely at children with little concession to their parents.  As an adult, the main thing I noticed was the excellence of the CGI animation.  Unlike, say, the animation in Star Wars II, Stuart Little looked solid and his interaction with the environment believable.  (I suspect that this is the advantage of concentrating the animation budget on one figure rather than practically everything in the film). "}{"Title":"cute but perhaps a little bit too cute","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Charming family film about a couple who adopt a talking mouse, to the initial disgust of their son and the pet cat.This film reminds me of the sort of stories you read to very small children. No rationale is given for the existence of a talking mouse. It is just accepted in the way that the very young, for whom everything is strange and new, accept things.The Little family home and the views of New York have a 'chocolate-box picture' quality which adds to the air of unreality though it is very pretty.This overwhelming cuteness, together with the rather predictable story-line prevent this from being a great family movie, though it is still a good one.     "},{"Title":"Careful with sensitive children","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Possible spoiler...?There are some sad moments in this movie that littler children might find upsetting.  My nearly five-year-old daughter broke down when the bogus mice parents came and took Stuart away.  She wept again when Mrs. Little found Stuart's little sweater after he was gone.  It's a cute and harmless movie, but if your kids are sensitive, watch it with them and have a box of kleenex on the couch.  I spent ten minutes comforting my child...and then she cried again at the end.  "},{"Title":"A-D-O-R-A-B-L-E!!!","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you havent yet seen this film, youre missing out on a real treat!! No matter what your age, race or gender, NO ONE can possibly NOT like this movie! Even the biggest grouch cannot possibly walk away from this film without at least a faint smile on thier lips after watching Monty the Mouth! If youre anything like me, who does not have a high opinion of the dredge Hollywoood is mostly turning out these days, then you MUST see this movie, because it will make you give Hollywood a second chance! The CGI animators alone will strike you dumb with awe just by what they did to those cats! On a scale of one to ten, ten being the highest, I give this film a 150+! Way to go, Hollywood!! "},{"Title":"The Best Film For My Kids and The Kid In Me I've Seen.*****","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In a world with so much violence,fear and tragedy this wonderful LITTLE movie makes it all go away for an hour or so. Do yourself a huge favour and watch this movie. Do somebody else a favour and tell them to do likewise. "},{"Title":"Boring, predictable and not the least bit amusing","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  That's about all I have to say about this film. Not only was there nothing for adults, there was nothing here for children. My nine month old could tell you what was going to happen in every scene. Wake up people, this is not a 6/10 movie. It is corny and sickeningly sweet. My vote 4/10 "},{"Title":"A great family Movie","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a great movie for parents to watch with thier kids. How can you not even like this film. Even with stars in here like Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie, Michael J. Fox, Jonthan Lipnicki, Dabeney Coleman, Julia Sweeney and Patch Adams' Harold Gould. As the movie opens, Mr. Little and Mrs. Little (Hugh Laurie and Geene Davis) decide to adopt a younger brother for George Little (Jonthan Lipnicki). But instead of coming home with a boy, they come home with a mouse they named Stuart Little (voice of Michael J. Fox). And the family cat named Snowbell (voice of Nathan Lane) doesn't like the idea of having Staurt Little as a master instead of lunch. After the movie was over, I wished to have seen more of Jonthan Lipnicki. He was in and out of the movie. And while they had Geene Davis in about every scene in the movie. Somebody better remind her this isn't the Genna Davis movie. "},{"Title":"Nothing for adults - nonsense, there's plenty...","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It is so tiresome to read comments from adults such as - Stuart Little is great for kids but there's nothing much for adults here. Sure there's no foul language, no adults blowing each other up, no adults screwing each other over. If adults watched this and other movies for children - like I do with my first son who is now 18-months-old - this world would be much more wonderful place to live than it is now. Adults are all that is wrong with this world.five out of five stars "},{"Title":"Great for all the family!!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Lovely, quirky film for all the family...   I bought it for the kids but have found myself sitting down to watch it with them several times. The sets and style reminded me of a comic book - similar to 'Dick Tracy' I guess...  The action never stops and the attention to detail animating Stuart and the other mice is fantastic!!  "},{"Title":"Good story and technique, but still there are flaws","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The storyline is a bit moving and the little mouse is REALLY cute. Just right for my taste.However, the latter half of the movie is kind of boring, so it is not so great a piece to be remembered.After all, I recommend watching it, just for the little Stuart.  "},{"Title":"Inoffensive way to spend a couple of hours","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mostly harmless.  This bit of fluff doesn't challenge anyone on any level, nor does it completely bore you out of your mind.  The computer animation is well done, but the story and characters are about as deep as the nice children's book they came from.  Nice movie for kids, and that's about it.  "}{"Title":"Fantastic, Effects-laden Family Flick!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is a fantastic family flick! It's thoroughly enjoyable from the first few minutes it begins. Stuart Little (voiced by Michael J Fox) is absolutely adorable. The storyline may be quite predictable but the fun keeps rolling as surprises pop up in the movie and enhance your viewing pleasure. Stuart has some great lines and there are moments in the film that touch you so deep. Hugh Laurie and Geena Davis are good as the parents of George who initially hates the idea of a mouse as his brother. Of course it doesn't take long for the two of them to start liking eachother and, of course, there's a happy ending for everyone. Certainly not the most original flick of all-time, but a fantastic viewing pleasure is to be had by this warm-hearted, fantastic, effects-laden flick. "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining!","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I first wanted to see this movie because of the visual effects and because I wanted to see why everyone else wanted to see it. My source was its great box office performance and when I did first see this movie I saw it with my 8 year-old sister and it *was* pretty funny and entertaining. M. Night Shyamalan and Greg Brooker did a great job adapting E. B.  White's book of the same name. Though the Little parents can be fairly Bradyesque, it's supposed to be because it's a family, fantasy. Michael J. Fox has that certain voice that just goes great with family films where there are characters that wouldn't normally talk otherwise (e.g. Homeward Bound). The rest of the Little family and the supporting characters, whether human or voice, are all spectacular and fit their roles to a tee. The special effects were incredible. The very detail they put into the CGI mouse is unbelievable. The film/story has some great morals/themes also, like teaching children to see past what's on the outside and only judge people by what's on the inside. And the most important theme is that families should have that strong family bond and relationship that's needed to get through tough times.My Verdict A solid 8/10 "},{"Title":"George gets a new brother, Stuart, the mouse","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Littles are the typical American, apple pie family until the day that they go to the orphanage to adopt a brother for their son George and come home with one, Stuart, a mouse.  This sets-up the story.  Stuart is hated by the cat of the house, Snowbell and is not too popular with George. All comes together after George and Stuart bond when they build a yacht together for the local model yacht race in the park.  Stuart has to pilot the yacht after the remote gets broken.  George beats the school bully and he and Stuart become firm friends.  The cat, however, has other plans and plots Stuarts downfall which leads to the hillarious finale, can Stuart find his way back to the Little House. The parts are played to perfection. Fox and Lane breath real life into their animated parts.  Laurie, Davis and Lipnicki aren't bad either.  The kids will love it, prepare to shed the odd tear  "},{"Title":"Special Effects squeeze out story","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I don't get this movie. Yes, the effects were highlypolished and professional, but plotwise this film was senseless.At first it seems like a satire on politically correct people whowould pretend not to notice that your adopted child is of a differentrace ... or species. However, it quickly becomes apparent that thefilm has no such pretensions, that it really is just a dumb,predictable story about ... about how a family comes to accept ahighly intelligent rodent as part of the family. Huh? Lucky for themouse that his brother just happens to build miniature models ofboats and cars ... that actually work.  "},{"Title":"A real disappointment","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Stuart Little had the capacity to be a really good family film but it seemed to miss the mark.It is true that the idea of a talking mouse being adopted by a family and the rest of the world accepting the fact that it is possible to do so is a little far fetched in itself but when the film moves on, it also moves further away from the reaches of reality.For example, Stuart (the mouse) is given a remote control car (which is just the right size for him to fit in) which he then drives around. There is one major problem with this; you can't drive a remote control car from inside it. The director might have come up with the idea to put the remote control in the car, maybe making the car in a convertible to allow it to fit but instead Stuart drove the battery powered car (with the sounds of a petrol engine) all around Central Park. On the same idea of the car, one possibility of added comedy would have been Stuart learning to drive and maybe crashing into household objects in the process (one assumes that a mouse just taken out of an orphanage with no recollection of his parents doesn't have a driving license).Stuart Little was never going to be a major blockbuster but it could have been a great deal better. However, there were some good points such as the amusing voice of Michael J. Fox as Stuart and the exciting scene in Central Park (especially for children).You might want to see Stuart Little as a family film or more likely a children's film but if you have the time, look for something a little more entertaining and finely polished. "},{"Title":"Very cool, Family Movie!","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Well, I will admit that at first I didn't want to see it. I thought, Why would I want to watch a family movie? Well I am glad I did, because I really enjoyed this movie. The alley cats were really funny. Michael J. Fox really fit the role of Stuart Little. He is a really good actor and I am sad of his case of Parkinson's. I only wish the best for him. His show Spin City was (and still is) hilarious. But to get back to the movie. I really think that anyone of any age should see this movie. It has many scenes that really warm your heart! I really suggest that you all go out and see it. I don't think that you will be disappointed. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Who is the target audience?","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Not appropriate for our two-year-old. She doesn't yet, if ever, need to learn to say Talk to the butt, What the hell . . ., etc. Perhaps the film is targeted at a more sophisticated, eight-year-old audience that would snicker heartily at such witticisms. Ok, they're _alley_ cats talking, but this is a childrens' movie. Alley cat language aside, this is a slow, mildly entertaining film. I share the puzzlement of another reviewer in that we are given a squeaky-clean Leave-It-to-Beaver family that lives in cliff-hanger world of lethal washing machines, deadly serious gangster cats, spoiled children who cheat by racing armored model sailboats, and adult racing judges who apparently let them. Stuart Little the mouse is endearing. He is very obviously _intended_ to be endearing, but with Michael J. Fox's voice the cutesy-mouse thing works very well. Snowbell, the family cat, is voiced ably by Nathan Lane. He can be menacing inside the house, while believably shrinking into a coward when out in world dealing with alley cats. There is not much here for adults. Too much raunch for kids. Older kids may like the cats, but they will be disappointed that Stuart isn't killed. "},{"Title":"Suspension of disbelief was working overtime here","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  No explanation of how or why mice speak...not only with humans, but also with cats! There's no evidence that cats & humans communicate although it's obvious that cats understand human speech. Jennifer Tilly is my favorite actress...it's weird, but her character manages to look (move, dress) just like her. I expect that in Stuart Little 2, the Little family will be moving out to Nebraska so that they can take advantage of living in the Little house on the prairie.I'm a little (no pun intended) surprised that I enjoyed this film and I do recommend it. Rating? A solid 8-of-10. "},{"Title":"Fantastic effects but that's about it!","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A common problem lies with all big-budget movies that feature 'break-through' special effects. Sometimes these effects are so good, that once the viewer has accepted them as real, they don't seem as impressive. A great example of this is THE LOST WORLD - dinos had been done, we believed them to be real characters, so we naturally start looking at other, more traditional aspects of film - and they were not so good. STUART LITTLE suffers the same fate. The big cheese is realistic fur, and the mouse is superb throughout, however look past the amazing work they have done, and this is simply a rehashed film from 100s made in the past.The cast work well together - I would question the likelihood of Laurie and Davis ever marrying, but I suppose that in a world where talking mice are the norm, anything could happen! Michael J Fox is excellently cast as Stuart (although wouldn't a younger voice be more endearing for the kids?). My only real complaint was the cats - although hilariously voiced, the CG-cats were sometimes embarrassingly plastic. But all in all, the 300 children sitting around me loved every minute, so who am I to moan??? "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  stuart little is the loveliest film ever. he walks and talks and drives a car and brushes his teeth and smiles and everything!! i love stuart little the lovely mouse. i am looking to adopt one similar. the closest so far has been a hamster squirrel, which does brush it's teeth, but doesn't talk yet. "}{"Title":"A charming film","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I watched Stuart Little last night and I have been all day recommending this film to all my friends.  This movie is full of charm and no matter how old you are, you'll be very happy to watch this tale of family love.  As my fourteen years old daughter told me last night mom, I cannot believe you're still a child!.   Well, thanks to Stuart Little all of us will be able to discover the child inside us. Don't wait any longer.  Rent it now!  "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The basic plot A white mouse is by a little New York family, and soon he becomes part of the family.However, the jealous family cat goes into an elaborate attempt to rub Stuart out.The praiseCute,cozy, breif, amusing, and charming, it has solid human performances by Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie, and Jonathan Lipnicki, it also has expressive voice talent by Nathan Lane and Micheal J. Fox. The special effects of Stuart Little are astounding, and the film has a bright,clean-cut, traditional-modern-domestic look that makes a strong point of spare,stylish art direction. It has some pretty funny moments too. A family film.Note to book lovers It and the classic novel are same in name only, except that they both have a boat race of some sort and a cat. The movie seems to be the best adaption of a White work. Charlottes Web was only moderate, and the upcoming direct to video Trumpet of the swan doesn't look that good. "},{"Title":"Surely the cutest movie ever made!","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one of those movies where you only really appreciate how difficult it must have been to make after it's finished and your reflecting on it. While watching the movie you just can't help but believe it's all real, it looks that good!The behaviour of the cats all appear to reflect the dialog they're supposed to be saying. Is this a case of excellent training of real cats or CGI? Or both? It's getting to the stage where you just can't tell anymore!As for Stuart himself, the animation is simply outstanding. His expressions - matched to a faultless vocal performance by Fox - generate genuine emotion and really make the film a magical experience. "},{"Title":"I want a Stuart Little...","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  OK, bit of an odd one this, Stuart little isn't particularly funny (it IS funny, just not enough to be a straight comedy), it isn't particularly exciting and it isn't really subtle enough to be as adult oriented in the same way as Toy Story 2 or A Bugs Life.  BUT, there is something extremely, hugely likeable about it.Its refreshingly old fashioned in that it is a really nice, happy, pure family film.  I went to see it with two of my friends, all of us around the ages of 20 and 21 and we all thoroughly enjoyed it.It has a few cracking one-liners and a few nice action set pieces but it scores by just being a really watchable, likeable, lovable film.  A real one to take your entire family to...But still, no TS2 . . . . . . . . . . 7/10  "},{"Title":"Cute but funny","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is really a good kids movie with much to please and hold attention.Stuart is so cute you could eat him and the Little family are so cute they could make you ill. Michael J. Fox is just right as the voice of Stuart and Nathan Lane is great as the cat. Manhattan appears as an odd cartoon-like landscape. Will probably be a bigger hit on video. 7/10    "},{"Title":"A delight from start to finish","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't know what gripes anybody might have had with this lovely film, but don't listen to them, just believe ME, this movie has the most engaging characters and is a joy for everyone at any age. You'll leave the movie wishing you had a Stuart Little of your own. "},{"Title":"the most charming film i have seen in ages","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  stuart little is almost perfect family entertainment. michael j fox is perfect for stuart and johnathan lipsniki is nearly as cool as he was in jerry maguire. the parents are a bit too sweet but the cat snowbell makes up for this. he is nasty and cruel and the gangster cats are hilarious but menacing. the special effects are amazing. i think stuart little 2 will kick ass. "},{"Title":"A cute family movie. Good for kids and adults alike.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A cute family movie.  Good for kids and adults alike.  I actually like the parts with the cats in them better than the others.  The felines steal the show.  Being a cat owner, I thought they did real well having them act like cats do. A very entertaining movie, though they don't get the mouse in the end!  E) "},{"Title":"A Cute Kiddy (Not Kitty) Film","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I just browsed the message board for this film and couldn't believe all the negative responses.  It's a kid's film, nothing more, or less.  As for it being worse than The Blair Witch Project at least Stuart Little had a mouse in it!  Where in the entire Blair Witch was there a witch? (Ok, there could be an case made for the female lead, but I was referring to a supernatural witch).  The special effects were really good and Michael J. Fox was the perfect choice for the voice of Stuart. Nathan Lane (as usual) turned in a wonderful performance as the cat.  As a matter of record, my cat was not offended.  I think he slept through most of it.  Bottom line, for a good film for the kids to see, check out Stuart Little.    "},{"Title":"Great fantasy story","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Stuart Little is a wonderful movie for children of all ages.  My sister took my seven year old to see it, he thought it was great.  My two year old even sat and watched it on video.  It is a great fantasy story for all children. "}{"Title":"Fine Little Film","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I got this off Pay per view for my 6-yr-old and found myself watching it with her over and over. To echo some of the other comments, a refreshing little children's film. I was really impressed by the sets and how they gave a sort of Sunday morning comics feel to the whole film. If you liked Homeward Bound, you'll probably like this. If not, watch something else.  "},{"Title":"Very sweet, although not up to Classic Disney standards.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Columbia / TriStar are going to have to go some to create childrens / Family theater.  The language keeps my four and five year olds from seeing this.  Too bad.  It was a  cute little film and a bit too young for children ten and older.  The cast was very good and worked well together.  Fox and Lane are always a treat.Grade B "},{"Title":"my thoughts on stuart little","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What a great movie!Myself and my 4 kids have watched it again and again.Magical is the word i would use to describe this film.The whole feel of the movie is fairytale like and even though you get to see the trickery at the end of the film(on dvd anyway)you still cant help thinking that stuart is real. "},{"Title":"Not Quite","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What a disappointment.  Despite the amazing computer animation, the film falls flat.  Too scary for tots, too silly for adults. it doesn't seem to be aimed at any audience.  If Nathan Lane (the cat) eats Michael J. Fox (the mouse), maybe they'll have an interesting sequel. "},{"Title":"A great Kid's movie","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is great movie for kids to watch, it teaches them that the differences between people are not important, and that it truly is what's inside that counts.  It is hard in this day and age to find movies for kids that have morals,like this movie does and still have comedy to keep the kids entertained. "},{"Title":"A Little creepy","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  First of all, I laughed a lot during this movie.  The portrayal of the cats is dead on, and this comes from a multiple cat owner.  The special effects are fun, but all the human cast (especially the extended Little family), were terribly wasted.  I did think there was an underlying feeling of creepiness that the film could not shake.  The fantasy world the Littles lived in was not whimsical, it was frightening.  I give this a 7. "},{"Title":"for undiscriminating toddlers","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My almost-three year old loves this movie and watches it repeatedly.  After all, there's a cuddly mouse doing people things, there's cats, and about half the movie consists of chases of one sort or another.There's also a lot of seamless and convincing animation (except for the talking mouths on the cats, which looks goofy).Any fans of E.B. White's book Stuart Little will be wise to avoid the movie, as they have nothing in common except the existence of a mouse-sized boy. It's as if the Hollywood folks made the movie first, and then decided to put a famous name on it, without any care as to the actual words in the book. It's too bad.The movie's plot is mostly fine for kids, who haven't learned to watch critically yet or expect self-consistency, coherence, or variation from standard hackneyed scenes and themes.  Adults will find fuzzy wuzzy cuteness, mainly, and be massively unsurprised by any of the plot twists.If you must view it, Rent - don't buy it.  If you have an almost-three year old, be especially careful not to buy it, or you will be forcibly exposed to it time and again.  At least rentals have a due date and an excuse to return the tape to the store. "},{"Title":"Light Fare for a relaxing Saturday Evening!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Was not sure if I would enjoy it, but it played out really well. The animation was excellent. The premise for the movie might be a little far out for some people but it's just light entertainment and if that's not your cup of tea, just rent something else.  I for one enjoyed the 80 + minutes of this film, and I'm over 60.  If you have kids and they haven't seen it, rent it and enjoy it together.  Some of the scenes might scare the wee children, but the were family message is upbeat! "},{"Title":"Cute mouse, so very cliched plot","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The only reason that I saw this movie is that the mouse is very cute. But the voice is awful. Why didn't they use a child's voice instead of Micheal J. Fox's? The tiny creature talks deeper than the kid in the family. There was nothing very special, it's much like an old children's movie renewed with a mouse added to it. The boat race was the only bit interesting, but others...did not live up to my expectations. Looks like the 12 year old beside me didn't like it too much ,neither. Ah well, may be it's just because I'm too old for the kiddie's stuff.  "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I went to see this film with my wife, because we were attracted by a cute little mouse, but we were disappointed. The film was mainly about family drama, the boy disliked his new brother Stuart, the cat disliked Stuart, Stuart didn't like his new parents and wanted back to his own parents. The plot was very poor and foreseeable (e.g. only after winning a sailboat race suddenly the family was friends.) The animation of the mouse's face was bad. It could smile only (sorry, my English is too bad for this.) We disliked or even didn't notice the all too subtle humor. We expected a mouse to bring life in a boring family. But instead, the mouse was depressive itself most of the time.This film was a sad experience and a story about how desperate family life can be. "}{"Title":"So cute I wanted to barf (slight spoiler)","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was never interested in seeing this movie, but my brother happened to rent it based on someone's recommendation so I figured, what the hey, at least I'm not paying for it.  That's one of the few saving graces of my watching this film.  It was worse than even I expected and I tried very hard to watch this with an open mind.  First of all, the sappy dialogue I just could not believe the dead seriousness in which it was delivered or the sugary violins surging in the background.  My brother forwarded liberally through parts like these (and there are a lot of them) and instead of objecting, as I would usually do, I secretly thanked him.  One might think you can't judge a film if you miss parts of it but I just couldn't bear watching scenes like this.  The scenes between the father (played by Hugh Laurie) and the son (played by an inanimate wooden puppet...I mean that kid from Jerry McGuire) were the worst.  I half-expected someone to say `Where's the Beav?'.  My dark fantasy for this movie was to have Rowan Atkinson playing his character from Black Adder enter the movie and rip Hugh Laurie to shreds.  Then there's Stuart himself.  He seemed to me more cutesy than cute (i.e. the filmmakers were practically banging me over the head with his cuteness).Anyway, back to the movie itself.  The one other saving grace of this movie, may have been the cats who managed to elicit a few chuckles (though not hearty guffaws).  Plus I just like cats, even though in SL they were portrayed as toned-down gangsters (villains, again while the mice, which in reality spread filth and disease and leave little turds all over the foodstuffs, are the good guys - oh well, at least one of the cats redeemed himself) and had that silly computer animation messing up their faces.  The little fat mouse (voiced by Bruno Kirby who sounds an awful lot like Joe Pesci) was somewhat amusing as well.  Oh yeah, the effects were OK, too.Other than that, this movie eats.  To use the cat Snowbell's words `Excuse me while I cough up a hairball.'  I don't mean to rain on anyone's parade but I just found this an insipid, cloying mess.  I just couldn't get into it at all.  I know this was made as a family film and, thus, was probably not made with someone like me in mind.  But considering that the Toy Story movies were also family films and that I absolutely loved those, what really is Stuart Little's excuse? "},{"Title":"A credit to live film animation","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Considering myself too grown up to face the terrifying throes of cartoon animation at age fourteen, I found myself mortified and aghast at the possibility of being reminded of the painful movie excursion to see Pokemon so soon, even if the little critter looked cute in the preview trailer.Later I was reminded by the meaning of unwanted neck pains as a result of choosing a deliberately badly positioned seat in the theatre in order to see as little of the picture as possible.Michael J. Fox performs a beautiful voice over characterisation of the witty, amusing Stuart, as does Nathan Lane as the non-scary cat villain, Snowbell. The best thing about the actual actors is that they are at least doing their best not to be obvious as second features of interest, and aren't too bad in the process. After all, it is hard to blame Stuart for stealing his own show.One of the most interesting non-screen elements I found interesting was the fact that M. Night Shyamalan was the author of the amusing and well written screenplay. Having the writer and directorial credit of The Sixth Sense to your name is definitely not too shabby. Although relatively a new comer to mainstream film production, his ability to pen appropriate writings in two far differed genres is evident and I hope he returns to write a sequel to the film should one be produced.      However, I did learn some all important lessons1. Never conclude anything about a film until AFTER seeing it. Unfortunately, I will never be able to have the same optimism for Pokemon.2. Not a good idea to view Stuart with those less than ambitious about mice, in particular those with fears ranging from high to major phobia category. The idea of family bondage with rodents, in particular those with the ability to speak has turned some unsuspecting people I know off anything with mild animation forever.3. Siamese cats are a good complement with pet mice because their daily activities consist solely of dining in style and mass exposure to nature's warm elements.4. Children will always mostly love animation, good or bad. At least this is a more than pleasant example.5. Hollywood can still make a good film without computerising the whole thing entirely.6. No one has to die, be injured or violently advanced upon to produce good, subtle special effects. Despite all skepticism, it is difficult to resist the irresistible, ageless appeal of any film featuring a form of animation. Not everyone is going to be thirsty for this particular cup of tea, but it has a sort of undeniable aroma about it anyway.Perhaps if we wait another sixty years, Stuart Little, mouse extraordinaire, may achieve fame and lasting legacy as great as that of Mickey Mouse. Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Adults can get something out of this film too...","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw Stuart Little a few months ago with my little brother... and he absolutely loved it.  Me? Yeah i like it!  I am 17-year-old guy, and I actually get into a film like this... the animation is excellent, and i enjoyed the whole movie!  The predictable plot (im not blaming it since it's a children's film) is very nicely done... i didn't get bored at all!  It's very cute and sweet, and the humour in the film is very good too... and the whole idea of 'family' is being presented very well!!!There are a few problems - the story got a little lame during the middle of the film, and the sound of the mouse is just not right somehow (i have the same feeling towards Winnie the Pooh... the sound is just too low for a cute character like that) but generally it is very well done...  Trust me, adults can get something out of this film as well.  Get the video when it comes out! )Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie...","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Great movie to be enjoyed by all members of your  family..it has character and meaning and fun all  rolled up in one cute film. Michael J. Fox  is...Stuart Little see this movie with your cute  button turned on.  "},{"Title":"Wish I was a kid again...","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Now, whoever's going on about untrue to the EB White story this is or about traumatising kids, shame on you! Let's just remember one thing it is a kid's movie. It is meant to please those with a mental capacity of anyone from 5 to 8 years old... you know, those who don't know or even care about how plausible a human family adopting a mouse is or how faithful to the original it is.Stuart Little is a wonderful movie about a little mouse who's adopted by a human family. I had a great time, and I'm pretty sure that everyone in the cinema with me did too. The special effects are wonderful and the humour actually humour! You know, not the dirty kind that makes a few people laugh but everyone else uncomfortable? I was at least able to kick back for an hour or so and just remember what it was like to be a kid again, where being entertained and fascinated is just so easy. Wish I was a kid again! "},{"Title":"A delightful, engaging story","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Although this movie bears little (no pun intended) resemblance to the book on which is was based, it is a quite thoroughly entertaining adventure and enjoyable story.  Jonathan Lipnicki is delightful as Stuart's brother George, and both are sure to win your heart.  The credits are reminiscent of Antz, with a little extra scene of an interchange between George and Stuart that alone is worth the price of admission.  Go see it! "},{"Title":"It is like A=B, B=C, then C=A? I had to think about this equation during the movie.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Having a mouse as a little brother? Gee, I wish I had one like the little Stuart because I wouldn't mind having the monkey from Citizen X.      But in this movie, it is a huge risk for the mouse and human. As mush human qualities the little Stuart has, it is a greater disadvantage for him because people can't accept the mouse as one of their being. It is like rich snob have hard time to make friends with people in low class. So the differnces can make you become very emotional. But this difference won't be long because the efforts each characters bring to the story. Very funny thing is that little Stuart can communicate with human and Cats. The cats can communicate with little Stuart. Then can Cats communicate with human? It is like A=B, B=C, then C=A? I had to think about this equation during the movie.  "},{"Title":"Adorable","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I love this movie. It's so entertaining. And I love that cute little mouse. I found myself saying aaahhhh... most of the time, watching the scenes. All the actors were great Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie, Jonathan Lipnicki, and of course, Michael J. Fox. Only lending his voice but still, he added the life of this movie. And of course...the cats!!! "},{"Title":"Mice can be Men too...","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Stuart Little is so human-like that you'd think he's a young boy trapped in a mouse's body.  Even during the first time Mr. and Mrs. Little meet him you'd think they were talking to just another one of the boys.The vocal characterizations and animations of the animals here are very good, even better than the talking pig films ('Gordy' and the 2 'Babes'...)  You could say they developed MORE characters using LESS species.  Definitely recommended family entertainment... "},{"Title":"Nice frame...lousy picture.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If not for the overwhelmingly great special effects (undoubtedly the best put forth in a film of this genre to date) this movie would have died a quick death. The best actors in this flick were the ones you never see ie. the voices. MJ Fox, Nathan Lane, Chaz Palminteri, Bruno Kirby...ALL did a great job. The ones you DO get see are...well....lame. The Littles were the most unbelievable couple ever. I know this was a fantasy and all that but they could have at least acknowledge Stuart was a mouse from the get-go. Too weird for me. The kids didn't seem to impressed either. When the kids stop talking about the movie before we get 50 yards from the theater I know it was a real tanker. We should have waited for the video. We could NOT buy that just as easily as we could have skipped this lame-o flick. "}{"Title":"This was one of the worst films ever made.","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I didn't like the movie Stuart Little. I have to admit, the mouse was awfully cute, but the storyline of the movie was completely different from the storyline of the book. First of all, in the book, the humans didn't talk to Stuart Little or adopt him from an adoption agency. The movie totally skips over the part about the bird that is a major part in the book Stuart Little. Too many movies today completely miss the point that the book they are made from is trying to express. That is my opinion of the movie Stuart Little.  "},{"Title":"surprisingly awful","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I guess I expected at least an average-ly interesting children's film.  I was surprised at how abysmal it was--I couldn't tell if it was meant to be a spoof, given the portrayal of the parents who were firmer with their cat than with their sullen son.  It made no sense why that son found Stuart so undesirable as a brother, as the mouse was quite cute.  The parents were silly, impotent fools...was that part of the humor?     The best part, perhaps, was Michael J. Fox's voice as Stuart...but be warned  my own children found the film as dully annoying as I did.   "},{"Title":"surprisingly awful","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I guess I expected at least an average-ly interesting children's film.  I was surprised at how abysmal it was--I couldn't tell if it was meant to be a spoof, given the portrayal of the parents who were firmer with their cat than with their sullen son.  It made no sense why that son found Stuart so undesirable as a brother, as the mouse was quite cute.  The parents were silly, impotent fools...was that part of the humor?     The best part, perhaps, was Michael J. Fox's voice as Stuart...but be warned  my own children found the film as dully annoying as I did.   "},{"Title":"Stuart Huge!","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is the first kids movie that I've seen since I was a kid so I didn't have big expectations for it but it was surprisingly good. I thought it was gonna be another Baby Genius type of movie but it had a good plot and some cool cats. A lot of things are far fetched but when you're a kid I guess ignorance is bliss so that can be overlooked. It was interesting to have Geena Davis in it. She's been out of the spotlight lately and this is not the way to get back in to it but she was pretty good in this. This was just a solid, entertaining movie, sure shows Van Damme a thing or two. "},{"Title":"My son and I","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  For what ever reason, I did go to this movie with my son that I would not have gone to on any other day. As the first scene started, I saw my son sitting there smiling with a soda in one hand and popcorn in the other. Watching him enjoy himself put me in the mood to relax and enjoy the movie. I did. Thats when the magic started.Stuart Little was, for a lack of words, wonderful! My son and myself laughed and cried together. The special effects had to be the best ever to date. That little mouse was not an effect he was REAL!The story about family was deep and heart felt. Never take your family for granted. Both my son and myself left hand in hand.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I would like to see more of these types of movies shown. It is always nice for a movie to be shown that children are able to view.  As an adult, I found the movie clean, very entertaining and enjoyed it thoroughly. "},{"Title":"Another Great Family Movie","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What a good year for family movies! The Iron Giant, Toy Story 2, and now Stuart Little. It's great to be able to safely take your children to the movie theater and see an entertaining, positive movie. I must admit, I was a little skeptical at first because I am not a Michael J. Fox fan (he is the voice for Stuart the mouse). But an interesting plot, solid acting, believable action sequences coupled with fantastic special effects make this a movie we will have to own when it comes out on video. But don't miss it on the big screen! Your kids will appreciate it! "},{"Title":"It's not Stuart Little","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  OPEN LETTER TO HOLLYWOODDear Hollywood A children's story is a children's story. A movie is a movie. Never, it seems, shall the twain meet.Case in point Stuart Little, a simply delightful fantasy originally written by E. B. White, author of Charlotte's Web. The film you have recently released tells a totally different story, one that is much more pedestrian and much less magical.Fantasy, I have noticed, is not something Hollywood does well unless it is of the futuristic Star Wars type, and I submit that even the quality of that is in question. Fantasy and science fiction are not synonymous.Fantasy requires that you trust your audience's willingness to suspend disbelief and go along with it. Trying to push fantasy around to make it sound plausible strips it of its charm and makes it into something else entirely.What, to get specific, is the point in changing Stuart from a natural son to an orphan? Okay, women do not as a matter of course give birth to mice. But neither do they adopt rodents as sons.The original Stuart is quite an enterprising little mouse who goes out and has his own adventures. Your Stuart is a poor-me substitute who just wants to be loved, and ends up inspiring more pity than admiration.You have added characters not in the story---notably the three evil alley cats---who, I admit, are far and away the most interesting characters in the film, but who do not come from the story.The Littles themselves, in fact, are so different as to be nearly unrecognizable. Your Mr. and Mrs. Little (Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie) are cloying and cutesy enough to set my teeth on edge. The originals are just plain old parents, and in fact are rather minor characters at that.I will grant that the film has some wonderful animation---Stuart and the cats are particularly wonderful. And those alley cats (voiced by Nathan Lane, Chazz Palminteri, and Steve Zahn) have all the best lines.The film is nice enough, as nice goes. But it isn't Stuart Little. I would hate to know that this was any child's first encounter with Stuart.How about calling it There's a Mouse in My Bed?Sincerely, A Stuart Little fan  "},{"Title":"Cute/Funny/Sweet/BUT...........","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Key Words  Cute / Funny / Sweet / But....Hollywood thinks we would not go to see G movies (too goodie, goodie) so they have to throw in some profanity, a bit of skin, or something to earn a PG rating.  Too bad - for many parents want a G movie for their children with none of those things.  This movie has a few unnecessary curse words and thus was granted its PG rating.  Does Hollywood realize that as a PG hardly any schools in the USA will be permitted to show the movie to their classes????CAUTION  The subject of adoption is mishandled!  Your small adopted child will likely worry about two things after the movie(1) Your adopted parents only keep you until your real parents come along and want to take you away - and you must go even if you do not want to leave your adopted parents.(2) Adoptions of children who are different (race, size, specie, etc.) causes problems and may not work out (as told by the adoption lady to the family) - although there is a happy ending.The fantastic book by E.B.White does not deal with adoption - Stuart is just a regular member of his human family, regardless of the fact that he looks like (is ?) a mouse, which makes for a better fairy tale.The CATS  The cats make for the best part of this movie.  We cat lovers know how each cat is an individual with some sort of attitude or other.  The best lines and the biggest laughs were reserved for the cats - as it should be!SO  Take the kids.  Enjoy the tale.  And talk about what it all means with them after the movie. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully fuj film that pulls at emotions that everyone will understand.","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Having children of my own, I get the excuse to see all of the films directed towards kids. Stuart Little is definitely one of the most enjoyable that has come along in several years. The movie is well casted and wonderfully portrayed. Anyone that sees it will come away with a great feeling inside. "}{"Title":"Cute Film but caution taking small children","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was anxiously awaiting taking my 2 1/2 year old who has just discovered movies to this film.  He did get a little bored in the middle, which I did expect.  My biggest complaint -- this was a cute movie that I felt was geared toward young children that contained cursing!  Call me a prude or locked in a bottle, but I felt that this was totally unnecessary to the plot.  I understand that they were uttered by the mob cat but in a child's film it was not needed to make the cat a bad cat.  I went into the movie assuming it was rated G and so was especially shocked.  Afterwards I did see that it was PG but had it not been for the 5 curse words, it would have been G.  Hollywood please take note--we do not need this filth in what seems to be a fairy tale.  My child will hear these words soon enough without you sneaking it into his entertainment. "},{"Title":"Adoption is treated inappropriately - parents beware!","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'll dispense with comments on the general qualities of the movie,  since there are plenty of reviews that address these already.  What I would like to address is the treatment of adoption in the movie.Once again, the mindless of Hollywood treat adoption as a not real and impermanent institution.  Adopted children who watch this movie may be uncomfortable with the treatment of this issue.For those who haven't seen it, below is a spoiler about an early plot device.SPOILERStuart Little is a mouse adopted by human parents.  At one point, two mice purporting to be his real parents (read biological) show up on the doorstep.  His adoptive parents, thinking of his best interest just hand Stuart over to these two strangers, despite his protests.  What kind of message does this send to adopted children?  That their parents are just temporary custodians until the real deal shows up to snatch them away?  That the best thing for children is to be with their biological families?  Is that really a message that reflects the REALITY of adoption? The creators of Stuart Little dropped the ball big time with this issue.  When will Hollywood get it right?    "},{"Title":"Good, with a couple of glitches","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I enjoyed watching Stuart Little, but there were a couple of glitches. One, no one seemed to care or think something was up, when a mouse talked-??? But who really cares. The plot was good, and I was pleased with all the performances' especially Michael J. Fox as the voice of Stuart. This is a cute movie, and recommend to see with your family, especially if you have little kids, but you can go no matter who you are, so if you're in for a cute movie, go see this. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic show, but is it for all age groups?","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Fantastic show! Geena Davis did a great job of acting and the computer work was the best ever! My only problem with this movie was the use on several ocassions of two foul words that could have been left out and this movie made many 6-7 year old boys and girls cry during the major plot of the movie. My boy cried and he is not the sentimental type. Personally I suggest parents to think about this situation when taking younger children to see this family show. "},{"Title":"fun movie for kids","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A fun movie for kids, with some real adult laughs.I would have liked more of the out-takes played during the credits incorporated as part of the story, ie, more of  the fun interactions between Stuart and George, rather than the cats chase mouse scenes through Central Park, etc. "},{"Title":"A sweet, wonderful movie!","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  One of the most wonderful things is going to a movie and finding it much better than you expected! This was the case with Stuart Little.I went to see Stuart Little, expecting an average, childish movie, with some of the usual too-adult humor typical of many children's movies these day. I was very pleasantly surprised! Stuart Little was sweet, funny while staying clean, with an interesting plot. The acting was spectacular, and Michael J. Fox's voice was perfect for the part of Stuart.My entire family enjoyed it - the afternoon was a very rewarding experience. Everyone should see this movie, especially if you liked Babe. "},{"Title":"Both Cute and Fun","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The animation work in this deserves an academy award. Stewart is about as lifelike as one could possibly hope for, and he's wonderful.Michael J. Fox does the voice of Stewart, and Nathan Lane is simiply wonderful as the voice of Snowbell (Stewart's pet cat).The film is hammy and pretty predictable, and is still great. Fun for kids from 1 to 92. "},{"Title":"Film keeps the magic of the books","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My wife or I read for an hour every evening with each of our six kids, until they were twelve or so. Stuart Little was one of the characters we got to know and love. We found this film charming and entertaining, and were impressed that its creators were able to preserve the basic premise of the books People seem to easily accept, and sometimes even overlook, the fact that Stuart is a mouse who talks and wears clothing.We found the character development good (one rarely sees three dimensional personalities in this genre) and the human performers quite credible. Gena Davis, in particular, seemed to be enjoying herself. We are past being impressed by special effects, but there was a reasonable story to carry the film. Recommended for children four to eighty-four. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but it was short","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a great movie, but I thought it was too short. But anyways, I still think you should go see it because Stuart is really cute! I think it's a very hilarious movie, but some parts are of it are sad and depressing. I hope that they make another movie about Stuart Little. "},{"Title":"I liked the film...funny, cute and so close to a 'G' flick!","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I did enjoy this movie because it was a good story with lots of humor.  I loved Stuart's animation, nearly as good as the toy story work.  The cats were very funny, especially Stephen Zahn's voice work (Im guessing he'll get lots more now).I was disappointed in two things a) why the swears?  There's only two , both done by Nathan Lane's character, but why?  It could have easily been a G without those D**ms.  Not a big issue, but they weren't needed and 2) the story has nothing from the book.  It's totally different. Only one scene is even remotely close to the book.  Despite being so vastly different, it's still a good story with some funny characters.   "}{"Title":"Great Funny Movie!","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I loved this film and I'm also a cat lover as well it was an adobale film, and the voices for stuart was perfect -of course it was Micheal J fox who has also been the voice in another wonderfull movie as well Homewood Bound I and 2 in that movie he (or his voice) was the dog named Chance stuart little was a wonderful movie -some good laughs but I'm also glad the cats really didnt get hurt wet yes, hurt no. "},{"Title":"Very predictable","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is sooo predictable. There are two basic plot lines The adoption of Stuart (and fitting into the Little family) and the cat's plans to get him out of the family. The visual effects were good - maybe a bit too clinical. But sorry, it did not make the movie any greater success.If you want to watch a good, clean movie with your kids, this is the one. "},{"Title":"Great film!!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film was just terrific!! I went in to it wanting a very light movie, and I was not disappointed! If you have ever owned a cat you will wind up hurting yourself with laughter! The whole movie was sweet without being sachharin, and adults will get just as much of a kick out of it as kids... Go see this film, have fun, and don't expect anything serious... -) "},{"Title":"A sweet fantasy.","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Both my grandsons (ages 4 & 7) gave this movie a 2 thumbs up.  The film has a storybook quality to it a la Babe, but lacks the depth of its predecessor. It is, however, miles above last year's mouse movie Mousehunt.Stuart Little came from the same director as The Lion King, which is destined to be a classic.  Although I thought this was a pleasant film, it didn't really capture the imagination, so I rated it a 6.  "},{"Title":"Cross-species adoptions?  Hmmm.","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"      We do not encourage cross-species adoptions, says the orphanage lady as the Littles plead to adopt a mouse.   Yes, there will be adjustment difficulties for both child & family, & yes, some nervousness as to how the relatives will react.   And how awkward when the natural parents show up, wanting their child back, & take him to deprived environment complete w/ bedbugs.   Where is Bob Green when we need him?      Nevertheless, the message is, it will all work out, given enough good will on everybody's part.  Interestingly, in E.B. White's novel, Stuart is the NATURAL son of the Littles; how Mrs. L. gave birth to this freak is never explained, and these circumstances caused some librarians to boycott the book.    White's Stuart feels much less loyalty to his family than the movie's Stuart does.  In fact, White's Stuart is out of the nest in rather short order--seeking his destiny in the person of an elusive bird (how's that for cross-species attraction?).       I wonder how White would feel about his novel's being made into a parable on the subject of inter-racial adoption?   One more point As in the novel, the Littles are white people, their cat is white, & Stuart is a WHITE mouse--with brown eyes--an unusual if not impossible combination.  But a truly albino, pink-eyed mouse might not project the same loveability, nor would, presumably, a brown mouse?  Hmmm.  "},{"Title":"Adorable Light-Hearted Tail","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film. Be sure to take your child to see it. It is very cleverly put together--lightly touching on various issues concerning adoption. You are drawn into the story feeling thoroughly concerned for the adorable Stuart. The other characters including the cats are hilarious!!! Adults as well as children will be impressed by the story, the special effects and the characters! "},{"Title":"Back! Bigger! and Better! and Really Really Exciting!","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It would have been a far better movie as Eddie the Mouse. Or any new title of it's own, with it's own story to support whatever creative drive voted it out of committee. It was a nice movie, and extremely pretty, and good special effects, and enough new twists on more fart jokes and I had any hopes to expect.  But it was constantly reminding you that it didn't trust the magic of the book. Everything had to be Bigger, More Relevant, More Dramatic. It couldn't remain a simple and unexplained fact that Stuart, who looked a lot like a mouse, but who was in fact Stuart, was an unusual-looking boy born to the Littles. In an attempt at Greater Relevance, the rewriters decided that it needed to wink at racial issues, be coy with inter-species adoptions, and just generally try to take something fine as it was, and Update. It ended up with all the charm of a really snazzy Vegas lounge version of something from Rubber Soul. On the other hand, it featured Nathan Lane continuing the exploration of his relationship to the world of mice, and any show that he's in is well worth the visit.  "},{"Title":"New Children's Classic","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you liked Babe, you will love Stuart Little.  It is funny, witty, and totally entertaining even for adults. Especially for adults might fit too. I took my 11 year old daughter, and she thought it was great.  Each of the critters takes on their very own unique personality-very believable. The voices fit to a T.  This is one very cuuuute movie that I'm sure will be a classic. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Stuart Little was really funny!   The acting is a little bit overdone, but it works fine in this movie which is obviously light hearted.  And the special effects are really good, too.  Never once does Stuart look like a piece of computer animation walking through the film (unlike effects in that silly Star Wars movie of recent vintage). The cats are the funniest things in the movie.  I laughed constantly. I don't know why they had to use curse words, but that just made them funnier.  Incidentally, parents, this movie is really really clean.  There are a few minor swear words by those cats, but that's the only objectionable thing in the whole film. I'm impressed!  Stuart Little is a creative movie with good fx, simple but original plot, good strong family values (unusual, huh?), and it's really funny!  Wow!  "},{"Title":"Great message and incredible effects","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  An adorable movie with a great message about families and acceptance.  All the actors are perfectly cast, especially Michael J. Fox as the voice of Stuart.  The blending of the computer animated Stuart with the live actors was seamless and amazing.   Truly a marvel!  A must-see for all ages. "}{"Title":"A little mouse, a lotta charm!","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a must see for the young at heart. Our boys, age 9 and 7, really enjoyed it (for different reasons than my wife and I did). It's another amazing example of CG animation - and good story telling, too. I hope Hollywood decides to do more clean fun movies like this without the gratuitous violence and/or foul language. Really suspends reality a la Babe A Pig In The City. Oh, and the voice characterization (especially Michael J. Fox as Stuart) was fun and believable. You gotta love it! "},{"Title":"glad to review this","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a precious movie in a world of monsters and mayhem...Old fashioned fun meets with nice animation in this film about an upper class family who choose to add an orphan to their home.. For cat lovers this is especially entertaining...My 5 1/2 year old loved the antics of the cat and mouse relationship...The credits also hold some of the funniest little scenes if you can hold your children to watch... "},{"Title":"Stuart good for the little ones","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a fine movie to bring the little (pun intended) ones to.  Parents should find nothing offensive or overly frightful in this good adaptation of E. B. White's children's novel.  It presents some good traditional lessons like, winning isn't everything, it's how you play the game, and some new ones (that even some adults need to learn) like, you can't hold others responsible when things don't go your way. The kiddies should be fascinated by the excellent blend of CGI and live-action.  Particularly noteworthy is the scene with the alley cats in the tree hunting down Stuart.  There's some fine detail to watch for throughout.  You actually start to believe these animals can talk and show emotion just like humans!  Unfortunately, great special effects do not a great movie make, and parents might find this one a sacrafice for the sake of their children to get through.  My recommendation to survive all the silly, sugar-coated, overwrought goodie-goodie dialogue and scenery is to see it as a kind of dark humor, especially in the performances of Geena Davis and Hugh Laurie.  But it is Nathan Lane who steals the show.  His voice-over as Snowbell - the resentful, snide, yet mousey house pet - is delightful.  I can't imagine anyone else other than Lane doing the voice.  So while the kids are enjoying the real show, the adults can have something to snicker at - but turn your head and do it to yourself, after all this one is for the children. "},{"Title":"I did not expect this...","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I did not expect this movie to be this good. The commercials and previews that I saw did not do this movie justice! I took my 4 year old niece to see it, and I think I enjoyed it as much as she did.(and when we left for the theatre I had no interest in seeing it!) She was rooting for Stuart throughout the movie! "},{"Title":"This movie was great.","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  what a great movie for kids and not to mention for the holidays. there was fantastic funny jokes,some good special effects,and some good acting especially Michael J. Fox as the voice of the title character and not to mention the other good voices.  I recommend this movie for people of all ages. "},{"Title":"I am so ashamed!","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I am a 20-year old man who likes all kinds of movies (except westerns and pre-school cartoons). I went to see this film for one single reason the amazing computer animation. I ended up liking it for everything character development, creativity, true feelings and that sticky nice family tenderness. Remember the sadness of Titanic and Simon Birch? Well, I did not cry then, I cried now. The only thing that I am a little dissatisfied is its shortness. Ten more minutes would have just perfect. Go see it, you will love it tremendously! "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, not exactly like the book","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  As a child I loved the book Stuart Little. When the movie came out I was very excited to see it and did so on opening night. I was a little disappointed that the movie did not more closely track the plot of the book. Particularly, I was sad that the bird, Margalo was not included. However, taken for what it was, I thought it was a very cute movie and the special effects were great. I would highly recommend it to anyone who is not upset by movies that are not like the book. There were a lot of very funny cat scenes. "},{"Title":"This is a good film for the family","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I went and saw the movie with my 9 year old boy,  and my parents.  First off my son could not stop talking about the film all day he loved it,  my dad, well I heard him laughing,  and he is tough on movies. Mr. M.J. Fox was great as Stuart, but I think that Nathan Lane as the cat Snow Bell,  was the best.  This is a movie to go to with the kids and family.  All four of us thought what a fun film, for all ages. "},{"Title":"great effects highlight tale of an adopted mouse","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Great special effects and lots of humor, adventure, and charm highlight this fantasy tale of an anthropomorphic mouse who gets adopted by a human family. There are sight gags revolving around the mouse's size, and characters like mobster cats. At first the son of the couple who adopts Stuart is hesitant to accept him as his brother but Stuart does all he can to win the young boy over. Those who enjoy tales of tiny creatures in a big world (see Indian in the Cupboard and The Borrowers) should love this film. "},{"Title":"Short, Sweet and Cute","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't use the word cute much but I must here. This is one cute movie!  I would never have seen this but for some visiting younger relatives but I'm glad we took them. It's pure pleasure for all age groups, with some of the most amazing and seamless talking animal effects ever. It also doesn't hurt that Michael J. Fox does a superb job of bringing the little main character to life. The cats are also an utter riot, with special thumbs up to Chazz Palmentieri as the meanest feline.  STUART LITTLE might not reach the level of cleverness and mine the deeper themes of the TOY STORY movies but so what?  It's a warm and fuzzy movie for the whole family.  "}{"Title":"a perfect first movie for little ones, but . . .","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I took my 3-year-old to see STUART LITTLE as his first movie. I did so, however, with some trepidation. I have such wonderful childhood memories of White's book and Williams' perfect illustrations. My son was enchanted once little Stuart appeared on screen (as was I) and he really liked the cats. He made it through the whole movie which is in itself a tribute to a nicely-made children's movie. As for me, the yuppie/preppie accoutrements of the the movie's Little family did make me a little queasy. Worst of all and not surprisingly, the filmmakers avoided the novel's bittersweet ending. Instead they opted for a simple, warm-and-fuzzy Hollywood ending. Clearly, school-age children need to read the book for a more edifying and emotional experience. For younger kids, STUART LITTLE makes for a fun trip to the movies. "},{"Title":"Sfx marches onward","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Great Sfx make the lead character fully believable. I had a great time at this movie due to being there with my 7 year old daughter who was fully entranced and immersed. I doubt I'd think much of the plot or the experience if I were alone or on a date, but it's fine fare for kids and the parents won't cringe. I actually enjoyed myself. A movie that's safe to see, entertaining for both children and adults - well, what more could a daddy wish for?  "},{"Title":"Annie without Annie...","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cute, yes. Technically good, yes. Funny, sometimes. Emotionally rewarding, quite. But Stuart Little is a dead ringer on a plot level for John Huston's film of Annie. Is this dreadful? Maybe not. But after A Bug's Life outrageously plagiarised Seven Samurai without recognition at credit level (as far as I could see), this seems a disturbing trend that could end with some no hoper stealing Citizen Kane lock stock and barrel and setting it in a TV studio. "},{"Title":"Great movie for children!","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The movie is plain and simple an oldfashion child comedy. The story is also short and simple to follow for the children, and without being to transparent. The characters are vividly described and funny. Fortunately not too complex either, something that helps the children follow the redline from the beginning to the end.  "},{"Title":"the most adorable film ever made!!","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is the cutest film I've ever seen!!  It has good, clean humour that still managed to leave my sides splitting, and is sure to be a hit for all ages.  Michael J. Fox's voice fits the little mouse to the tee.  Jonathon Lipnicki is fabulous, and so is Geena Davis and John Laurie.. Personally, my favourite character in the film, is that cat!  What an attitude!  No matter what age you are, I URGE you...go see this film!!  You'll be REALLY glad u did!! "},{"Title":"Sweet-Natured, Well-Crafted, Municipal Mouse Movie","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Littles, a very nice family, adopt a mouse called Stuart as their son, but he has trouble fitting in because he's not human and the family cat doesn't like him. Things are looking up after Stuart wins a miniature boat race in Central Park, but then the neighbourhood cats hatch a plot to get rid of him ...This is a very charming Little movie, based on a book by E.B. White, with a wonderful subtext about looking beyond differences in each other. The cast, both physical and voice-only, embrace the material with relish. Davis & Laurie make for a wonderful oddball couple, Polito has a hilarious bit as a trenchcoated copper and Palminteri is terrifically sinister as the voice of a tough alleycat. The special effects for Stuart and the cats by John Dykstra are great, as is the score by Alan Silvestri, and the film has a wonderful modern-day fairy-tale look through clever use of design, wardrobe and matte work. My only gripe is, like the Littles, this film is maybe just a bit too nice, (despite being co-scripted by the very spooky M. Night Shyamalan); I would have liked a few less schmaltzy scenes and a few more scary ones. Nevertheless this is a lovely, funny, extremely entertaining adventure for everyone. "},{"Title":"If you like the book, you will probably not like this movie","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I fell in love with this book when I first read it. I read it many more times afterwards. So when this movie came out, I was psyched. Unfortunately for me, this movie is nothing at all like the book. I tried to enjoy it, but I just couldn't because I loved the book so much. Practically the only thing it had in common was the beginning. Everything else was just way too different and bad. The only thing I enjoyed about this movie was Michael J. Fox. He did Stuart's voice exactly as I had imagined it. It's a good movie for kids, but when they get older, have them read the book. It's so much better than this movie.2/10. "},{"Title":"Elwyn Brooks White's posthumous insult.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mr Elwyn Brooks White, essayist, childrens author and all around good guy, would surely be shocked and appalled to see how little of his work is left in the film. It appears as though someone found a copy of the book, jotted down the names of the charecters, and of course the boat race, and burned the rest. I could go on and write a book about how badly the screenwriter butchered E.B.W's manuscript. If you've ever read the book you'll see what i mean. DOESNT ANYONE READ ANYMORE!?!?! I think i like the book better, its more believable, despite the fact that Mrs Little gave birth to Stuart. Its far less nauseatingly sweet and sappy, and theres really more of a story. Its an insult to a great author, and I think its a crying shame. Am I the only one who read the book? Peace. Elwyn Brooks White, 1899-1985 Stuart little written 1945 "},{"Title":"Is this real Marketing movie isn't it?","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Before I saw this one, I could enjoy my time. but I just can waste my time. there are no suprising, no sense of humor, no new tech to watch. So, this movie is for someone who? I guess, Nothing wrong happen is very best thing in their life like people. Weekends Family have to go shopping and give some joy to their kids...requiring PG movie. No harm, No damage, No worrysome.Thank you to Big great present for kids. Not like South Park movie, Just like PTA recommendation put on. But I don't need this. Even if I a little babe, I would say this movie is not fan!. So do I!! "},{"Title":"cute, but can it do any tricks?","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  ok, I watched this film after I slipped down my stairs and I was so injured that I had to lie down and watch some HBO, so this little movie comes on, alrite I got nothing to do ill watch it. It was a cute little movie and if I was fifteen years younger im sure i would've loved it. Not exactly as I remembered the original book, but it was an ok adventure. Only problem being the fact that if the mouse can talk and the humans hear him and the mouse hears the cat talk, how come the humans- forget it. "}{"Title":"The kids enjoyed it and that's all that really mattered.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  E. B White's creative book comes to life thanks to the perfection of modern technology. Cuteness is stamped all over the film, laden with the moral to the story stuff that you would expect from a fairy tale. It's fine when you read it but loses its charm when translated to the screen. The humans are just bearable but thanks to the domestic pets that make it absolute fun. The relationship between the house cat, Snowbell (voiced by Nathan Lane), and the adorable mouse, Stuart Little, (Michael J. Fox), is the amusing part of the film while the humans ham it for that extra bit of silliness.  "},{"Title":"Perfect Example","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Stuart Little gives a very good example for why absolute great and lovely Special Effects alone cannot carry a film. I don't know the original story and don't know how much was left out and what was in it, but I know that the adaption just wasn't interesting or moving enough for me, and I definitely am a sucker for cute and touching children's movies (animation mostly, but this comes close, and I loved Babe). Another point is, movies like that also have to be funny, laugh out loud funny, and Stuart Little just isn't that funny.And why was that troublesome cat so very abruptly oh so very nice? I wanted her to die! I hate cats. -)6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The usual family film","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Indeed, you can hear the phone call between script writer and director Let's make another Disney-like family movie..Hmmm !.. A mouse.. CGI generated of course.. A love needing case...Great !.. OK.. and a gang of backstreet wild cats that talk like gangesters.. A boat race.. you know every family film should have a race..A child and a loving mom and the usual dad..I know.. I know it looks like all other movies but we can't risk the budget. Children will love the  mouse and CGI will fill the gaps in the story.. OK.. great.. let's start the damn thing tomorrow !..bye bye..  "},{"Title":"Harmless and Sweet Fun","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Lighthearted movie about a family adopting a mouse. The pet cat does not like it at all and the son of the family has reservations as well. It was cute and fun and a good family movie. A pure family movie, STUART LITTLE does not delve deep into the moral of the story, which is perfectly fine, but how many times do we have to be reminded that he is a member of the family? Snow bell was an excellent idea, adding that for every hero, there must be a villain. At times, you wonder how this movie can get boring when it is so short! A rental that should not be anymore than that. "},{"Title":"An amazing combination of mediocrity and stupidity","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A nothing story which is supposed to be made cute and wonderful by a mouse being inserted as an adopted child. You would be doing way better by seeing (even again) either of the Toy Story movies, which are very much more entertaining and original. My rating 2. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but very cute","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film.  Its light and fluffy, very predictable, but Stuart is really lovable.  The animation is fantastic, as Stuart appears to be more like a little human than a mouse.  There appear to be many take offs of other films within this film, which is great for those who watch a lot of films and can pick them.  Its one of those kids films which adults can enjoy as well.  The story is actually quite good, with some very funny one liners.  Probably one of the first films where the audience can feel compassion for a mouse. "},{"Title":"A cute little mouse in a not so cute movie!","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A really cute little mouse is adopted (!?) by a family and start anew life with a mother, father and even a little brother. But he finds some perils in his way, especially the jealous Snowbell, the family's cat. Curious premise is developed with some sharpness until the first half hour but the movie goes adrift after, with predictable, sentimental and unfunny situations. The screenplay is signed by M. Night Shmalayan, the director of the blockbuster Sixth Sense. For the kids, a good fun but adults will yawn sometimes. I give this a 5 (five).  "},{"Title":"Nice film, great mouse","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Stuart Little is a mouse, adopted by a family of human beings. Geena Davis is the mother, Hugh Laurie is the father and the son is that nice little guy from Jerry Maguire. He wants a little brother, Stuart is smaller and so he is a Little brother. The family has a cat, Snowbell. He is jealous because in a way he is the house cat of a mouse. Stuart is treated just as a human being, which sometimes is a little strange, but it has its own charm. The little Stuart Little in a big human-sized bed, but his own little sports car driving through Central Park. It doesn't make much sense, but it is nice to watch. The story is pretty predictable, but most family films are.The creation of Stuart is wonderful, he looks great and you start to believe he is a real mouse, adopted by caring parents. The voices are also great. Michael J. Fox as Stuart and Nathan Lane as Snowbell especially are very nice. If you just like a nice film, with a fantastic computer generated mouse and a happy ending, this one will not disappoint you. "},{"Title":"CUTE","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Took my 9 year old niece to this a few days ago.Read the reviews and must admit this little movie was taken a tad *too* seriously. So what if the mouse talks and wears clothes? He gets adopted by humans? He is probably the cutest character I've seen to date, and just look at how well he was animated! His expressions were very human.Story was nothing new, but lots of action to keep the kids interested. For the children at heart The cats. They were kewl! Loved their voices.CONCLUSION? Take the kids to this!  Nice to watch something that isn't loaded with the sex and violence you see in movies these days. "},{"Title":"Skip it, read the book","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cute movie, but they should have made up a new title.  Even my five year-old said it was not at all like the book.  They left out the character of Margalo, the bird, who was a driving force in the book.  There was not a neat happy little ending to the book either.  And Stuart was never adopted. Where did that whole story line come from?  They must have mixed up the pages with the Annie script. "}{"Title":"Watching this film is considered torture in some countries","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ugly little computer generated mouse is orphaned and needs to find a home... so the adoption agency decides it's cute to stick him with a human family. He shacks in with the family as a freak, but then worms his way into their hearts. Isn't that sickening? The usual problems persist Snowbell tries to eat him, alley cats chase him, he's nearly drowned in the washer. Pathetic and weak family comedy wants to drive the viewer into a reverse Marilyn Manson effect. Using moral teachings, lame dialogue, and pitiful writing to imitate what the TELETUBBIES do in an entire season. If you still have an ounce of sanity, I implore you to keep it and don't watch this film!  "},{"Title":"Traumatic misrepresentation of adoption","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Not since the Problem Child movies have I been this angry at a movie's appalling disregard for the adoption process and for adopted children who may go to see it.  In a plot thread which was never present in the E.B. White classic, Stuart is adopted, rather than the biological child of the Littles, and during the course of the movie is taken from the Little home and returned to his real parents.  This plot device can do nothing but traumatize the thousands of adopted children who go to see the movie. The issues of the possible  return of biological parents and of being taken away from adopted parents probably lurk in the minds of most adopted children, and the depiction of it here came like an ambush as the story unfolded.  Shame on the moviemakers for inflicting this on thousands of children in the audience.  And shame on reviewers who do not warn potential viewers of this, as they warn about violence, profanity, or other potentially disturbing aspects of movies. "},{"Title":"fine family fare","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mr. Little (Hugh Laurie) and Mrs. Little (Geena Davis) is looking to adopt for a younger brother for George (Jonathan Lipnicki). When they get to the orphanage, they become enamored with a little white mouse Stuart (Michael J. Fox). The family cat Snowbell (Nathan Lane) is frustrated that he isn't allowed to eat Stuart, and George is unhappy with a mouse as a brother.This is fine lighthearted family movie. The CG mouse fits very well with the live action. It's a nice charming fare, and I love how everybody accepts a talking mouse as an everyday thing. It gives it a whimsical feel. I love that Snowbell is more scared from being laughed at by fellow cats and not so much making Stuart as a simple meal.And there is a deeper message about adoption if you want to take it that far. And I love the affection George and Stuart grow to have. It is a great entertaining children's movie. "},{"Title":"Mediocre!","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Stuart Little is just a mediocre movie about a mouse based on the beloved classic novel written by E.B White. I seen this film about four times over the past ten years but my views on it didn't change. I don't think this movie does the book justice. There were some great moments but the rest were just plain mediocre.This movie plot is simple. It's about a family with a young son who decides to adopt a pet mouse.The acting is okay. Hugh Laurie impressed me like he always does especially in his role on House. Michael J. Fox did a decent voice over as Stuart.I think little kids will like this the most. I'm not so sure about adults. I rate this film 6/10. "},{"Title":"A heartwarming film for young children","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film is about the Little family adopting a mouse as their son, with a big adventure ahead of them.I have always found having a mouse in the family a bit strange, but Stuart Little seems to work. It's aimed at young children, so the plot is always squeaky clean and at times implausible. The plot is well paced, and I liked the way George and Stuart breaks the ice. In addition, I liked the loving message it sends about how family members are there for each other. It's so sweet and heartwarming.Stuart Little is a good family film, young children will enjoy this a lot. "},{"Title":"Just not normal is it?","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" At least the under ten year old set will stay interested. Eleanor(Geena Davis)and Fred(Hugh Laurie)Little, a nice well-to-do couple set out to bring home from the orphanage a new little brother for their son George(Johnathan Lipnicki). They come home with quite the odd new sibling...a sharp dressed little mouse named Stuart(voiced by Michael J. Fox). Yes, mouse. Stuart is happy to have found the sense of belonging even if it is in a super sized world that contains his new family's pet cat Snowbell(voiced by Nathan Lane). Stuart embarks on the experience of family loyalty and overall friendship. George will finally accept his tiny new brother when the dapper dressed Stuart saves embarrassment at a model boat race.Also in the cast Julia Sweeney, Harold Gould, Estelle Getty and Jeffery Jones. And the voices of Chaz Palminteri, Bruno Kirby and Jennifer Tilly. "},{"Title":"Worst movie adaptation of a book ever","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" They should have called this movie Adopted Mouse Brother That is Slightly Inspired by Someone's Vague Recollection of Stuart Little Who Just Kind of Skimmed the Book a Little, But Mostly Just Remembered the Cover If it wasn't so misleading I'd give it a better review.But seriously people, do your kids a favor and have them read the book. They might actually learn something instead of having their mind numbed by what we all know as Hollywood film.The book Stuart little isn't about a mouse, it's about a person who happens to be very small and mouse-like. He's born to his parents, not adopted. The book is about his life and his eventual departure from home and the journey he embarks on. There is a cat named Snowball who thinks he's food and wants to eat him, but Snowball can't talk. In the movie they screw all of that up. I think the only things that they kept from the book were the boat race and the names. "},{"Title":"Stuart Little is a great children's movie; isn't the whole point of a kids' movie that they enjoy it and have fun watching it?  I thought so. . .","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Stuart Little is a wonderful movie for children to watch. It inspires children to use their imaginations. It is fun for them to watch and keeps them interested from beginning to end. The main reason for making a children's movie is the enjoyment the kids will get from watching it, right? Well, I say, Job well done! My 2 1/2 year old granddaughter absolutely loves it. We have watched it probably 50+ times, and she never gets tired of it. She always laughs at the funny parts --- she absolutely adores Stuart Little! I think you people should be a little less critical and try to be more open-minded. Don't you have children? If you do, give it a try. This movie is a winner --- two thumbs up! Thank you. "},{"Title":"Big fun for the little ones, less so for grown ups - 63%","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There seems to be an unwritten rule in Hollywood that any film with a talking animal in it must be solely aimed at kids. You can understand the thinking &#x96; before CG made it possible for everyone to do, Disney seemed to have a policy of making every movie with talking animals, from Cinderella to The Lion King. And while the techniques may have changed, the formula remains the same with kiddie-friendly entertainment wrapped around a sugary sweet moral tale. In that respect, Stuart Little is the classic children's film given a fresh lick of paint but if you do the basics right, classic can still work.Geena Davis and Hugh Laurie play the Littles, a successful family living in a small old-fashioned terrace house in New York with their young son George (Jonathan Lipnicki) and their cat Snowbell (voiced by Nathan Lane). When the Littles decide to adopt a brother for George, they come back with an adorable mouse named Stuart (voiced by Michael J Fox). But neither George nor Snowbell initially take to Stuart's arrival and before long, Snowbell begins to form a plan to make sure Stuart's stay with the Littles is a brief one.I can't fault the technical aspect of Stuart Little as the little blighter looks fantastic. And like most kids films, everything is bright and colourful from set design to costumes. Performances from the three leads are also good with Laurie's American accent frighteningly realistic. But while the film is perfectly harmless fun for the little ones, I'm afraid that there isn't much there for the grown-ups to enjoy. It's more of a technical showcase than an entertaining movie and reminded me of the similarly themed film Cats And Dogs. Yes, Stuart himself looks so cute and realistic but it's a pity that same effort and attention didn't go to the rest of the film as it never really engages you or holds your interest for very long.In some ways, there is nothing wrong with Stuart Little as it does pretty much exactly what it says on the tin. It's undemanding family fun that definitely appeals to children more than it does to adults. But it feels too long and the plot never really gets going, although things do pick up when the running battle between Snowbell and Stuart reaches its climax in Central Park. But I found myself wondering why nobody questioned the insanity of legally adopting a talking mouse but maybe that speaks more about my cynicism than anything else. If you get it for your kids then the chances are, they'll enjoy it but don't expect anything as much fun as, say, Shrek or The Incredibles. "},{"Title":"Excellent film adaptation of E.B. White's novel","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" STUART LITTLE, in my opinion, is an excellent film adaptation of E.B. White's novel. One of the things I liked most about it were the performances of Hugh Laurie, Geena Davis, and Jonathan Lipnicki as the family members. If you ask me, it was funny when George (Jonathan Lipnicki) outsmarted that smart-mouthed Anton (Miles Marsico). If you want to know what he did, you'll have to see the movie. Also, I though that everyone's performances were top-notch, the casting was terrific, and the scenery was beautiful. Oh, and I also loved the music, especially Lyle Lovett's Walking Tall. In conclusion, I highly recommend this well-done live-action film adaptation of E.B. White's novel to all you Michael J. Fox or Geena Davis fans who have not seen it. "}{"Title":"MOUSEtastic","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  One of the recent trend of family films, that works on different levels. It's got the cute factor for the kids, perhaps too much in many ways. But many of the animal voices are particularly playing to the adult audience, and this worked in our household @ Xmas 2003. p.s - my daughter (Iris) would have given this 9/10. "},{"Title":"Charming childrens fable, which is best for it's computer animation.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A nicely designed and overall satisfying tale, Stuart Little is a very likeable movie. At times though, it does get a little too cute. Giving the theme of the film it's unlikely that `Stuart Little' will appeal to anyone over the age of 10 and/or anyone with young children. This is actually quite a shame because there are missing out on a treat. While it lacks the adult humour and un-limitations of PG rated non-Disney films such as `Antz' and `Shrek', it amuses and entertains very well. While it has a lot of boundaries to keep in (given its G rating), some of the jokes are bound to make even the strictest of adults laugh.The cast work well together and seem suited to their roles. In Geena Davis' first film in four years, you can see she's not giving it her all but she is good as the typical mother. Hugh Laurie is also good as Mr. Little and proves well in his first major role yet (I think). Michael J. Fox is very suites to the role of Stuart Little and is very likeable as the little rodent. Most appealing though are the remaining voice cast who bounce off the screen. Nathan Lane, Steve Zahn, Chazz Palminteri and David Alan Grier are superbly cast as the stray cats and Bruno Kirby and Jennifer Tilly are great as Stuart's `other' parents. While many people criticise the film's concept, it isn't supposed to be taken seriously. Though perhaps the film does rely too much on charm to entertain and the kid in the film is grossly annoying.`Stuart Little' is a highly likeable (if not easily forgettable) childrens film that is far from groundbreaking. But their isn't a dull moment in the script and there's enough to keep you entertained all day. Overall this is good. 6.9/10.  "},{"Title":"Good fun for anyone","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I happened to see the second Stuart Little 2 first.  I figured that I could skip the first one and only saw the second one because I wanted to see how some of the animation looked.  The second one was a lot of fun and so was this one.  The animation is a little more subdued in this one and leans a little more on the story, which isn't bad.In this movie we see how Stuart Little comes into the Little Family and especially how he comes to be accepted by George, his older brother.  Here Stuart has a real nemesis in Snowball the cat who conspires to get rid of him.The animation is more subdued, but no less spectacular then the second.  We have a perfect character in his animation and the voice of Michael Fox.  "},{"Title":"Wished that the cat killed 'm","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've managed to endure only half of Stuart Little. This was not only caused by the awful german synchronisation. That the humans in this film found it absolutely normal to adopt a speaking mouse and considered this mouse to be a human being is absolutely unbelievable. When I watched it I could not see why people would want the see a film that is not funny, not charming, full of plotholes and bad acting. The only interesting sub-plot was the cat, who tried to kill the mouse. Unfortunately for us, he didn't succeed. "},{"Title":"An enchanting little movie","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Stuart Little is a lovely little movie, about a family who adopts a talking mouse to act as their son's brother. And of course problems arise as the kid is disappointed with their choice.Firstly the bad points I hate Jonathan Lipnicki, who plays the young kid George Little. He's just there to look annoyingly cute and puts in a weak performance here. Geena Davis and Hugh Laurie, the parents, are fine but their characters are very cardboard-like. The only decent acting is Michael J.Fox doing the voice for Stuart Little, and the actual animation employed to bring the mouse to life.The plot isn't much, and you know how it will work out (especially since there's a sequel) but it serves it's purpose as a kids flick. There's a lot of charm invested into the movie and Stuart Little is very cute, without ever been annoying (a fine line, that someone like Lipnicki does cross). There's a vague comic book feel to the movie - everything's in bright colours inside the house. Stuart Little is excellently done and really looks like he's interacting with the people and scenery around him. There's also a nice line in gentle humour and emotion - my own heart-strings got a bit twangy here.Stuart Little is nice. It's gentle and sweet, funny and charming. Sure it's not perfect (Lipnicki...) but as kids movies go, it's among the best I've seen in a long while (since Babe perhaps). Recommended 7.8/10 "},{"Title":"What a mouse, Stuart Little is!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Stuart Little Based Upon the classic children's book by E.B. White, Stuart Little is a mouse like no other. When the Little's decide to adopt outside their own species, they learn a few big lessons housework must be done delicately, their cat Snowbell has to watch what he eats, and love is not based on the size of your heart. Experience what family means in this heart-warming, laugh filled adventure. Starring Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie, Jonathan Lipnicki along with brilliant voice-overs from Michael J. Fox as Stuart and Nathan Lane as Snowbell.As an adult, Stuart Little is targeted at a younger audience, but any age can enjoy this well made movie. Stuart Little the computer generated character was well produced. I thought the real class in this film though came from Michael J. Fox. I think this could be his last film for a while and his voice-overs for Stuart were superb as was Nathan Lane as Snowbell. The 'Human' side of the film was well acted also. Put in a fair soundtrack from Trisha Yearwood, 'You're Where I Belong', you have the story of one adorable 'LITTLE' mouse, known as Stuart Little!CMRS gives 'Stuart Little' 4 (Very Good Film) "},{"Title":"Engaging family flick in the mould of Toy Story and its sequel.","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"     Stuart Little is a film that is fairly obviously designed to appeal primarily to children; but at the same time its knowing but never vulgar humour stops it from becoming saccharine.  The human performers in the movie are forced to play second fiddle to their animatronic co-stars, and it's just as well, because every one of them is bland and uninteresting, two things that the 'animals' on show here are not.  As Stuart, Fox injects the same charm and vulnerability into the mouse that he's done for characters in his other family outings.  None of the other characters can hold a candle to Stuart, the little guy's just so darn cute... !   It's formulaic all the way, and it never offers anything more than just shallow entertainment, but what'd'you expect from a kids movie?  For those people who can't live with the idea of a talking mouse who the adults treat as 'normal', use your imagination!  Isn't acceptance a far better thing to be preaching to children than shock over someone who is different?   A winsome little film that probably only a curmudgeon could fail to take to heart, Stuart Little is good, solid entertainment for everybody, without being unmissable.  I thank the Lord for this and the Toy Story pair for removing the Teletubbies, Barney and Bob the Builder from our TV at home whenever my little sister wants to watch something...  "},{"Title":"Mawkish but remains original, solid family entertainment.","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  STUART LITTLE (1999) Rating 7/10Stuart Little is a much-hyped comedy that has the small power to be continuously enjoyable. Its story, adapted from E.B. White's winning children's book, is extremely mawkish at times. However, the corny note doesn't feel forced, but it is still there and very mawkish, which is the only reason Stuart Little loses it 3 points. The visual effects are just amazing, its remarkable to see the talking cats and mouse's without those bulging mouths and poorly edited vocabulary. The star line-up includes the talents of Michael J. Fox as Stuart, Geena Davis as Mrs. Little and a fantastic voicing talent from Nathan Lane as the Little's cat, Snowbell. There are also some exhilarating sequences, including the boat race and the scene in which Stuart is chased by a bunch of hungry ally-cats. Some scenes aren't like this, though. Some are just really unfunny and laughable, but those come along briefly and thankfully not often. All in all, Stuart Little is a step in the right direction after Rob Minkoff's 1994 animated directing success of Disney's The Lion King. It's flawed but fantastically fun stuff that gets to the point and does it in a stylishly likeable way for kids and adults alike.     "},{"Title":"Cute kids film!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought 'Stuart Little' was a decent kids film but there isn't much for adults here! Except for the special effects which are really very impressive. Michael J. Fox suited the voice of Stuart Little, and the voice-acting in general is quite good. I recommend this film for effects buffs, and obviously for young children. It's innocent and sweet, and about accepting differences! *** out of *****!  "},{"Title":"Special effects, but not enough story","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Stuart Little has great special effects. They're not the towering effects of The Perfect Storm or Gladiator, but nuanced, small stuff like the way Stuart's fur moves, or the beauty of the New York City skyline. In this movie, the special effects people steal the show. I wish the writers and actors were as good, but the special effects are as good as the movie gets.The acting is just okay, the voice-over actors coming off better than the real ones. And the story is too juvenile for my tastes. Kids should love it, but it doesn't seem much thought was given to adult viewers. My recommendation is to see it with a kid, or give it a pass.  "}{"Title":"Lightweight but fun","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Stuart Little goes through the predictable motions of a cute little family fantasy.  But the premise is quite original, inspired by E.B. White's book.  And it works, gently persuading you to suspend disbelief in each preposterous situation.  Sure, this movie makes very little sense, but it's a family film.  And it does cater to the young ones perfectly.  However, the older folks aren't left to dry either.This fantasy is full of unique, imaginative characters.  The one I liked best was the tough-as-nails alley-cat, voice provided by the great Chazz Palminteri.  It's nice how he spoofs his usual typecasted persona in a family-oriented, feline fashion.  So there's one inside joke for the adults to chuckle at.  Also, Stuart's--alleged--birth parents, voices provided by Jennifer Tilly and Bruno Kirby.  Bruno has some very funny lines.  And there are many other characters who blurt out funny, imaginative, quoteable lines that adults will cherish.The only stiffs in this story are the humans.  Geena Davis and Hugh Laurie are shifted into Cleaver-mode.  Their character traits consist of smiling, nodding, apologizing and consoling.  Luckily, the animals are the stars and they make up for everything.  This is not the best family film ever made, but it's good one and it's more than bearable for adults.  Naturally, kids will laugh and cheer--that isn't exactly a difficult task.    My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"I thought this wasn't going to be good. I was wrong!","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I really thought this would be a comedy like, well Babe. I did not like that film too much, and seeing the trailer for this and the beginning of the film, I was not quite sure this would work. But it did. It was extremely funny and enchanting (that mouse was so cute) and I believe if I (a 19 year old) likes this, a kid will absolutely love this film. No bad parts in this one. They actually make you believe that mouse can talk and it is normal. SO don't wonder if your kid wants a mouse after seeing this one.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Charming, witty, and irresistable!","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Who?  Not Leonardo DiCaprio, but Stuart Little, the adorable mouse star of this computer animated hit.  Sure, the plot is predictable and manic at times.  But Stuart, with Michael J. Fox, doing the voice over, is so cute, that you don't care.Snowbell, the white Persian cat (Nathan Lane's voice) is also a scene stealer. Kids will love it, and grown ups will manage to sit through it with a smile on their faces. "},{"Title":"A Cute film!","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I think that this film is the cutest film that has come along since Babe.  The special effects are INCREDIBLE; Stuart and the cats actually seem to be talking!One of the earlier reviewers of this film makes a big deal out of why wasn't anyone surprised that Stuart acted like a person?  Why could he (and the cats) talk, in the first place?  And, other stupid questions.  (You may as well ask how Babe talked!).  It's a FANTASY film; suspend your logic, sit back and ENJOY it!!!!Norm  "},{"Title":"Big Budget Nonsense","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was like watching a weird cartoon where utter nonsense is accepted as normal.  Reminded me of Space Jam where seeing cartoon characters and space ships landing on ball fields are accepted as no big deal.  This movie may have worked better as a cartoon but I think it failed miserably as a movie. "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a movie that I think most kids will like, but that isn't saying all that much. I mean name a movie (for kids) that they didn't like. Quick.One of the interesting things about animation (or talking animals) is trying to figure out the voices. I had most of them right on, but I sure thought one of the cats was Billy Crystal. It turned out to be Nathan Hale.The movie was moderately entertaining and reasonably well done. I had a little bit of a hard time accepting the premise (talking mouse) - especially since there is zero evidence of that being normal in the world they found themselves in, yet every human accepted it as reasonable.Also, talking animals reminded me WAY too much of the movie Babe. I hated that movie despite how well done it was - which reminds me.... If Babe was so great, then why did the sequel drop dead. It wasn't that it was poorly done. Gene Siskel said it was better than the first one and couldn't wait for the third one. The reason is because millions of people like me saw the first one due to critical acclaim - thus high gross revenues, but would never have gone to see the second one - thus bomb. Talking animals is generally a weak idea. Unlike BABE, at least this one was for exclusively for kids - and kids have no problem with talking animals.The other criticism is the language. The movie received a PG rating for brief cussing - mostly of the damn variety. But, why is it necessary? The theater was full of kids. The idea of a PG is to broaden the base, but who is going to see this movie besides kids and their parents??? It is totally unnecessary to have the foul language in it and I wouldn't recommend it to a parent who was sensitive to it. There, take that you bean counters! "},{"Title":"mediocre miniature mouse movie","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ever since Babe in 1995, the big screen has played host to a literal menagerie of animatronic characters including real-life pigs, sheep, cats etc. who are made to converse in a humanlike way hitherto attainable only through the traditional form of cel animation.  In a startlingly few years, the voiceover narration of a film like Homeward Bound already seems hopelessly primitive and outdated.However, with few exceptions, the scripts of most of these follow-up films have not managed to keep pace with the dazzling technical innovations made possible by this sudden explosion in computer technology.  And Stuart Little, the latest such film, is, sadly, no exception.  Having endured Mouse Hunt a few years back and having now plunked down my $5.50 for this current extravaganza, I give myself permission to pass up any future mediocre miniature mouse movies that may yet, in Hollywood's monkey-see monkey-do follow-the-hit propensity, emerge in the wake of the boxoffice success of these two assembly line products.This tale of a mouse adopted by a loving family fails to exploit the true fish-out-of-water comic possibilities of its premise.  Except for the fact that he is endlessly being chased by a cadre of malevolent neighborhood cats and cruises around in an unconvincingly animated toy car, Stuart, in the context of how others treat him, might as well be a regular human child. He is so instantaneously and unquestioningly accepted as normal by the parents, relatives, even store clerks who meet him that the film, paradoxically, makes the world he inhabits seem not more fantastic and magical, but less so.  Since the movie never really soars as an imaginative fantasy, it is free to trot out all the predictable cliches one expects to find in a story about an adopted child, even going so far as having Stuart's real parents come and take him away from the Littles.Certainly, little Stuart Little is an adorable creation and Geena Davis as the mother and Jonathan Lipnicki (Jerry Maguire) both provide warmly human companions for the rodent tyke to interact with.  However, comic veterans Estelle Getty and Harold Gould are completely wasted as two single-line relative onlookers.Stuart Little stumbles badly in the pacing of many of its action set pieces.  Two scenes, one in which he competes in a toy boat race in Central Park, and the other, in which he is chased by several local cats bent on his destruction, undercut and dilute their suspense by dragging on and on far past the point where the audience is even paying attention anymore.On the positive side, the clever art direction and scenic design provide a pseudo-surrealistic view of Manhattan that frames well the intended otherworldly spirit of the project.  What a shame that the screenplay fails to match the imaginative charm of this world in which the action is set.One hesitates to overthink one's criticism of a film obviously aimed to delight a far less demanding audience of unsophisticated youngsters.  Yet, when viewed against the soaring joys of Toy Story 2, a film that captivates both children and adults with its sharp wit and dazzling imagination, one is less inclined to let the makers of Stuart Little off the hook quite so easily. "},{"Title":"Stuart Little","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Based on the popular children's book by Charlotte's Web writer E.B. White comes the film adaption of the weird new member of a family. Basically Mr. Fredrick (Hugh Laurie) and Mrs. Eleanor Little (Geena Davis) are going to the children's home to adopt a new little brother for themselves and their son George (Jerry Maguire's Jonathan Lipnicki). what they actually get is a little brother, they get a mouse named Stuart (Michael J. Fox). At first George thinks they are joking because he is a mouse, but after a little while he gets used to him. Even the family cat Snowbell, or 'Snow' (Nathan Lane) has to get used to him. Obviously as you'd expect, Stuart has many small adventures during the film. Also starring Jennifer Tilly as Mrs. Camille Stout and Jeffrey Jones as Uncle Crenshaw Little. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Visual Effects. It was number 100 on The 100 Greatest Family Films. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"A cute movie, good light entertainment, worth a look.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If my 40-something wife had not insisted that we rent Stuart Little then I wouldn't likely have seen it.  However, we did last night and it was a bucket full of laughs.  The voices are great, and the animation was almost believable.However, what made it all really worthwhile are all the extras on the DVD.  Too many to quickly explain here, this DVD is among the best I've seen for its selection of extra features.In total I rated it 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Get the pesticide","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Possible SpoilersThis film stinks! It's boring, unrealistic, unfunny, a waste of talent and cheesy! How can you love this film? Because you're all a bunch of soft-headed morons who will never grow up! This film is fit for babies and babies only! It makes us think there are people who are good both inside and out. Well there aren't. Everyone has a good side and a bad side. And why did they make Hugh Laurie American? He's hilarious when he's British ( especially in 1O1 Dalmations ).At least the cats were funny. Nathan Lane managed to make me grin at least once or twice. You wanna family film?Watch Toy Story, Home Alone or Mousehunt. Now those are family films.At least E.B. White never lived to see this. "}{"Title":"Absolute waste of film if one likes the book","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I've seen it more than once, just to give it the benefit of the doubt and not just comment after one viewing.I was very disappointed after the first viewing, and didn't feel any better after the second.So many unnecessary changes were made to the story, with way too much cat vs mouse BS.Yes, I know that Hollywood is known for thinking that they have the ability to improve on someone else's work, but I wish they'd accept the fact that that is not the case. Someone else wrote a review .... Excellent film adaptation...... , wish they had read the book before writing. ( "},{"Title":"C**p","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I absolutely hate this movie for a number of reasons, but the first one is it makes cats look bad.Cats are NOT evil! It is very frustrating for me to tell cat-haters this, but it doesn't help with stupid movies trying to make cats look even worse.Plus, this movie isn't like the book. It's been disney-ed up. I'm not sure if it's even a Disney movie, but it looks like one.Cats aren't evil. They are very adorable. They won't scratch your furniture if you have a scratching-post. They won't go anywhere like puppies when they're little, or when they're older, if they're properly trained and have their box cleaned out regularly.I hate this movie terribly!  "},{"Title":"Heartless film piffle ruins classic kids book.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ugggh. One of the most empty, banal kid's movies I've seen in ages. Technologically impressive, yes, but it got no soul. And this is one of those books-to-movies where seeing is NOT believing . . . . much better when you imagine a mouse living with a fambly than actually having it laid out all crisp like. (Think Even Cowgirls Get the Blues, f'rinstance .. . you could sorta imagine the whole Sissy's thumbs thing in the book and not have it be silly, but seeing Uma Thurman with big plastic prostheses was ha ha time). The other thing about this flick was that while the message was supposed to be that species (read race) didn't matter, the whole presentation was that anyone with anything other than a WASPy accent was bad. Period. Bonus ugh the preview for the Rocky and Bullwinkle movie coming out next summer . . . . clearly another technology over soul production that won't add a whit to the primitive and wonderful original.  "},{"Title":"i like anas little i love anas little do you marry me","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" By submitting this review you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your own original work. Your review will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted. Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph. Posting your review is a two-step process. First, complete the form below and click Preview Then, we will show you how your review will appear online. When you're ready to submit it, click the Submit button on the bottom of the following page. If you write a spoiler without warning readers, your name will be added to a blacklist and all your future reviews will be discarded automatically and unread. See the guidelines for more information. Please remember that the guidelines state that if you write a spoiler without warning readers, your name will be added to a blacklist and all your future reviews will be discarded automatically and unread. So please be careful and use the 'contains spoiler' if your comment contains spoilers. By submitting this review you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your own original work. Your review will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted. Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph. Posting your review is a two-step process. First, complete the form below and click Preview Then, we will show you how your review will appear online. When you're ready to submit it, click the Submit button on the bottom of the following page. If you write a spoiler without warning readers, your name will be added to a blacklist and all your future reviews will be discarded automatically and unread. See the guidelines for more information. Please remember that the guidelines state that if you write a spoiler without warning readers, your name will be added to a blacklist and all your future reviews will be discarded automatically and unread. So please be careful and use the 'contains spoiler' if your comment contains spoilers.Submit Submit "},{"Title":"Can you say cheesy? How about saying it...500 times over and over again?","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I will start this review with a disclaimer I'm probably not the best person to review this film. I'm a hard-core cynic and I loathe corniness and cheesy-ness to an almost impossible degree. So if you're looking for a cute movie to show your small, happy child, disregard this review. Because I'm about to review an animated children's movie like I would an actually serious movie that an average adult would like to see. They're out there. There are films like the Ice Ages,Chicken Run, Wallace and Grommit...which I really did enjoy. Stuart Little was not one of them. The only reason I gave this movie 4/10 was because of the absolute hilarity of seeing Mr. Laurie be...well, kind and supportive and cliché and cheesy. Stuart Little itself, however, was only interesting to make fun of. Not to actually watch. The plot is stupid and predictable, the mouse is annoying, and the funny moments are only funny in laughing-at-them-not-with-them sort of way. I actually found myself hoping that something would happen to save this train-wreck of a viewing experience...like Stuart getting eaten by the cat, or the other way around. Or Hugh Laurie getting one half-way decent (read mean-spirited and rude) line. "},{"Title":"I HATE STUART LITTLE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  AHHHHHHH! If there is one movie you should see this summer, make it anything but Stuart Little. The movie was stupid. Half of the previews had nothing to do with the movie at all! Even though I like Micheal J. Fox; who was the voice of Stuart, I hated the plot of the story. There is nothing to really say about the movie except don't watch it. The movie is like Barney meets Lamb Chops. "},{"Title":"Over Rated","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I couldnt wait for Dec 17th to come out to see Stuart Litte. I thought the previews looked like it was gonna be a really great movie. Dont get me wrong I love kids movies. I took my Husband and son to see this movie and we didnt care for it at all. It was like it was nothing for a mouse to talk. The story line of adoption as wrong. People dont adopt a mouse. When they had a party for the family member (Stuart) It was like it was normal for a mouse to get a childs bike........The movie wasnt even funny. See my family and I usually talk about the movie we see on the way home in the car. Well the only thing I have to say is it was awful quite on the way home. This movie I wont go see twice "},{"Title":"how awful Stuart little was","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" where shall we start....................................................absolute c**p.it was most possibly the worst film ever i mean a stupid f*****g, white mouse who talks and drives a stupid f*****g car and that stupid f*****g family and the little kid with the glasses looks like a t**t and yet people buy videos thinkingooh what a lovely movie lets buy it for our son.but really the son f*****g hates the movie and chucks it in the bin.then pops out Stuart little 2 . who gives two wet shiny s***s. and the cat i mean whose stupid f*****g idea was to have a fat talking cat who wont even eat a b*****d mouse.i mean what example does it set for the children.the children think ooh everyone likes each other and plays together and cats talk and save mice.so i told my kid that it was a load of b******s and told him to watch the exorcist or he would be getting no dessert.now if anyone wants to argue please feel free because i know I'm right. only joking i thought the film was good. "},{"Title":"Cute, but contains a noteworthy and fatal flaw. **1/2 out of ****.","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  STUART LITTLE (1999) **1/2Starring Hugh Laurie, Jonathan Lipnicki, Geena Davis, Brian Doyle-Murray, Estelle Getty, Julia Sweeney, Jeffrey Jones, and with the voices of Michael J. Fox, Nathan Lane, Chazz Palminteri, Steve Zahn, David Alan Grier, and Jennifer Tilly Directed by  Rob Minkoff. Based on the novel by E.B. White. Running Time 92 minutes. Rated PG (for brief language and some mild violence)By Blake FrenchEvery Little in the world can find the Little house.That is not a quote from a small child or an estranged family member, but a talking mouse named Stuart Little. I had one major problem with the new family comedy from Rob Minkoff, Stuart Little, and it's with how the filmmakers dealt with the title character. Let me describe the film's flaw by explaining the story. As the movie opens we meet a sweet, loving family, consisting of Mr. and Mrs. Little and their lonely son, George. After sending George to school one day, the parents decide to travel to the local orphanage to take a look at the children up for adoption. Once there, they realize there is such a variety of kids, it would be next too impossible to make a fair choice. This is where the Little's are introduced to Stuart, a mouse who has been living at the orphanage for quite a while now. He greets them with humility, and offers to lend a helping hand in their choice. But no need to continue looking for a child to adopt, for the Little's have already made their decision, they will adopt Stuart.  George is disappointed when he discovers that his new brother is a mouse that acts, talks, and has emotional qualities like a human. He wanted someone to share his time, play, and have fun with, not a household pet. Stuart becomes a bit tearful that he failed to live up to the entire families' expectations. 	When the Little's have a family reunion, their  relatives come to their home and share greetings. When introduced to Stuart everyone experiences disbelief, but almost immediately after, they except him. Why is Stuart able to feel, act, and talk like a person? Why do all the movie's characters, from tailors to orphanage directors,  just except the fact that a talking mouse is in their presence? What possesses the characters to treat the mouse like a human? I wanted an explanation of why Stuart is such a remarkable, larger than life mouse. None is offered. What if one was offered, though, where would that leave the film, to get into a scientific explanation of what happened to Stuart? That would leave the story confusing and boring. So you see, Stuart Little was doomed from the beginning, left with no where to go but down. The film contains an internal problem Stuart's emotionally empty space inside; he feels that he'll never be a real member of the Little family. The external problem comes later in the story Stuart is not loved by every member of his household. The Little's also own a cat named Snowbell, who experiences jealousy when he realizes that he is no longer the lesser being receiving all the attention.  He even arranges a hit to kill Stuart with his fellow ally cats. This subplot is far more interesting and entertaining than the center line of events. The animation and special computer animal effects are noteworthy and enormously convincing. The mice and cats look like they are really talking, unlike the poorly altered babies talking in Baby Geniuses. It is amazing what the animation artists are capable of doing these days, and Stuart Little is a prime example of that. I liked the human actors in Stuart Little, a rather amateurish film to contain so many well-known names in its talented cast. On screen performers such as Hugh Laurie, Geena Davis, and minor roles by Brian Doyle-Murray, Estelle Getty, Julia Sweeney, and Jeffrey Jones. Also blossoming are the big voices heard throughout the picture, consisting of Michael J. Fox, David Alan Grier, Jennifer Tilly, Chazz Palminteri, and Nathan Lane. With this huge, gifted cast, Stuart Little should have been a better production.The intelligence of Stuart Little seemed to be altered by certain demands of the script. Sometimes Stuart can travel across town in a miniature car and manage to find his way home, but at other points, he is required to submit to his nemesis's deceptions. This lack of consistency leads to a sluggish point of view, which regards the lack of inspirational material present.Stuart Little has a strong message and an applicable relationship with a character that's easy for its target audience to fall in love with. The reason this film doesn't work is better explained in comparison with the much better Toy Story 2. That film did not try to blend our human world with its imaginative, colorful fantasy. It kept its boundaries in which the toys would come alive, and where they needed to be just regular playing figurines. Stuart Little makes the mistake in attempting to mix a dream world in with an ordinary lifestyle. An ultra-smart mouse is believable in movies, and to some extent in novels as well. But seeing a visual image of a mouse acting like a human and having the characters respond unresponsively is pushing it a little. Go see a good holiday family film, like Toy Story 2 or the successful cousin of Stuart Little, Mousehunt.Brought to you by Columbia Pictures.   "}]