[{"Title":"A film with heart and wit","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film seems to have provoked a lot of irritation. Personally, I can't see why. I feel it's a classic teen drama with a lot of heart and some very fleshed-out performances. Another poster got it right when they compared it to Sixteen Candles, Breakfast Club and other teen dramas.To criticise the norms of the genre is pointless it's like complaining that a slasher pic has too much blood and gore. It's a teen high-school drama, *of course* it's going to have jocks vs. geeks, pivotal parties and the leads getting together in the final fade. We all know the destination, it's the journey that counts.And I'd say that journey is pretty wonderful. The film gripped me in the first few minutes. I expected Melissa Joan Hart to turn in a mannered, 'Clueless'-type performance, a pastiche of popular girl gets a heart. But in fact, there was a lot more light and shade to her character, she didn't just flip from one stereotype to another. I thought the whole cast turned in sterling performances. Perhaps they were too good and the naysayers have forgotten these people aren't actually jocks and geeks?Whatever - I'm an old bloke who was touched by this film. It brought back memories of the hell / heaven of secondary school, of how important and fleeting those relationships are. It connected with me.Not every film has to be 'Un Chien Andalou', you know... "},{"Title":"You guys are taking this movie too seriously!","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a teen movie. It's not meant to be analized.The concept was fairly original. Scheming Teen Socialite plots to get a dream date for the school Centennial Dance (NOT the prom, as most descriptions say) and it falls through at the last minute. Her next door neighbor and childhood former best friend is dumped by his girlfriend. The two of them pretend to be a couple to make their former significant others jealous and ward off the scorn of their friends. She makes him over in her immage (of course If you want to get results, you have to go to extremes!).In the process she learns a little from him as well and they fall in love. The movie also has a cast of secondary characters who are interesting.This isn't Shakespare, folks! It shouldn't be analized to death. It's fun and entertaining. Sit down and watch it and leave the cliff's notes at school.The actors were great (It's nice to see that Melissa can play something besides Sabrina). Adrian Greere and the rest of the cast were great too.The soundtrack was great as well. Get the CD (You Drive Me) Crazy, Unforgetful You, I Want It That Way, It's All Been Done, Stranded, Faith in You, Is This Really Happening To Me, Steps, Hammer To The Heart, One For Sorrow, Sugar, Regret, Original, Help Me Save The Youth of America from Exploding, and  we can't forget Keep on Loving You by the teen girl rocker group The Donnas.You can get this movie for $5.88 at Wal-Mart! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, the plotline was predictable, however, Drive me Crazy is a highly entertaining teenage romp. The dialogue is witty, the theme is good-spirited, and, as in every teen movie, the soundtrack is great.The film has its flaws, however, particularly in Melissa Joan Hart, one of the worst actresses of our time. Thanks to her, an almost entirely likeable character is ruined. Her cute lines are recited flatly, and she adds no wit or life to the film. However, I was very impressed with the actor portraying Nicole's project, Adrian Grenier. His looks and intelligent delivery make the entire film worth seeing.Overall, a cute and cheery romance that does not feature the head cheerleader nor the lowest of the low geek- it presents it's characters and storyline in a fun, believable way, and it'll leave you loving every minute of it.  "},{"Title":"not quite like those OTHER teen movies","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think the story of it all is fresh and natural-  like what you'd see at my high school, and it teaches you (yes I actually learned something from this movie) that the right person for you may have always been there to begin with, even with all of his imperfections.  Adrian Grenier plays Chase Hammond very well with a lot of sarcasm, wit and intelligence.  If he went to my high school I'd have snatched him up right away!  )  Melissa Joan Hart's character (Nicole) starts out shallow but eventually grows a heart bigger than her high school ego.  This movie altogether isn't necessarily the best movie ever made, but it is a funny and serious romp through the final days of high school (love, crushes, the final school dance, peer pressure)-  harmless but sweet and full of characters that are likeable and might remind you of people you once knew. "},{"Title":"Predictable yet enjoyable","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie on `Sky' after watching `TOMCATS' on video, so whether my judgement has been affected by that, maybe.  As compared to Tomcats this film looked like an Oscar winner, but I must say I did actually really enjoy it in its own right. Its typical teen comedy/drama in the same vein as `TEN THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU' and `SHE'S ALL THAT' but if you like that kind of film then this will in no way disappoint you. Hart and Grenier play polar opposite next door neighbours who hook up as a sham couple to try and win back the attention of their dates, who dump them on the eve of the schools centenary bash. It doesn't take a genius to guess what happens but its all pretty harmless and a lot of fun. Well worth and hour and a half of your time.  "},{"Title":"Decent movie...for a teen drama/comedy.","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you don't like teen comedy/drama films, then don't bother seeing this film, you're going to hate it.  There is nothing terribly original or spectacular about this film, compared to similar films, but it's still got some good stuff.  There really isn't a whole lot of comedy in the film, so I'd be much more inclined to classify this film as a teen drama, so don't watch this film expecting a hilarious movie.The cast is surprisingly good in the film.  Melissa Joan Hart does a great job in her first starring role and puts on a pretty good show for the most part.  She also looks very attractive throughout the film.  The other main character, Chase, played by Adrian Grenier is a new face to me, but does a good job with his role.  Ali Larter looks very nice in the film as well and does a fine job in her role.  Stephen Collins was another familiar face to me, and does a good job, although his role is rather minor.  Susan May Pratt caught my eye in 10 Things I Hate About You and pulls off another good job in this film as well.  Keri Lynn Pratt (I wonder if they're related) is another new face to me, but I will definitely keep my eyes open for her future work after seeing her in this film.  She is also quite easy on the eyes.  The rest of the cast did a good job as well.  Nothing to complain about in that respect.Most of the characters were actually rather interesting.  I really liked the characters of Ray and Dave, they both seemed like very likeable people and quite the underdogs (gotta root for the underdogs).  I also really liked that even the jocks in this film were not really made out to be idiots and jerks (of course one of them in particular was...Eddie).  The character, Brad, was the most important jock-character and he wasn't made out to be a bad person or unlikeable person at all, just a guy that Nicole (Melissa Joan Hart) was head over heels for...and then wasn't.Another thing this film really had going for it was that it stayed away from all the gross-out, stupid comedy that is so abundant in most teen movies these days.  I can really appreciate a film that doesn't resort to that...sure sometime it's really funny, but most of the time it's just un-needed.If you are the kind of person that likes teen comedy/drama films, then give this one a chance, you just might like it.  Other than that, I would recommend you spend your money and time elsewhere.  If you do see the film, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Thoughtful teen comedy","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this film expecting it to be just a formula teen film. It does have formula to it -- such as ending with the big dance -- but it actually has some interesting ideas too. It is about the images that people hide behind, the distortions that they manufacture to escape from painful reality. One symbolic scene takes place in a carnival fun house with mirrors that twist and pull reflections into any shape the person wants. This of course is the metaphor for what is happening with all the characters. Another interesting bit of symbolism is the MTV-like video showing the zombie-like behavior of the high school in-crowd compared to images of animals and Nazi rallies.Yes, it's a teen romantic comedy, but it actually has some real thought in it, and the talented cast play characters that show some depth. The film is a pleasant surprise. "},{"Title":"50/50","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one is a guilty pleasure movie of mine. I can't explain why I like it, or if I even do like it, but when it's on I watch it. Sure it has my all time favorite movie babe Ali Larter in it, but you don't see me watching Varsity Blues or American Outlaws. Maybe when I discover what it is I like about this movie I'll post it later. "},{"Title":"Nice movie qualifies as good entertainment & good food for thought","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nicole (Melissa Joan Hart) has her eye on a hunky basketball star. She makes the overtures but he casts his gaze on a cheerleader instead. Nicole has been the major planner for an upcoming community dance and now her choice of dates is taken! Meanwhile, next door neighbor, Chase, has been dumped by his eccentric girlfriend. He's sad. Melissa cooks up a compromise. If Chase will pretend to be her guy to make the basketball star jealous, she will do the same for him and his ex. But, first Melissa insists on giving Chase a makeover. Will their schemes result in mutual benefits? And, what about Nicole's absentee father? Will he ever be interested in his daughter's happenings? This movie would make a nice conversation starter for high school teens. Besides its entertainment value, it has some good messages and quandaries about what it means to be in the in crowd and the out crowd. The stars are quite good looking and have good acting abilities, especially Adrian Grenier. Typical but nice costumes and settings compliment the film, too. If you would like a movie to watch with your teenage daughter or son about self worth and choices in life, this movie would be beneficial. And, you both just might end up giggling and touched. "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised at how realistic the characters felt. For once the leading lady was not head cheerleader/prom queen but an average girl with a good intelligence.There were some divisions in pupils, but there were no spotty nerd characters who did nothing but play with computers and watch Star Trek. They actually had an alternate respectable social world.I was annoyed that our sporting hero seemed to be the only guy who scored for the basketball team, but you can't have everything.The relationships were slightly more believable, impulse attractions were short lived, and dormant attraction and friendship was re-awakened in a smooth and acceptable manner. The subtle conniving women were enjoyable to watch.I was expecting a really poor and tacky American High School comedy, but found a quite refreshing change from all the other movies that have been listed in these reviews.And a word of advice... if you hate high school comedies then don't watch it. Personally I can't stand those movies with that old cliche of boy and girl attracted to each other. I mean puleeze. "}{"Title":"Been done a lot better elsewhere.","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Often when a teenage actress reaches her twenties she's anxious to leave off the schoolgirl roles and try something different, so one might have thought it would take something special to get Melissa Joan Hart (Sabrina..., Clarissa...) back in the classroom again. I can't believe that this movie was it, though. It appears to be an attempt at the sophisticated style of teen dramedy made popular by movies like Clueless and Cruel Intentions and TV shows like Dawson's Creek, but this film is clearly not in the same league with those, mostly because of a listless script. Drive Me Crazy is more likely to put you to sleep than to arouse any emotions suggested by its title. The intentions may have been good here, but the execution strikes me as simply uninspired. There's nothing much at all to recommend it.   "},{"Title":"Did somebody write this?","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the lamest movies and should be placed in the Huh? category of movies.  The premise is simple, you want to be a couple with a guy who you don't even like just so people can say, Oh, they're a couple. Melissa Joan Hart, who couldn't act her way out of a paper bag is a total moron in this movie.  The co-star, who's name I can't remember thankfully, is an average guy that looks like a hippie from the 1960s.  I haven't even mentioned the worst part.  This movie absolutely GOES NOWHERE.  Your supposed to feel the spark between these two characters but instead it's the snores of the other members of the audience.  No!  That's not the worst part.  It's the last scene in the movie which I can't tell you without giving it away!  This literally made me sick and my friends walked out right before the credits.  Truly a horrible movie!!  Avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"Adrian Grenier Drives me Crazy!!","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is OK,the plot pretty predictable,Melissa Joan Hart is an 'OK' actress,the way she acts doesn't show much difference from her Sabrina character on 'sabrinathe teenage witch' shown on tv,and it has the basic elements of stereotyped people (jocks with popular chicks,bla bla).so why am i watching this movie????Because of the actor,Adrian Grenier!!!!what an awesome dude!if you're a big fan of tasty good looking guys,watch this movie!you won't be disappointed!hehe! "},{"Title":"It just isn't a good movie.","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't bother to see this movie in the theatre and I don't know why I bothered to get it on PPV. It was boring and dull and a rip off of She's All That. I actually found myself looking at other channels to see what else was on. Believe me DO NOT see this movie!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Well, at least Melissa LOOKS cute.","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Been done before?...sure, but if that was a reason not to make a film then only about five or six films would have been made over the past decade.  Think of it this way, if you go to see a stage play that's been around for awhile you don't expect it to have the original cast and it won't hurt your enjoyment of watching the play.  Get over it.  Plus, what segment of the audience for this film is likely to have seen any of the older versions anyway?  If they are going to see any version they might as well see the version that relates to their generation and stars actors they like.  Any Molly Ringworm fans in high school now?  I don't think so.  Now, with that out of the way, let's judge.  Melissa Joan Hart plays a different type of character than we have seen before.  On television she is sweet and wholesome and her attractiveness owes a lot to her individuality.  In Drive Me Crazy she is a bit of a snit and a bit of a snot.  Because of it, she is not as attractive.  That point in itself would have made a better picture.  Here she is a teen bitch.  She is a good actress and we know that we will end up caring for Melissa's character even before the script allows us.  The film could have been more fun and Melissa could have been more likeable.  Molly Ringworm could have made a cute cameo appearance but no one in the audience would have noticed.       "},{"Title":"Sprightly and entertaining, but predictable.","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This romantic comedy is a likeable, though predictable teen flick.  Actually, as high school fare goes, this is pretty wholesome.  Of the three major teen staples, there is very little in the way of sex and drugs, but plenty of rock and roll.  The story revolves around a girl and boy who are next door neighbors.  Though they have known each other their whole lives, they travel in very different circles at school.  She is very &#147;in&#148;, popular and active.  He is very &#147;out&#148;, rebellious and counterculture.  When each of them gets rejected by their love interests, they form an unlikely alliance to make the rejecters jealous.  They pretend they are now dating, to the amazement of all their friends.  But be careful what you wish for, because you might get it.  Surprising to no-one in the audience, they actually fall for one another.  This complicates matters when the scam works and their respective love interests re-ignite and take up hot pursuit.  Not the most original story line, but it sets up some funny skits especially with the characters&#146; attempts to adapt to the formerly rejected culture of the other.  The writing has some good lines and the romance between Nicole (Melissa Joan Hart) and Chase (Adrian Grenier) works well.  These two have good chemistry and seem to genuinely like each other.The ending is upbeat, and overall this is a feel good movie.  The acting, as is always the case in these movies, was not so much acting as teens portraying themselves.  Melissa Joan Hart has been playing a teenager since 1992, and at 24 it is probably time to move on.  As probably the most experienced actor in the film, she played the part very well and was one of the few players who actually had to do some acting outside the stereotype.  Adrian Grenier, (also 24), held down the male lead well, although he was much more convincing once he was &#147;in&#148; than as a rebellious outsider.All in all, it was a sprightly and entertaining entry into a crowded genre.  I gave it a 7/10.  Worth a rental if you are in the mood for something light.  "},{"Title":"Drive This Film Over a Cliff.","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Drive Me Crazy (1999) Dir John Schultz / Cast Melissa Joan Hart, Adrian Grenier, Stephen Collins, Ali Larter, Susan May Pratt Mindless exercise about an emotional act of love and those knots that bind in our stomach that are this close to heaving lunch from three weeks ago. It is meant as a starring vehicle for Melissa Joan Hart with an opposites attract formula that died this very year when they released She's All That. The dumber than dumb plot has Hart and Adrian Grenier as next door neighbors recently dumped by ex's and pretend to date each other. Any moron can see the outcome of this without binoculars. The rest is predictable with every teen movie cliché available. Director John Schultz does his best while some set pieces provide amusement, but that doesn't save an absolutely recycled storyline. Hart and Grenier are going by the motions and nothing they do sparks anything interesting. It goes without saying that their bedroom windows are speaking distance away. This is a lame plot device that totally makes everything convenient for lazy writers. Stephen Collins of 7th Heaven fame makes an appearance but it isn't likely one that will be remembered upon any career retrospective. Ali Larter also shows up to wade through material traveled by hundreds of others before her. This is all totally recycled crap that is likely to drive you crazy. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Melllisa Joan Hart fails to recreate the Sabrina magic","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mellissa Joan Hart was at the peak of her fame as Sabrina The Teenage Witch so it made sense that movie bosses would want to cash in on that and make her the lead in a movie. A romantic comedy for teens was the logical solution.What follows is an amiable enough film, full of weak jokes and characterisation. As is essential the two leads are likable and do their best with a script from Rob Thomas (who himself was fresh off Dawson's Creek).However, while 'Sabrina' was witty and sharply written this film is dull and predictable. There are nice moments but if you're not the target audience or from that era (the film is terribly dated now) then it is one that can be avoided. "},{"Title":"Mediocre example of a 90s teen rom-com","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Drive Me Crazy' is one of those movies where every scene transition starts with a 30 second snippet of a bad pop rock song blaring at full volume (The soundtrack is quite bad, save for the title track and Stranded by Plumb). There isn't an ounce of originality. Every box is checked off and you know exactly where it's going well before it gets there. That's not necessarily a fatal flaw if it can entertain (or at least divert) along the way, and 'Drive Me Crazy' does, if marginally. Most of the credit goes to stars Melissa Joan Hart and Adrian Grenier. The former has less range than a spitball, but she uses her spunky Clarissa/Sabrina thing to good effect here as a character we're supposed to like and root for, even though she's the Type-A popular go-getter. Grenier similarly could've just been the guy in the movie, but he brings far more to his role than was there on the page.We get a severely underdeveloped subplot with Hart's absentee Father (a third billed Stephen Sleazeball Collins, who is in it all of two minutes) and an out of nowhere romance between the two lead character's parents, leading to a somewhat cringeworthy finale. But it's light and bouncy, and at times even surprisingly sharp in its observations about social classes. Throw in a few chuckles and some likable performances all around and you have, not the best the genre has to offer, but certainly not the worst. "},{"Title":"90 min . wasted. I want it back.","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie for free and I still feel ripped off. Don't waste your time. A hour and a half you'll never get back again. It's so predicable!!!! Either of these 2 could act their way out of a paper bag. I have a hard time believing Melissa J. Hart is so popular. She is a minor celebrity with limited talent. The guy is not much better. They should return your money if you actually payed to see it. Go to twitter or Facebook and tell Melissa J. Hart you want your money back. I think she can afford to return your 10 bucks. High school drama is not my thing I guess. So, go do something else like comb your hair or wash your car. Take care DCGJ This is my opinion. "}{"Title":"A lovely traditional Comedy with a few weaknesses","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To be fair, this film is listed under the Teen Comedy genre so if you generally don't find Teen Comedies tasteful then do yourself a favor and move along. Now as I say it is a Teen Comedy, I should also say that this is a Comedy in the traditional definition of the genre, meaning that it is a Comedy that explores some thoughtful and deep themes before the Act III obligatory turn away. This is what a traditional Comedy looks like it's life affirming, completely aware of the human body and its limits, the community is reformed where it needs to be, the society merely exists in the earthly space that creates the community (ignoring Heaven and Hell), and it turns away in Act III informed by but not obsessed by some rather ponderous thoughts on what it means to be human in its society. It's not Satire like Scream, nor is it Farce like American Pie or Not Another Teen Movie, so don't come in expecting that you're going to be laughing every few seconds.If you're familiar with the genre you know the story. Nicole (Hart) is a preppy girl in High School, aiming for the handsome jock, Brad (Carpenter), to ask her to a community dance that she's helped organize. Brad falls in love with a cheerleader from another school, leaving Nicole to make a deal with her former childhood best friend and rebel without a cause boy next door, Chase (Grenier), to make Brad and Chase's recent ex-girlfriend jealous. From here the plot begins to resemble a gender-swapped Pygmalion (aka. My Fair Lady) slightly as Nicole cleans up Chase to make the deal seem realistic. And here is where the ponderous thoughts begin to crop up--mostly having to deal with the social masks people wear throughout life in order to maintain some kind of status in their society.Lovely performances are given by Keri Lynn Pratt, Kris Park, and Mark Webber, who play small but well fleshed out character parts that come across as refreshingly new looks at old archetypes (the pretty girl who used to be ugly, the quietly rebellious underdog, & the geeky outcast who both wants to and doesn't want to fit in) that are truthful and never exaggerated.The film's largest weakness is with its antagonists Alicia and Eddie, who are played by Susan May Pratt & Jordan Bridges. Jordan's Eddie is simply a jerk for the sake of being a jerk--and is hardly developed at all. Susan's performance is well nuanced, but there seems to be a deeper inner life to her character that we are never allowed to see. I feel that this is because Alicia as well as Eddie, are developed poorly compared to other more minor characters. All the characters that you are supposed to care for are developed in quite humane ways, while the two main antagonists (S.M. Pratt and Bridges) are left by the script as nearly two-dimensional stereotypes and the film never bothers to explore how or why they came to be who they are or provide motivations for what they do throughout the course of the film.Overall, the film is a simple and lovely Teen Comedy that is worth watching if you enjoy Teen Comedies and want to see a fairly decent one. It's not the best Teen Comedy of the bunch, but it is quite far from the worst one every made. I'd give it a B/B-. "},{"Title":"Not Another Teen Movie --- or is it?","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is another teen movie.  I love teen movies, but they all seem to be the same.  This is no exception.  A lot of the storylines are predictable, but just watching it unfold on screen makes up for this.  The main characters seem to be everyone's focus, but I think the supporting cast was very good as well.  Ali Later, Susan May Pratt, and Mark Webber are all cast well for their roles.  Adrien Grenier plays Chase Hammond.  He's shown as the smart guy who is really a cutie even without the makeover.  Nicole Maris, his next door neighbor and one of the most popular girls in school, is played by Melissa Joan Heart.  I am not that big of a fan of Melissa, although I did like her early days on Clarissa Explains It All.  In this movie, Melissa's acting is just a good as it is on Sabrina The Teenage Witch, which isn't that great, but does get the job done and in a good way.  All through the movie kids, teens, and adults alike ask themselves Will Chase and Nicole go to the dance together?  I guess you'll never know unless you watch the movie, or I guess you know even if you haven't seen it.  Oh, but if you haven't seen it you missed an awesome soundtrack with songs like Crazy by Britney Spears (okay can you tell I was using sarcasm?). "},{"Title":"Representing some (minor) innovation within the cliche (*Some Basic Plot Spoliers Ahead)","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (*Some Basic Plot Spoliers Ahead)The rebirth of the teen genre in the late nineties brought forth a schlock grouping of flicks that test one's sanity due to their predictability. The list is too numerous to belabour, and save for a few diamonds in the rough such as the progenitor American Pie, even attempts at Black Comedy failed miserably to create any sense of real humanity or a break from the cenvention.Enter Drive Me Crazy into the mix, starring a teen idol with dubious serious acting credentials in Melissa Joan Hart... What does this movie possibly offer that differs positively from the norm as a youthful fish out of water romantic comedy?For one, even though both principal characters predictably enter each other's worlds and are forced to adapt to new styles, BUT they still keep their good hearts intact -- For instance, the ordinary teen flick would have had an obligatory scene where Chase perhaps humiliates his old geekier friends over for the sake of popularity. Not so, in fact in spite of his new environment he sticks up for his friends tooth and nail regardless of circumstance and remains close with them. Nicole additionally shows great sensitivity and insight as to the politics of being cool and not, and is willing to reach out and appreciate Chase's friends' talents, and even ultimately take another one of them as a date to the prom.The plot has nice touches with seemingly miniscule points that actually give the movie character beyond every character simply fitting into a stereotype, such as Chase's emotions about animal testing. Or his friends' getting their own screen-time as talented videographers and as dorky characters with their own psychological motivations for running safe rides. Or even Brad as the talented dumb jock, who may be dumb, but actually exhibits some sensitivity and that he does have a big heart.And the end of the movie has an interesting wrinkle which... makes you think and laugh a bit.If you are going to see one of the movies of this genre, this is it. The guy and the girl get together, have misunderstandings, learn lessons about love and life, a few vapid inane scenes with Nicole's inattentive father, true...But, there are extra characters of worth, traits of goodness and substantive learning and growth by all the good guys, and MOST OF ALL it is rife good examples set about people who actually stand up for their beliefs and their friends. "},{"Title":"stick to Sabrina Melissa","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie and all the time I was thinking... 'Good story line, has potential' but then I saw MALISSA JOAN HART'S FACE IN IT!!. She looked absolutely REDICULES in it!, Sure, she's good in Sabrina but movies are a HUGE NO for her. The acting was not brilliant by her either!, I thought they would have been better off choosing 'the fat gone anorexic' girl to play the lead, at least she was a little convincing!.  I just thought this was a joke! This movie could have been made so much better!, but it was the same as every other teen movie and it bored me. Watch 'not another teen movie' instead if you want a real laugh!  "},{"Title":"Next to Nothing!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is sadly, unlike the book. When I first read Girl Gives Birth to Prom Date, I fell in love with it. It was hilarious, witty and every teenager girl could probably relate to it. I honestly wish that I could say the same about the movie. Melissa Joan Hart comes off as sort of a brat, doing whatever it takes to get a prom date. Sadly, many of the book characters didn't make appearances, except a small one by my fav, Bovine or Devine as she is now called. Still, if you're a teen and you love these girl-gets-the-guy flicks, then this one is for you.  "},{"Title":"Too much teen...","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is filled with expectation! If you ever see this movie think to yourself about watching it.The movie is about Nicole (Sabrina's Melissa Joan Hart) who wants to go to a dance with a guy named Brad. But he falls for a rival school's cheerleader. Nicole decides to go to the dance with her James Dean type neighbor Chase (Adrian Grenier) after he gets dumped by his rebel girlfriend Dulcie (Final Destination's Ali Larter). They end up fooling all their friends especially Nicole's competitive friend Alicia (Susan May Pratt).The movie has a little too much of teen in it. But I give it an A- for the hot chicks in it. "},{"Title":"this film is worth watching but","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is Mellisa Joan Harts first major film and she makes a pretty good job of it instead of her normally goody-goody image she has bean cast in the light of a bitch to put it frankly!She is cast of a high school senior Nicole Marris, who is in charge of there schools 100 year celebration. Her aim is to attract The captain of the Basketball squad to ask her to the dance Brad (Gabriel Carpenter)but unfortunly her plan fails as a week befor the big event he falls in love with a cheerlearder from another school.At this particular Highschool this act would some how make Nicole a laughing stock and this is the one thing that she cannot stand luckerly for her her neighbour Chase Hammond (Adrian Grenier) has also just been dumped by his girlfriend as he rufused to take part in an animal rights campane. They agree to pretend to be going out for the sake of both of them.This works perfectly for a few weeks until Nicole see's Chase kissing another girl although Chase was drunk at the time and he was forced upon this made no diferance to her and took the easy out clause and they are finished!At the sentenial Nicole and chase get back together and head home together when they get the shock of there lives Nicoles mum and Chase's Dad are moving in together. This added a twist to the tale which was quite good.This film did not credit Mellisa Joan Harts acting ability and the plot was poor although the twist at the end made up for it a bit. It was hard to believe that 18 year old where given around $20,000 (around £15,000) to spend as they wished on this as in most schools thy kids would only be the idea people but this film is worth watching but it is nothing special! "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not bad, and as movies of this genre go, actually pretty good.  Follows most of the standard cliches, but the characters have more depth and the dialogue is a little more thoughtful than the usual fare.  Some may not like it because the reverse Pygmalion story is obscured somewhat by hints that the hero may be selling out as much as cleaning up, but I found the complexity refreshing.  Overall, better than some of the more hyped movies in the genre (Never Been Kissed, She's All That etc.). "},{"Title":"Cliche","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's another rah-rah popular girl dates rebel without a cause.  This high school comedy is so cliche that you can almost predict the dialogue as it is going on.  This is a shame because Melissa Joan Hart is one of the most charming, adorable young actresses working today.  Not only is she beautiful, but she has a sense of comedy unlike most starlets.  She has so much innocent charm that it really doesn't matter that she is a little old for the part.  She will be able to play high schoolers into her 30s!  No matter how jaded the character she is playing is, she has a likability that wins every viewer over.  I only wish that she was given better vehicles where all of her abilities were used.  "},{"Title":"An example of post modernist pastiche.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Looking through the reviews, Drive me Crazy is not THAT bad!! I can name a few teen movies which were SO much worse! (Disturbing Behaviour, Urban Legends...)It tries to expell all those teen cliches by amalgamating things which have worked well for other teen movies and placing it in theirs. No points for guessing the end, but it's enjoyable none the less if you're in the right mood for it.I was quite impressed that the characters were not COMPLETE stereotypes as you usually get. The main character of these types of movies would usually be a shy, not popular person who no one notices without a makeover. Not true here. Melissa Joan Hart is a popular girl with popular friends and is completely vivacious. The object of the girl's desire is usually the sport hero who is completely self absorbed or mean or something but seemingly unattainable but here, the guy's fairly nice (if not a little dumb) and it's sort of sweet to see him think himself in 'love' with a cheerleader he fell onto but it seems him and Melissa Joan Hart have always been marked out for each other. The guy next door is not all that strange, just a bit more alternative than the others and so effectively is not the token 'geek'. He had a very pretty girlfriend and guess what? She's not a bitch! Rather, she's just a girl who thinks they're growing apart. A bit of a fresh approach from the age old stereotypes that were getting a bit boring. This movie has its fair share of cliches too and avoids the token prom cliche by having a centenary celebration instead.But ultimately, you already know the ending before you've starting watching. "}{"Title":"Very predictable Plot, very good writing and casting!","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is to laff at the comments you see here.25 years from now, half the panners of this flick will be standing around at their reunions pretending that everyone in the ol' HS class of ____  was devoid of all this shallowness.Direction good, casting great, MJ Hart is the DIVA of HS flicks. Great plot tool for the actual (however predictable) School video club substitution  The Plot? High School is high school kiddies, it has the VERY same plot year after year - and ALL your cool doesnt get you by the fact that, hopefully, one of these characters is YOU!But If you like this, you may also like American Pie?GET REAL!!!  "},{"Title":"Sweet and Simple","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    Watching the movie I realized it was just another modern day Cinderella with most of the cliches that go with it.But putting that aside it does have its merits. It a light and warm movie that yet again proves that all people are equal underneath, that you must get past your inhibitions about others and past your own inhibitions too. In this movie cinderella is both male and female.One changing mostly outward and one mostly inward, mostly being the key word since changing in one aspect ultimately changes the other aspect too. While it isn't Oscar material, its nice for a quiet Friday night or the case of a no-date Saturday. Enjoy   "},{"Title":"Girl knows boy, Girl forgets Boy, Girl likes Boy, Boy likes Girl","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing this film. And many formats like it. I still like them. Each one has it charms. If you like this format. Its charming. Mostly women will like this film. Men on the other hand might not.A little predictable the film is. Its not really about it. Its about two people coming together and not really caring about what others think when they pretend they do. What most school lives are like. "},{"Title":"It's Good!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drive Me Crazy stars Melissa Joan Hart as Nicole, a popular high-school girl who has her eyes set on a guy, named Brad to take her too her school centennial celebration, which she's been working so hard on. But, when she finds out Brad has ,asked out another girl, Nicole needs to find a new guy to take her and fast. In comes Chase Hammond, a guy Nicole has known for years and who even lives next door to her. The only thing is, they don't really speak anymore. That doesn't really matter to Nicole and when she asks Chase to take her, after a little persuading he agrees to go with her. The deal is, Nicole has to give him a stylish new make-over, as his old grung look is just not 'cool' enough and they have to be seen in public a few times before the actual school centennial. They also have to make both Brad and Chase's ex-girlfriend, Dulcie very jealous. Chase's friends, Dave and Ray are not to happy with this though and also seem very jealous that Chase is now in with the in-crowd.*****Spoiler*****Nicole and Chase get more then they bargained for though, when they end up falling for each-other and yes, they do end up together and the end of the film and everything is great again. *****End Of Spoiler*****Drive Me Crazy is quite a predictable film but it's still very good and very interesting to watch and I give it a 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Suck!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I´ve wanted to see this movie for like a year, and when i finally got a chance it turned out to be a totally boring movie. But it had it´s highlights, though. If you need a total time-wasting movie, I guarantee that you will love ´Drive Me Crazy´ "},{"Title":"They always make these teen movies and I always like them","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every 6 months they make these teen movies, they don't suck, they're good. I mean, they're all good. Like this movie. I love M.J. Hart, she's awesome, same with Adrian Grenier. I think they're good movies because this is where some teen actors are discovered. It's also pretty funny, I guess, but M.J. shouldn't have cut her hair. But it's a good movie "},{"Title":"Better than your average High School flick","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The two main characters of this movie deserve a better script.  This movie is way better than your average high school flicks like Ten Things I Hate About You and Can't Hardly Wait.  This movie actually has two intelligent and witty characters in the lead roles.  Although the screenplay is full of some great one-liners and memorable dialogue, it unfortunately follows a very familiar formulaic pattern.  Melissa and Adrian deserve credit for giving thoughtful, convincing, three-dimensional performances.  Too bad the screenplay wasn't held up to a higher standard.  Still, this movie is way better than most of the annoying, romantic teen comedies out there today....check it out if that genre appeals to you and even if it doesn't.  8/10 "},{"Title":"An ok movie","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is another teen/comedy/romance movie about two nextdoor neighboors who pretend to be dating so the girl can get her dream boyfriend and the boy can get his exgirlfriend back by making them both jealous. The acting is good also, especially Mellissa Joan Hart and Ali Larter who are both hot! If you want a good teen comedy then get Drive Me Crazy! "},{"Title":"Adrian Grenier can't go wrong","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alright, alright. I admit there is only one reason I rented this film and that was because it starred the ever gorgeous Adrian Grenier. BUT although this film is stupid and silly, he made it watchable, through his talent and natural style. I have to admit the first time I saw this actor in The Adventures of Sebastian Cole, I was rendered dumb with lust. I then realised that he is indeed a very talented actor who can bring a real edge to every character he plays (check out his role as Lyle the psychotic drug addict in Cecil B. Demented). I hope that he doesn't end up suffering from teen actor syndrome, and fade into obscurity in a couple of years. I'd like to see him in some other more challenging roles. Apart from his performance and a couple of witty lines, the film is predictable and completely unoriginal. Oh, it's not sexist or insulting towards teenagers like many films of it's kind, but otherwise it is completely forgettable. Still, it's worth renting if you are in a shallow mood and you like to look at attractive young talent. "},{"Title":"I feel as though I have seen this movie before...","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ****May contain slight spoilers even though the movie is so predictable and has been done so many times that they aren't really spoilers****I went into this movie not expecting much.  What I got out of it was less than I expected.  It was the worst teen movie that I have ever seen!  Oh wait...nevermind...that would have to be `She's All That'.  But this movie was very close in second.  It was filled with EVERY SINGLE teenage movie cliché. Thank goodness I learned my lesson after seeing `She's All That' and didn't waste $8.50 or waste even $4.00 renting it.  I saw it on HBO.  What I did waste was about 2 hours of my life.  It was a recycled product of every single cheesy predictable teen movie ever made.Lets talk about the acting.  Melissa Joan Hart is to be forever typecast as the popular girl with a heart who wants to help out a poor little outcast character.  Adrian Grenier does a good job with what he is given.  He is one of the only people on this movie with any talent.  He is good playing the kind of geeky outcast type.  Susan May Pratt does a very good job playing the b**chy `best friend' of Nicole.  I think a little too well of a job if you know what I mean.  It's quite a change from her role in a one of the better teen movies `10 Things I Hate About You'.  Stephen Collin's performance is very good but he doesn't have much screen time.  It seems like he is trying to get as far away from his `7th Heaven' role as possible in his movies.Let's discuss the 'plot' now shall we?  Ok there is a dumb, blonde, popular girl who has a heart that she hides away to be cool with her friends (cliché number 1).  She is 'in love' with a good looking blonde girl named Brad is it? (Let's call that cliché number 2)?  But Brad doesn't like her, he likes (wait for it) another even prettier girl!  Then there's the token outcast (cliché number 3).  His longtime girlfriend, Dulcie, decides that they just aren't right for each other and so they break up (cliché number 4).So then Nicole thinks of the perfect idea.  She only needs to find someone to go out with to make Brad jealous!  And what perfect place to make him jealous then the SCHOOL DANCE (cliché number 5 is it?)  So she gets Chase to go along with her plan and she cleans him up.  And what a surprise...Chase is really good looking when he cleans up and looks like a prep (cliché number 6).  But you know that there will be problems during this whole charade and Nicole's 'when you have a friend like me who needs enemies' friend is really out to destroy her because inside she is very insecure and sad  (cliché number 7). So in their whole plan to get back at their exes, Nicole and Chase...get ready for this one...fall in love (cliché number 8)!  But Alicia can't have that so she does something to split to two up (cliché number...um...9?).  So they go to the dance with the people that they wanted to go with all along.  And then you know the rest.  So at the end, Alicia gets `what she deserves' and everyone winds up happy (cliché number...um...oh darn I lost count...)  "}{"Title":" Not as Bad as You Might Think","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is definitely one of the better teen movies. I usually *hate* teenmovies, especially ones like, She's All That and Never Been Kissed.Adrein Grenier and Melissa Joan Hart were good together as a couple, andprobably saved the movie from being another bad teen chick flick.6/10 "},{"Title":"I Enjoyed It","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I myself have gotten caught up in the teenage genre films over the past 4 or 5 years. I find (SOME) entertaining, this being one. Although this film is an obvious cliche of ALOT of other movies, it made me laugh and that was most important. I think Melissa Joan Hart is a talented actress, I mean she's been doing it since she was a kid. Plus it's usually hard to transform yourself from TV screen to big screen actress, but she did it wonderfully. However my favorite character in this movie is Chase (Adrian Grenier) the sloppy rebel boy next door role never gets tiring to me. Backed up by a great supporting cast (C'mon you all know you loved Designated Dave!!!) and a cool soundtrack, I think Drive Me Crazy is a great teen flick that was a tad under appreciated "},{"Title":"good attempt at another teen movie","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Actress Melissa Joan Hart does a fine job portraying the role of Nicole Maris a popular high school student. We are introduced to band-hopping loser next door played by Adrien Grennier. The two neighbors have been friends since junior high, and follow completely different social circles. It's up to Nicole to decide how she is going to make him popular, and up to him to decide to give up his unpopularity.Grennier and Hart play their roles well. However, they cannot save their worth-while performances with this soggy, non original diologue seen in so many teen movies today. This movie is not a total loss, a rental no-brainer. It over rules teen movies such as Whatever It Takes and Eight Days a Week but is no where near the intelligence of Clueless or 10 Things i hate about you- Good attempt.  "},{"Title":"Reminds me a little bit of Can't buy me love, but...","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hi there,Half an hour ago I finished watching this movie, Drive Me Crazy! Well, I thought I should write something about it. The movie reminds me a little bit of Can't buy me love from 1986 (feat. Patrick Dempsey, yeah that was his name), but it's more than that, it's a wonderful teenage movie with great actors, great music and a romantic love story! Don't miss Melissa Joan Hart's performance! Wow, what an actress, what a talent and wow, she's so cute! Go and see the movie no matter how old you are, it'll make you feel good and that reminds me of the 80s! Maybe somehow they're back!See you...Yours, Tobi "},{"Title":"NOT VERY ORIGINAL BUT ENTERTAINING","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie and recorded it when it came out on HBO.  Melissa Joan Hart is a cute actress, and Grenier is an even cuter actor.  I thought all the emotions throughout the movie were played well except by Grenier.  The supporting cast was good, but Grenier could have acted some scenes out a lot better.  Often, his emotion-packed eyes saved him.  It's obviously a very predictable movie, but what teen movie isn't?  Teenagers love happy, sappy endings.  Although, I hated the fairy tale music played at the end.  That was a little too sappy.  And I don't understand the time suck scene where Grenier bumps into his dad at the big dance.  If the writers wanted to make a point out of that, it wasn't made.  I would recommend this as a teen-date movie, but it's certainly nothing special.  She's All That and 10 Things I Hate About You were better. "},{"Title":"just what you think, but perhaps less painful","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a standard high-school prom movie, but the stock characters are a little more fleshed out than usual. I think that it's better than 10 Things I Hate About You or Never Been Kissed, but neither of these movies set the bar that high -- it is, however, nowhere near as good as Say Anything or Clueless.Ms. Hart does the smart smart-ass thing quite well, and is given some good lines, so when she's on screen (which is most of the time), it's at worst quite painless. Perhaps if she weren't so cute and perky I wouldn't have liked the movie as much. Mostly I'd like to see her in something better.Anyway, if you need a painless rental and all the really good movies are taken, you could do a lot worse than this one.  "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was totally bored during this movie.  I thought it would never end.  I'm so glad it finally did.  LOL!  I kept thinking maybe it would get better, but it really didn't.  I hope you don't waste too much time on this one -) "},{"Title":"A surprisingly enjoyable movie.","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It has been compared to other teen flicks such as She's All That, which I have also seen, but I found that this movie had a lot more charm. With a surprisingly good rock soundtrack (considering the title song)with appearances by indie groups the Donnas, and Phantom Planet. This is not the movie to see if you are looking for a great elaborate plot, but it is enjoyable if you walk in with an open mind and just want to watch a fun movie. It has a great atmosphere with detailed characters, and is relatively well written which warrants a second viewing if you enjoyed it the first time, and can admit it to your friends. "},{"Title":"Talk about living up to your title","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stricken with a mad Sith Flu and confined to my lair, I was jockeying the remote control like a 4-foot Arabian twerp on a hoof-thumping steed, scanning the wasteland that is cable in search of some mid-afternoon programming.  I came upon a bunch of scantily-clad, buxom, perfectly-primped young women and thought to myself, S**t, since when do I have the Spice Channel?But once I saw Melissa Joan Hart's all-too familiar, poorly-lit countenance mug up to the screen, I surmised that this must be some disposable teen comedy flick that deserved at least ten minutes of my time.  Sure enough, I wasn't disappointed for this flick fell into convention faster than you could say Chicken Little.  The hacks who wrote the novel, adapted the screenplay, and committed said prose to film should be hung with the negative itself.  Then set both ablaze and kill two birds with one stone.How can anyone play s**t like this straight?  Drive Me Crazy is a dumbed-downed version of the 1987 Steve Rash classic Can't Buy Me Love, if you can believe that.  At least the latter film was anchored by a strong performance from Patrick Clown College Dempsey.  And Gerardo is masterful, chewing scenery like a pair of rug-munchers in heat.  If this farce can be considered a teen film, then my home-made kung-fu flicks deserve Oscar consideration.What ever happened to the teen flick genre?  It's bordering on child pornography, er, actually let me retract that.  IF these teen movies actually starred teens, then I might have a point when I say that.  But since Drive Me Crazy's teen cast's medium age is about 26, I am totally in the wrong.  Mea cupla.  But in the interest of being fair, I must laud the costume designer(s) of this little opus for they NEVER falter here.  As the ridiculously precotious teen girls wade there way through scene after scene of even more ridiculously staged melodrama, you can almost see bush. Morning dew.  The good stuff.  I love the fact that the filmmakers never give you TOO much...Anyhow, stay as far away from this tripe as humanly possible.  If you want to gain a true appreciation for the teen genre, I highly recommend The Breakfast Club, Weird Science, and Sleepaway Camp I.  That's it until the next installment, till then, save us those goddamned isle seats.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Actually, I saw this movie because I was in the mood for a teen film, which unfortunately have a habit of not living up even to my worst expectations. About half an hour into it I was afraid it was going to turn into that kind movie, when it turned around and got better. By the end, I was enjoying it, and glad I spent the money to rent it.Good - thank God they didn't put Freddie Prinze, Jr. in it. Melissa Joan Hart's character was just about to be the kind of fake teenage character I hate, there seemed to be a lot of the stupid Disneyish humor, but keep watching past the beginning - it gets much better. The rest of it was actually sweet. "}{"Title":"I think it's Great","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I personally think that this is a very good movie. I know many people consider it to be just another teen love movie, but people have to realize that they are all different in some way. I think that the cast is great. The movie itself is also great. I think that Adrian(Chase) does a good job converting over to one of the others. I also like how Designated Dave, finally gets a girl, that he truly deserved! I recommend seeing this movie if you have not, and if you have watch it again, you just might fall in love with it all over again!  "},{"Title":"Not just another teen movie...","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie thinking that i was going to see just another teen movie where you can see the girl who mets the guy, then they fall in love and go to the prom together...bla bla bla... I was wrong, this is probably the first movie of this kind (ok, a teen movie) which has something to say!! Appearances, what you can do to be noticed, what everybody really wants!!! I recommend!!! It's an adult-teen movie!!  "},{"Title":"Great date movie, and best high-school movie yet","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite movie.  The cast, the storyline, EVERYTHING! Ok, so Nicole Marris(Melissa Joan Hart) is in charge of 'Centennial',The biggest night of our lives! to celebrate the birth of their high-school. She's totally Mrs. School Spirit.  Anyway, she wants the most popluar guy in school (star of the basketball team of course), Brad, to take her. Then there's the rebelious Chase Hammond and his  friends Ray and Dave(Mark Webber-who is sooooo CUTE!!!!).  But Dave isn't that rebelious.  He wants to be one of them -the preppies.  And Chase's girlfriend Dulci(played beautifully by the beautiful Ali Larter) who is the definition of beatnik. After a little spat, Dulci dumps Chase, leaving him depressed and lonely-about the same time that Dave is falling in love on-line and Brad is falling in love with a rival cheerleader, leaving Nicole dateless. SPOILER ALERT Thus, after a party-in which Nicole gets drunk-she goes through all the seniors and there is only one to take her-Chase, her next door neighbor best friend until jr. high happened. He agrees, thinking it will scare Dulci back into his arms.  As the movie concludes we see the chemistry between the two, and watch them fall in love. And we watch the EVIL Alicia(Nicole's friend, or shall we say best of) make everyone miserable, particulary Nicole. Dave meets his love, which is SO DARN CUTE but also very predictable. Nicole settles things w/ her dad, and all is well.  Wait for a surprise ending. Packed w/ laughs, romance, an a wonderful high-school setting, this movie gets an A+ from me, Wiley's sis "},{"Title":"The title says it all.","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those hideously horrible teen films that is only memorable for its sheer unbelievablity.  The story has to do with a pygmalian fantasy in reverse as Nicole (Melissa Joan Hart) Needs a date for the prom, but is dumped by her super cool, oh so popular boyfriend.  So she sets her eyes on not so cool but still hunky, Chase (Adrian Grenier)  Well at first it is all a scam to get her first hunk to want her, but of course she falls for wonderful, deep and insightful, Chase.   This film is filled with the sort of dialog that no one at any age ever has uttered out of their mouth.  If any real teenager tried to talk like these people, they would be laughed out of whatever school they attended.  The sequence where Chase describes his perfect woman is possibly the single most pretentious piece of film ever shown in  an American theatre. The BEST part about this all around horrid little cinema experience is the actual prom.  More opulant than a Donald trup casino opening, it looks like it cost more than an average household makes in ten years of working, yet it is supposedly put on by a single person planning and setting it up.  There is not one believable moment in this entire movie.   Hey...did I like it.  Quick answer..NO..not in any way shape or form. "},{"Title":"Better than you might think","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although it does suffer from some of the usual clichés that films of this type always seem to have, it's got a few good points as well. Most of the actors are pretty good, especially Adrian Grenier. The screenwriter and director seemed to realize  that high schools are made up of more than two cliques, and that not everyone is clamouring to get into the in crowd--things are more complex than that in real life, and this movie understands that. They also didn't make the mistake of making all the geeks into caricatures. I especially liked the character of Ray, played by Kris Park. Nicole, played by Melissa Joan Hart, isn't a stereotypical teen female lead character; she's got a bit of an edge and a few unexpected facets (perhaps due partly to the fact that Hart was in her early 20s when this movie was filmed). Finally, this movie is exactly what it looks like a lightweight teen flick. Although there are several romantic relationships and some passionate kissing, there's not a lot of unnecessary, inappropriate profanity or innuendo (as in _She's All That_). _Drive Me Crazy_ pretty much sticks to being an entertaining, if forgettable, bit of fluff. Worth a cheap rental. (7/10)Oh, and did I mention that although there is a big dance at the climax of the film, it's *not* a prom? Not only that, but we are spared a stagey choreographed dance sequence. That alone is worth a few rating points! "},{"Title":"It wasn't that bad","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went in seeing this movie thinking, ok, Britney Spears sings the main song, this movie has to be like those other bad teen movies.  It turned out to be suprisingly watchable.  It does follow the standard formula of teen movies and is very predictable, but sometimes, filled in a world where the good movies always end in unhappy endings or some kind of killing, you need a movie that has a nice, happy ending. "},{"Title":"Whatever...","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Uh...Why am I writing a review of this movie. Ah...I wish I knew. It's an average little movie, well written, well acted. Not meant for anyone over twenty, not to be taken seriously. But I have to say Adrien Grenier is a really terrific actor. He'd be great in a cool thriller or something. God, I love teen movies... "},{"Title":"Second-rate cast in a Second-rate film","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seems like the cast for this film was picked from those that were rejected for more glamorous teen flicks like Can't Hardly Wait, She's All That or Jawbreaker.The results weren't too bad, but they weren't too good either.This film has the all-too-familiar boy has girl--boy loses girl--boy tries to get girl back story line with a few twists and not much more.Melissa Joan Hart delivers a good-enough performance in her lead role that should land her in more films, but the same can't be said for her co-star Adrian Grenier.If you're a pre-teen or in your early teens, you'll probably enjoy the sugar-coated songs laced all over this film like Britney Spears' Crazy and Backstreet Boys' I Want it that Way.If you didn't appreciate Can't Hardly Wait or Jawbreaker, then watching Drive Me Crazy will. "},{"Title":"This great movie will drive you crazy","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great! I just loved it. I mean, the characters Melissa Joan Heart and Adrian Grenier were fantastic. This movie is about two next-door neighbors who have stopped being friends since jr. high. Nicole wants a date with the star basketball player for the prom. But when he asks someone else, she tries to find someone else to go with. Chase gets dumped by his girlfriend and he also needs someone. Nicole asks Chase because she wants to make the guy she likes jealous. Chase has the same thing on mind about his ex. Nicole changes the way Chase dresses and makes him popular. They both get together but realize that they really loved each other all along. I can't tell you the whole story here, because I'll be spoiling it all. But I would just like to say again that this movie is great. It's romantic, funny, and sweet at the same time. It's a great movie- I love it. I'm sure that you will too. Rating10 "},{"Title":"A decent attempt at teen comedy","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was not expecting anything good at all when I saw this movie, but I was surprised to discover it was a decent movie.  The characters were generally believable and the plot was pretty interesting.  Under no circumstances can you be expecting a deep and meaningful movie here, but it was fun and just a good time.  It had some truly funny moments and Melissa Joan Hart makes a nice big screen debut which may help her get a career going past Sabrina the Teenage Witch.  The ending is the only part of the movie that suffers.  I won't give it away, but it is a fitting end to the movie. "}{"Title":"The best of the bunch ... M.J.H. lead on.","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Melissa Joan Hart plays Nicole Maris in Drive Me Crazy - and she rocks! In all her other films that I have seen to-date, she has played only comedy. While she does this exceptionally well, I was pleasantly surprised to see her flex her acting prowess. Her character is that of a shrewd and cynical high school go-getter - hard and organised on the outside, but with an endearing vulnerability beneath the facade. In fairness, the rest of the cast were also of a similarly high standard. It would be unfair not to mention Adrian Grenier who plays Chase, Nicole's neighbour and that little bit more besides. Adrian plays a most convincing role as the laconic introvert. The plot itself had a refreshing realism about it; without the typical melodrama which usually accompanies similar genre films. Drive Me Crazy focusses coherently on a few central relationships; rather than skirting over too many relationships to no meaningful end. American Pie was too ludicrous to be real. Can't hardly wait was too superficial. Jawbreaker, too unreal. Drive Me Crazy could almost be a documentary in places. As far as high school films go this is the one to watch.  "},{"Title":"Nothing impressive.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I suppose there is not much one should expect from a teen comedy and that is exactly why I went to see the film. I wanted something light and entertaining. But even if you were as tired and sleepy as I was when I went, you could not fail to notice how shallow it was. The female protagonist could not convince me at any stage that she was the popular, active, fashion victim girl who expected to go the the ball with the most popular guy at school. She is fine as Sabrina, but she was just plain and uninteresting here... The rest of the cast was alright, the plot was predictable. The only character well played was Dulcie, although she takes part in the dullest moment of the movie when she and Nicole are together in the lab and Nicole reveals to her how the protagonist's mother had died but somehow the whole episode is just dull. The only thing that made me laugh was the video one of the students prepared where he was ridiculing everyone. Nothing special, nothing horrible, a pretty painless watch....    "},{"Title":"A nice laugh able movie to watch.","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was a nice movie with Malissa Joan Hart and Adrien Grenier pairing up. The plot and the story is a good one to see.What more, with Brittney Spears song 'Drive Me Crazy' its Soundtrack gets to be cool. Its comedy is a nice one to see. It's '10 Things...' kind of a movie, so the ones who watched '10 Things...' must watch this movie too. "},{"Title":"Fun and Entertaining film, just nothing new","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Melissa Joan Hart and Adrian Grenier star in a suprisingly entertaing movie, even though you know where it's going in the first ten minutes.Melissa Joan Hart stars as Nicole and Adrian Grenier stars as Chase. The two have been life long neighbors, and also have recently been dumped by their significant others. In a plan to make their ex-significant others jealous they pretend to be dating. In the process, Nicole cleans up Chase, so that he'll fit in with her friends, which drives a wedge between him and his friends.Drive Me Crazy is a fun high school movie that is entertaining and occasionally funny. It's well made, but if you're looking for depth or originality, I suggest Grenier's The Adventures of Sebastian Cole instead. "},{"Title":"Movie Gives Birth to Disappointing Changes","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WARNING  Semi-spoilers to follow.First off, I would like to say something positive about the movie... if nothing else, at least Dulcie was portrayed properly.  From that high note, I would also like to add that Mr. Strasser wrote a challenging novel to live up to.On the other hand, there were loopholes and empty spaces big enough for me to stick my arm through.  For goodness sake, they cut the pre-prom procession (one of my favorite parts of the book) and replaced it with a mediocre Senior class unveiling.  Also, I believe Dee Vine, an important character in _How I Changed My Life_, a Strasser book, taking place in Timothy Zonin High School, that is almost a prequel to _Drive Me Crazy_, was unfairly cast.  I'm all for good acting, but couldn't Dee have been more of a brunette?In conclusion, the movie was high end mediocre when compared to the book, ranking about a 7.5 on my personal scale. "},{"Title":"Lighthearted Fun","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cute new adaptation on an old romantic-comedy theme of two people who just pretend to like each other and couldn't be more surprised at the results. This movie was a goodnatured and fun little love story.  If you're looking for a lighthearted pick me-up on a sad day, this is it. "},{"Title":"Predictable yet intelligent.","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I expected this movie to be predictable, and it was, but that is not a bad thing.  It took the simple story and did something that I liked.  They made the characters intelligent.  I actually cared for the characters and did not find them so dumb and missing the obvious.  Filmmakers are finally giving us highschool movies with somewhat realistic characters. "},{"Title":"This movie was a great first date movie.","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a good movie.  I think that Melissa Joan Hart and Adrian Greenier made the movie.  This was a great romance movie with just enough highschool moments that make you say I really miss that.  And last but NOT least Adrian Greenier is so hot. "},{"Title":"Should Be Called He's All That","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  About these teen flicks these days...their always about either about a girl or a guy looking for their special someone and falling in love (Ex  She's All That, 10 Things I Hate About You, American Pie) or they are bone-chilling thrillers (Ex  I Know What You Did Last Summer, Scream).  Well, Drive Me Crazy falls in the Looking For Love category.This teen romance comedy, starring Adrian Grenier, Melissa Joan Hart, Stephan Collins, and Susan May Pratt, isn't your everyday girl-meets-cute-boy type of film.  Melissa stars as Nicole Maris, who falls school basket ball star Brad, and will do ANYTHING to go to the prom with him.  Yet her heart breaks when she finds out that Dream Boy gets hooked up with someone else.  For revenge, Nicole asks child hood friend and now neighbor, Chase Hammond, played by Adrian, to replace Brad.  Like Zach(Freddie Prinze Jr.) gives Laney (Rachel Leigh Cook) a make-over in She's All That, Nicole brings out the new Chase, who will do anyting to get his ex-girlfriend, Dulce, back.  Yet what Nicole herself never expects it to fall for her former childhood friend.  Same goes for Chase.  But because they both come from totally different worlds...what would their friends think of the hot new couple?I must agree w/ the other user comments on this one...this movie is very predictable.  You watch this movie and say to yourself, Okay...seen it before in other movies!I highly do compare this movie to She's All That, because of the unexpected love between Nicole and Chase.  Yet unlike She's All That, Nicole and Chase have known each other for a long time since childhood, and despite their love for basket ball king Brad and anti-high-school spirit Dulce, they of course realize that they both know what's best for each other and that the bond is still there.Of course...anyone can see that...even when I first saw the commercial about this movie going into theatres.  I'm not saying that this was a bad movie.  It's actually good.  Like all romance comedies before and after this, it's sweet...it's cute...something that any romance lovers would like to watch.  Although Drive Me Crazy is a fairly good flick...even a movie your parents might even like...it lacks that special touch by putting in events that would capture the audience and make them think, What!?  That's not supposed to happen...is it!?So...let's conclude this review this way  If you liked She's All That, you'll like Drive Me Crazy!!! ) ~ *FIN*  "},{"Title":"Predictable Romance/Comedy.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure If I done a review on this film before, oh well, If I have I'll just do another one.Drive Me Crazy is about Nicole (Melissa Joan Hart) who has just been dumped by her superly-awesome boyfriend. Also Chase (Adrian Greiner) has been dumped, too. These two teens live next door to each other, and Nicole has a 'great' idea that they should pretend to get together only to get their real dates back.I was actually really disappointed with this movie. It didn't appeal to me.My rating - 5 and a half/10. "}{"Title":"It Was Great for a Sunday Afternoon","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've just seen Drive Me Crazy. Predictable? Yes. Been done before? Several times. Is it fun to watch? Definitely. Movies are not made just for groundbreaking new visions of art that will change the industry forever. Sometimes people forget what its like to lay back on the couch and see a movie just for the fun of it. And I had my share of fun with the performance of the cast, in a well made movie. Melissa Joan Hart's still good, no big news here, and Adrian Grenier is a great surprise as Chase. So, instead of expecting some deep philosophy here, just relax and enjoy the movie. Who knows? You may like it! "},{"Title":"a very special film","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie because it was so different than the typical teen high school comedy that Hollywood is churning out these days (She's All That, Can't Hardly Wait, Whatever It Takes).  Melissa Joan Hart and the rest of the cast add some depth and truth to their roles.  And even though the story is predictable, the director pulls it off with feeling.The main love story was actually romantic and emotionally gripping.  The ending was like one of those classic romance movies of the past.  As far as the rest goes, I applaud the writer for not making the students look like idiots and stereotypes.  This film shows many different sides to both the heroes and the villians, rather than making one look all good or all bad.The movie is slower in pace than most the MTV influenced films out there which I found to be refreshing.  Best of all, Drive Me Crazy has heart. It doesn't treat its characters like morons and throwaways.  At the core of the story, is Melissa Joan Hart.  She is such a talented actress and really loses herself in her role.  I forgot Sabrina & Clarissa pretty quick.Go check out this video.  Don't expect a laugh a minute American Pie type film.  Expect more of a John Hughes Sixteen Candles type.  "},{"Title":"Drove me crazy","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I've seen in a while.  The shallow characterization and predictable plot could have been somewhat saved by a little T&A, but, alas, I was left wanting.  I knew I should have hit STOP when my head began aching after he first five minutes of the video. "},{"Title":"director's cut explains much more","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The non-director's cut left out many needed flashback sequences that helped developed the character's more thoroughly.  For instance, the electocutes were orginally named pink bitches.  Also, a very underrated sequence was ray's mockumentary that implied that high school students at basketball games were no different than nazi germany. when the in-crowd makes fun of him nicole, points out hey, he's going to win so many mtv video awards and you're going to do nothin  or something to that effect.  The actual director's cut is a mere four hours and actual breaks the movie down into a three part series not unlike godfather.  The first follows the lives of their parents before the divorce and cancer in small industrial city. The second is hambone and nicole's early years as up to their breakup in seventh grade.  The producers showed us the last but since prequels are so popular these days hopefully the earlier drive me crazy's will come out in the next few years.  look for mary kate olsen to play a young nicole, not ashley >  "},{"Title":"All together cheese fest!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a horrible movie! I went to see this with a friend after spending a long day babysitting expecting a fun, hip type movie but I was sadly mistaken. The soundtrack goes farther than the movie did. Think about this, why would Melissa Joan Hart be soooo into the centennial thing? Does she not have a life? Obviously not if she made this movie. If you've seen the commercials, you've seen the whole movie. Buy the soundtrack, skip the movie "},{"Title":"funny cliched movie","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  drive me crazy was very entertaining although it was almost too cliched, there were distinct characteristics of the movie that made it appealing.it was a dumpee and dumpee romantic comedy, but it was cant hardly wait, she's all that, animal house, etc... all rolled in one that made it quite lovableadrian garnier was also way fine which did not hurt, and made watching it more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Drivel The Whole Family Can Enjoy","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  She's All That, I mean, Drive Me Crazy, is one of this season's most fun films. The plot revolves around a sexy high schooler, played by Jennifer Love Hewitt, who falls for her a rich jock, played by Freddie Prinze Jr. Wait, that can't be right. It's about a sweet loner--Rachael Leigh Cook--who develops a crush on a rebellious Australian, played by Heath Ledger. No, that's not right either. But I think Molly Ringwald was involved... If you've been dragged to the multiplex by your significant other, your Mom (What a LOVELY film that reinforces family values!) or your dog (there's just no accounting for some taste) you'll understand my confusion. There is absolutely NOTHING to set Drive Me Crazy apart from every other teen lovey-dovey film in the last 100 years. Oh sure, Adrian Grenier is a great new discovery in the field of acting, and that girl who plays opposite him (Sarah Michelle Gellar? I know she had three names) is kinda cute. But other than that, this is the same old claptrap you've sat through 300-400 times. Save your money, invest in some telemarketing scam. You'll get a better return. "},{"Title":"Immensely enjoyable brain vacation!","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drive me Crazy is an absolutely fun movie romp! I expected to leave this one with the same feeling of absolute annoyance I had when I left 10 things... and She's All that. Nicole and Chase are more likable and more realistic than the teenagers in either of those films. While the premise has been used to pieces the movie feels fresh. The popular Nicole is not a snob that looks down on everyone else in the school, and Chase is not the school dork. They just happen to move in different circles. Especially enjoyable is the fact that you actually see a relationship developing based on a lot of chemistry and some open minds. Sure we know they will get together at the end, but it is fun to watch them get to the point. The pratfalls they encounter are not lame comic relief or based on overblown emotions. When things happen, we understand why they happen and how. They had a business deal and neither Nicole nor Chase are willing to admit their feelings have developed any further. Sure there are Back Street Boys and Brittany Spears songs on the soundtrack, but the movie is an enjoyable, and relatively intelligent genre entry.  "},{"Title":"Sugar Rather than Spice","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A predictable film about two people who are meant for each other but are just too hard-headed to notice.  That is until fate puts them in each others arms.  Cute but confusing in scenes (Is Sabrina really angry at those girls in the club or just joking around??)  There were some laugh out-loud lines (especially in the car on the way home from the party) although I think that the ending added unnecessary cheese.  Pick it up from the video store on a night when you have nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"Girl Gives Birth To Prom Date?","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's predictable, but what do you except?  It's a simple tale with simple characters.  Nothing to really offend anyone, but nothing to really rush out to the theaters to see.  What do you really except from a movie based on a story called How I Created My Perfect Prom Date? "}{"Title":"Not the same as She's All That","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  People have been comparing this movie to She's All That (1999).  I don't really see the comparison.  The story line may be somewhat similar but Drive Me Crazy (1999) is not on the same level.The best acting came from Ali Larter and Keri Lynn Pratt.  The leads (Melissa Joan Hart and Adrian Grenier) gave somewhat flat performances. Ali Larter personally caught my eye when she played the part of Kristy Livingstone on Dawson's Creek, and I look forward to anything she will be in at a later date.Overall, this movie was nothing special.  If you happen to like one of actors, and can't wait, go see it in the theaters.  My recommendation though is to wait and see it on video.5/10 "},{"Title":"A sweet movie that leaves you feeling giddy.","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie and although the plot is unoriginal, drive me crazy was so adorable and sweet.  I found myself smiling during the whole movie and when I left I just felt happy.  Yes, like others say, the plot is really cliche, but I think this movie does the cutest version of it.  I would see it over and over again. "},{"Title":"Trivial.","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  By glorifying the virtues of the top-level clique in a high school, making drug use, underage drinking, violence against women, and snobbish one-upsmanship valuable; and at the same time dehumanizing or marginalizing any other sub-group, this film goes nowhere.I found myself loathing everyone in the film for various reasons. Be it for being stuck up, rich, punks, or underachieving, slacker, societal-misfits, or the favorite tech/AV/Nerd.  Not one of these groups or persons is worth filming, telling a story about, or wasting my time with.Ms. Hart also is showing her age (and a bit of skin in the recent MAXIM magazine) and as a result is no longer qualified to portray a teenager. It's time for her to grow up.It's also time that this sort of behavior stop being made into films.Not worth seeing, not worth renting once it's on video.  "},{"Title":"A great modern example of the genre that John Hughes started.","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As an update to the high school dramedy that John Hughes began in the 80's, this movie is dead on the mark and even improves on the delivery.  The highs and lows of the reality of hormones and high school are more accurately showed than any other main stream movie to date.Remember the life-crushing spirit-draining power behind a break-up?  how about the elation throttling realization that your close friend is attractive AND fun to be around?Another new twist is the blurring of lines between social castes.  Despite what John Hughes would have us believe, there is no thick black line between the trendy people and the rejects -- we intermingled and changes our status often.This movie reminded me of the emotional addiction of high school. "},{"Title":"Similar to 10 Things","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie appeared to be a combination of 10 Things I Hate About You and 16 Candles.It explores aspects of teenage angst without taking itself too seriously. Example the answering maching greeting of, After the tone list 3 ways high school sucks and then leave your message.The acting was good but the storyline wasn't quite as well written as 10 Things... -- still worth your time and $ to see it. "},{"Title":"An ok plot with some funny parts.","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Drive Me Crazy' was funny at times and Melissa Joan Hart was >good, but sometimes this movie had some rough times.Overall I >liked this movie, but some things just didn't make sense why >they put them into the film. And Britney Spears song playing >every 5 minutes almost drove me crazy. But overall it was ok, >but  wait for video. My rating 7 out  "},{"Title":"Cute and fun, but wait till video","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, so I saw this movie thinking probably what everybody else was...another teen flick. It lived up to it's expectations. Another teen flick! But who didn't expect it to be different. It is a fun and cute movie... although I wouldn't pay $7.50 to see it again "},{"Title":"Just what you might expect...","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is basically just what you might expect from a high school love and crush comedy. However, this movie was a bit better than the average one. Don't get me wrong, it's no Fast Times at Ridgemont High, but it is a fun picture. I think Melissa Joan Hart is a star that is going to shine even brighter upon a very promising film career. If you're looking for a nice movie for a good laugh and some high school memories check it out.  "},{"Title":"Drive Me Home","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drive Me CrazyFor some reason or the other, I had high hopes for DRIVE ME CRAZY. Coming off one of the worst periods in cinema for teens, I was praying that vet Melissa Joan Hart could save me from utter garbage like SHE'S ALL THAT, TEACHING MRS. TINGLE, and TEN THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU. All of those films relied on the Gap-universe ethic and outlandish stereotypes to portray their respective teen microcosms. They all hide behind the I loved John Hughes excuse, but Mr. Hughes's films were never like the current crop of air-headed junk that young audiences are eating up. Good films like ELECTION, which used real high school students for extras, are passed on by, not as dumb or remotely hip to be noticed. All this makes DRIVE ME CRAZY even more of a disappointment than it already is.SABRINA, THE TEENAGE WITCH's Melissa Joan Hart stars as Nicole, a overachieving teenager with a flighty mom (V's Faye Grant), an absent father (7TH HEAVEN's Stephen Collins), and a loser neighbor named Chase who happens to be the same age(Adrian Grenier, the recent ADVENTURES OF SEBASTIAN COLE). Attending the same school, both Nicole and Chase couldn't be further apart in terms of popularity. She, arranging the school's centennial celebration dance, he, spending his time putting orange ink in the sprinkler system. The two are exact opposites. When Nicole's object of affection, a basketball jock with a haircut that needs to seen to be believed, won't ask her to the dance, she enlists the help of her former childhood friend Chase to help her make the narrow-minded jock jealous of what he could have had. Chase, hurting from a recent breakup with his girlfriend, sees the opportunity to make his ex jealous as well. Wackiness and hidden feelings ensue.While DRIVE ME CRAZY is decently made film, I was shocked to find the movie devoid of any kinetic energy at all. Director John Schultz only seems to understand soundtrack plugs and ugly closeups. This is the only high school comedy this year with the pungent aroma of odd seeping through. Scenes begin and end without much structure, actors are left to hang with often very poor dialog, and the aforementioned soundtrack is terribly by-the-numbers. The only time the audience seemed to truly enjoy the film was when Britney Spears's current Crazy song was cued up. Sad for a film that seems to want to please so much.The plot alone is something more menacing than autopilot. I'm not sure what the next level beyond clichéd may be, but DRIVE ME CRAZY is it. I find it hard to believe that the studios are not noticing that the teenage films are all alike. Almost each one has climaxed at a dance of somesort. I'm sure most people could tell me the entire sequence of events in DRIVE just from observing the poster. Predictability is one thing, DRIVE is completely without any invention.Melissa Joan Hart is a very likable performer. Her past triumphs in television have made her a very natural and charming actress. While DRIVE doesn't require anything in the form of effort from Hart, she still manages to ingratiate herself with the role. Adrian Grenier was wonderful in the little seen (and probably rightly so) ADVENTURES OF SEBASTIAN COLE. He's got a unique low-key charm, and is probably one of the few actors his age with a handsomeness that isn't forced or common. I liked him in DRIVE only for the fact that Grenier makes his character seem more two-dimensional than on the page. His loser character seems to enjoy his popularity for a short time. A nice change from the usual It's all right to be different riffraff that passes for morals in these types of films.DRIVE is lifeless. A film that just doesn't bother to meet the audience halfway. I wanted it to be so much more than a routine teenage melodrama.  I 've had enough of that, and I think the audience has too. In a theater full of 14 year-old girls, nobody laughed, nobody cheered, nobody swooned. For a movie genre that prides itself on these ethics, DRIVE could be considered a disaster. For me, it's just sadly sub-par.--------4/10 "},{"Title":"One of the better teen flicks!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When i first saw the trailer for the movie I thought it looked pretty good so I went to see Drive Me Crazy opening night. This is one of the better teen flicks. The film is the first to put Melissa Joan Hart (Clarissa Explains It All, Sabrina the Teenage Witch) off the small screen and onto the big screen in a starring role. It also brings out actor Adrian Grenier who I have never heard of before.Melissa's character is the miss school spirit, but Melissa does bring life to the character. She is also coping with her parents who are divorced and is mainly sore towards her dad who doesn't put out enough effort to see his daughter. She is neighbors with our other main character played by Adrian Grenier.Adrian plays Chase who was best friends with Melissa's character Nicole until Junior High. He lives with his father and has strong views on certain things. This is due to his mother having died of cancer when he was only eleven.I think that both lead roles portrayed their parts very well and Melissa really shined on the big screen. Other characters are introduced also throughout the movie and even with them a twist occurs.In my opinion, this movie was better than She's All That, another teen movie that people rate higher than the usual teen flick.The music used in the movie is also very well placed. The main song is the Britney Spears single (You Drive Me) Crazy The Stop! Remix which is featured at the party in the movie and while the credits role, along with on the soundtrack for the movie.As a final note I give the film two thumbs up and four out of five stars. Go see it and make an opinion for yourself, I think you will enjoy the feature. "}{"Title":"wow... this was bad","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, even though I hadn't actually paid too much attention to this movie, I did notice enough that it was horrible. I gave it a 3 out of 10 only because it has Melissa Joan-Hart in it. If she was not the main star, I most likely would have given this movie a ... 1. The plot was horrible. Both get dumped so they get together and become a couple, but for what reason? To make people jealous? Come on, that's pathetic. I could pull a better one out my anus. But enough of this because I am just wasting my time. Hopefully Melissa will re-read the scripts a little better before becoming a part of a movie of that caliber. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but a fun watch","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drive Me Crazy is the latest attempt in Melissa Joan Hart's career to establish herself a firm foothold in the movie business.  This one will work.  She plays Nicole, a popular girl who is jilted right before the biggest social event in the history of her school.  She, of course, gets her next door neighbor to clean up his rebel ways and become the latest heartbreaker in the school.Not that this spoils anything, but the formula is predictable. They make a deal, convince all the kids in school they're dating, end up falling in love, have a breakup, and finally get together at the end.  Basic stuff that has been used in Can't Buy Me Love and most recently She's All That. Melissa Joan Hart is likeable and fun to watch, and her leading man, Adrian Grenier makes a good rebel turned in kid.Most of the supporting cast is good and believable in their roles, the only problem I had was Ali Larter's Dulcie....she was clearly too grown up to be a believable high school student.  Very pretty and good actress, but not a good high school student.  I could have easily bought into her as a college freshman though.Drive Me Crazy will appeal well to its core teen audience, even though they may chuckle at some of the mannerisms portrayed by the characters.  It's basic morals (everyone, popular or not, is a person too) manage to shine through.3 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Nothing  Special","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drive Me Crazy wasn't as bad as other teen films I've seen in the past. This one was at least watchable and got some moments. The problem with this movie is the plot (like always). It's not original. Some scenes were kind a stupid. I laugh a few times, but nothing big. This movie was just okay, don't expect much out of it. But I like American Pie more (which I gave **1/2).** "},{"Title":"Not a terribly original or groundbreaking piece, but fun & sweet nonetheless","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so it doesn't break any molds. It's a typical teen high school movie, the plot sounds suspiciously similar to She's All That, and it's based on a young adult novel. But Drive Me Crazy is cute, entertaining, and fun. Melissa Joan Hart (TV's Sabrina the Teenage Witch) plays Nicole, one of the popular teens at school. Her next door neighbor, once best friend, Chase (The Adventures of Sebastian Cole's Adrian Grenier) is one of the outcasts at school, dating ultra alternative-indie-revolutionary-gothic chick Dulcie (Ali Larter, doing a complete 180 from the character she played in Varsity Blues, leading me to believe this talented unknown has a real future in films) -- until she dumps him. Bummer. Not for Nicole, who's looking for a way to entice jock-boy Brad (Carpenter) into asking her to the school's Centennial Dance (which Nicole has meticulously planned herself). She suggests to her old friend Chase that by appearing to date, they might make their respective loves jealous and therefore win them (or win them back in Chase's case). So Chase agrees to be remade in Nicole's image of the perfect man. The script actually takes a decent look at the divisions and class (social, not year of graduation) structure inherent in high school. Neither of the cliques (the popular kids or the outcasts) is made out to be better than the other. Both have their pluses and their minuses. Obviously, both the main characters are representative of the best of their respective groups. But the minuses? Larter's character springs to mind, as does Alicia (10 Things I Hate About You's May Pratt) -- a popular chick who actually seems to be the devil. Are you happier now? an outcast-turned-popular Dee Vine (Lynn Pratt) asks Chase. He's not sure; neither is she. The acting is average. I like Joan Hart and Grenier, and Stephen Collins (of TV's moral-heavy 7th Heaven) gives a small but good performance as Nicole's absent dad. As I've said before, I like Larter (both in this film and Varsity Blues), and I also liked Mark Webber's designated Dave. The Pratts (sisters? They don't look it...) could have been stronger, but both are decent actors who should have promising careers ahead of them. Kris Park could have been stronger as well, but he does an okay job as well.The directing is average as well. It's not as sloppily done as 10 Things I Hate About You, but it's not as good as She's All That, either. There are a couple nice shots, and a couple nice uses of slow motion, but other than that, fairly bland. Though I could just be disappointed there was no dance number (as there was in She's All That) or beheadings (as there was in The 13th Warrior). Is it worth the trip to the movie theatre? Maybe not. I'd pay matinee price, but not the full eight bucks (I was fortunate enough to see it for free). But as I said, the directing wasn't particularly dynamic, and the aspect ratio's only 1.851, so it won't lose much if you wait for video. It is, nevertheless, a fun, cute, sweet, decently-written movie with a nicely intertwined plot that I recommend.Bottom line Not as sharp as Cruel Intentions and not as well-shot as She's All That, but a fun, sweet film nevertheless. My grade B. My advice See it at a matinee, or wait for video. But DO see it. "},{"Title":"Teen romance with intelligence","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK.. First, don't watch the movie if you hate teen romance type movies. If you don't have a problem with them, then this movie probably stands out as one of the best in this genre (due, in no small part, to the major acting skills of Adrian Grenier, the thankfully understated performances of Melissa Joan Hart and Ali Larter, and the amazing screenplay be Rob Thomas). It's not a highly intelligent movie, but it certainly is entertaining. Except for the characters that are intentionally written as shallow, every character is multi-dimensional, and actually changing as the movie progresses./* SPOILERS FOLLOW */ What made the movie special for me was that the exs that dump Adrian's and Melissa's characters are not the stereotypical evil characters that most teen romances feature. Ali Larter is just a wonder to watch. I loved the scene at the end of the movie when she and Adrian's character realize that they are not supposed to be together. And Melissa's ex in the movie he was the lovable dumb jock that falls in love with someone but doesn't really mean any harm. Of course, it's always nice to see the average high schoolers coming out ahead (Adrian's friends, for the most part). "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the funniest movies around, the dialogue is so funny and it doesn't make them sound like they are child geniuses ( think Dawson's Creek), or have no personality like most teen flicks around. In this movie the characters actually have depth and they are not just your average cookie cutter characters.Chase is a funny, sarcastic outcast who is asked to go to the prom with Miss Teen Spirit, Nicole - a perky blonde (who is actually quite smart), as her date for the prom has backfired and now she has resorted to go with him rather than to go alone. Chase is stuck going with her in attempt to make his ex girlfriend jealous enough so that she will want him back. They both get to know each other again and realize so much that they never knew before.Sure this film might be considered a little dated in some of the scenes but the appeal of Adrian Grenier and the underlying messages in the film are more than enough to make you like it. Melissa Joan Hart looks too old to be playing a teenager but Adrian Grenier is very good as Chase Hammond, he brings character and depth into his character and is very convincing.No other teen movies are very much like this anymore, Cinderella Story, How to Deal, Raise your voice don't even compare to this movie. It has a lot of heart, and the characters are very likable and believable. Don't let the age of the movie fool you, it is really one of the better teen flicks around. "},{"Title":"A movie to make you smile...","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The last guy she wants is the only one she needs. You just have to love Melissa & Adrian's chemistry. That's really what binds the whole movie. I mean the are so hot & heavy you have to love them. The soundtrack it amazing. The actors are excellent, and you just have to love the plot.Use to be best friend then one got too cool for school. Then she gets in a bind he gets dumped & BAM they're there to help each other for selfish reasons of course. Then as they spend more time together pretending to be a couple they realize what they wanted was there all along. How heartwarming. <3 LOVE! Go & see this movie & it will restore your faith in men. But it may have you wondering about your best friend. ;-) Go rent the movie & you will then understand what that comment means. I highly approve! "},{"Title":"A Disaster","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Let's take a break from the big screen in your living room and imagine a little film of your own A meeting. Directors, producers, writers, possibly some interested actors, all seated around a table. A burly man-in-charge glares fiercely at his underlings as they all scribble furiously, shuffle papers, and try not to meet his eyes. A plot, he suddenly shouts. We need a plot! Something original! Clever! Innovative! You! he cries, pointing at a suddenly pale lackey. Give me a plot! The lackey shakes, his pen dropping from his suddenly lax fingers, and after a long, painful pause, whispers, How about...She's All That? But with the roles...switched? There is no other explanation for this movie.Only an overeducated, money-obsessed, scared-out-his-wits idiot could have thought of this. Ms. Popular beautifies a Mr. Loser, for her own gain, thus catapulting him into popularity? No other possible explanation.It is only out of pity for the poor lackey that I do ask you to RUN FOR YOUR LIVES! AVOID AT ALL COST! Should a desperate man in a rumpled suit offer YOU money to watch this movie, TURN HIM DOWN! Then again, screw pity. Follow my advice, for your own good. "},{"Title":"Just...awful","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Possibly one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my entire life. The plot line was the type where it's already been done, but they try to put a new twist on it. The acting was not up to par as Melissa Joan Heart is a great actress in many other things. I just felt like banging my head off the wall after every pain staking moment of this film. I'm usually the one in my group who likes the crappy movies. So to anyone who feels like this film was good..your entitled to your opinion, but I for one disagree. If you wanna see a really crappy film...rent it, but I wouldn't waste my money on this. So what's the deal with this movie? Why did it suck so bad? The world may never know. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This isn't the best movie I've ever seen, but it was pretty good.  It's based on real life and what people really go through in relationships.  Melissa and Adrian look soooooooo cute together!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  The only bad thing I have to say is that it was too much of a copy of 10 Things I Hate About You.  In other words, it wasn't original.  The plot, bad, the actors, excellent!!!! "}{"Title":"Best Teen Comedy in a long time","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a big fan of teeny bopper films. I grew up watching Sixteen Candles, Breakfast Club, Pretty In Pink, Some Kind of Wonderful and even Weird Science! Though the first thought of Drive Me Crazy might make u think this is nothing but cheeeze, its not. It took me back to the times of those great Teen movies and I can't even count the number of times I have seen this movie, heck I even bought the DVD! There is just something about this movie that makes me laugh and the smile stays on my face even long after the movie is over. "},{"Title":"Bland, boring teen romantic comedy.","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh no, another shamefully predictable romantic comedy. `Drive Me Crazy' can be compared to candy floss in many ways. Once you bite into the fluffy sugar, there's a hollow core that's in desperate need of being filled. It is in no way big and complex, and there's only about two or three artificial ingredients. They both heavily rely on artificial preservatives to keep it from going stale too quickly (in the movies case clichés). Finally, it's not good for you and there's nothing fresh in it's many layers- no substance whatsoever. While there is an unwritten rule that romantic comedies are predictable, they still have a certain amount of potential to be witty and/or remotely funny. `Drive Me Crazy' is completely devoid of these positives. What's even worse is the fact that it doesn't even attempt at humour. It's one of those movies that's branded as a rom-com only because the material present isn't heavy enough to consider as a full-scale romance. The division of charm over wit is never in equal proportions. There's nothing that the film has that's bad, but there are plenty of elements that it's missing. Then again, if you like mindless, charming, paint-by-numbers teen movies, this is probably the film for you. The acting is flat and one-dimensional while the characters are shallow stereotypes. Melissa Joan Hart was great in `Sabrina the Teenage Witch' in the title role. It's evident that her appearance in the movie is just an excuse to get rid of her girl-next-door image. Ironically, she plays that exact character and does little to show that she's gone past that stage. Adrian Grenier doesn't jump off the screen for any particular reason and does little with his part as the boy-next-door counterpart. Supporting performances are all pretty much the same. Directing styles, art direction etc., are average but the script is the real problem. Even I could write a screenplay better than this. If you want to see something original/ radical/ totally out of this world, give `Drive Me Crazy' a miss. My IMDb rating 4.5/10.  "},{"Title":"A nice laugh able movie to watch.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was a nice movie with Malissa Joan Hart and Adrien Grenier pairing up. The plot and the story is a good one to see.What more, with Britney Spears's song 'Drive Me Crazy' its Soundtrack gets to be cool. Its comedy is a nice one to see. It's '10 Things...' kind of a movie, so the ones who watched '10 Things...' must watch this movie too.  "},{"Title":" Don't let Nicole Maris change you","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Melissa Joan Hart is bossy as Nicole in this uptight teen angst film. The supporting cast is desolate. The costumes are conservative. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Drive Me Crazy hurls seldom teen angsts. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Watch it again...","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"     Right i'm not having you on - check my user profile if you don't think i give considered well structured reviews - but this film gets better every single time you watch it. The script is witty enough to keep you interested, the story, whilst fairly obvious has a few good changes of pace and there are lots of very enjoyable sub plot elements (such as the relationship between chase and his dad, or what alicia is trying to get for herself).    It is also a film that you can put on and watch the whole way through and pay attention to or have on in the background as you talk to your friends or read a newspaper, dipping in and out of the story at will.    Plus there is a scene where Melissa Joan-Hart wakes up wearing only a bra. Damn! My review was going so well! What a giveaway. Anyway I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE IS ABOUT AS INTERESTING HAS WATCHING PAINT DRY.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Does anybody remember She's All That. Because the filmmakers of this movie decided to rip off a little of that movie. Melissa Joan Hart has never been at her worst, and I thought Sabrina was bad already. She was better at playing an evil vixen in the T.V. movie Twisted Desire. I believe her career is slowly sinking like a Titanic. And this movie is direct proof of that. Adrian Grienier is a talented actor, but I hope he gets better roles in the future. This movie was a direct waste of space for everybody. I would rather watch The New Guy instead. "},{"Title":"The loves and trials of the high school set","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When a girl can't get a date to the Centennial Dance she worries that being snubbed by the top jock will wreck her reputation. In desperation she is driven into the arms of a rebellious troublemaker who must change his image before the big event which drives a wedge between him and his friends. All her troubles are not over as she must contend with a traitorous friend, snotty classmates, and the capricious actions of teens in love. This was your typical teens at school flic; and yes, the actors are all way too old.   "},{"Title":"See a funny, capturing, yet more realistic side of high school in this not-so-ordinary teen movie.","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie features great actors and actresses, and a few average cliches, but unlike other teen movies, we see a more realistic side. It doesn't just have the preps, the jocks, the nerds, and the druggies. It combines them in situations and shows the way many teens really think, without sugar-coating or dramatizing things. Lines pertaining to the geeks include one statement in which the heroine says He's going to be winning MTV awards while you're still the local weather girl. In the end, the audience should be happy because the good guys come out on top and the evil plotters get just what they deserve. But at the same time it points out many negative sides of popularity, and tells us that there are positive ways to balance yourself no matter what crowd you run with. This is a great movie that should appeal to everyone who has faced popularity problems.  "},{"Title":"Here's a thing that'll do you good.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not only that the name of this movie is banal & stupid, but also it's title is based on the britney spears's song by the same name, which is heard in the movie itself. This, of course, can't be good. Nevertheless, we're talking about a real sweety here, where its name is the main flaw of it. Although being a part of a hard-to-innovate genre (teen movies, that is), it appreciatively manages to keep its head above water. A teen movie that actually touches you, makes you laugh + feel good within your belly, while being intelligent doing so. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drive Me Crazy drove me crazy. It absolutely sucked! The acting was horrible, the directing was awful, and the plot just stunk! Don't EVER see this movie. I saw this movie with my girlfriend (her idea), and she actually liked it! I dumped her. Melissa Joan Hart can't act. This movie sucks! Don't ever see this movie! When I was watching it I thought I was being punished for all my sins. "}{"Title":"A funny well acted film about a popular girl being dumped.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie tells the story of Nicole, a popular girl in school. A few weeks before her school's 100 centennial year event her boyfriend Brad decides to ask another girl to be his date. Crushed Nicole decides to go with her next door neighbor Chase, but first she needs to change his clothing his hair...everything about him since he hangs out with the school outsiders. Her plan is to make Brad jealous and make him see she's the one he wants to be with, but something happens on the way... This is a great, though typical, high school movie. The actors (especially Adrian Grenier who portrays Chase) are excellent. If you like this sort of films, this is a must see!!! "},{"Title":"I'm in with the In-Crowd!  I know what the In-Crowd Does!","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The In-Crowd gives this movie high scores!  This movie is funny, fantastic, and just an all around great one.  It is your perfect feel good movie. Melissa Joan Hart plays the role great and so does everyone else in this movie.  You just love to like the characters like Designated Dave, and you really hate the evil characters like Melissa's best friend Yeah right! If she was my best friend I would be in serious trouble!  The plot is a good one as Melissa's character is faced with many problems.  She has to set up the big school dance, get a date, and try to patch things up with her dad. Her dad is a professional baloonist in this movie!  How COOL is that? Back to the movie, you can totally relate to these characters.  The In-Crowd A.K.A. SNOBS with capital letters hang out at cool waterfalls, talk about accurate!  Chase, played by young actor and soon to be great, Adrian Grenier is one of the coolest guys around.  I could on and on about him.  I have to say though, the best part of this movie is the premier of one of the greatest bands ever, The Electrocutes!  Their songs totally ROCK in this movie!  Plus, there is another great song, The In-Crowd which totally knocked me off my seat and got me singing and dancing it.  The end of this movie holds many surprises that will DROP your jaw.  I gave this movie 10 because it makes me feel great whenever I watch it!  So watch, and be a part of the In-Crowd! "},{"Title":"Can be enjoyable","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie did have some moments but other then that it wasn't that good. It just isn't that enjoyable..  Melissa Joan Hart does have talent but she could've picked a better movie.  Adrian Grenier did a great job playing the protest loving teen who gets a make over from Melissa.  But the movie lacks its fun into just plain stupidity.  And that band Kept playing On Loving You from REO Speedwagon?  Whoever that band was don't deserve a record contract.  I don't want to spoil the ending but its another one of those senseless endings. "},{"Title":"Super cute teen movies which are definitely teen suited.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I gave Drive Me Crazy a 10 because I thought it was definitely well written for the audience it was meant to reach.  I am 16 and I saw it with two of my friends.  None of us listen to pop music to it was the artists that brought us to the film.  It was the good old fashion boy meets girl when young, they separate, and they find each other again.  The point is that if parents are worried about what their children are watching then I definitely would rate this okay for them to see.  It's cute and it shows that looks aren't everything.  Of course the two leads are played by a 23 and 22 year old but they fit the part.  Besides how old is the man that portrays Dawson Leary's character in Dawson's Creek? Age doesn't matter it all depends on your skill as an actor or actress.  Feel free to comment if you disagree with anything I've said. "},{"Title":"DONE BEFORE - BUT NOT LIKE THIS","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story is this boy and girl, next door neighbors and childhood friends, grow up and grow apart - he hangs with the rebel dweebs, she may as well be a cheerleader. The crisis that brings them together they both get dumped, and eager to get their exes back, they turn to each other. In a predictably successful makeover, she transforms him into a dreamboat, and before you know it they've fallen in love. To be fair, it's not as though this plot (with variations) hasn't been done before. But the plot isn't so much the point - it's what you do with it. Where it would have been easy enough to dismiss Chase (Adrian Grenier) and his pals as losers, this movie gives them texture, and rounds them out as interesting characters. By the same token, Nicole (an overly perky, but still Enjoyable Melissa Joan Hart) plays that rare breed of popular girl who defends her friends, regardless of social status. Predictable, yes - but a well done, enjoyable movie that makes you giggle and chokes you up in all the right places "},{"Title":"drive me crazy","Date":"1 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i recently been watching this as in 7 times in 2 days strange yes but i just love this movie. chase is played witty and funny to watch, nicole is the goody good, they just happen to live door to each other with opposite widows lols, its fun and easy to watch they dumped and she decides to take him to the dance to avoid humiliation, he agrees and along the way they happened to fall back into love with each other. it funny because they have known each other forever, used to date till his mum got cancer and died, along the way she falls for him and then alica try's to destroy her happiness, i wish there was a second movie for this about them and there perants ) "},{"Title":"Drive me crazy","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My liking of this film is simple,here's why just the fact that in the end Melissa Joan Hart's character realizes that a lot of the thing's people are or were in high school don't matter to the outside world,in fact we are all nobody's, and therefore all equal's,some may go off to bigger and better thing's and college is kind of the same way it's not truly the real world some get caught up in it. All i'm saying is that in the end she realizes the truth in high school yea you might be someone in the real world though your just like everyone else trying to make it in the world trying to find your place or niche whatever that may be and it's real, those of us who are not clueless realize that at the moment she did(at the end or nearing the end of high school), and it's great that someone thought of that while writing the script or making the movie however it was discovered it was. The truest line she say's is he will be winning award's on M.T.V while your still the local weather girl. That is not the only reason i liked it though but that's my favorite thing about the whole film realization not just imagination and truth from somewhere all of us know. "},{"Title":"A great romantic comedy","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. It is like all Romantic comedies of course - and generally I am not a fan - but Melissa Joan Hart (Sabrina the teenage witch) does a really good job portraying the romance. I thought the relationship was really authentic and believable. I felt actual chemistry between the couple. I gave it ten stars because it is easily worth the $5 that you pay to get this movie. I literally walked into blockbuster and picked it up for $4 tax included... If your looking for something that isn't predictable - than go for another genre b/c Romantic comedies are always predictable, and this movie is no exception. If you go into it with low expectations, you will be pleasantly surprised. I say, if your thinking about getting it - go for it! "},{"Title":"drive me crazy drive everyone crazy","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 3 stars for ONE thing. The title could not be more fitting. This is truly one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I finally realized what a talentless hack Melissa Joan Hart has become. She was so much better in the TV movies that she did before this movie, especially Silencing Mary, which is actually a very good movie mostly because of Melissa Joan Hart's performance in that particular movie.But her acting is so fake in Drive Me Crazy. It certainly drove me crazy. Don't even get me started on the other actors. The movie also has a horrible concept to boot, and the delivery is much worse. I don't think the delivery could be much worse than it already is. It would have to be a porn movie, or a Teletubbies movie, or something for it to be ANY worse.I'm only giving this movie 3 stars because Melissa Joan Hart is sometimes a good actress. But she's not that good and she always get mixed up in the wrong scripts. And like I said, I have to admit that the title could not be more fitting. Gotta give 'em credit for that! "},{"Title":"Entourage Prequel","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie isn't so bad if you think about it as a prequel to the award-winning HBO show Entourage. Adrien Grenier plays almost exactly the same character, a kid named Chase. Oddly enough, his character in Entourage is named Vincent Chase. Just pretend through the movie that everyone is calling Vincent by his last name. This film also fits into the Entourage mythos. For one, Vincent has once claimed that he never broke up with a girl. This fits here he is dumped twice. Also, it echoes Vincent's love of sex in strange places, like closets and bathtubs he has sex in a treehouse in this movie. It also foreshadows Vincent's tragic fall into drug and alcohol abuse, as Chase gets high, and drunk repeatedly though the film. Finally, Chase and Vincent chase seem to share the same ideology Tell everyone to go f*** themselves. Unfortunately, Drama, Turtle, and Eric don't make an appearance, but I think this should be considered canon. "}{"Title":"The Roots of Veronica Mars","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For the most part, this is an average teen romantic comedy, with a ton of clichés, unrealistic elements, and a cheesy plot. The interesting part though is that this script was written by the brains behind Veronica Mars, Rob Thomas, and the connection is apparent. The dialogue is the best part of the movie, and you can almost picture much of it coming out of the mouth of Kristen Bell ten years later. Overall, it is a heartfelt story about choosing your own path in life and being true to yourself, even in high school. Plus there's the supporting role played by Ali Larter, way before she starred on Heroes, as well as Adrian Grenier years before he played Aquaman. Not to mention a young incarnation of The Donnas, here playing a band called the Electrocutes. "},{"Title":"my favorite teen movie","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. I saw it for the first time on Comedy Central earlier this year, and had to go buy the DVD. I'm not really into the teen movies, so I was surprised I enjoyed it so much. Breakfast Club wasn't bad, but it was a little too cut and dry for me. You had the freak, the geek, the bad boy, the jock, and the princess. But I didn't like how each character fit so perfectly into their little slot. Nobody had any layers or any characteristics of any of the other groups. Sure they found ways to identify with each other based on outside occurrences, but no person is all jock or all geek or all freak. As for the modern teen movies, they're all too raunchy for me. They're less about the characters and more about stereotypical teens doing stereotypical teen things with no real substance. Just one disgusting joke after another. Drive Me Crazy, was a fun and fresh teen movie. It showed many different teen characters, but many of the characters had different facets. Very few of the characters were stereotypical in my opinion. De Vine was the sweet popular girl who used to be unpopular but got thin and became popular but is not so sure she likes popularity any better than unpopularity (how often do we see that girl in teen movies?). Nicole was the popular girl who was perky and smart, but also seemed to care about other people. Brad was the top jock, but he fell in love and had his heart broken (how often does that happen to the top jock in teen movies?). Ray is the freak who is really the coolest character in the movie. All of the acting was above average for a teen movie. There are some great lines in the movie. The two main characters had excellent chemistry. I found the storyline believable. But I fell in love with and married the boy next door myself. He was the rebel and the jock rolled into one, and I was the freak and the smart girl rolled into one. We were friends growing up, had some problems in our early teens and didn't speak for years, then got back together a little later on and have been happily married for 8 years. So the storyline isn't that hard for me to believe, and reminds me of my own teen years. That being said I do think the writers dropped the ball in a few places. The ending was pitiful. Having the parents hook up was repulsive to say the least. Then they walk off in the sunrise to the tree house. That was ridiculous. What seniors spend the morning after their prom night in their tree house? It's like the writers didn't know how to end the movie. I didn't really like how they just left us hanging as to how Chase felt about Nicole until he left Dilcey hanging and showed up at the dance. Did he have feelings for her when he went back to Dilcey, did he not and realized it the night of the dance? I didn't like how Ray was just left out at the dance once Chase showed up. So I do have some complaints with the way the movie ended, but that doesn't take away from the storyline up to that point, the enjoyable multi-faceted characters, the chemistry between the two major characters, and the excellent writing up to the final few scenes of the movie. "},{"Title":"A cute teen movie!","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have had this movie for over a year, and I have watched it 5 or 6 times, the original reason I bought it was because it 4.99$ on DVD at walmart, there was really no appeal to me. I watched it and I thought it was really cute. I am not a huge fan of Melissa Joan Hart. I have never seen Adrien Grenier in another movie, so the new face was definitely refreshing even though this movie is 6 years old, I think it was cute and still modern, and it had some awesome characters. I loved the main crew. I didn't think Dolcy was very pretty, but oh well. I think Dave (designated Dave) was an awesome role. I loved how he was such a cute pushover, and I am glad he went to the prom with Di vine.Thanks for reading my opinion on drive me crazy, Krista! "},{"Title":"Tasteful story done with class, humanity, realism.","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I agree with another poster on every point, but this is simply not in the league of The Breakfast Club. TBC was an edgy, clinical examination of philosophies and attitudes prevalent in the teen condition. The characters and issues seemed real, but the scenario was somewhat forced.On the other hand, the scenarios in Drive Me Crazy feel totally natural and believable. The characters and issues seem real enough from what I remember of high school. And as stated by the other poster, the character transitions are not shallow and immediate, but travel through many shades. As a result, perhaps fewer topics can feasibly be covered when compared those presented by TBC. But we can not only forgive DMC for not being a monumental exploratory, but actually appreciate and enjoy the authenticity.The story is told with some class and taste that is rarely found in Hollywood today. The actors/actresses portrayed characters with a lot of warmth, humanity and in a dignified manner. "},{"Title":"Drive Me Crazy","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Drive Me Crazy is the new Comdedy Romance film directed by John Schultz its about popular high school student Nicole Maris (Melissa Joan Hart) who plays a charade with grungy nextdoor neighbour Chase Hammond (Adrian Grenier) after being dumped for the prom, there charade fast turns to a love that neither expected, also starring Susan May Pratt and Ali Larter.Drive Me Crazy actually wasn't a bad film for your typical high school romance movie, it did have good and believable acting in it. Melissa Joan Hart still seems like that young girl from Clarissa Explains It All. I have always been a fan of Ali Larter and she played a good role as the bad girl, the only reason it wasn't great is because I have seen better of this type of film its all be done before. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, maybe it's because I love Melissa Joan Hart, but I really like this movie.  It uses the Can't buy me love concept that's been somewhat overdone, but the intelligent wit adds something to the movie.  And it's not full of ridiculously hot girls to try to distract the viewer from the simple point of the movie.  A good rainy day movie. "},{"Title":"A fun film when you're not in the mood for thought","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie on TV, just now. And I liked it. Admittedly, the story is a little bit cliched (okay...a lot cliched...) but it was fun anyway. And the acting wasn't the greatest in the world, but Melissa Joan Hart has always played an interesting enough self-assured-teenager type, and I was not disappointed in her acting. In fact, occasionally, I was even impressed.Although none of these teen movies really present an accurate view of high school life, as far as I'm concerned, this one at least faced the fact that sometimes 'cliques' aren't as rigid as they are often presented, that 'popular' people aren't all jerks (and they aren't even happy, much of the time), and that the biggest barrier to enjoying other things is usually the fear of trying something new, not the activity itself.The biggest problem with the movie was not the storyline or the acting - I just didn't feel like I got to know the characters very well. At the end of most romantic 'teen' movies, I feel really happy for one or both of the main characters, but not so much this time. The characters were fun and interesting - but not really personable.But I loved the ending. It was funny, surprising, and provided at least a little food for thought.So, in conclusion, it's hardly the greatest movie ever made, but it's fun. If you're in the mood for light, lighthearted entertainment - check it out. "},{"Title":"BLAH!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is another one of those Teen Movies. Aside from all the many other films of this genre, DRIVE ME CRAZY only manages to make you laugh once or twice throughout the entire film. Rob Thomas is a bad writer. He should stick to soapy TV shows like Dawson's Creek and never again try to write a romantic comedy. This film is only funny on camp level.Nicole (Melissa Joan Hart) has just been passed over for a date to the prom. Chase (Adrian Grenier) has just been dumped by his girlfriend. Hoping to make their ex-loves a little jealous, the two decide to pose as a couple, but complications arise when they discover they may actually have feelings for each other.DRIVE ME CRAZY tries hard to be another comedy that follows in the footsteps of 10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU and SHE'S ALL THAT. But, unlike it's predecessors, this film was not spoofed in the rowdy NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE. Why could that be? Because this one was forgettable. Maybe if you think of it as a horror movie, you might actually enjoy yourself better....3/5. "},{"Title":"That same REALLY old teenager story...","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK! I admit that I saw this movie... Some clueless-like girl wants one of her own species to go to a party; guess what? Her neighbor is just the opposite and they were childhood friends; and in some point they start to have different interests... Is it new, isn't it? So, they try to start some pacific business to try to make some jealous on his (not so) ex-girlfriend and to try to get the Baldwin guy to her. Remember Can't buy me love? The same, but without money... Watch it only in a day that you truly don't have anything to do. It was my case. "},{"Title":"Yuck...","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drive Me Crazy looked like a bit of fun. Unfortunately, the film was boring at the best. It was simply...awful.Sabrina The Teenage Witch star Melissa Joan Hart plays Nicole Maris, an ultra-popular high school senior who yeams for a date with the star basketball player. Chase Hammond (Adrian Greiner) is the slacker who just wants to mope at the coffeehouse with his animal activist girlfriend - until he gets dumped. Hard. So Nicole and Chase pretend to date in a conspiracy to win their dream dates back - only to find that the true love was always closer than they thought.Sound familiar? Yep. Drive Me Crazy is basically a remake of She's All That, done in He's All That style. Hart was a star in Sabrina, here she is basically inexcusable as the teen-dream Nicole. Greiner has also ruined any chance of himself been taken seriously in the future. The script is as scrappy as leftover Fish and Chips and the direction is so effortless that it seems like a programmed robot is doing all the work. Drive Me Crazy rarely has its good bits, and they are enjoyable when they are good, but this can hardly save the film.Enough said.I rate Drive Me Crazy 3 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Avoid","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the absolute worst movies ever made, this trash stars the ugly Melissa Joan Hart, who should stick to tv where the expectations aren't as high. Some of the supporting actors are really terrible, whilst a couple of them are above this kind of stuff. It's no surprise that the best the writer of this could come up with was a finale at a big dance, because the rest of the movie sounds like any pre schooler could have written this movie in their sleep! The reason these types of movies flop at the box office is because instead of making something worth making, the people involved in this trash just think about the money and the swarm of teenagers that will waste their money watching it. But teenagers are smarter than that and that's why hardly anybody saw this. "},{"Title":"Pointless!","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing Drive Me Crazy, it looked like a cool teen movie. Unfortunately, it wasn't. Drive Me Crazy is a movie that at the end your thinking What was the point? and They were joking, right?. It is terribly boring and silly, and it is a shame that the screenplay was deeply flawed, too. The story could of been so much more and the actors can do better...I think.Drive Me Crazy is not a movie that will ruin your life, but it is still a slimy and cheesy film that I don't recommend at all.Rating 4 "},{"Title":"Don't rent this sappy movie--go see Boys and Girls instead!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  DO NOT RENT THIS MOVIE! If you would rather rent some teen movie however, rent Never Been Kissed which has a more original plot and by far better acting.  In this story, Nicole loses her crush, Chase loses his girl, and Nicole then devises a plot where Chase will escort her to the school Centennial Gala.  Nicole transforms him, they fall in love, etc.....I practically fell asleep, and as a teen myself, I thought I would enjoy this but was proven wrong. "},{"Title":"Boring and no funny teens movie","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story of this movie is pretty good but the final product is a really boring and no funny movie.Melissa Joan Hart is not a good actress, she is always doing the same role and in this case her character is totally unbelieable. She can'be be the pretty girl because she isn't. Alicia Silverstone or Larisa Oleniak would have been better choices. Adrian Grenier does what he can be the script is so bad...Many of the scenes and the conversations have no sense, pretend to be funny but are stupid. And the songs are silly, overall Britney Spears and BSB. The best one is the first at the opening credits.Please, take a good look to the best teens movie of the history 10 things i hate about you, with awesome and cool actors/actresses, smart and funny script, great story, locations and fantastic soundtrack.I think worthwhile to take a look on Adrian Grenier in the future.  "},{"Title":"Unoriginal but watchable.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rather a hotchpotch, this one. Melissa Joan Hart and Adam Grenier acquit themselves very well and convince as a couple, so it's a little surprising to find that their entire relationship is just a set-up so that (convincing, this) they can attempt to win back the hearts of their respective loved ones.Except, of course, it doesn't work out like that. Yes, it's another we're-so-cool-it-hurts-but-we-fall-in-love-just-like-any-other-kids high-school comedies of which you can guess the entire plot in under 10 minutes. 'Drive Me Crazy' ransacks just about every other American-rich-kids movie that you can think of in recent years - 10 Things I Hate About You and American Pie especially. Problem is that the latter two films were witty, erudite and convincing.'Drive Me Crazy' rams home just about every high-school cliche you can think of, has a rather boring script and unconvincingly changeable characters, but nonetheless is passable entertainment with good performances. "},{"Title":"Makes you wonder about inbreeding","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie clearly fails where so many others have succeeded. Actually, where practically no other movies have succeeded, which is all the more reason why one wonders who decided to finance this turkey.It is aimed at Melissa Joan Hart (MJH) fans, and, while I'm sure both of them enjoyed this movie immensely, the thousands of poor slobs that suffered through this who don't get wood at the sight of the Teenage Wench must have felt like the cinema people ought to have laced the popcorn with strychnine to make the ending more pleasurable.There is no excuse for a movie in which the main characters actually believe that 'pretending' to go out together to make their ex's jealous won't eventually lead to 'actually going out'. I mean, haven't they seen a Corey Haim movie?The film was mostly shot in Utah, which is completely irrelevant, except that the film makers obviously wanted to pay tribute to their hosts' Mormonic lack of caffeine and alcohol by ensuring that their film lacked any credibility or humour.If you want to see a decent teen flick, then see 10 Things I Hate About You, and if you want to see some teeny-pop culture, then buy the Britney Spears video which probably has the 'Crazy' film clip on it which has MJH in it, doing her best to prove that not only can't she act, she can't dance either. "},{"Title":"Too Flashy","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie (being a teen, I can usually relate to teen movies), but there was too much comedy and too much popularity.  Melissa Joan Hart (who is from my home town of Teaneck) is good as a popular girl who needs a new date for the prom, and so to infuriate her ex, gets a loser outsider Adrien Grinier (who is also good).  What I don't like is how he tries to change him to be a totally different person, against his will.  Still, there are a few good parts, including a look into dark rockers in a club popular people would avoid like Nine Inch Nails, and another part where a guy named Designated Dave makes a short film during a news break at school which compares animals and baboons to popular people.  I actually laughed at that.  Other than that, it's just typically a romantic comedy which speaks of arrogance (the title itself would've been different if it wasn't for the song by Brittany Spears).  OK, if your a Dawson's Creek teen.  C+ "},{"Title":"Cash investment funds at its very worst","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The undernourished genre of teenage romantic comedy does not benefit from one of the latest of its type to open in Australia, Drive Me Crazy. Although there has been an apparent drought of these films in recent months, this has been an unwelcome reminder as to why the majority of these are unappealing outside its strict target age group. However, Drive Me Crazy has its comedic moments, despite its simply structured and flawed screenplay. Though without a doubt predictable, cliched and even a little too rich in sugar goodness, too much of 10 Things, Clueless and Can't Hardly Wait remains evident.As usual, the same familiar ghosts whose acting abilities are in a genre the equivalent to a high school stage, again prove their limitations. None of the newcomers manage to make much of a show for themselves, and Melissa Joan Hart, of Sabrina fame, proves that squinting eye expressions cause a more harmful movie going experience than no acting ability at all.Whatever its problems clouding a completely enjoyable, the movie is a cute movie for those simply looking to have a good time, but those with a higher brain capacity should definitely be looking elsewhere for entertainment.With an overhyped soundtrack, featuring Britney Spears to entice the need for painkillers, Drive Me Crazy just proves to be a below average teen movie, with sporadic amusements. However, we can't be too ungrateful for under the standard adolescent love/problem themed movies. There's still the forever scarring horror of Down to You to cope with. Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Very predictable.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie at an early screening in Montreal.  The acting isn't the worst but the script is tiresome.  Moments of wit are overshadowed by imitations in mass quantities.  Bubble sofas, glitter and the ever so typical groups of  so-called high schools nerds,cool kids,rebellious kids and jocks.  I was annoyed to begin with but after a while you just start laughing at the ridiculous (very tiresome) situations. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Boring, predictable, unoriginal","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hate teen movies. No actually, I hate film-makers who think that teen movies like this one and Can't Hardly Wait and Bring It On and She's All That and Save the Last Dance and I Am A Cheerleader And I Date The Most Popular Guy At School But Oops He Dumped Me What Am I To Do will appeal to every teenager that walk on the Earth's surface. How wrong they are. Not only is the plot (singular, 'cause there is only one) in the above mentioned movies (except for maybe Bring It On but it's a stupid movie) recycled 2138357286532 times, their settings and characters bear such an uncanny resemblance with each other, it makes me shudder. It scares me so much it even makes me rhyme! What an accomplishment!Now, I was forced to watch this sorry excuse for a film by my friends, who sadly, actually enjoy movies like this one. I sat through the entire thing with the following thoughts running through my mind*Oh looky, there's Sabrina! But wait, she's supposed to be Nicole. Right. Oh my god, Sabrina wants to date the popular guy! What a surprise! No, she's NICOLE, remember that. *And now they're going to kiss...and they did... *Yes, and he's going to become a totally changed person, physically anyway, after the makeover thing done by Sabrina, oops I mean Nicole...gee, one wouldn't have guessed. *There goes my 7 bucks.Adrian Griener (sp) is convincing in his role, and he doesn't look half bad, but that's basically all there was to it. Melissa Joan Hart kept reminding me of Sabrina the Teenage Witch, Stephen Collins kept reminding me of his character in 7th Heaven, and I don't remember anyone else. Drive Me Crazy isn't only cheesy, it has a - did I mention this? - recycled plot that has been done one too many times. If you could call it that.2/10. Two for Adrian Griener, one for his acting, another for lookin' good.  "}{"Title":"Predictable American teen movie","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drive me Crazy was exactly what I expected an American teen movie with average acting and a predictable story line. Which is what many 'teen' movies seem to have these days, and as a teen myself I have to say to the producers that their mediocre movies aren't as appealing to teens as they think they are. Melissa Joan Hart gives her usual childish unconvincing performance and I think that she needs to stick to 'Sabrina'. Adrian Grenier was surprisingly believable and well presented, adding a small amount of substance (which was then demolished by Melissa Joan Hart) to the movie - pity about the script. Susan May Pratt's acting talents were completely wasted here, she could have done at *least* half the wonderful performance she does in 'Center Stage'. But no. If you enjoy pathetic teenager movies, movies where everything in the script has been done before, and it requires no thought whatsoever, then see Drive me Crazy. I have no more to say. rates * out of ****  "},{"Title":"The song is cool","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really think Hollywood is void of intellect at times, but then I sit back think about how much this film cost to make and how much it made in return and I realize that I am dead wrong.  Let me explain.A film like this cost about 8 million dollars and in North American receipts, it took in about 17 million dollars.  Now in order for a film to break even, it has to make twice as much as its budget, therefore, the film did make money.  You see, no matter how bad the script is, no matter how little star power there is in the film and no matter how poor an effort is put forth in all facets of the project, there will always be a market for this type of film.  Teens have lots of disposable income and they don't seem to mind spending it on garbage like this.  But analyse it just a little closer and you will realize that while it may be a moderate success, it has no idea how to be an American Pie or Road Trip of today or a Fast Times or Animal House of the past.  Those films are well done and make money for a reason, well many reasons really, but one can be that first of all they are funny and entertaining.  This is one element of Drive Me Crazy that happened to bypass the writers, producers, director and stars.  This is not a funny film and it is not at all enjoyable.  And it truly makes me sick when I read reviews by kids that say how well the film was put together or how it was  pretty cool.   Let me tell you, as a recently graduated teen movie guy from the 80's there are many superior films to this.  I could go on and on and name a few from the 70's, many from the 80's and even a couple from the 90's.  But it doesn't matter because if a film like this can make money, then they will keep producing garbage like it.  This is the type of film that was written in one day, in an air conditioned class room that serves caviar for lunch and Dom Perignon for a beverage and the main piece of literature that the students learn from is titled  Teen Film Script Writing 101.   There is no imagination, no ingenuity, no originality and nothing in here is not borrowed from every other teen film out there.  It isn't even important to go into details as to what is wrong with this film because that would just be a waste of time.  Everything is wrong with this film.  The only good thing is Ali Larter.  She is practically unrecognizable in this film but she is good.  That's about it.  All characters are one dimensional, the script is as surprising as a Scooby Doo episode and the actors are about as interesting as studying fungus on a paramesium, it is just bland.Drive Me Crazy is a bad film and not only that but it will inspire more bad films.  We do get lucky every once in a while and get good films released but more often than not we get stuck with waste like this.  If anyone has seen Jaws ( 1975 ) and then watched Jaws IV The Revenge, they can compare what Drive Me Crazy is like to a film like Fast Times and American Pie or even Porky's.  This is about as low as you can get in film making.  1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"You Drive Me Crappy","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Who on earth gave funding for this film? Melissa Heart can't get the man she wants, so she uses the old lets use my ugly ex-friend to make him jealous trick, and of course they end up falling for each other. This wouldn't be so bad but it is horrible executed, it runs to long and is very very dry, and don't even get me started subplot about poor Melissa's estranged father. This film was meant to launch Melissa into the big screen world, but instead it just launched her into the gutter. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is nothing in this film that we haven't seen dozens of times before.  The problem with this film is that you know exactly what will happen by the time the opening credits finish.  The leads are quite cute and sweet, but still not totally convincing as a pair.  The ending was one of the worst, sappiest endings I have seen in a while.  Its fine for a film to have a happy ending, but does it have to be so sickly sweet?  Melissa Joan Hart was not as good as i expected her to be, especially considering she was covering familiar terrain.  There were a few moments in the story where it appeared they were attempting to make a statement about been accepted, popularity, etc, but the delivery was not as effective as it has been in other films.  The eighties teen romance/comedies still seem better.   "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible movie","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of all the movies I have ever seen I have only ever walked out of two. This is one of them. I saw about 40 minutes of this diabolical travesty and simply left. There are no words in any language that can aptly describe how worthless this movie is.The dialogue is the worst ever. The direction is lifeless and empty. The acting is very poor. But something about this film amazes me...What amazes me is that not only did FOX buy this nonsense. It isn't the fact that FOX green-lighted it and managed to get assemble a cast and director. No! It's the fact that it actually got released. Why?Why was this film made?The story, for what it's worth, is old-fashioned and clichéd and totally hollow. And it's delivered in the most mundane, lifeless and amateurish way imaginable.I would rather stick my face in a fire than watch this movie again. Do NOT waste your cash unless your a fan of Sabrina the forty-something Teenage Witch. "},{"Title":" This movie rocks!","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    Drive Me Crazy rocks. It is a good film and I enjoyed it A LOT! It is also very funny and enjoyable. Melissa Joan Hart, Adrian Griener, Susan May Pratt, and Ali Larter did excellent performances. I really like this film.This is a very enjoyable film, and I loved it! I recommend it! I give it a 10 out of 10 ) !!! "}]