[{"Title":"Brilliant series","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  I can't say enough about this series. I just watched 28 up, 35 up and 42 up all in about a week's time, so there are a lot of things to talk about within the entire series, rather than just in this one particular film. But I'll do my best to focus on 42, since that is the film I am commenting on.As a film on its' own, 42 up is probably the most interesting of the series as far as watching the people change physically over the years goes. Each subject filmed at the six different stages appears (except for those that had dropped out of the program) and you get to see how they have transformed over the years. 42 is also great because you also get to see how film techniques (& stock) have evolved over the years along with the people. In the present time, the film looks beautiful and rich in color while each successive film appears murkier and murkier over time until you get the original black and white of 1964. The problem with 42 Up, if you were going to watch just this one film, is that because there are so many flashbacks of people at various stages, this leaves little room for getting to know them better (during a 2 hour time frame). I have talked to people who say, I am just going to watch 42 up because they give you all the background stuff anyway.. I say NO!.....For a richer experience, and this is what I did so you can take it for what it's worth, watch 28, 35, and 42 up at least so you can get to know these people fully at each stage. There are crucial things that happen to these people in 35 for instance which does not show up in 42.(Neil!!John!!) I cannot even view each film as seperate, because they all seem sewn together somehow. Taken as a whole, they are amazing to watch..and the suspense in wondering what happened to each over the next seven years is truly there if you start early in the series. So watch some of the others before you watch 42 to get the full effect. On to the characters..who are real people. Their stories are so beautiful to watch unfold over time it is truly amazing they were captured at each stage as they grew up. And you can even get the feeling by the end how large their lives really are and that they extend way beyond the borders of the film which the filmmakers obviously knew and luckily never once tried to pretend that they could completely capture the essence of a person on film. You just get tiny snippets of who these people are yet by the end you can't stop thinking about them, they become a part of you. I cannot think of any movie or series of movies where the characters were so richly drawn as these were, especially over the course of time. A beautiful, wonderful series that everybody should own. Questions (if anyone can answer them for me) 1) Whatever happened to John???? why don't they even mention him (like they do some of the others who dropped out) in 35 & 42? He disappears after 28! What happened to him??? 2) Are there any other projects going on like this in America or on a global scale? I think it would be a brilliant idea to do this similarly Globally to investigate and compare cultures all over the world! 3)Will there be a 49 Up or was that the end of the series? "},{"Title":"Every seven years a slice of life","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Fourteen English children from various parts of society, all born about 1957, have their lives looked at every seven years by Michael Apted and his TV camera. This episode brings us up to 1999 and 42 years old. All are still alive and eleven out of the original fourteen are still participating. (Ironically, one of the drop-outs is a prominent BBC TV producer.)The two continuing themes are 1) the Jesuit saying `give me the child before he is seven and I will give you the man' and 2) the power of the British class system to determine outcomes. Although the Jesuits suggest that by the age of seven it's too late, some of the kids from lower class backgrounds have done surprisingly well. Nicholas, a Yorkshire dales farmer's son has become a Professor of Physics. Tony, a cockney kid who wanted to be a jockey has finished up owning several cabs. Three working class girls have all finished up with better jobs than their parents though their marital relationships have been rocky. Even the shy son of a single mother has finished up happily married and employed. None of the better-off kids has failed either, though one or two went through rough patches in their early 20s. The three seven year old `upper class twits' (only one of whom still participates in the program) are all professionals and have all succeeded professionally - a QC, a solicitor and the aforesaid shy TV producer. Bruce, a kid with a flair for mathematics, after a varied career, has settled down as a fine teacher in a city high school. They only real stray has been Neil, the dreamy little kid from Liverpool, who after a lengthy period as a down-and-out has popped up as an elected official no less, a Liberal Democrat councillor in the London Borough of Hackney. All the subjects tell their stories fairly fluently to the camera, even Paul, a very shy kid who migrated to Australia as a teenager. Several have now lost one or both parents and there have been several failed marriages. Apted is a gentle interviewer but there has obviously been a lot of pain with the gain.This is a unique series and the group is not really a random sample (too many toffs and working class kids) but it can be said it shows the persistence of the class system only one kid has really beaten it, the physicist, and he's left the country. There are no cockney accents in the courtroom except from the witness box. The standard of living in general has increased markedly since the 1960s and `trickle down' economics has ensured that the working class (what's left of them) is better off. Women have done better too, in terms of independence and money, but at a considerable emotional cost in some cases. For them the changes in the social landscape have made it harder than for the boys; the role of women in society has completely changed whereas men plod on much as before.The one good indicator of future employment success is education, which is notoriously class-based in England (Scotland is a little different). If the (shy) QC had gone to the local council school instead of Charterhouse it is not likely he would he exercising his tonsils today in the High Court. Tony, our successful cabbie might have become a solicitor if he had come from a different social class. Some of the subjects say that class isn't what it was, but it, and the educational system it operates through, are still pre-ordaining outcomes. Perhaps it's the same in most countries (Paul has noticed a class system in Australia); it's just that the British class system stands out a bit more.  "},{"Title":"The 7-up phenomenon gets better each time...","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  This film and its predecessors are the most fascinating documentaries released cinematically, not because of their breathtaking cinematography, whiz-bang special effects or even revelation of secret or unknown information. What it does offer is a look straight into the personal lives of a group of people with nothing much in common except this series of extraordinary films which every 7 years throw their experiences open to the world. For the most part they are ordinary lives but they are engrossing as only reality can be. There is no gloss applied, no smoothing over of rough edges. Apted has become a friend to many of his 'subjects' and the warmth of their relationship with him comes into the film. In this program, even the effect of the film series on the people in it is examined, so in some ways it is a film about itself. Like a classic serial cliffhanger, at the end one is impatient to see the next instalment, but it will be seven years in production... "},{"Title":"A Fascinating and Important Film","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" This film series takes the adage Give me a child until age 7, and I'll give you the man and blows it out of the water. I've been a fan of the Up Series since my first viewing of 28 Up. Watching these precocious 7-year-olds grow into adulthood right before my eyes has sparked some much needed self-examination of my own life. That may be the greatest value of the Up Series, causing the viewer to project themselves into the film and see how their own lives have changed and developed. The movie ticket is certainly cheaper than a trip to the psychologist.Some highlights of this edition-Tony, the would-be jockey and racetrack numbers runner who became a London cabbie. Despite his infidelities, Tony is still married to his forgiving wife and seems to take great pride in his children. Tony has now become more reflective about his life, taking a thoughtful stroll through the closed down racetrack where he once rode, and getting misty-eyed when discussing his late mother and father. Always frank and pragmatic, he says of his comfortable suburban home, I'm a cabbie. This is probably as far as I'm gonna get.-Bruce, the good-natured, relationship challenged school teacher who was teaching in Bangladesh, is back teaching in London and has finally found Mrs. Right. Among the interesting tidbits of information you learn from Apted's DVD commentary is that he broke his rule of only filming the subjects every 7 years so he could be present to film Bruce's wedding. -Nick, the physicist who moved to the US, returns home to his father's farm.We meet his brothers and are treated to some beautiful shots of the English contryside. In his commentary Apted discusses his regrets regarding the way he edited Nick's wife in previous episodes. She now refuses to do interviews for the films and also refuses to let their son participate.-Andrew, the only one of what Apted refers to as the Three Wise Men, the upper class boys, who participated in 42 Up. Successful well-adjusted, happily married, we see Andrew and his family on a vacation to New York City (with several pre-9/11 shots of the WTC). Thanks to the DVD commentary, we learn that John doesn't particularly like Apted and only agreed to be interviewed for 35 Up if his interview was conducted by Apted's assistant director. The other upper class boy, Charles, is ironically a documentary director for the BBC and has consistently refused to participate since 21 Up.-Neil, the bright, animated 7-year-old who ended up dropping out of college and living in a trailer. Neil has always been the most compelling character in the Up Series. His obvious intelligence exists in sharp contrast with mental problems and bouts with depression. Every fan of the films would probably admit to worrying whether or not Neil would survive to the next episode. Happily, Neil is now involved in local politics. Despite his eccentric appearance and lack of a paying job (he makes no money from his job with the Liberal Democrats), Neil is no longer the rambling hermit of 28 Up. His turn around can partly be attributed to some assistance from fellow Up subject Bruce. Neil even participated in Bruce's wedding.Let's hope Apted comes up with a DVD compilation that includes footage from all the films. Instead of the brief 15 minute updates we get for each subject in 42 Up, it would be nice to see a half-hour or so on each, as well as footage of those who no longer participate (like Peter). Apted's DVD commentary is boring at times, but includes some fascinating behind-the-scenes information which devoted fans will enjoy. In conclusion, the Up Series stands as one of the most important and engrossing documentaries ever committed to celluloid. "},{"Title":"A fascninating and enormously perceptive series","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  In the most sociologically fascinating and perceptive documentary series ever produced, Michael Apted has made this enormously thought provoking series a labour of love.  He has taken eleven seven year olds in 1964, and has filmed them every seven years since then.  The results have been breathtaking.  In seeing footage from when these now grown adults were little, we see how the boy becomes a man and the girl becomes a woman.  We see as each attempt to reach their hopes and dreams.  There are successes and failures (including one heartbreaking one), but we get more than that. We get an overwhelming sense of the connection and delicate fabric of human life. "},{"Title":"One of the finest documentary series ever made!","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  I cannot say enough good things about this series. Each one seems to interest me more as I follow the lives of the kids I first saw in '7UP'. '42UP' continues to show us how they have evolved as people and how the British class system still has control over their lives. As an American I find it somewhat hard to understand that the class you are born into largely determines your educational choices and therefore part of the outcome of your life. I strongly suggest seeing as many of the series as you can, (7UP, 14UP, 21UP, 28UP, 35UP) before your see 42UP. But as a stand alone documentary it is still excellent. "},{"Title":"A graceful film -- but prereqs are recommended!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Yes, you CAN view 42Up without having seen 35Up, 28Up, etc. But it would be wrong. Because with each film, less of the past can be shown as each person's past increases -- thus you get only the highlights of each past e.g., teenage Suzy's dad's death, which enormously affected her; the orphanage-reared Paul's move to Australia, and his marriage to an Oz woman with a big hearty family; Nick's move to the US -- with no class system surrounding him, he's been able to avoid what the rest are still struggling with, but is it worth the high cost of seeing his Yorkshire family no more than every other year?The participants were all born circa 1956, so age 49 will be around 2005. There are some pasts I hope we hear less of in 49Up I don't want to hear any more about Tony's casual infidelities, thank you very much. His wife's reactions to his self-justifications (I'm not proud of it, but every man does it...that kind of lame excuse), and her silent yet profound unhappiness and betrayal, are excruciating. Besides, these days, infidelity is simply a welcome mat to self-transformation into a disease vector. But I would genuinely like to know how Neil descended into alarming solitariness and depression without getting therapy in what was then one of the world's largest venues for socialized medicine. (I hope by now he's been able to adjust his brain chemistry. Thank God for Bruce, another 'Up' man who befriended and helped Neil.)These people become so known to us that every seven years it's like renewing acquaintance. Such fame has not been entirely welcome, though Tony has been able to parlay it into parts as an actor. It must feel uncomfortable to have complete strangers know what you were like at 14...an age most of us feel sincerely relieved to have left behind. That the ones who continue to say yes to Michael Apted and his crew generally handle their filming with immense dignity and humor speaks volumes about their generosity -- and their curiosity. How are the others doing? How am I compared to seven years ago? What have I learned during those years? What can I learn from this episode?For the 'Up' people thank you for your willingness to open your lives and homes, to answer intrusive questions, to demonstrate your values and what's brought you through, and to give us all a better understanding of what human growth is really about. "},{"Title":"Bring on 49!","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  I loved the Up series, despite having seen only 35up & 42up.For the uninitiated, this series was a pet anthropological cinematic project undertaken by director Michael Apted. In this series, he would revisit a group of British men and women and make a documentary film about their lives, every 7 years, starting from the age of 7. Of interesting note is the participant's differing social/ class divide; from the upper-middle class suburban homemakers to working class cabbies. (Note 7up was originally only conceived as a television initiative if I'm not mistaken. But its underlying premise proved so intriguing, guess Apted just had to keep it going and see where it might end up. We are up to 42 now, nice....) My thoughts...These films might have shown mere glimpses of those ordinary lives, but I was still in awe of its premise no less. Like the flipping through of a moving photo album, we revisited the lives of these people.Within a two hour period, we saw these people grow up right before our eyes. We saw their physical and psychological transformation over the years. We saw how they charted their lives and lived it. We shared in their joys and tribulations. Of course, there were harmony, or discordance over those many long years. But this series was contented in just showing us simple truths. It captured vignettes of youth's idealistic beauty and inevitable follies. It revealed life's vaunted fulfillment and crushing regrets. Most importantly, it attempted to shed light on one's happiness barometer; how our pursuit of happiness and attaining contentment is directly corresponded with our expectations in the past, present, and probably beyond.We may not always tick like clockwork in this tragi-comedic mortal coil. But a rewind is often all it takes to get us back on track. This continuing Up series is thus IMO, a very worthy meditation on the meaning of our very own lives. I so wanna see what happens when those 7 year olds turn 49.  "},{"Title":"A phenomenal work","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  One of the most important ongoing social and cultural projects of our time, this series of films has documented the lives of a number of people from the age of seven up.  Currently the participants are in their mid-forties, now in a position to reflect on the past as well as to speculate about their future from a reasonably well-informed perspective.  It is truly fascinating to get even this brief glimpse of how these people have progressed through their lives, from the fresh enthusiasm of early childhood through the angst and pain of the teen years, then coping with the various ups and downs of adulthood.  Many have children of their own; some have lost parents along the way.  Most have remained in their native England, where social class is more of an issue than here in the States.  Class struggle is a topic of discussion in the film, though touched upon rather briefly.This reviewer has been watching Michael Apted's project for the past fourteen years and is approximately the same age as the participants, a fact which makes the film that much more involving.  One feels a connection with these people.  Reviewing these people's lives is much like looking back at one's own, which strengthens the feelings of warmth and familiarity that this film evokes.Mr. Apted has done an excellent job with these films and the reviewer wishes to express appreciation to him as well as to the interviewees.  "},{"Title":"The Up Series","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" I just finished 42 Up on 2/26/05 and have a few things to say about the film and the series.First, it's the only longitudinal study of human development we have, and for that reason, no matter how boring or trivial some people may find this series, I find it to be extremely valuable. Especially when considering how people develop by age, socioeconomic status, education, ethnicity, culture and gender. I am unaware of any other study that has covered as much ground as the Up series has. 14 children, all British, taken at age 7 and revisited every 7 years from 1964 to 1998 certainly makes for an interesting study. If there is no 49 Up, Michael Apted can at least rest on what this study already has accomplished.Second, it's amusing to me that at various stages the participants have no clue as to the importance of this study. Some of them decline to be a part of the project and others seems to really understand the value of participating in this study. If my wife and I had a 7 year old we would jump at the chance for him/her to be in this type of project. I fail to understand why some of the participants (Charles, John & Peter) continue to belittle, devalue and not take part in this study. Nick, Symon, Suzy and Andrew all participate, but with an air of sourness about what the study has done to their lives. As I stated, it's truly amazing how some of the participants have no concept of the psychological/sociological value of this study the participate in, they merely seem to be thinking only about themselves and how it affects their lives.Third, there are a few annoying pieces to this series. One is that Michael Apted fails to explain why Peter is not part of the program anymore after 28 Up. You have no idea why he isn't in 35 and 42 Up. Michael doesn't even add a 30 second explanation!!! At least Mr. Apted explains what's going on with John and Charles, and why they are not part of the program. He failed in 35 Up to mention why Symon was not interviewed! Yet, Symon re-appears for 42 Up and all is explained. Another thing about this series is that it greatly improves around 21 and 28 Up as Michael finally organizes the stories so you can keep track of each person, and the technology advances as well as all the participants begin to have something to say about the world they live in. Still, Michael Apted could stand to not engage in flashbacks as much as he does and spend more time on the present. If you watch each show in order like we did, you do not need the flashbacks because you already know what has happened. These films should be viewed in order. Just watching 42 Up is a mistake and a disservice. You need to watch how these people grow in order to see the whole picture.My recommendation is, that if you are in the field of psychology, counseling, social work, teaching, etc. You should watch this series as mandatory to your education. If Mr. Apted continued with 49 Up this year and then continues the series in the future, this project will be even more fruitful and valuable of just looking at how personalities are shaped and determine future choices and consequences. "}{"Title":"Postcards from friends","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" As a UK-born and resident who is 2 years older than the participants of this series, all I can say to Michael Apted is thank you. This series has been a record of the social, economic and cultural influences over my own life. It may surprise some of your US readers to know that there was a brief window of opportunity for working class (blue collar)kids in the late 70's and early 80's to access higher education in the UK. It is a pity that no-one in the 7up series accessed such chances as I did; now working as a forensic psychologist (having left high school at 16 with nothing worth a damn). Nevertheless, I feel enormously proud of the working class kids in the series in the way they have handled the challenges of their twenties and thirties; I am so pleased that Apted has reflected their lives without judgement. As a woman, I am equally proud of Suzie, who survived probably the most apparently 'deprived' childhood to grow into a confident, warm and happy wife and mother. Finally, who could fail to have a corner of their heart reserved for Neil and for Bruce who reached out a helping hand - these people feel like my friends. Thank you so much to all of you for sharing your lives so generously - please don't stop. I am REALLY looking forward to my next 'postcard' from you in 49 UP. You have been, and will continue to be,an inspiration to others in your simple humanity and your enormous dignity, reflected so skilfully by Michael Apted. Love him or hate him, at least he has remained loyal to this fantastic and unparallelled project. "},{"Title":"Excellent series","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Most of the posters here have already thoroughly covered the concept and content of this amazing docu series, so I'll avoid generalizations.First of all, Apted began an American version years ago Age Seven in America, (91) and 14 Up in America(98), but I have been unable to locate them. He did not direct these versions, but acted as a producer. Ironically, 2005 is the year for 21 Up in America and 49 Up. I certainly look forward to the latter.It is quite interesting to see that the styles and feel of each original series entry appears about ten years off. In other words, the shows in the 80s feel like the 70s, and the 90s editions feel very 80s-ish. Has anyone else noticed this? Perhaps it is the difference in cultures, or the style of film-making. Regardless, the Ups are amazing. I watched all six documentaries within one week. Although I had been familiar with them as early as the 80s, I had never bothered to sample an edition. My loss.There has been no document of human growth quite as effective as this. "},{"Title":"Probably the most fascinating film ever made.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Brit Michael Apted began this film with Seven Up!, in 1964, in black and white, followed in color every seven years by 7 Plus Seven(1970), 21(1977), 28 Up(1985), 35 UP(1991), and now in 1998, 42 Up. It follows several randomly selected boys and girls into manhood and womanhood. I found Neil most fascinating, he was a bright 7-year-old who wanted to be a carriage driver, dropped out of college, worked at odd jobs, at 28 was homeless in Scotland, at 35 homeless in the Shetland Islands, obviously somewhat mentally unstable. Living off the British government payments, with no job. By age 42 he is in London, representing Hackney as the elected Liberal Democrat representative. He actually has a purpose now, does good for those he represents, still has no job. But he looks forward to each day now, something he had difficulty doing in past years.The beauty of this film is its unique look at us, humanity, and how we grow up, dealing with life. This was truly an inspired project Apted undertook, beginning about 40 years ago. I would not have understood this as a casual viewer, but the every seven year engagement is stressful for the participants, as if they don't want to disappoint the viewing audience. Several actually opted out and were only discussed, because they no longer wanted the pressure of participating. I hope I am around to see 49 Up!! The year 2005 is right around the corner (update December 2004). "},{"Title":"Continues to be Compelling","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" The original idea was to see these kids of England in the year 2000. Director Michael Apted returns to see these kids, and I wonder what he sees of his charges. I think the social studies aspect is now mostly gone. They're not simply a rich child, or a poor child. These are individual characters each deserving of our attention.We are now finding these people have surprising drama. The biggest stories are Tony had an affair, Simon returns to the series, and Bruce helps out Neil. Simon missed 35 Up and got divorced. He's remarried now and happier and more willing to do the series. On the other hand, John was never happy with the series and skip this one. Charles continues to skip the series and Peter is gone now also. The kids of the kids are growing up now, and the world keeps moving on. "},{"Title":"42 Up","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Maybe it's because the participants are closest to my own age, but I found this the most interesting of the series. Many of the subjects are in some state of transition (new job, financial troubles, divorce) or are eloquent enough to reflect on their lives with insightful introspection. The most compelling one, Neil, has taken a turn for the better, though still struggling. John once again disappears from the picture, but Symon makes a return with a new family. Tony and Paul are both taking baby steps in upward mobility, but finding it difficult. The commentary on class at the end of the film was more thoughtful than previous attempts to address the subject. I still think the series is better as an idea than in execution, but I've got the next one queued up anyway, perhaps just out of habit, like a TV show you don't particularly enjoy but keep watching out of desire to know what happens next. "},{"Title":"Unique and amazing series of films","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" The 'Up Series' represents one of the most fascinating and unusual uses of film in cinema history - a documentary life-long chronicle of the lives of 14 people starting at 7 years old, revisiting them every seven years through age 49 (so far). While I could quibble, wishing for a bit more depth here and there (especially with the women, where there's a bit too much emphasis on love and marriage at the expense of all else), it's really an astounding, moving, frightening and uplifting document. There's no way to watch this remarkable series of films without reflecting deeply on one's own life, and how you have changed (and stayed the same) over your own lifetime. While Michael Aped deserves every bit of credit he's received for this amazing piece of cultural anthropology, it's important to note this first film, 7 Up,was actually directed by Paul Almond, and Apted was a that point a researcher for the project. "},{"Title":"It's like a fascinating telethon","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Although it might not be readily apparent to those who only know Michael Apted as the director of The World Is Not Enough,  Michael Apted is in reality a skilled and experienced director.  Here,  Apted returns to his famous documentary series,  in which he has followed London children from age 7 onward,  returning every 7 years to chronicle where they are currently in their lives.  Suffice it to say that even the world's worst filmmaker couldn't remove the inevitable fascination such a project automatically generates interest in anyone interested in either documentaries about people or the differences between the London social classes.  This time around (as the title indicates) the subjects are 42 years old,  and we find them settling down.  They seem to be doing fine for the most part,  as even the formerly homeless subject gets a job - albeit a low paying local government job.  Yet the movie needs a more ruthless editor- 42 Up is 139 minutes long. It'll interest you,  but you'll keep looking at your watch.  "},{"Title":"Mothers","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Three things to say about this, which I consider the strongest entry in the series so far.1) The point of these things has always seemed slippery to me. Ostensibly it is a study of the British class system. In reality, they've relied on simple voyeurism, cheap familiarity. But over time Apted's personal agenda has become clear. As a Xerox of a Xerox many times over displays the structure of the imaging system, over iterations we see what the filmmaker wants us to. And its all about mothers. With the exception of the final character, the somewhat pitiful Neil, every stroke, every arc, every dive is based on the notion of motherhood. Its cheap, but at least we now know.2) There is a surprise in this one that was wholly unexpected by me. Until the last few minutes of this, we follow the model of 35 years. They exist, we see. The machinery of the film exists in our world, not theirs. Its obvious that they watch the results, but if they remark on it, it is about their participation, not the watching or making. But at the end, that takes an orthogonal shift and we see that the one soul at risk has been saved by the one soul that seems worthy, and this because of the intercession of the filming process. All of a sudden the project has become an agent in itself. Its a wonderful beam.And that is quickly followed by a series of short comments about how participation has changed their lives.3) Some of these people have grown not at all from when we saw them at 7. It isn't merely that they have not escaped their class constraints, they have literally been stillborn. Others &#151; a few &#151; have blossomed and matured, or changed. They still aren't interesting people in the slightest, but we do have evolution of spirit. I note this because it seems that Apted hasn't evolved at all in 35 years. The form of the thing is precisely the same. The intent, the style, the method. All as they were. There's a sameness of spirit that clouds this, as if no matter who gets married, divorced or born, life really does go on in the same way. Nothing real ever changes. Its particularly upsetting because he is us, in the bargain we make.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"28 and 35 were good--this isn't","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  I've only seen 28 Up and 35 Up.  Those were fascinating interesting films, dealing with all types of people and all types of issues in their lives.  At ages 28 and 35 people are trying to see where  to go what to do, etc.  By 42 they're all married or bringing up kids.  So the whole movie is about dealing with marriage and kids.  Fascinating if you're one of two--dull if you're not.  It started off well enough, but it seemed to keep rehashing itself (if I had heard ONE more comment about how hard it is to make marriage work...).  About half of it was interesting, and it always a kick seeing these people literally grow up, but it's run it's course.  Let's hope there's not a 49 Up! "}]