[{"Title":"Great movie, released at the wrong time...","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"80 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (A) The Sixth Sense and Stir of Echoes must have been the two movies of '99 that I enjoyed the most. Both had good scripts and stories; they were interesting, mysterious, dark, weird -- those are my kinds of movies! They are also a proof that the mysteriousness of ghosts is something we will never tire of or not think to be intriguing. Stir of Echoes was somewhat similar to Sixth Sense but it was also in many was DIFFERENT. First of all, it (SOE) is dealing with hypnosis and has a more 'criminal' as well as supernatural theme. This movie is spectacular and the reason it was not recognized as such, is because it was released just a few weeks after The Sixth Sense - a movie which had already satisfied the audience with its supernatural theme. And because The Sixth Sense was such a hit, Stir of Echoes was shoved aside and didn't get the recognition it deserved. Don't get me wrong! I loved Sixth Sense, but this movie is also very good and if you liked The Sixth Sense, I highly recommend you see it! "},{"Title":"Hypnotic Suspense","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"68 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of Echoes is a very good horror thriller in the traditional sense. It's the story of a guy who gets hypnotised and develops precognitive psychic abilities which he can't control.Kevin Bacon is excellent and shows he can be a leading man, while the rest of the cast performs well. Sets, special effects and cinematography are all very good - nothing flashy but solid. It has shocks and suspense, especially in the first half, and although it could be accused of being a little clichéd, it never strays too far into the 'seen it all before' category. The second half of the film turns into a more traditional thriller but still holds up well, unlike similarly themed movies such as 'What Lies Beneath.' This is because it is pleasingly short, lasting around 90 minutes (the correct length for a film of this type). There are some plot strands that aren't explained, but this can be forgiven because of the film's running time.Although not mind blowing, it has a decent payoff at the end and left me satisfied that I'd just watched a good movie. Not a great one, but a good one. Pick this one up cheap on DVD. "},{"Title":"Horribly underrated","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"58 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In 1999, the media was in a frenzy about a new film that used real things to terrify and excite its audience. Stir Of Echoes was not it. Partly due to the studio's financial difficulties, Stir Of Echoes came and went by itself, unsung and unappreciated. Which goes to show that recognition in the Hollywood system does not go to innovators or the best storytellers. It is all about marketability, and while Stir Of Echoes had this, the companies involved in making or distributing it did not seem to want to spend the cash involved in taking advantage. Either that or Artisan and Fox decided to use it as their tax write-off for that year.I have not read the novel by Richard Matheson, so I cannot comment on how faithfully the film follows its source. But that is irrelevant. When compared to its more big-name competitor, at least Stir Of Echoes has the courtesy to acknowledge its source. The film updates the story to a more modern era, thus saving a few dollars, since period pieces are expensive to make. In fact, the dramatic angle of the film keeps it rather cheap, since effects shots are few and far between. Not to mention the effects that do appear are fairly simple in nature. Indeed, Stir Of Echoes only cost about thirteen million to make, according to estimates. Which makes it all the more peculiar that Fox was unwilling to invest a little more effort in publicising the film.Kevin Bacon is in fine, fine form as the film's central hero, a regular guy called Tom Witzky. Kathryn Erbe is also in great form as his wife, Maggie. Illeana Douglas is decidedly odd as his sister-in-law, Lisa. But the real surprise here is child performer Zachary David Cope. After the pretender, that pile of sachaarine garbage called The Sixth Sense, child stars had such a bad reputation that Zachary deserves a medal for portraying such a genuinely likable, layered character. Indeed, director David Koepp took one hell of a risk by placing so much of the responsibility for the plot on his shoulders. That it pays off is a testament not only to the strength of Zachary David Cope's performance, but to the strength of the material he was given. Indeed, all the best scenes in Stir Of Echoes involve interaction between Zachary, Kathryn, and Kevin.I do think this film has its faults. Chief among them is that the story needed another ten minutes to properly develop. Plot threads like the group of psychics, a member of which helps put Kathryn Erbe's character on the path of greater understanding, needed better resolution. One moment, Maggie is asking this policeman why her husband is obsessed with a scene of memories to the exclusion of his job. The next moment, not only are details like the job forgotten, so too is the group and the policeman. Smoothing out intricate plot points such as this would have helped the story no end.In the end, however, Stir Of Echoes is proof that the artistic work one does not hear about may just be the one that has more merit. If nothing else, it is worth watching to see a small ensemble cast that excels. Even small performances like Liza Weil's demonstrate a sense of dramatic flair that has long fled most of the rest of Hollywood. It is for this reason that I gave Stir Of Echoes an eight out of ten. It is worth watching just to see how badly misdirected the hype machine often is. "},{"Title":"Thrilling and interesting","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"65 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Actually, I found this movie more satisfying than Sixth sense. It doesn't have a stunning payoff like sixth sense (what film does?), but until the, in some ways hasty, conclusion, it's well made, scary and, since I have a knowledge of occult things through a good friend, rather believable. Kevin Bacon is credible in his part and so do Illeana Douglas. Kathryn Erbe however is stuck with nothing to do for large chunks of the movie. Effectively and atmosphericly shot, with some effective jolts that made me jump. To some, the conclusion may be a little simple and drawn-out, but I thought it was satisfying and filled to the brim with suspense. I find that the digging in the cellar/garden is a nice build-up for the finale, not that it goes on forever as a previous reviewer stated. It's only one thing that bothers me about the ending, and it is that too little is explained and a few threads of the story are totally abandoned. But that's only a minor complaint. For the most part, this is a creepy, interesting, well-made, scary  and well played little thriller. "},{"Title":"Above average horror","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The biggest problem with Stir of Echoes is the timing of the release. As we all know it was released at the same time as The Sixth Sense and the subject matter is coincidentaly very simular. This film not quite as good as the Bruce Willis classic because i dont think the twist is quite as dramatic.  The thing that compares favourably to The Sixth Sense is that Stir Of Echoes is thoroughly entertaining from the first minute. Kevin Bacon Stars as a father who is hypnotised by his sister in law, which results in the opening of his mind to the spirit of a girl who was murdered in his house. His son already had the powers to speak to dead people and together they try to solve why the girl keeps contacting them. The young boy is brilliant in the roll as is Kevin Bacon and the whole film keeps you on the edge of the seat.  The way this is filmed is stunning, especially when he is first hypnotised, i nearly went under myself! A Very entertaining movie. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Had the bad luck it was released right after The Sixth Sense.","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"33 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Before 1999 this type of supernatural thrillers/horror didn't really existed. This all changed after the release of The Sixth Sense. It was an huge hit and the movie was the talk of the year. It launched a totally new genre of movies. Every movie of the same 'type' released after The Sixth Sense was considered by everyone lame, unoriginal and a rip-off and a movie to quickly cash in after the success of The Sixth Sense. Stir of Echoes was released only a month after The Sixth Sense and people wanted to know nothing of it. Completely unfair, also since I thought that the script was even being written before The Sixth Sense was and I also thought that filming completed earlier but yet it was released later in cinemas. Who knows what would have happened to this movie if it was released before The Sixth Sense...It surely would had been appreciate more than it was now.I'm glad that the movie by now is finally starting to receive the credit it deserves.You also have to remember that in 1999 these type of movies were still fresh and new, so everything about it was original. However by todays standards the movie perhaps doesn't really seem that original anymore, since dozens like this sort of movie are being made every year now.The story is greatly written by David Koepp, who really is one of the best writers in the business. Everything is build up perfectly slowly and mysteriously. You never know what is going to happen next and the movie offers more than enough surprise. In the beginning you really don't know what the movie is going to be about or were its trying to head to. You don't know if its real what is happening or is it just the main character imagining things. It provides the movie with mystery and an uneasy atmosphere.The movie above all is a supernatural thriller (that also definitely has some similarities by the way with The Sixth Sense, which also might be a reason why it was received so coolly) but the movie also features some real horror elements. And remember again, this was all quite new and refreshing for 1999 standards. I was actually quite blown away by the movie when I first saw it, which must have been in 2000 or something.Kevin Bacon is really know for being the biggest Hollywood lead and he normally plays supporting roles, especially before this movie. This movie is perhaps the first one that truly allows Bacon to shine and show his skill as an actor and proof to the world that he can really carry a movie. It was nice and refreshing to see Kathryn Erbe in something different than Law & Order Criminal Intent for a change. She plays such a different character. It shows how good as an actress she actually is.The movie is well directed by David Koepp himself and he knows how to bring his own story to the screen. The movie further more features some nice special effects, that are used only in the right places. The movie is still definitely much better and more refreshing than most genre movies being released today.Deserves to become a real genre-classic!9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, well written and decently acted","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of Echoes (1999) tells the story of Tom, a middle aged man who, after being hypnotized, starts seeing things. This is the start of a suspenseful psychological thriller that sucked me in and did not let go until the credits rolled.The acting by all the lead and supporting characters is more than adequate. Kevin Bacon is right at home in his role of a somewhat bitter individual who undergoes heavy changes throughout the film. He does a great job, as do the other actors. The film is shot in a sober and down-to-earth way, giving it a serious tone. Plot wise, the movie is also more than decent, with only a few small plot holes which will only bother the most scrutinous of viewers.The movie's plot does however remind some viewers of other thrillers, mainly The Shining and The Sixth Sense (another 1999 release which overshadowed Stir of Echoes with a larger marketing campaign and larger overall budget). Some aspects of the story are indeed less than original, but the movie as a whole feels different and is very enjoyable.Overall, the movie falls just short of greatness in its genre. I found the quality and depth of the story to be good, but not quite as good as some of the afore mentioned greats in the thriller/horror genres. even still, I recommend this film to every fan of thrillers and suspense. "},{"Title":"Bacon 'Cooks' As An Unwilling Medium...","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have always admired and marveled at Kevin Bacon's versatility as an actor. From the likable fish-out-of-water guy who trips the light-fantastic through a piece of fluff like FOOTLOOSE, to putting everything on the line to play a pedophile in the unnerving THE WOODSMAN, there's hardly anything he can't - or won't do - to show his amazing range.That being said, STIR OF ECHOES still holds what is for me one of his all-time Top Five performances.He plays Tom Witzky, a regular mug living with his family in a working-class suburb of Chicago. Though he loves his family, hotter-than-hot wife Maggie (Kathryn Erbe) and precocious son Jake (Zachary David Cope), he's also a man becoming bored with his life. He wants to do and be something more than who and what he is.Obviously, the old adage be careful what you wish for went right over Tom's head.At a party for family and friends, Tom volunteers to be hypnotized by his flaky sister-in-law, Lisa (the always excellent Illeana Douglas), who makes a powerful suggestion to Tom that his mind takes literally. What happens next will change his life and everyone's around him forever.A 'doorway' has been opened inside Tom's head that allows him to communicate with the dead, and for them to reach out and touch him...whether he wants to or not. When the nightmares that he's been having begin to intensify, Tom knows he must find a way to close that doorway for good before he loses his family...and his sanity. The urgency is heightened when he discovers how sensitive he was before the hypnotic suggestion, in the most chilling way possible...it seems that son Jake can see and talk to the dead as well.In the tradition of THE CHANGELING, LADY IN WHITE and THE SIXTH SENSE, the focus of Tom's visions comes from one apparition in particular, who won't leave him or his family in peace until he can figure out what it wants and why. The situation provides fodder for one intense and terrifying performance, and with help from a strong supporting cast, Bacon comes through like a champ.When movies like this are adapted from older works by classic authors, I usually proceed with the greatest caution. But Richard Matheson's creepy novel has been skillfully transformed by David Koepp, a man who knows a little bit about balancing thoughtful plotting and dialogue with outright terror, (as in APARTMENT ZERO) and the outstanding job he does here will make you think twice the next time somebody wants to 'put you out' at a party with something more than just shots of Captain Morgan... "},{"Title":"Shut the door! You're letting in a draft!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Tom (Kevin Bacon) has hypnotized by his sister-in-law, played by Illeana Douglas, and from then on his life's a little....well, weird. He sees a ghost of a disappeared girl, and he's not the only one - his young son's been seeing the spectre for weeks. What unfolds after that is that Tom slips further and further into imminent madness. His wife Maggie (Kathryn Erbe) can't fathom his insanity, and it's driving her up the wall, as both of the men in her life are increasingly distant and non-communicative. So what happened to Tom when he was under hypnosis? His sister-in-law claims there's a door in everyone's mind that's never been opened, and it sure looks like Tom's door is wide open, with a big neon sign over it, inviting him to run through with abandon. What's behind all of this freakiness? There's a mystery afoot, but it turns out to be a little more standard and predictable than one would hope with the solid premise. Can't fault the actors, though - this is an unusual role for Bacon, who here comes off as a tough, strong, blue-collar kind of guy - he and his family are close to what one might call white trash, but they're never portrayed as being mean-spirited or hateful. This is just one of those cases where weird stuff happens to nice folk, kind of like the clan in Poltergeist.So this is a stylish psychological/supernatural thriller with game performances by a capable cast. It's watchable and full of chills, but the ending's a little pat. "},{"Title":"Why'd they call it that?","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I mean, apart from that being the original book's name. There's no direct reference to the title anywhere through the movie. That's the only thing that bothered me through the whole movie, really. Guess it just unsettled me. Except that Einstein wasn't a Gemini, he was born in March. He was a Pisces. But that's irrelevant. There are lots of little things that make this movie great. There are so many bits where you expect something to happen, but it doesn't. That makes you look for the next one, when it really *must* happen this time, for sure. And it doesn't. Again. So you're kept on the edge of your seat, waiting for something scary to jump up and frighten you half to death. But it doesn't. For all its spooky and weird subject-matter, Stir of Echoes keeps it simple, and in doing so makes itself even more climactic. Where The Sixth Sense was spooky, this movie is frightening. It's like when you watched Dr Who as a kid and hid behind the couch because you couldn't bear to watch. Kevin Bacon is fantastic, and loses his mind quite convincingly. The 'Dig' sequence, along with the total madness that follows, reminds me of Stephen King's The Tommyknockers. And that book was spooky enough. Zachary David Cope (why do all kids have three names nowadays?) is also brilliant as little Jake, although Kathryn Erbe as Maggie leaves a little to be desired. She's too flat - not enough emotion. And I love the way all the little things are tied up, especially the end sequence with Jake in the car...If you liked The Sixth Sense, this is not quite the same standard, although it's pretty close. If you didn't like The Sixth Sense because you didn't think it got personal enough, this one's for you. Although I don't think anyone's going to get remotely close to the ending of The Sixth Sense for a very very long time. 7½/10.  "}{"Title":"Pretty good thriller","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I actually liked Stir of Echoes. As far as acting goes, Kevin Bacon was fine as Tom Witzky. Katherine Erbe did a very convincing job as his wife Maggie. There are a few really decent stand-out scenes. One is when Witzky is first hypnotized at the party. That was really creepy. Another one was when he discovers the woman in the wall.The digging for the body under the house was spot on for a horror/thriller, exactly what you want to see in this type of movie. The whole cover-up plot of the killing that occurred in the past was cleverly executed and well-done in my opinion. The final shoot out took me by surprise. The only thing I was lukewarm about was the ending when Jake hears voices from each house.But other than that, a pretty good movie for the most part and recommended to check out if you like thrillers. "},{"Title":"moody, creepy, obsessive","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon) is a Chicago blue collar lineman concerned that his wife Maggie (Kathryn Erbe) is pregnant. They have a son name Jake. Her sassy sister Lisa (Illeana Douglas) hypnotizes him at a party and he starts having visions of vanished neighborhood girl Samantha Kozac (Jennifer Morrison). They get Samantha's sister Debbie Kozac (Liza Weil) as babysitter to Jake. When Jake tells her about visions of Samantha, she tries to take him to her mother. Tom becomes obsessed with Samantha's disappearance.There is great creepiness and moodiness. Kevin Bacon's performance is brilliant. His obsessive turn is amazing. The dark creepiness is perfect for the supernatural story. It brings out the darkness in a very everyday neighborhood. It's a great ghost story. "},{"Title":"Hypnotic thriller","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am normally not a real big fan of Kevin Bacon but I thought that in this movie he gave us his best performance so far. When I see his face I always imagine him in Footloose and I wonder when he's going to start dancing. But in Stir Of Echoes I for once didn't had that feeling. The little boy played by Zachary David Cope was also very good. Nice believable acting by this kid. The story itself was certainly interesting enough to keep you intrigued during the whole movie. I would rather call it a thriller then a horror movie. You won't get scared for one minute. Well at least I wasn't. But I certainly did enjoy this movie a lot and that's what it's all about. "},{"Title":"Really good horror movie","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Well it's not as much horror as it is a mystery.The acting was great all around, especially Kevin Bacon. The scenes of life in a Chicago working class neighborhood, and the interaction with the local neighbors and cops was all believable and interesting, kind of like The Deer Hunter.The mystery builds and you are guessing the whole time whats going on as Kevin Bacon (as Tom Witzky) slowly appears to go crazy...The title of the movie is a clue, there are some supernatural things going in...Really fun, engrossing movie. I would recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Underrated and Undeniable Creepfest","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Unfairly and Relentlessly compared to the The Sixth Sense that proceeded this by just One Month. In Fact, You could remove the Child's ability to see Dead People, and this Movie would have been just as Horrific and Effective.It is a Grungy Little Horror Movie that has its share of Scares and its Twilight Zone Flavour is no accident since the Story was Penned in 1958 by Richard Matheson who Wrote many of the Zone's best Episodes.For Trivia Buffs, the Book that the Babysitter is reading on the couch is The Shrinking Man by Matheson, that was made in to one of the Best Sci-Fi Movies of the Fifties.This Movie is at once Creepy and has a Middle-Class Urban Milieu rarely seen on Screen, at least with such Verisimilitude. Kevin Bacon is Dramatically Effective as is most of the Cast and the Story is Horror to be sure. It combines Supernatural and True Crime Elements with Outstanding Overlays.The Ending may seem a bit Rushed but Things do come together in a Spurt of Thrills and Grotesque goings on and it is one of those Movies that at most Times has the Audience holding Their Breath and after all is said and done, They can breathe a sigh of Nervous Relief. "},{"Title":"Average at best","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Contains spoilersStir of Echoes is a run-of-the-mill thriller that features a very good performance by Kevin Bacon. That's it. Nothing more, nothing less.The story, for once, makes sense (there are no huge plot-holes common to this kind of movie), but it's very basic and just about anybody can guess what's going on after watching maybe half an hour of this movie. That leaves one hour to be impressed by Kevin's performance, but also to be bored by the predictable plot. I'm sure I've seen this kind of movie before, it's all very standard with the missing girl, the rape etc. This movie is also seriously lacking in scary moments. Well acted, well made, but very predictable and a little bit boring** out of **** stars "},{"Title":"Stir of Erbe.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of Echoes (1999) Dir David Koeppe / Cast Kevin Bacon, Kathryn Erbe, Kevin Dunn, Illeana Douglas, Jennifer Morrison Similar to The Sixth Sense with a title that represents crimes unsolved that will not die. Illeana Douglas plays a hypnotist who gathers a group of friends including a couple played by Kevin Bacon and Kathryn Erbe. She hypnotizes Kevin Bacon but he begins to see images of a missing teenage girl. His son talks to the girl as if she is present, and on top of that Bacon comes to realize that his neighbour's son is about to shoot himself. Intriguing plot with many surprises and effective humour. The conclusion is conventional and too rushed. Directed by David Koeppe who presents a natural quality in the marriage relationship generated by fine chemistry between Bacon and Kathryn Erbe that is the best element of the film. Bacon is bent on solving a crime, and Erbe is trying to understand what is happening until she is in a position where she needs to rescue him. This is the best part of the film while supporting players are an odd mix of morons and crazies. Douglas has a role that is key but way too familiar and predictable. Kevin Dunn is also featured as a neighbour but the role really doesn't come to life until the third act. The result is a film that is inferior to The Sixth Sense but will still stir those seeking an interesting approach to an old paint job. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Spooky, Smart, and Criminally Underrated","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of Echoes is more than just your average ghost story; it's a thriller that weaves together mystery, intrigue, murder, and love of family into a very memorable film. Adapted from the novel by the late, great Richard Matheson, the story centers around everyday man Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon), his wife Maggie (Kathryn Erbe) and their young son, Jake (Zachary David Cope). They seem to have the perfect life in their Chicago suburban home until one night at a neighborhood block party Tom, ever the supernatural/otherworldly skeptic, agrees to be hypnotized by his mystic-minded sister-in-law. He doesn't remember much about what happens during the hypnosis, but what follows next is anything but child's play as strange images involving a ghostly, teenage girl and past events of the house they live in start appearing in his mind. It turns out Tom has become a receiver, someone whose mind is open to visions of the future and communication with the dead, and that's not all. Tom's son, Jake, already has this sixth sense, if you will, and he too has visions of the girl he calls Samantha. It doesn't take long for Tom to discover that Samantha was a real person who disappeared from the neighborhood but no one in the community knows why or seems to care. From there, it's a race for the truth as Tom tries to uncover what really happened to the young girl who haunts his mind before it tears him apart.I had heard of Stir of Echoes through this site long before I saw it. It was not until recently I finally got my chance to see it and needless to say, I was not disappointed. The story is beautifully crafted right from the beginning, where we first meet Jake taking a bath and seemly talking to his father in the next room. It's only after his father leaves the room and he's drying off that we find out (I won't reveal exactly how we know as to not spoil it) he's talking to someone else. The scene gives me chills just thinking of it and there are plenty more to come. Writer and director David Koepp should be congratulated for being to combine scenes that scare and disturb with a good, strong story. As for as characters, each of the actors give solid performances, be it Kevin Bacon as skeptic turned (almost dangerously) obsessed believer, Kathryn Erbe as Tom's devoted wife, Illeana Douglas as the sister-in-law, Kevin Dunn as Tom's friend and neighbor Frank, or Zachary David Cope as young Jake Witzky. Mr. Cope's performance has to be one of the most brilliant I've ever seen from a child actor or in general due to his ability to be sweet but also a bit other worldly due to his ability to see things we can't. Plus there's a whole lot of amazing supporting actors and actresses, such as Jennifer Morrison as young Samantha, that should be congratulated for their work. I'm not sure what Mr. Matheson thought of this film but as for me, I can't praise it enough. Stir of Echoes is a film that works, not only for the reasons above but in addition, it will make you wonder how well do you really know your neighborhood or the house you live in? And on that note, don't let this gem of a film pass you by. Watch and be prepared for some unsettling truths. "},{"Title":"Shows that predictable can still be decent","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" STIR OF ECHOES is a classic ghost story based on a novel by the late, great Richard Matheson. It stars Kevin Bacon as a sceptic who undergoes hypnosis and soon finds himself suffering extreme flashbacks and visions of a ghostly girl with vengeance on her mind. The story has been done to death by Hollywood recently - this came out the same year as THE SIXTH SENSE, which helped popularise the ghost story genre once again - but this film works, possessing a finesse and level of quality usually missing in the genre.The good things about STIR OF ECHOES are the reliance on good, old-fashioned storytelling over blood and guts and jump scares. It's a slow-burner of a movie and writer/director David Koepp allows the suspense to generate naturally. Most of these films have a disappointing back story when it finally gets revealed but that's not the case here - the narrative remains gripping throughout. And when it does descend into cliché at the climax, you can forgive it for the quality that's come before.Kevin Bacon is one of those underrated actors that Hollywood doesn't really know what to do with, and he's rarely given the chance to shine. Yet when he does he burns up the screen with an energy like no other, and he's on top form as the mild-mannered husband and father who finds himself channelling a kind of supernatural vengeance. His mania is both convincing and frightening. Kathryn Erbe is also very strong as his put-upon wife, and child actor Zachary David Cope is excellent in a creepy kid role. STIR OF ECHOES is a lovely surprise, a modern twist on the ghost story that feels fresh and exciting despite its familiarity. "},{"Title":"Starts out well then falls a bit flat","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" You can see what this film wanted to be, but it didn't really succeed.Despite being sceptical, Kevin Bacon is prevailed upon to be hypnotised at a party. This experience opens him up to visions and ghostly visitations which turn out to relate to events which have happened in the house he is renting. Eventually he receives a message telling him to dig, so he does.In one of those astonishing coincidences whereby two movies with very similar themes arrive in cinemas at nearly the same time, this one arrived just after The Sixth Sense which, in many respects, it resembles (Bacon's small son can also see the main apparition). Unfortunately, it's not half the film The Sixth Sense is, even without the you-know-what delivered by Sixth Sense at the end.And that's a shame, because it starts off really well. There's a strong sense of location, character, and community, and the sequence leading into the hypnosis is nicely atmospheric. Following that there is a decent sense of mystery and mounting paranoia and obsession on Bacon's character's part.Unfortunately, from there it devolves into a variation of Roy Neary's irritating obsessive from Close Encounters, only rather than making mashed potato mountains, Bacon is digging holes in the garden. I always thought that aspect was by far the worst part of CE3K, and it is the worst aspect here, too. And the resolution, when it comes, is depressingly mundane - a bit more bang for the buck would have been welcome. All the mystique built up at the start is flushed down the drain.And good performances from Bacon and Illeana Douglas (never one of my favourite actresses, but very good here) are unfortunately completely counteracted by Katherine Erbe playing Bacon's wife - as written and directed, no doubt - as one of those profoundly annoying people who you just want to slap (in a politically correct way, of course).And it all started out so well, too. "}{"Title":"it sure scared me","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" All scary movies should be like Stir of Echoes.  It scared the crap out of me and still managed to have a good plot and some awesome acting in it. The use of forshadowing and flashbacks really set this movie up to be great. you would never know that ever single dream, nightmare, or vision would tie into the plot somehow.  no holes that i could think of and the acting was hands down some of the best i've seen in horror/thiller films. (except for the shining and the sixth sense)even though the script was good i have to say that this was kevin bacons movie.  he made his character believable, interesting, and scary (sometimes) without overacting or stealing the spotlight.  After some of the BIG, HUGE horror let downs like the haunting and house on haunted hill i was glad to see a horror movie that scared you with more than just too much blood/gore and bad acting.all and all 9/10 for good script and great acting *AWESOME ATMOSPHERE AND TENSE MOMENTS* "},{"Title":"If only they thought of it last year...","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You have to feel sorry for everyone involved in 'Stir of Echoes'. After all, imagine the initial elation at some bright spark coming up with the following ideas... 'How about a kid sees dead people, and they want him to do stuff for them?', or, 'How about someone has a dream where something happens, he wakes up and exactly the same sequence of events begins happening in real life?'. However, as the movie has trundled through production, 'The Sixth Sense' and 'Final Destination' have got there first and, sadly, left 'Stir of Echoes' looking decidedly second best.Even so, this is not to call '..Echoes' a dismissable movie. Taken on its own terms, it has moments (particularly the hypnotisation sequence) of quite admirable innovation and tension. It also has a towering performance at its core, courtesy of Kevin Bacon. Its just a shame that the ending seems to take the easy option; a seen-it-all-before climax devoid of any of the films prior brooding supernatural quality.In conclusion then, 'Stir of Echoes' suffers from bad luck and bad ending syndrome, thus ensuring two things First, that it will be reduced to £5.99 within 3 months of its video release. Second, that any discerning viewer should subsequently take advantage of the offer and snap up this flawed gem. "},{"Title":"The fast forward button was created for movies like this.","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It simply wasn't necessary to make this picture. It is a Sixth Sense ripoff that is trying to cash in on the popular ghost story genre. Bacon's performance is contrived and forgettable. He seemed to never get the mood or temper of his character. The child actor should leave this performance off his resume. A real dog of a movie. "},{"Title":"A Forgettable Supernatural Thriller","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Good or bad, I hate to say that the most prominent thing I can say about David Koepp's STIR OF ECHOES is that it left me with no impression whatsoever. It's not necessarily that the movie was horrible or incredibly boring; it's just that I find it to be one of the most forgettable film's I've ever seen. I've watched it a few times and for some reason I never remember much about it. I remember the premise of the film and that it stars Kevin Bacon, and that's about it. So I gave it another chance to see if maybe I just hadn't paid attention in the past and&#x85;nope. It's just forgettable. It's enjoyable enough while you're watching it thought. It's not a bad little ghost tale, with a few moments of decent suspense. In the movie, Kevin Bacon is Tom Witzky, a phone line maintenance tech that isn't content with the direction his life has taken. He lives with his wife and son in a small Chicago suburb where everyone knows everyone. One night at a party, Tom is hypnotized by his sister-in-law as a gag, but the fun is over when Tom finds himself plagued with terrifying hallucinations. He is haunted by visions of a teenage girl and feels the need to dig. His flashes lead him to believe that the hypnosis has opened a new door to his mind, and his investigations might lead him to uncover a secret that would shatter his peaceful neighborhood.I guess it just might've been overshadowed by some of the bigger titles released in 1999, but I just don't remember STIR OF ECHOES getting much attention. I hadn't even remembered it myself until I grabbed it on DVD as part of a two-DVD set. It's a fine little thriller with some moments of genuine creepiness buffered by a bunch of scenes with Kevin Bacon and a shovel. There aren't a lot of big names in the film, with the obvious exception of course being Bacon. Illeana Douglas (who was slightly more popular at the time of the film's release than she is now) is in the movie as Lisa Well, the protagonist's sister-in-law/amateur hypnotist. Douglas is a cute face but I've never seen her as much of a dramatic actor and her scenes in the movie don't feel too genuine. The rest of the film is filled out with recognizable faces and forgettable names (including the father from the TRANSFORMERS series) that normally would relegate a film of this stature to direct-to-DVD status. Everyone does a fine job but I feel some blame falls on director David Koepp, an accomplished screenwriter with limited directing experience. Bacon provides the strongest performance while others falter, and I wish the scares had been a little stronger. Granted, this is just as much a mystery as a supernatural thriller but it felt cheap. The thrills are pretty barren and I would have liked a little more torment from the tortured soul of the teenage girl (played by a young and almost unrecognizable Jennifer Morrison).I would recommend STIR OF ECHOES as a decent viewing option on a rainy day when it's playing on cable. It's not really worth spending any cash on but, if you catch it for free, it doesn't disappoint. It's tense at times with a mystery that keeps your interest engaged until the final reveal. I wish they would've built more upon the whole psychic abilities the movie hints at with Bacon and his son. I wonder if these elements were built upon further in the novel the movie is based upon. I should also mention that, while I normally hate child actors, the one in this movie isn't as aggravating bad as most. So kudos to Zachary David Cope for that. Overall, the movie has a heavy vibe of a made-for-cable piece, and it's a shame because I think in the capable hands of a director with a real vision this movie could've rivaled THE SIXTH SENSE. Instead we're treated to a mildly entertaining one-off film that most people probably don't remember. I barely did. "},{"Title":"Comparisons are inevitable, but this is not just The Sixth Sense lite...","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One thing about Kevin Bacon, he always throws himself into a role, regardless how crappy. He was great in Tremors, over the top but never less than interesting in Hollow Man, and terrific in the understated The Woodsman. So it should be no surprise here that he elevates Stir Of Echoes up a little more than perhaps is warranted.Stir of Echoes famously followed The Sixth Sense by a month in 1999, and by that stage the most famous twist since Luke met his Daddy had given Shamalangadingdong's film massive (and well deserved) momentum.But that's for another time. The upshot is that echoes was a little late to the party.The odd thing is that at its core this really is quite similar to The Sixth Sense. Without labouring the point this didn't help it too much critically and in the box office, when you've just seen one of the definitive psychological thrillers of all time, why check out something with less buzz and less critical acclaim? This is a minor shame, as Stir of Echoes is more than just OK and the good bits outweigh the bad.The film is set in Chicago, Kevin Bacon plays Tom, blue collar regular-guy husband to Maggie, in the early going we find out that Maggie is pregnant again, much to Tom's concern. Tom finds out when Maggie's sister Lisa blabs, I found Lisa annoying, (but I think you were meant to). The odd thing is that after the new baby is mentioned in the first few minutes of the film it never comes up again, so perhaps it was only introduced at all to convince the audience that Tom and Lisa don't like each other? Even though Tom is clearly in his late 30s and Maggie is pregnant, they get around like a young couple, house parties, baseball games and boozy evenings with friends, it is at one of these evenings in the early hours that Lisa is discussing her hobby, that of hypnotism. Tom is a major sceptic - and maybe it's the beer talking - but decides to let Lisa try to put him under&#x85; with hilarious results.Not really. Doo-de-doo-doo. Doo-de-doo-doo. A pretty funny (when you think about it) scene then follows, Tom and Maggie get home, and after Maggie wakes up she initiates Only-in-Hollywood Insta-Sex (c). Basically she rolls over, lands on top and awayyyyy they go. This is interrupted by very brief and startling visions, (they must be bad, she is pretty hot. Tom certainly married the good sister). From time to time thereafter Tom experiences these visions in the tried and tested we see a little more each vision technique.All the while up to this point the couple's 5 year old son Jake, has been yammering away to someone off camera, often in a non-whisper. For some reason this doesn't bother his parents who either ignore or don't hear his frequent discussions. Now however Tom realises that they share more than basic DNA, and Jake becomes somewhat of a confidante for the remainder of the film.It becomes apparent that Tom's visions are a by-product of the hypnotism, and like it or not he has been opened up to receive signals from elsewhere. In this case the repeating image is of a young teenage girl, the situation is inflamed when they hire a baby-sitter who after a chat with Jake decides to take him to see her mum in the middle of the night. Of course Tom's shining tells him what is happening and they cut them off at the pass, it is then that Tom realises that the girl in his visions is named Samantha, and that Jake can see (and talk to) her. The rest of the movie has the situation gradually unfold.Tom becomes fixated on finding the girl and making her ghost reappear. There are a little too many convenient turns and Hollywood clichés for this to be a great movie, but there are certainly some chill inducing moments, and a couple of decent scenes. In retrospect though while one of the chills was good in isolation, after the movie finished I realised that it made no sense when considered in context.Maggie is way too accepting of the situation given the unbelievable circumstances going on around her with Jake and Tom, they see everything, she sees nothing and she just accepts this.Not being from America I have no idea how authentic Bacon's accent was, but to me it sounds incredibly thick and annoying. Example Instead of Hey I'm sorry. you hear Ayyyy, Ah'm sahrrry. The token black guy who gets it thing is DONE! Without spoilers when he appears on the scene and understands everything without being told it's forced as all hell.By the finale I think everyone watching knows what Tom will find when he completes his search, everyone should also know by now that there are no surplus characters in these films, so by the end we have already met someone who knows what is going on, we just don't know who.The ending was a little hokey but the bottom line is that despite some of the flaws Stir of Echoes is a pretty harmless DVD-night movie, with good acting and a serious tone that perhaps the material doesn't really deserve.I rate it as worthwhile regardless.One last thought If Jake from this movie and Cole from The Sixth Sense got together for a play date, how fun would that be? Final Rating &#x96; 7.0 / 10. Probably better if you haven't seen The Sixth Sense for a while, but some solid chills and the movie never quits trying, even when it sometimes fails.If you liked this (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Suspenseful and horrifying story,  well written and directed by David Koepp","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This creepy thriller concerns about a family, when the marriage goes to a party into a calmed neighboring, happen weird events. Tom (Kevin Bacon, Sleepers) being hypnotized by his sister in law(Ileana Douglas), then, he winds up with clairvoyant abilities that link to disappeared teen girl(Jennifer Morrison, today famous by House). These faculties also have traumatized his young boy( similarly to kid in ¨The sixth sense, he isn't only one seeing dead), carrying the fear under his frail shoulders, but he can communicate with the deceased adolescent and presumed missing. Tom and son's visions lead to have problems with his wife(Kathryn Erbe, Law and Order) and friends(Kevin Dunn, secondary in Gozzilla). It leads to unexpected and breakthrough twist ending about what's happened before.The movie packs suspense, tension, shocks, grisly horror and eerie scenes when the ghoul appear. The film takes accent as the suspense as well as the terror. Provides an imaginative, highly original and well-knit screenplay by David Koepp, also director, and based on novel by Richard Matheson. Sinister and mysterious atmosphere is finely made by cameraman Fred Murphy. Creepy music score fitting to the horror film by James Newton Howard, he's habitual maker of frightening atmospheres such as ¨Sixth sense, Devil's advocate¨ and composer of all films by Night Shyamalan. The motion picture is well directed by David Koepp, a famous screenwriter(Zathura, War of the worlds, Spiderman, Mission impossible) and occasionally director(Secret window,The trigger effect). The flick will like to terror fans because gets decent scares and intense sequences of horror. "},{"Title":"Too Bad it Echoes Sixth Sense...  =8/","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of Echoes is a kewl, quirky supernatural film along similar lines as Sixth Sense, which came out around the same time.  The crowds went to Sixth Sense, not Stir, and that's a shame because Stir of Echoes is almoost as good, and has a different story to tell.  True, the plot is a bit moore standard a regular joe and his son are able to see ghosts, one of which is cowmoonicating in their own house, where something very bad happened. Kevin Bacon is quite good as Tom Witzky, a Chicago lineman is gets mesmerized by his wife's kooky sister, and gets his poles switched.  He now had a patchy, unreliable form of ESP, lesser variation than the full-blown power possessed by his son, Jake.  Obsessed with his new visions, Tom tears his home, and family, apart in order to get to the truth. Director Koepp keeps the film taut and suspenseful, and even if you can see what's going to happen next before it happens the payoff is worth it. Bacon's surrounding castmates are fairly pedestrian, in particular Kathryn Erbe, whose performance as the Weak-Link Wife seldom rises above the norm. Not as good as Sixth Sense, but better than the average Hollywood horror-disaster.  The MooCow says, find a cheapie matinee & check it out! =8)  "},{"Title":"Well acted, but the script reduced the level of the original.","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I voted a 4 for this film and the only reason it arrived there was the cast and the quality of their work. They were all marvelous with a low- quality and repulsive script. The scenarist decided that the middle class of Chicago are dumb and kept them that way for the entire film. The original story was more in the suburbs of the films of Stephen Spielberg mixed with Desperate Housewives.Don't get me wrong; the casting was great and so were ALL of the actors' work, but the script was a perversion of the work of a great film, television, short story, and novel writer. (The author of the original book was, among other things, one of the major authors of many classic episodes of the original Twilight Zone.)The story was ruined by that change, but all of the grunts (actors, crew, director of photography, etc.) did great work. ALL of these actors are worth watching in this film... even if the powers that be ruined what could have been a good, new variation on 6th Sense.I realize that the producers need to make money with this story. So, they lowered the class and the IQ's of all of the characters so that a middle American audience would identify with it. That's a sad fact for the film industry (especially in our epoch), but it's common for at least 30 years. That's why comic books (the same story several times over!) and even boardgames and toys are being transformed into blockbusters. Writers in Hollywood have had almost no original ideas in the last 30 years, but since producers have no idea what writing or originality are, they produce and make money with middle America with stories that are the lowest common denominators in the field. Welcome to the industry of art.I have a large DVD collection (more than 500 titles), but this one won't be added. ... However, I will write to the actors' agents so that I can pass the message that they did great work, nevertheless. (I'm a voice actor and I know we as actors are not responsible for the scripts we just need to keep working like any employee and do our best.) "},{"Title":"Always like Kevin Bacon.   But the movie needed a tighter plot and better direction","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This has a very interesting plot that did not come off as well as it could. It seemed to amble on too much,to struggle at times, and did not offer any high shocking moments like 6th Sense and Dead Zone. Possibly a better use of camera angles, more ghost scenes, more spooky interaction between father and son, and a deeper role for Katie Erbe would have helped. Katie Erbe's talents were definitely under utilized. If it wasn't for Kevin Bacon, the movie would have really struggled. I am a Kevin Bacon fan and have enjoyed his acting since Footloose. I have Stir of Echoes on BluRay HD DVD. The sound is great!!! Just like being in a theater. "},{"Title":"Predictable but nice","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir Of Echoes is a mixture of The Sixth Sense, The Shining & What Lies Beneath. Although it isn't as good as any of these movies it  is nicely done. The acting is fine, the characters believable and though the story is pretty predictable you never get bored. The thing I liked best were the cinema scenes. However, Stir Of Echoes is way better than the awful Hollow Man! "}{"Title":"An Enigma that stole the Screen","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Chilling, thrilling, and mysterious are the words that come to mind when speculating about this masterpiece of a movie. It's well made and quite surprising. The mysterious clues come together to provide a well-wrapped up and amazing ending. A definite must see.  "},{"Title":"This is arguably one of the best horror films in the last 10 years","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing this film in the summer of 1999, The summer of horror where the sixth sense, The Blair Witch Project, and also The Cell (if I'm not mistaken) were released. Many people compare it to The Sixth Sense but if I were to have a device, let's call it the Scare o' meter the Sixth Sense would be a 4 and this, a 9. Not since The Exorcist has there been a movie where there's a point where I want to stop watching because I'm afraid of what's going to happen next. However, at the same time I am so enthralled that I'm cemented in my chair. It's a story of a regular Chicago, blue collar guy becoming involved in something beyond this world--sounds cliché but it's my bag. I don't want to give away anything and I want the reader to rush out and soak up this film like I did. But later on in the film, look for Kevin Bacon to kick a bucket (literally) this moment alone will amuse even the guy who wrote the comment before me. "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon's Second Sight","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blue-collar lineman Kevin Bacon (as Tom Witzky) would have rather become a rock musician. Instead, Mr. Bacon has settled for a more ordinary life. He has just moved to a modest Chicago house, in a decent neighborhood. Bacon, and sexily pregnant wife Kathryn Erbe (as Maggie Witzky) have a mildly creepy (but innocent looking) young son, Zachary David Cope (as Jake Witzky). Young Cope can see, and talk to, dead people. Ms. Erbe looks good in denim. She has a witchy sister, Illeana Douglas (as Lisa Weil), who gets the story going, after hypnotizing Bacon into seeing dead people, too&#x85; David Koepp's Stir of Echoes is a mostly effective ghost story. Bacon and the cast are terrific. Thankfully, the focus is on Bacon's protagonist, rather than kid Cody, who does not (also, thankfully) portray the usual annoying devil movie tot. The story is intriguing, well-paced, and nicely detailed. The aborted kidnapping of Cody, and foreshadowed suicide of Chalon Williams (as Adam) are two highlights.The story starts to falter when Erbe goes to find mysterious Eddie Bo Smith (as Neil); you expect the film to advance to a higher level, but the sequence ends up giving away too much. Dig it.For the Talk About Good Taste department Bacon searches for the lost chords of the Rolling Stones' Paint it Black (a great version is sound-tracked, by Gob). Cody can't get George Romero's Night of the Living Dead off of his television set. And, babysitter Liza Weil (as Debbie Kozac) reads dog-eared paperback writer Richard Matheson's incredible Shrinking Man.******* Stir of Echoes (7/28/99) David Koepp ~ Kevin Bacon, Kathryn Erbe, Zachary David Cope "},{"Title":"A Crass 'Mystic River' meets 'The Sixth Sense' (without the twist)","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I disagree strongly with director and writer David Koepp's belief that he was successful in depicting true-to-life working-class characters from Chicago in Stir of Echoes. There is something very unlikeable and unrealistic about most of the characters in this film. The thing that bothers me the most is the foul language. When Kathyrn Erbe (who plays the wife, Maggie) confronts Tom (played by Kevin Bacon), she crudely confronts him over his vision of a woman who's been haunting their house; she blurts out, Did you f--k her? Not only does this unsubtle, heavy-handed type of dialogue crop up way too often during the film (and spoken by too many of the characters), it also makes the characters wholly unsympathetic. Don't any of them have any wit or a sense of humor or are they all crude boors who like to get into arguments with one another? Koepp based 'Stir of Echoes' on a 1958 tale by Richard Matheson (of Twilight Zone fame). The inciting incident, where Tom is hypnotized and begins seeing visions seems quite dated. Hypnosis might have been a big thing for a movie audience in 1958 but by the late 90s it's old hat! I would have liked to have seen something a little more clever and original to propel Tom into his supernatural world.Many of the characters' actions in this film are way too over the top. I didn't quite believe that the babysitter would kidnap Jake simply because she heard him talking about her missing sister. Most normal teenagers would have calmly told their parents about their suspicions and the parents could have then contacted the police to investigate. Perhaps the most unbelievable part of the film is Maggie's reaction to Tom's obsessions. She visits her friend the hypnotist who advises her to get help for Tom; but she never follows through. She decides to do everything on her own. Even if you believe that she never notices anything peculiar about her child's behavior (especially Jake telling her to hire the babysitter), she totally ignores everything the psychic cop tells her (spelling it out that her husband has partial psychic powers and the son is fully psychic). She goes home and ends up having another argument with Tom over his visions. It's just too unbelievable that she continues to believe Tom is out of his mind.Koepp implies that Maggie fears humiliation from her working class friends if word gets out that Tom has lost his marbles and that's why she gains no insight into what's going on. I don't really buy it given all the clues put in front of her but even if one accepts Koepp's scenario, a real person probably would have gone for some outside help.Koepp settles for some over the top banter between husband and wife with Tom insisting that Maggie has been trying to stop him from discovering the most important thing in my life. In the silliest scene in the movie, Kevin Bacon, sounding like someone who forgot to take his medication, repeats I won't stop three times as Maggie tries to get him to stop digging up the body. Koepp needs a device to get Maggie out of the house so Tom is left alone for the killers to appear and try and do him in. So out of the blue, Maggie's mother dies and she takes Jake and leaves the house. Even way before the resolution where the bad guys are dispatched, it seems pretty obvious that a bunch of locals killed the missing girl so I didn't find the film's denouement very gripping. There are a few scenes in Stir of Echoes that are too drawn out. Koepp could have cut about 10 minutes from the exposition before the hypnosis scene. The same goes for all the digging Kevin Bacon was doing at the end. Koepp has certainly made a name for himself in Hollywood, penning the the two Spielberg films, 'War of the Worlds' and 'Indiana Jones', which showed a marked improvement over the insufferable Spiderman. Now that he is a prime player in Hollywood, perhaps he might consider tackling subject matter that is intellectually on a higher plane. Certainly 'Stir of Echoes', his earlier effort, will never enter the pantheon of memorable films in the future. "},{"Title":"Stir of Echoes","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the more underrated psychological horror films from the 1990's is Stir of Echoes. David Koepp, who has proved to be a big time screenplay writer for major blockbusters before Stir of Echoes, such as Jurassic Park and Mission Impossible, did some great things with this movie he wrote and directed. First off, there is a certain gritty feel to a horror film setting that takes place in a big city such as Chicago. Second, is the acting and character attitude that fit so well for the time period, has really paid off down the road leaving a nostalgic feel and believability. The story-line is connected fairly well and there are some good scares to be found. Kevin Bacon also does a great job at balancing his character to a rational minded human to an obsessively strange being. The ending does have a great twist, a ghost story that reminds me a lot of The Sixth Sense, which came out in the same exact year. Stir of Echoes is a solid horror flick that still holds up today, definitely worthy enough to re-watch if it's been awhile and escaped your mind. "},{"Title":"Stir of Echoes Stirs the Interest","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's actually quite fascinating that Stir of Echoes and The Sixth Sense came out the same year being that they are so similar. Of course The Sixth Sense garnered more attention and rightfully so, but Stir of Echoes was still an excellent movie. I'd go so far as to say that if The Sixth Sense had not been made then Stir of Echoes would be one of the more iconic ghost movies to date.Stir of Echoes was a masterful blend of the paranormal world with the normal world as an apparition tried to communicate with the living. Of course specters can never just outright say what they want (that would make things too easy) so the movie became a mystery that needed to be solved.Kevin Bacon is Kevin Bacon so you know you're going to get good acting there. I also thought the contributions by Illeana Douglas, who played is sis-in-law, and Kevin Dunn (his best friend) were just as good. The story and the suspense kept me drawn in even though they added a few scenes that were unnecessary in which they spelled out something we already knew. Besides that the movie was spectacular and I only wish I'd seen it sooner. "},{"Title":"Ahead of the curve...","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A STIR OF ECHOES happens to be one of the better Big Screen adaptations of a Richard Matheson story, though it's FAR from being all that it should've been- THAT we'll attribute to the inability of most modern-day filmmakers to tell a coherent tale without reliance on some sort of special effects (which just tend to get in the way, anyway). Bacon does a good job in the lead, though it would indeed have been interesting to see Matheson's tale told as originally written. The overall feel of STIR OF ECHOES is not unlike that of some of the really creepy Japanese chillers that were all the rage back in the day. (Matheson was always ahead of the curve, if you ask me his short story FROM SHADOWED PLACES, for instance, published a decade before THE EXORCIST, told the terrifying tale of a young man possessed by an evil spirit in a New York apartment. His contortions are described exactly like those we see the girl manifest in THE EXORCIST. A juju woman is called in to combat the evil, though she nearly died fighting it a decade earlier in Africa. She allows the evil spirit to enter into HER body so she can destroy it. Sound familiar? William Peter Blatty once said that he'd intended to make the Karras character a black man- the juju woman in FROM SHADOWED PLACES is black- but he changed his mind because he didn't want to write Sydney Poitier. Coincidence? No doubt...) "},{"Title":"I see a red door and I want to paint it black!","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of Echoes is written and directed by David Koepp who adapts from the novel of the same name written by Richard Matheson. It stars Kevin Bacon, Kathryn Erbe, Zachary David Cope, Illena Douglas, Jennifer Morrison, Kevin Dunn and Conor O'Farrell. Music is scored by James Newton Howard and cinematography by Fred Murphy.Chicago phone engineer Tom Witzky (Bacon) submits to being hypnotised by his sister-in-law and finds that his young son's imaginary friend is not imagined after all...Undeniably lost in the slip-stream of the similar themed The Sixth Sense, Stir of Echoes screams out to be seen by more fans of supernatural mysteries. It's a near faultless production, with Koepp getting all the key ingredients right on both the page and in transfer to the screen. Pacing is often the problem with films of a similar ilk, but Koepp deftly structures it in three engrossing sections.First third establishes the main characters and the supernatural set-up, but the bonus here is that character reactions are believable, especially with Erbe's confused wife, and Koepp has a great sense of atmosphere whilst ensuring we are fully immersed in Tom Wizky's new world of disorientation by way of terrifying visions and red light shocks. Second third brings the chills and the odd boo-jump, again the director is aware that too many jumps can overkill the plot, so they are nicely spaced out and accompanied by a palpable fear of the unknown. Then the last third unravels in a whirl of Roy Neary like obsessions and ghosts of the past denouements. It's a standard formula, yet it's amazing just how often film makers get it wrong, especially in horror. Not a problem here. Film is further boosted by Newton Howard's score that blends the ethereal with rising thunder and Murphy's colour photography, the latter of which helps to paint a harmonious Chicago neighbourhood, soon to be turned upside down, literally at one end of the street. The acting is super, which in Bacon's case is a given to anyone who has followed his career, and Koepp shows some nice and creepy visual filming techniques to further enhance the great Richard Matheson's story. There's the odd little misstep, such as a thread involving a secret organisation that has the gift of being open to the supernatural, that feels like filler to over state Tom's torment. While the post reaction to a suicide attempt isn't given nearly enough screen time to really add impetus to the unfolding mystery. But small complaints and Stir of Echoes (great title) remains a truly involving and entertaining supernatural mystery. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"The Painfully Underrated, or If Only it Weren't for The 6th Sense","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As always, allow me to start off by saying that I am not a movie critique and not even a cinema student, but a humble average Horror addict. That is why I'm always on the lookout for good, thrilling, scary movies from around the early nineties to present time.Regardless to its popularity and consistent substantial number of fans worldwide, the Horror genre has always been slightly (and for us fans painfully) underrated. Don't get me wrong, horror films are still produced on a yearly basis and some even win Oscars, so I'm not complaining. I am, however, pointing out that Dramas, Comedies and Action films tend to be considered as higher class cinema, and tend to make more money.In regards to the Psychological/Supernatural sub-genre - Stir of Echoes was, in my opinion, excellent. Based on a novel by Richard Matheson, it told a great story in a compelling way. The visual/audio effects were right on the spot, and the crowd was kept curious and intrigued until the very end. Certain films of the genre keep us intrigued and curious because we have no idea what is actually going on until the last 5-15 minutes. Others artistically and magnificently give original and surprising (sometimes even shocking) answers to questions we didn't even know we had until the story told in them begins coming to a closure. Stir of Echoes was slightly inferior in this regard, as the audience had been informed of everything that'd been going on (no guessing / paying attention to clues involved). That, however, didn't reduce the movie's quality even one bit. Being sort of an underground genre, we usually don't see our favorite top celebrities starring in Horror films. In this case - we did! Kevin Bacon played the role of the disturbed neurotic haunted in a convincing manner we could all relate with. His acting was by far the best in the movie. Along with him, the fans of the late show Oz by HBO were in for a real treat - as we got to see the gorgeous Kathryn Erbe (aka Shirley Bellinger) playing the sexy distressed wife trying to cope with the new oddity that had befallen her family. As for Zachary David Copes, who played their son, I must say I was less than impressed... then again I might have been a little biased. You folks might remember another Psychological/Supernatural Horror/Thriller that premiered the same year Stir of Echoes did. In a great (maybe even suspicious) resemblance, it also featured a top celebrity, and even some of the ideas and effects we've seen in SoE. That movie, M. Night Shyamalan's big break to the cinematic consciousness, will forever be more famous, more successful, and more remembered. I must admit that The Sixth Sense (if you haven't guessed) had one of the best ending twists I've seen to this day, and its ending surpassed and exceeded everything about Stir of Echoes' ending. However, that is no reason to completely neglect and even disregard David Koepp's creation. It's 2012 and I've only first found out about this film from IMDb a couple of days ago...In summary - the ending could have used a little more work, and the boy actor could have been somewhat better. One point deducted for each - still leaves 8/10 with some great acting, a great story, and not to mention a brilliant soundtrack. Guaranteed thrilling fun! "},{"Title":"WON'T send you into a deep sleep.","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Supernatural chiller Stir of Echoes stars Kevin Bacon as blue collar worker Tom Witzky, who is plagued by nightmarish visions, ominous premonitions and ghostly apparitions after his sister-in-law hypnotises him at a party. As these experiences increase in regularity and severity, Tom gradually pieces them together to discover the secret behind the mysterious disappearance of a local girl six months earlier.Although David Koepp is far from my favourite screenwriter, having penned such monumental stinkers as The Lost World, War of the Worlds, and Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, this post-Sixth Sense spook-fest proves to be a surprisingly effective chiller. A great central performance from the always excellent Bacon helps immensely, but Koepp's writing (and direction) really can't be faulted on this occasion, his well developed mystery providing a good deal of expertly executed scares, atmosphere, and tension before culminating with a nail-biting, edge-of-the-seat climax that rounds things off very nicely.7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "}{"Title":"Stirring interest","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" On the wave of a still fresh M. Night Shyamalan phenomenon and his acclaimed Sixth Sense comes a ghostly evolution of themes presented. After Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon) undergoes a hypnotising session, which ends with his mind becoming channelled as a vessel for otherworldly messages, the hapless electrician wannabee rocker rediscovers a new purpose in life. Much to the delight of his even more gifted son Jake (Zachary David Cope) with whom they now share a common understanding about ghosts, precognitions and visions. On the sidelines somewhat terrified, but mostly frustrated and tired by the changes this has enforced, his wife Maggie (Kathryn Erbe) struggles to refind a connection with the changed man. Meanwhile a ghost of a girl named Samantha Kossac (Jennifer Morrison) haunts Tom and Jake seeking attention and liberation...Scriptwriter David Koepp and novelist Richard Matheson combine forces to deliver a tensive, albeit fairly innocuous ghost story. But inasmuch as the movie fails to terrify or even pull the occasional jump, it does deliver a captivating, if somewhat generic take on the worn-down haunted house sub-genre. Nonetheless despite the lingering predictability Stir of Echoes keeps a vivid atmosphere pulsating, tentatively drawing towards the long foreseeable finale. dark humour persists leading to several hysterical interactions between characters, while managing to avoid ridicule, self-parody or dissolution of sobriety. Mostly however the story is carried on the shoulders of Bacon and Erbe. Bacon as the slightly deranged born again psychic excels in his nervously disturbing portrayal, whilst Erbe steals screen presence with her sarcasm, that serves as a superb counterpoint to her perturbed husband. Seamlessly throughout "},{"Title":"I'll have a minute maid please.....","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tom's a utilities lineman, married, with a young son, his wife is pregnant; he hangs out with long-time pals in a Chicago neighbourhood.At a party, his sister-in-law hypnotises him, and he goes into a deep trance. Before waking him, she suggests that he keep his mind open.That night he sees flashes of violence and the ghost of a young woman. His young son, too, is a receiver, but while the boy is calm and coherent in his conversations with spirits, Tom is confused and agitated.Over time, the young woman's story comes to the surface, and Tom begins a hunt for her body that puts him and his usually understanding wife, Maggie, in grave danger.....Yes it was released too soon after the sixth sense, but saying that this failed because of that is another thing. Some people just cannot get enough of this stuff, we have endless exorcism movies and so on and so on.I think the problem was that the company lost faith in the movie, released it limited, and then hope people would pick it up in years to come.In that respect, the film has garnered a cult following, but those who claim that this is superior to The Sixth Sense are just wrong.Bacon is great as the increasingly paranoid Tom, and the film is electric whenever he is on screen. The rest of the cast are decidedly bland, and you know which ones have the secrets, and which ones think Tom is nuts.There are frights, but these are all jump shocks, and because of this, there is no real tension throughout the movie. There is a little plot revelation toward the end and a neat sub plot with this son, but the film doesn't have the same narrative structure as TSS, so comparing it to that is unfair.It's a solid chiller, with some good scenes and frights, and a good ending. "},{"Title":"'Stir Of Echoes' (1999)","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I know 'Stir Of Echoes' isn't exactly the greatest film of all time, but it is probably my favorite Kevin Bacon film, and even as a child I was excited and creeped out by this film. I knew even then that David Koepp was a talented writer because of his screenplay work on 'Jurassic Park' and 'The Lost World Jurassic Park' and I was excited to see him direct for the first time here, and he did not disappoint.The acting isn't something that needs to be talked about, because we all know that our cast knows what they are doing. The child actor here is notable because of his realism, which is probably very difficult to achieve with child actors.As for the discussion about the character Neil The Cop's striking similarities to Scatman Crothers's character in 'The Shining', who can also communicate telepathically with the little boy, is done because the novel A Stir Of Echoes was written by Richard Matheson (the same author of the book versions of I Am Legend, Hell House, among others) who Stephen King as cited as inspiration for many of his books and his style of writing. King's novel Cell is dedicated to Richard Matheson and George A. Romero. This wasn't really something I picked up on when I was younger, so it is even nicer to watch 'Stir Of Echoes' again after ten years and still be able to notice something new.This is a film I will watch and love probably until I die.STIR OF ECHOES -----8/10. "},{"Title":"Stir of Shining","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's impossible to not remember The Shining while seeing this. Both films involved a family, dad goes nuts and the son strangely can see weirdo things from the unknown world. Stir of Echoes begins very intriguing, especially after the sister-in- law made a hypnotic session with Kevin Bacon's character-- that didn't believe in these things before this. Then, he begins to hear and see unexplainable things that, along with a decent directing, scare and involve the spectator. After some running time, I thought the film would develop to a point where we could understand many things of the plot, but unfortunately, we end up barely knowing why all those things were happening. Basically it appears that Samantha was being raped by two punks and got killed accidentally, so her spirit helped Witzky's family finding it out. So, as you can see, the film is too much of nothing. Another horror film that disappoints. "},{"Title":"A Decent thriller with Bacon.  Mmmmm!","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of Echoes 6/3/2010This movie starring Kevin Bacon is based on a story by famed author Richard Matheson, whose other work includes I Am Legend, The Box and What Dreams May Come. Director David Koepp is better known as a screenwriter who has written numerous blockbusters like the Jurassic Park movies, Spider Man and Panic Room. Stir of Echoes is a decent ghost story, but has its flaws. Set in suburban Chicago Bacon's character of Tom is your average blue collar worker. One night at a neighborhood party he allows his sister in-law to hypnotize him. This seems to open a door in his mind that allows him to be a receiver of the pleas of dead people. His son also seems to have this ability. In several scenes the kid is talking to his friend Samantha who is nobody else can see. Samantha was a teen aged girl from the neighborhood who disappeared six months back. Little kids being used as a medium for the dead to air their grievances is getting to be a pretty tired plot device in my opinion.Tom starts to have visions and hallucinations of a horrific crime and is haunted by the ghost of Samantha. Tom goes back to his sister in-law to if she can fix him. All he finds out is that he has to start digging in his back yard and buy large quantities of orange juice. Kevin Bacon, orange juice, their must be another breakfast reference somewhere I missed. Tom completely digs up the yard and apparently didn't hit any gas or power lines. He is obsessively digging for the truth, yet his hands look fine. My hands would be a bloody mess after a half hour. He asks around the neighborhood and the police about Samantha's case, but they brush him off. As is customary with most movies like this there is a scene where Tom has to go down into a dark and creepy basement, and an extremely tired use of a bathroom mirror gag. So does Samantha get her justice from beyond the grave? Are the neighbors harboring secrets? This movie is pretty formulaic in its story telling but it is pulled off well enough to be somewhat entertaining. The producer also thought so well of it that they made a direct to DVD sequel starring Rob Lowe. "},{"Title":"A Pretty Decent Thriller","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I wouldn't say that there was anything especially original about this movie, but in the course of its relatively short (a bit over 90 minutes) run time it provides a fair amount of suspense and a pretty good guessing game. Kevin Bacon was pretty good as the increasingly obsessed Tom Witzky. Tom allows himself to by hypnotized by his sister-in-law, and as a result develops the ability to communicate with the dead - an ability already present in his young son. Together, they stumble upon the spirit of a teenage girl who had disappeared a year before and who seems to be trying to give them clues about what happened to her, and the movie basically develops that story to an eventual climax that was pretty shocking.Bacon portrayed Tom's growing obsession well. At first confused and even terrified by the strange visions he's having, once Tom realizes that there's something of substance to them, his obsession to figure out the mystery grows to the point at which he'll sacrifice even his marriage to figure the mystery out. The ultimate revelation of the answer to the mystery around the girl's disappearance took me surprise - and I like it when I don't figure out the solution beforehand. The whole idea of having visions from the other side is perhaps a bit cliché, but basically the story works, and combined with Bacon's strong performance and a good cast of supporting actors, this comes out as a winner. "},{"Title":"Fairly routine","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Much has been made about similarities between Stir of Echoes and The Sixth Sense, however, that's not the main problem with this movie. Nor are its inadequacies a case of bad timing in its release around the same time as The Sixth Sense.Firstly, this is a fairly routine story. Girl dies and attempts to communicate as to what happened and where she's buried. That's the sole extent of the plot and, as such, it becomes more like a whodunnit than anything else.Secondly, for a supernatural thriller, it isn't scary.Thirdly, David Koepp's direction is somewhat bland and proves he is a better writer than he is a film-maker.Kevin Bacon, as always, holds the film together but there are too many borrowed elements and plot contrivances not adequately explained. This has more than a hint of The Shining to it (including a kindly black psychic who discerns the same gift in a small boy). We also see - as in The Shining - a father descending into obsession after communication with the spirits. It also borrows heavily from another of Stephen King's stories - the Dead Zone - through the use of flashbacks.Stir of Echoes is a competently made thriller, but the plot is too one-dimensional to make this a genre classic. It doesn't carry the concept of family disintegration as compellingly as The Shining, Close Encounters (or even Poltergeist) and the supporting characters feel like...well, supporting characters.More scares, a fuller plot and a little more character development would have lifted this on a par with The Sixth Sense. "},{"Title":"More proof that timing really is everything","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a ghost story with working class appeal. It's not about a bunch of screaming teenagers or new age mumbo jumbo. It's about an ordinary husband and wife who try to get through an extraordinary trial the way they handle everything else in their lives, by putting their heads down and just keep going.Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon) is a lineman for the phone company. He lives in a rented house in a blue collar neighborhood with his nurse wife Maggie (Kathryn Erbe) and young son Jake (Zachary David Cope). They've all got a pretty good life but Tom's still vexed by the dreams of his youth that his life was going to be more than pretty good. He thought he was going to be something special and he doesn't quite appreciate how special it is to have a good son and a good woman who loves you. Then one night at a party, Maggie's sister Lisa (Illeana Douglas) hypnotizes Tom. But instead of making him cluck like a chicken or stop smoking, Lisa accidentally opens a door in Tom's head. He begins to see terrible visions of violence, strange images that he can't understand and a sad, gray girl staring at him on the couch. It turns out the girl is the ghost of a young woman who disappeared in the neighborhood months ago. It also turns out that young Jake has been seeing and talking to the ghost all along. The spectral girl needs Tom to do something and he becomes obsessed with finding out what that is, even at risk to his job, his family and his own life.This is an entertaining little movie that unfortunately proves that timing really is everything. There's a lot here to like but I think it was largely overlooked and has been forgotten because in 1999 it followed and dealt with the same subject matter as M. Night Shyamalan's masterpiece, The Sixth Sense. Stir of Echoes isn't that good. It's definitely worth watching, though, something more people would have appreciated if it had come out a year earlier.Much like The Sixth Sense, this film dispenses with a lot of the standard ghost story clichés and finds its own way. It does that by placing ghosts alongside things like debt, alcoholism, adultery and other challenges that families face and have to overcome. Though he's initially freaked out by them, Tom eventually latches onto his otherworldly visions as the special thing in his life he's been waiting for. Instead of buying a sports car or banging a hot blonde, Tom's mid-life crisis is seeing ghosts and he throws himself into it with all the selfish disregard any man has in that situation. Maggie is a proud, strong woman fighting to keep her family together and overcome this supernatural thing that is cutting her off from her husband and son. It's this family dynamic that gives the story its power, not special effects or scary moments. Kevin Bacon and Kathryn Erbe both play their roles very well and manage to keep their characters grounded even when faced with the mysterious unknown.Writer/director David Koepp also manages to generate tension and suspense without having to fall back on too many of the standard scary movie tricks. He tells a story that you might hear from a friend or a neighbor about someone they once knew and it's just spooky enough that you can almost believe it really happened. Koepp does completely blow it in one scene, however. It's in the later stages of the movie where the ghost is getting agitated with Tom and his family and there's a moment when Maggie is getting into the bathtub and the audience can see the ghost sitting on the edge of the tub. It's supposed to be a big, unnerving image. The problem is that Maggie is naked and she's the only thing you can focus on in the scene. We're meant to focus on how vulnerable she is to the ghost's machinations, but all you can notice is how sexy Kathryn Erbe is. It totally discombobulates the tenor and tone of the moment, though any scene where Erbe is unclothed can never be all that bad.The whole thing about Jake being able to see ghosts never develops into anything either. It services the Almighty Plot Hammer at a few different points but it never quite synchs up with what Tom and Maggie are going through or has any point on its own. This screenplay was also adapted from a book and there are a few points where things are briefly touched on or referenced that were probably much better developed in print. That's never too distracting, though.If you'd like to watch a ghost story that could happen in your neighborhood to your neighbors or maybe even to you&#x85;go rent Stir of Echoes. The naked Kathryn Erbe stuff is a little bonus. "},{"Title":"Tense, Memorable, Polished and Seemingly Effortless","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Excellent parable of compassion and empathy dispelling a curse of greed and injustice.An old story, made new by an instantly recognizable middle class, Boston/Irish setting. Told with a subtlety that creates wonderful tension.Not epic in scope, but a very personal feeling. Contemplative rich story telling. Masterful understated acting performances. It's sparse use of film and special effects is refreshing in a CGI drenched genre.It reminds me more of Japanese horror films in its use of storytelling through dialog and character interaction to create a psychological fear response, rather than the depiction of heavy action or effects.A more minimalist, under appreciated form. Perhaps not as readily accessible as gore and violence to large audiences. Never the less this type of writing requires more raw skill and cleverness.I come back to this movie over and over again, and I find it to be an unsung classic. "},{"Title":"One of the Finer Moments in Kevin Bacon's Career","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A man undergoes hypnosis and following a suggestion begins to get hints about the whereabouts of a dead girl. He becomes obsessed with finding her, which alienates his wife and co-workers.This film, which is often lumped with Sixth Sense, just drives home how great a Richard Matheson story can be if done properly. Maybe we didn't get it with I Am Legend or The Box, but they nailed it here... this is one of the best Kevin Bacon films and one of the best Matheson films, hands down.We have a memorable use of the Rolling Stones song Paint It Black, though here covered by Gob. The song has a dual significance as both the song played during the girl's brutal murder but also as a reference to the hypnosis itself, where Bacon's character is in a theater that has been, quite literally, painted black.If you hate tooth or finger trauma, and I don't really like either, this film will creep you out. I'm not going to give away what happens exactly, but it's nasty! I get nauseous when I see one of the clips, and it comes without warning! Oh boy! Anyway, you must see this film. It's a true wonder of suspense and dark thrillers. I'm not sure if it's fully horror or not, but it sure will leave you feeling a bit icky and uncomfortable, which is more than I can say for most films. Be sure to pick it up. "}{"Title":"An Under-rated ghost flick","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The bad The book was written in the 1950's and so this story has been around a while. You know pretty much what's going on. The script could have been better. The film I would most closely compare this with might be The Shining (which is 10/10 in my opinion). The good acting. There are many memorable moments including the fingernail, the struggle to find the right note on the guitar, and my favorite, the orange juice scene. Another thing I liked was the theme of the father's growing fear of mediocrity. It motivates him to pursue the visions and he gains a sense of purpose. Alternately, I liked how the mother was left in the dark somewhat and trying to keep control of the family; depicting what many families go through in real life and really adding depth to the characters.SPOILER ALERT I think there is a little bit of a twist. It's not the ghost you have to be afraid of, it's the neighbors. I think this film has too many memorable moments to be terrible.Hey, this is a descent neighborhood. "},{"Title":"Just a great ghost story","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Halloween is here at last. I thought it would be a good idea to finish off my month-long reviewing of horror and Halloween-themed shows with one of my favourite ghost stories, Stir of Echoes. Stir of Echoes had the misfortune of coming out just after the hit The Sixth Sense. It was dismissed as a rip-off- despite the fact that making a movie takes so long that production would have obviously started before The Sixth Sense came out. Besides, it's not like The Sixth Sense invented the concept of a boy who could see ghosts. Have you seen The Shining (1980)? Stir of Echoes is about as good as The Shining. Both beat the The Sixth Sense.Kevin Bacon plays Tom, an ordinary guy who's hypnotized by his sister-in-law at a party. The hypnosis leaves Tom with greater sensitivity to the world around him- he begins to see strange things. As in The Shining, an ability to see ghosts also comes with a touch of premonition. All of these things point to and start to reveal a murder mystery. One dream provides a glimpse into the intense climax. As the dreams haunt Tom and his five-year-old son, the family begins to deteriorate. His wife is getting upset, there's yelling, it's good drama. The ghost in this movie wants justice, as ghosts often do, but there's also some sympathy for a man who helped cover up the crime. There's less sympathy for the other men who decide to kill Tom to keep the crime covered up- unlike the first killing, this would be a graduation to actual premeditated murder. Things get pretty grave.Unlike The Sixth Sense, where the murder mystery of a child who was poisoned by her mother seemed tacked on, irrelevant to the rest of the movie, Stir of Echoes revolves around its mystery; everything builds toward that climax. Stir of Echoes is just good storytelling, perfect for Halloween viewing.Happy Halloween. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and Interesting Mystery movie","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie, I found the performance of Kevin Bacon just right for what the movie needed. The plot is interesting, the parts when the character Tom begins acting estrange around the house are good. The boy who plays Jake does a good job, I would have liked to see more of the character played by Illeana Douglas which I found very funny and interesting.Tom Witzky is a common man who is married to Maggie, they have a little child called Jake who is always talking to his imaginary friend Samantha. One day Tom is hypnotized and he will begin to suspect that Samantha is not really an imaginary friend but someone who really wants something ....I recommend this movie to everyone.7 stars = good "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is the type of movie which worth a watch. It's give all the suspense of a good thriller. Kevin Bacon supplies an excellent role.Going to keep this review short and sweet.An entertaining film throughout no weak spots.It is a spooky enough plot without getting too Deep.Very easy to watch.Good Movie. Good Thriller. Good Plot. Good Acting.Allround good movie.Get it on DVD and have a look.Curl up on a cold night spooky movie.Like the creepy kid with the hidden senses. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Neo-Horror Flicks","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I liked Stir of Echoes quite a bit and am glad I decided to pick it up at the movie store. It's one of the great new horror films which are pretty scarce. It has a lot of creepy and disturbing scenes with some great pacing and effects. It's a very enjoyable movie that you should check out if you get the chance.Kevin Bacon is fantastic as the man who gets hypnotized at a party and then starts hallucinating throughout the entire movie. There are some really good scares. I loved the story and I haven't read Matheson's novel but I am a big fan of his so I need to check it out. See this one for a good time! "},{"Title":"Interesting film, but NOT BETTER than The Sixth Sense","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of Echoes is a well-done movie. I saw it on DVD and I found it quite interesting. Also the DVD additional stuff was brilliant, plus the menus and all the stuff. Kevin Bacon does a great job as Tom Witzky (special mention to Zachary David Cope, Tom Witzky' son. Awesome!).David Koepp does also a very good job on direction. I was surprised when I saw he was the director. I didn't know he was also a great director a part from writer!However, the film lacks of plot and structure. It's quite messy in several points, but I think Stir of Echoes is a good movie to watch with lights off and volume up. Very frightening!!!! "},{"Title":"Sometimes quite spooky","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Comparisons with The Sixth Sense are almost inevitable when reviewing Stir of Echoes. I have to say that I find Stir of Echoes as good as The Sixth Sense, although none of the films are masterpieces. In fact, I think The Sixth Sense has more flaws than this movie.Stir of Echoes is intriguing and fascinating and sometimes it's quite spooky. Kevin Bacon and young Zachary David Cope are both great, as is Kathryn Erbe. Illeana Douglas plays a part that seems quite typical for her, but she's good as the movie's comic relief. Stir of Echoes is good entertainment for the moment. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but nothing special (May contain spoilers)","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first heard of it I automatically though ok...Sixth Sense rip-off.  I'm glad to know that I was partially right.  The movie was overall pretty good.  I was into it until the last half in hour actually.  Kevin Bacon did a great job in this movie.  Although it didn't take much of the great, dramatic talent that he has so much of.  Kathryn Erbe was ok I guess ... and Zachary David Cope was very good, and adorable too.   Then it started becoming more about Bacon and Erbe's relationship, with him learning about the girl in the spare time of the movie.  Some of the things really threw me off, and had nothing to do with anything in the movie.  Like...how did that one strange guy at the cemetery know that the little boy had a gift, and that his dad did too?  And how would getting put under hypnosis to be more open minded make you be able to receive messages from dead people?  And another thing...how did Bacon start seeing the future (e.g., when his son was getting 'abducted.'  Some of the things in the movie were taken from 'The Sixth Sense.'  Like the whole breathing with the cold white steam coming out of his mouth.  The way that he did it, it made it look cheesy.  And why did he see everything that happened to the girl when he touched her dead corpse? Not great...but worth seeing. "},{"Title":"An okay Horror movie (Contains Spoilers)","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't think it was too bad, it was okay, Kevin Bacon did have some pretty sloppy acting in this movie, but the storyline was good, it actually freaked me out whenever I saw that dead girl's ghost walk in that weird way, you know real fast, that was pretty freaky. I liked Kevin Bacon's wife, she looked pretty nice in the movie, where have I seen her before?...but she did some good acting in the movie, also the little kid, was also good as well, similar to the Sixth Sense movie kid. Spoilers coming up, what to watch for in the movie.....when the deadgirl appears on the tv, when Kevin Bacon digs the entire backyard with the help of his little son, there are many more bits. altogether a good movie. "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon rules","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this one just because the lead actor is very good. The plot summary I read on the back of the video box didn't impress me, and neither did it impress me in the movie. It is after all your standard ghost of murder victim helps catch the killer routine I've seen at least five million times before. On top of that, you've got the very heavy stench of 6th sense in there. So in the end, I'm sorry than Kevin was put in a movie with such a done to death plot. "}{"Title":"hokey, yet entertaining.","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was a cross between 'poltergeist' and 'the sixth sense'.  the plot wasn't too original; boy communicates with ghost, and then so does dad after hypnosis.  dad goes crazy trying to figure out what he's experiencing. the tense moments kept me on the edge of my seat, yet everything was more or less predictable and unimaginative.  Rating = 4.5 "},{"Title":"Re-Tread","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If they can recall tires, they might as well recall this one.  When is Hollywood going to abandon the little child possessed with an evil spirit en route to some type of foray which leads others into peril and the necessary hallucinatory dreams.  Let's not forget The Omen, The Sixth Sense and Shining ad nauseum which fostered this type of genre.  This one is really limp.  I found myself laughing at the most profound moments.   "},{"Title":"Better than Sixth Sense","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this show thinking that it would be another acting job by Kevin Bacon but I was very surprised at the story and how it was so similar to the Sixth Sense, yet I liked this one more.  This film also had the sharp talking youngster as in the sixth sense.  Although this film may lack oscar winning dialogue it certainly is more edge of your seat than the Sixth Sense.  I highly recommend watching this if you liked the Sixth Sense.  They try to have a mystery in it but it is quite easy to solve whodunnit unlike the other show where you were most likely surprised by the outcome.  "},{"Title":"me likes! you likes too!","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i don't usually feel the need to push my opinions off on anyone else, especially about what they should or should not like when it comes to films. HOWever, i felt the need strongly this time, when i read a review which made me crawl into the fetal position and cry. SOMEone didn't quite see the beauty that is this film...i enjoyed the jinkies out of this movie and encourage others to see it whenever i can. The cast, for the most part, does a fantastic job; the pacing moves along at a nice pace and the atmosphere of the film is nice and creepy. Kevin Bacon did a great job per usual, and even though the film came out w/in spitting distance of THE SIXTH SENSE, i thought it did a superior job..especially considering no one even really knew that STIR was written in the 50's.and if you do enjoy THIS movie, you should know that STIR OF ECHOES 2 is on the way...whether or not it stands up to the original, we'll just have to see. AND if you didnt read the NOVEL by Richard Matheson, GO GET IT! its a great read and the end is completely different. sorry i cant go into more depth, but i gots work to do! cya in the front row, johnny destructo "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It didn't take me long to realize I was watching a good movie. I knew within the first ten minutes that Stir Of Echoes was a movie to be reckoned with. Not only does it have star power but it also has a believable yet simple storyline.Stir Of Echoes was like a book I didn't want to set down because what was inside was interesting and well-written. The characters were particularly well represented. The screenwriter did an excellent job at writing it so the audience cared what would happen to them.   I was extremely impressed by the actor who portrayed Jake, the son. He did it with such conviction and knew what his role entailed. Kevin Bacon is one of those actors you just know will turn in a good performance for you. This movie is no different. I'm not sure I would like this movie as much if there were a story that had some mystery and substance behind it.I came away from this film comparing it to another film that came out in the same year called The Sixth Sense. I couldn't help but notice the similarities these two films have. In both movies, the special effects almost overshadowed the superb acting. Stir Of Echoes is not to be taken lightly because it is scary and psychologically thrilling. All I have to say is WATCH IT.  "},{"Title":"Scary scenes, decent acting, a twisting plot, but some faults","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of Echoes came out right about the time that The Sixth Sense was in full reign at the the box office.  It also stars a young child with a connection to ghosts and a older man determined to find out what's going on.  Stir of Echoes I think tried to use Sixth Sense's publicity to drum up interest in the occult, and therefore make it another movie that Sixth Sense/ghost movie fans want to see, but I think the Sixth Sense overshadowed it instead, making Stir of Echoes look like it was a rip-off of copy.  That's the way I first thought I would feel about Stir of Echoes, but I was pleasantly surprised.  Stir of Echoes does indeed feature a child with supernatural connections to the dead, but the plot is actually quite different from The Sixth Sense.  Kevin Bacon plays the father of this child, but doesn't even realizes the boy has the power until his annoying sister-in-law hypnotizes him at a party and tells him to be more open-minded.  This opens a door in his mind supposedly and he starts seeing things himself, particularly the ghost of a runaway and assumed dead local teen girl.  He finds out that the ghost won't stop bothering him until he does the one thing that she wants him to do, and she'll grow increasingly more violent if he remains idle.  He then discovers his son's powers and uncovers a huge crime in his good neighborhood.  The movie is tense, jolting at times, and well played out.  It isn't perfect, with some violent rape scenes that I thought were a little drawn out and a few unimaginative characters, but on the whole it was a compelling, scary movie.  "},{"Title":"Great -- Even With The Competition","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This came out around the same time as The Sixth Sense and after watching both, I can see why this movie was basically ignored by a lot of people. Had this been the only ghost movie out at the time, it may have gotten more attention. The first half is intensely creepy. Memories of THE SHINING came to mind when watching some of the characters and their actions. The last half, which is not quite as complex or fulfilling as the first half builds it up to be, is still quiet frightening and is sure to make you flinch if not turn your head. I thought that it brought the story to a satisfactory and creepy close even though it did lose a tad of momentum for a few minutes. Still a very decent flick if you liked THE SIXTH SENSE, WHAT LIES BENEATH, or THE UGLY. I gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"Good horror movie if we forget several others","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good horror movie. Some scenes are really scary and it has several original effects I haven't seen in other films. But many of it's scenes are exact copies from other horror movies. We find elements from The Exorcist, The Sixth Sense, Poltergeist, and even from Close Encounters of the Third Kind (see the similarities between the cave scenes and the mountain building scenes from Close Encounters...). So, if we forget all the films from which this film borrows their elements, we can enjoy it. The ending is a little abrupt (I was waiting for something as surprising as the final scene in The Sixth Sense, perhaps I was asking too much), but I liked the movie as a whole. My rating is 6-7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Well acted supernatural thriller.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have a feeling that this film may have been over shadowed by The Sixth Sense which has a similar theme. A pity because Stir Of Echoes is a pretty good supernatural thriller.As a joke Kevin Bacon is hypnotized at a party then afterwards suffers from recurring nightmares and precognitions, he comes to realize that they are linked to the mysterious disappearance of a girl in the past.There are a few rather irritating directorial flourishes, jarring flash cuts and overlapping dialogue and the scenes of Bacon's gradual breakdown and the digging in the cellar part come dangerously close to unintentional comedy. I could also have done without the rape scene.On the whole though the script is a good one and for most of the time the acting is right on the mark especially by Bacon, his wife (Kathryn Erbe) and his young son (Zachary David Cope). It is also refreshing to see characters in a well realized working class background.I give it 8 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Stir of Echoes brings home the bacon","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Great acting once again by Kevin Bacon, stunning shock-effects and overall a very spooky atmosphere make 'Stir of echoes'a very recommendable thriller. I especially enjoyed the hypnosis sequences, real movie magic. I think the downsides to a movie like this are fairly predictable a crowd-pleasing end and some horror cliché's which I reckon the director was forced to use to make the audience grasp certain scenes. (a car driving 'through' a ghost, 'breath-clouds' when it's cold due to the presence of a ghost, etc.) And, in my opinion, every movie would improve if the characters would stop explaining their own actions. Stir of Echoes is a great 'scary movie', a descent 'thiller' and a moderate work of art. I was excited about seeing it and I certainly wasn't disappointed. (8) "}{"Title":"Enjoyed it more than 'Sixth Sense'","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this film, for me the supporting characters and blue-collar Chicago setting made it more involving than the 'great' 'Sixth Sense'.  Especially enjoyed Illeana Douglas, and all the actors did a great job with the regional quirks and accents, without going over the top, 'Fargo' style.  Great directing, too, with use of music being an integral part of the plot, and the use in a final scene of Beth Orton's cover of 'It's not the Spotlight' is worth the price of the rental alone........ "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it,","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, and I can't understand why so much people disliked it. It had an ok plot (It was a great plot up until the middle) great directing, and acting that I could live with. I think it would have been better if David Lynch write and directed it, he would have made the characters more interesting. I'm not saying that this is a film for David Lynch fans but I could see him doing this film, but making it more out there. A few people have complained about the rape scene. Saying that it's going too far. All I have to say about that is how would've you made this film without this scene? ***1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie really could have been better.  It went to fast.  First he's hypnotized, then he digs, then the movie is over.  It's main problem is that it took to long on a simple subject. It also left alot of things fuzzy. Why could he only channel the one girl?  Who was the Niel guy in the cemetary?  What was with that kid?  It kinda seemed like a sixth sense that was based on a grown up and he wasn't born with the talent...  It could have been done a lot better.  6*/10* "},{"Title":"Haunting, effective but ultimately TV movie fodder","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The tone is set very well, early on, by Kevin Bacon's young son staring into the camera and asking 'does it hurt to be dead?' He is revealed to be talking to thin air, an immediate indicator that something spooky is afoot.People mistakenly compare this film to 'The Sixth Sense' when in fact it is much more closely related to 'Poltergeist', or 'The Amityville Horror' - suburban family eroded by the unseen.The thrills come thick and fast, following the superbly shot hypnosis scene, with visceral flashes galore (although the overplaying of the cracking fingernail verged on nasty, much like the bloodshot eyeball scene in 'Final Destination') and clues for the audience to play psychic detective.The ghostly apparitions are deftly handled and shot with a beautiful sinister eye, and the performances from the major players really reveal a family in decline - a unit losing it's grip on reality (another excellent child performance from Zachary David Cope). Other characters are underdeveloped  and some (the neighbours' sons) badly played.Things are drawn to a (super)'natural' conclusion (no 'Sixth Sense' twists here) which unfortunately verges on 'Murder, She Wrote' territory. But all-in-all an enjoyable, thrilling, haunting experience, with not an entirely happy ending.Another positive addition to a contemporary collection of Ghost stories. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon at his best, a really good gritty spooky film would have given it more than 8 if the end did not head towards more thriller than horror, the best film i have seen Kevin Bacon in. perfect for the part, acting like that i just wish he had had the part keanu reeves did in 'the devil's advocate' to make that possibly one of the best films ever. "},{"Title":"Good performances in a brilliant story","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  STIR OF ECHOES is a very very good movie. Definitely the best of the year so far, yet sadly I can't see it doing that well.Firstly, it will obviously be compared to last years THE SIXTH SENSE. Although quite different in content, they both contain a kid, a man, and the ability to see dead people. I actually think STIR OF ECHOES is the better of the two films. THE SIXTH SENSE was fantastic during the last ten minutes, but that's all people really remember. STIR OF ECHOES is gripping throughout - with an edge-of-your seat storyline. Another problem is the lack of A-list star - although Kevin Bacon does an amazing job here. He has always been one of my favourite actors, and I hope this film will elevate him to the pedestal he deserves.This is a must-see movie - I already want to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable on a dark level","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One thing I particularly liked about the movie was that it wasn't out to get the audience in on cheap thrills, although it did have a few.  The suspense in the movie is driven by the slow unraveling of the story that Kevin Bacon's character has to put together piece by piece.  I think the story it a little rushed in some places and slow in others, but overall it was very effectively done.  I especially like that the details are all put together in the end in order to tie up all the loose ends.  Perhaps it is unnecessary, but I always like seeing all the pieces put nicely into place.  I think the very end of the movie could have been re-written to be more believable and therefore more satisfying, but the acting and directing are not to blame for this.  It is a well put together film that is enjoyable watching if you enjoy dark themes.  If you don't, then I would suggest renting something with Julie Andrews, who is good in almost anything ;) "},{"Title":"Sixth Sense wannabe","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon is good in what can be called a mixed thriller or as some people call it, a rip-off of the Sixth Sense. There are some moments in this film that are so tense, they can be unbearable. But, the film has many silly moments and is rather uneven, plus the ending is terrible. All in all I gave this a passing mark, because of its (few) good moments. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent movie! Even better than The Sixth Sense.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie. When I went to see this film, I didn't know what to expect. I figured that it would be a good movie.. but I didn't expect it to be as good as it was. I really like the idea of someone being hypnotized and retrieving the ability to see the dead. This didn't go too well at the box office in the USA because it came out at the same time as The Sixth Sense. But I think this is much better. "},{"Title":"Very good, suspenseful thriller!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about a man, Tom Witzky, who gets hypnotized at a party by his sister-in-law. After that, strange things start to happen. He sees all of these pictures, but only for a moment or so. A seventeen-year-old girl's ghost comes to visit him with these sometimes violent pictures... pictures that soon lead him to discover the girl's killer(s).I really suggest seeing this movie. It's suspenseful and thrilling, but it wont (for most people) keep you up for days.  "}{"Title":"90 minutes well spent","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of Echoes is a fast paced well, plotted para-psychological thriller. Even though the viewer will suspect the nature of the plot, its actual unfolding was always unexpected. Kevin Bacon had several scenes of great intensity which he handled very well. I liked it, and would recommend it. "},{"Title":"sometimes less is more","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  stir of echoes was a film that held my interest and even gave me a few chills on the way. the premise and plotline isn't anything too original but it still delivered without getting too ridiculous with flashbacks and special effects. this film came out around the same time as stigmata and after the sixth sense. it wasn't as good as the sense, but for a considerably lower budget was a far better film than the tiresome stigmata. a film that was drowned in special fx. stir of echoes is a good little film to rent  and i give it a 7.  "},{"Title":"Well written and well directed.","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was an amazing movie.  I was on the edge of my seat the whole way through the movie.  The writer and director did an excellent job of creating the story.  Unlike most suspense movies where you can guess what's going to happen next and you just wait for the obvious, well unlike those types of movies Stir of Echos revealed things in a well-placed and well-timed manner. It gave away nothing until the end and the shocker was a shocker.  My props to the writer(s).  The director also did a good job in creating the suspense, with great shots and a reality that was created masterfully.  I am not one to be put into suspense, where you're clutching the blanket you have on with white-knuckled hands, but this movie made me sit on the edge of my seat.  The only flaw was the not so superb roles or Kevin Bacon and the actress who played his wife.  They were merely o.k., but they do not diminish the overall effect of the movie in any way. "},{"Title":"As good as Sixth Sense","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The suits on this film surely did not earn their money. Where was their heads regarding the release date of this movie in relation to the Sixth Sense? It was every bit as good as(I always wanted to use that cliche) The Sixth Sense. Don't be misled. This is an UNDER MARKETED film. If it had gotten the backing that the Sixth Sense had and released before it, it would have done a lot better in the theaters.  Great concept. The screenplay was almost as good and Kevin Bacon does his usual good performance. "},{"Title":"Funny, with the touch of Bacon to bless it.","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine three movies (THE SIXTH SENSE, CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND, and TREMORS) rolled up into one ball and you have STIR OF ECHOES a supernatural movie with an obsessive main character with cheap cliches. Bacon, after being hypnotized at a neighborhood party, seems to get weird delusions in his head. His son talks to himself a lot as well. The movie gets stranger as it goes along, but the bright spots are the comedy accompanied with the Bacon character. When he's told to DIG, you just can't help but laugh at Bacon as he digs. You cannot help but admit that this could have been better too. The bit with Neil was absolutely pointless as was all the serious scenes. If they threw the serious based on book feel out the window and made it funny throughout, this could have been the next EVIL DEAD. An excellent movie. Good for a rent. "},{"Title":"Good movie that went unnoticed","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing The Sixth Sense I went to theater in search for another creepy movie.  I stumbled upon Stir of Echoes.  I didn't know much about it going in, but I was very pleased coming out.  It had a very good plot and enough creep to keep the audience tense.     I just rented it to make sure I hadn't blown it out of proportion, but I may have liked it even better.    This isn't as good as the sixth Sense but it is very good.  I suggest renting it on your next trip to the video store "},{"Title":"Bad timing for the release but a good movie.","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good movie (not as good as Sixth Sense in my opinion) but was harmed in the theaters by it's release date.  It had it's shocking points and overall was a pleasure to watch.  However, Kevin Bacon's chicago accent was a bit overdone (being from the chicago area it is a bit more obvious). The only thing missing from the movie was Bacon saying I see dead people. "},{"Title":"Underrated Supernatural Mystery","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised when I saw this film. The reviews I had seen were generally not good, but when it hit the 2nd run theatres I gave it a chance, and I'm glad I did. I have since rented this movie and my whole family, encompassing many different age groups, thought it was enjoyable.I thought the film was effectively creepy, had enough unexpected plot twists, and had a fine cast. I particularly liked the job Kevin Bacon and Ileana Douglas did. I would highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"NOT BAD....","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This flick is O.K, I have seen scarier ones (I actually thought Sixth Sense was better), but there were a few good scenes put in to amp up the scare factor.Acting was good, especially Mr Bacon's hypnotized dream sequences, and how he seems to go insane as he searches for what he thinks is a ghosts corpse in his own house. Some things, however, didn't make sense. For example Neil the cop, he could've been a really good addition to the story, but we see him in this weird hippy place and then Helloww!! He's gone!!! Nor do we see the end result of *why* wife goes out to see him, because it certainly didn't help in her understanding of 'what's happening to hubby?'The story was pretty good, but my complaint is the ending. I shall not reveal what happened at the ending, lest I spoil it for others. Anyway, I rated this 7 out of 10, only because I was disappointed with the finale. "},{"Title":"Imitation? Flattery? Stir of Echoes on DVD","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having an idea that Stir of Echoes would be a clone of The Sixth Sense when it was released in theaters, I opted to wait for the film to come to DVD. I found the movie to be mildly entertaining,nothing I could recommend, but at the same time, found it worthy of watching. If I were to choose, I'd tell people to see The Shining or The Sixth Sense or Jacob's Ladder first... Stir of Echoes owes a great deal to these pictures. Original it's not, entertaining, well...ok.DVD extraswidescreen 1.78 - making of featurette - behind the scenes - trailer - tv spots - director commentarymovie * * stars (out of 5) DVD extras *** "}{"Title":"Very Effective","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having missed this wonderfully made flick theatrically, I recently caught it on video.  Very effective filmmaking, very well-done.  Kevin Bacon gives the performance of a lifetime as Tom, a blue collar man, someone a lot of people can identify with.  The dialogue in this flick, adapted for the screen by the director, David Koepp, is better than normal for these kinds of movies. It is well-cast (especially the role of Tom's wife) and kind of frightening as well.I must add that the box-office of this particular flick would have been higher if it had not been released in the immediate wake of The Sixth Sense, which has similar themes.  Too bad, this one could've done alot better.  I suppose a cult following could possibly happen, but that's unlikely; this is much too mainstream.  "},{"Title":"A Little Too Close to its Literary Roots","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The title Stir of Echoes pretty well sums up the problems with the movie.  I might pick up a book by that title, particularly with the pedigree of Richard Matheson, arguably one of the greatest horror fantasy writers of the last 50 years. However, a movie titled Stir of Echoes wouldn't exactly compel me to run to nearest theatre.  The opening sequence is also more appropriate for the preface of a novel than a movie.  Had novelist Richard Matheson written his own screenplay, he would undoubtedly proceeded in a much more filmatic manner.  So the film remains far too prosaic to be totally engrossing.  Not that there is not a lot to like in this film.  Kevin Bacon, Kathryn Erbe and Zachary David Cope all do fine jobs, and Illeana Douglas is as striking, sensuous and witty as ever.  One direction the film took I did find especially annoying.  When Erbe goes to see the Police Officer with second sight like Bacon and Cope, the filmakers chose to leave the audience out of the conversation.  As a result, the scene goes no where and the film loses critical focus.  Unlike some viewers, I felt showing the attempted rape-murder from the victim's point of view was an excellent, especially horrific touch.  This enabled the audience to immediately identify with the victim and create more sympathy for Bacon's torment.  Stir of Echoes is not a great movie, but it is a good one.  "},{"Title":"Definitely Creepy","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not a huge Kevin Bacon fan, so I wasn't expecting much with this movie, but I was pleasantly surprised.  I found myself frequently squirming, jumping and screaming throughout the film, and was haunted by some of the images the next day.  Stir of Echoes is very successful at creating suspense and atmosphere, with excellent sound effects. Although it is most likely compared to the Sixth Sense, don't overlook it as a copy-cat movie.  It is a good, scary film. "},{"Title":"Suspense without Gore","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has a lot of surprises and thriller shock without resorting to cheap tricks to get you jumping. Kevin Bacon once again shows his broad acting capabilities. I enjoyed the film and was pleasantly surprised with how it made me literally get on the edge of my seat.The beginning was very disarming and low key. A great setup for the thriller ride. I have to admit that I felt left hanging at the end. It had a somewhat predictable recycled ending and needed more development to climax a very good film.Even with it's modest ending I still highly recommend it to suspense movie fans. It will probably end up being a sleeper movie that will surprise and entertain the unsuspecting future viewers.   "},{"Title":"The best boy-sees-dead-people movie of 1999","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While the moviegoing public - and the Academy - swooned for The Sixth Sense, I think the similarly-themed Stir of Echoes is a far better film.  Where the former film is slow and dull right up to its trick ending, Stir of Echoes is briskly paced and genuinely haunting; I knew what Kevin Bacon's character would find buried beneath his property, yet the result of his search is still shocking.  Kevin Bacon, normally a solid actor, is the film's key weakness (for most of the movie, he seems to be channelling Matt LeBlanc), but all the other performers are fine, and without giving too much away, I will say the last shot paints a very disturbing picture of what the young boy goes through.  Stir of Echoes did not deserve any Oscar nominations, but it deserved some nominations more than The Sixth Sense did.   "},{"Title":"The Desperate Soul who wants a revenge","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Probably one of the best horror movie ever make. Thanks to a brilliant novel written by Richard Matheson. Story about a murdered girl who body never found. Kevin Bacon starred as a family move to the house which is the actual place that the murder took place. After being hypnotized and certain strange things start to happen, things do not seems goes as plan until the person who responsible for the murder had been found and this little girl can once again be happy after her body which is found near the wall, are buried, as it should be. "},{"Title":"Cool movie, but didn't live up to the hype","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Just watched the movie last night. Thought I was in for a real thriller. Wrong. My wife wasn't even scared. Movie tried to be like The Sixth Sense, and failed. All in all I would give the movie a try, especially if you have not seen TSS. Falls under the bracket of a paranormal movie. Give it a 5. "},{"Title":"First of all...I liked it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First of all....I liked it. Now here's a story of a boy who can see dead people...no I am not talking about the Bruce Willis movie, but Kevin Bacon's. The difference...while the little boy can see dead people...so can the dad. Stir of Echoes has the son seeing people he doesn't want to see and giving messages to people who may not want to hear them. Bacon, while at a party, gets hypnotized and the hypnotist throws a suggestion in his mind for Bacon to be more open minded...this leads to his new look on life or death depending on your perspective. The filming is gritty, has some intense scenes, and a bit of the oh wow that comes from the audience makes for a great viewing experience. Stir of Echoes far surpasses the storyline of Sixth Sense, but falls short at the box office. Bottom line...while some film storylines die right away...this one lives on and on and on. "},{"Title":"Worthy film","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  David Koepp directs an interesting tale that -- unlike many films of this genre -- actually makes sense in the end. Probably could have made better use of some of the other characters (especially the young boy) but the films keeps rocking all the way to the end with an interesting payoff.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good horror flick, anybody notice the resemblance?","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was really creepy. The suspense and threat to the characters built until the climax.  Did anybody notice that this was build around the plot of The Shining?  Like husband and wife with young boy, the boy has strange abilities, the husband acquires them in the presence of a haunt.  The boy's abilities are immediately recognized by an older black man, in this case the police officer.  To cap it, the song at the end kept using the word shining in the lyric.  Nobody seemed to notice, not even the person who wrote the book.  One wonders if Steven King noticed.  At least the end was a little more up and Samantha left her haunt.  Great scary movie. "}{"Title":"Visually thrilling, sickeningly bad plot","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Good visual effects were excellent, the first 30 minutes were actually frightening.  The soundtrack was terrific, with numerous little effects added in (whispers, small noises).  An atmosphere of a good ghost story was established immediately.  This was by, by far, Kevin Bacon's best work yet, though hardly Oscar-worthy. The ghost freaked me out, big time!The Bad  Big holes in the plot made it difficult to understand and illogical at times.  Many characters popped in and out of the script with little attention paid to development (i.e. Neil - who the hell was he and what was his purpose?).  In some ways, comparison to other films (Close Encounters, Sixth Sense) was justified.  Supporting cast was adequate at best.  The middle portion of the movie was too much narrative and not enough atmosphere.  The hypnotism sequences were cheesy and a bit laughable.The Ugly  ENDING SUCKED!  the final half-hour made no sense whatsoever, and ruined what could have been an excellent movie.  What was going on at the end made your typical soap opera look simple.  A clearer ending would have done wonders for this film.The Bottom Line  This would have gotten an 8 or 9 rating with a better ending, but I gave it a 7, based solely on terrific horror imagery and atmosphere.  I didn't see this in the theatre, but if you rent it, get in on DVD ONLY!!!  The digital suuround soundtrack is the best thing about this movie.  I doubt it would be worth seeing in VHS. "},{"Title":"Good Thriller!!!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of Echoes was a creepy movie.  It wasn't exactly scary(to me anyway), but I did feel that it was good.  It was interesting and had nice twists. I felt the actors did good in their roles and moved the movie from point to point very fluidly.  In my opinion, it was a good thriller, and it should be watched (but hey, thats my opinion).    "},{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Time","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  According to publishing information, Richard Matheson's A Stir of Echoes was published in September of 1999 - so one wonders who ripped off whom. Did M. Night Shyamalan rip off Matheson, or vice versa? In the end, I guess it doesn't really matter - while Sixth Sense was somewhat enjoyable, Stir of Echoes is a plodding mess.The main problem is that there isn't a single likeable character throughout the movie. Kevin Bacon's character is slow and has no backbone. Kathryn Erbe, playing his wife, is a controlling, whining shrew. Their child (played by Zachary David Cope) is just plain creepy. And Ileana Douglas is her usual self - I can't understand how this woman still gets work. I had to stop the movie a couple of times just to let the aggravation subside - sitting through this movie is like sitting through Thanksgiving dinner, watching distant relatives bicker pointlessly. The guy sees ghosts. Do we really need to hear an argument about how happy he is that they're having another child? Do the people in his life have to be so unbelievably unsympathetic (oh, you see ghosts, but what about _my_ needs)? And are we expected to believe that this family will just reconcile its differences and move on, as the ending suggests?Also aggravating are the trite and silly methods Koepp uses to pad out the movie. The viewer has figured out the mystery long before it is even brought to the fore, and rather than being intrigued by what will develop, finds himself staring incredulously at the screen as the writer finds yet another way to delay the inevitable. Tell the truth - if you were seeing ghosts and spooky visions, and your son held the key to this, would you actually _listen_ to the brat when he says I don't want to talk about this right now. Of course not. But the characters have to, because the film needs to hit the 90-minute mark. And what happened to the others, met by Tom and Kathryn? Much is made of the fact that there is a secret society of people who can see. Then they vanish from the script without trace.To make a long story short don't rent this. You'll regret it. "},{"Title":"Intelligent","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  So the story line of the movie seemed like that other scary film with Brucey, what now? I think it's far more intelligent than the other. The performances of the actors in this film is very believable that it seems as if its one of those urban legends you hear from the neighbours or your grandparents. It's very chilling. And the girl who played the ghost was very very convincing compared to the other ghosts in the other movie. If Hollywood wants to come up with another spooky movie like this one I think it would be great. But whatever it is, the narrow minded audience would still not be contented. Got to brighten up, guys! It's just a movie. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Genre Film...","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Far superior to The Sixth Sense, this very human story comes off the screen with fully fleshed out and very real characters made even more believable by the wonderful  actors playing them.  This is a very good story with a lot of twists and turns, and it doesn't rely on its ending to make the film stand up.  Horror fans should seriously  enjoy this excellent work.  "},{"Title":"Some interesting bits...","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film a couple of days ago at sneak preview night at a local cinema here in Germany.  Although I remember seeing previews for it in the United States, the snippets that were shown weren't really enough to encourage me to see the film, but  since it was sneak preview night here, I didn't know what they were going to show.I thought the film had some interesting points, but seemed to be a little short on story and a bit predictable at points.  I thought some of the imagery was very graphic, but used in such a way that it actually made you wince in your seat.  But overall, I felt that most of the characters were underdeveloped, and some of the plot threads led.The film was good to pass a little time, but I would rather have seen The Sixth Sense. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed film while watching it.","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed Stir of Echoes while I was watching it.  I was slightly distracted because I kept feeling that scenes looked familiar.  It wasn't until later that I realized there were scenes that were right out of Stephen King's Dead Zone.  That lack of creativity lowers my opinion of the film, but does not keep it from being entertaining.  They don't make very many good horror movies anymore, so you might want to check this one out. "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've just finished watching Stir of Echoes, I got a screener at workI work at a video store. I didn't really know much about it, except it shared a few common themes with this year's blockbusterand one of the best films of the year the Sixth Sense. However, I cringed when the words Written for the screen and directed by David Keopp. Keopp, who's been working with Brian DePalma for the past few years, is by far one of the worst screen writers I've ever heard dialogue by. With the exception of Mission Impossiblewhich was co-written by expert/genius writer, Robert Towne, his scripts have essentially been awful. Snake Eyes, which could have been the best detective thriller in years, ended up in the almost bombs category. I blame Keopp, because the film was ingeniously shotthe first 15 minutes are one complete shot, nearly the longest in film history, well directedby Depalma, who isn't always on key, but he's not the worst director ever. However, the script was awful, and made everything look bad. Keopp's work on Lost World 2 was far from great, but his second unit direction was terrific. Now comes Keopp's third directoral effort, his last was trigger effecta film I never saw. Stir Echoes is its title. It stars Kevin Baconwho is absolutely terrific. I won't go into the plot, cuz its all available elsewhere on the site, but I must say that this film has really upped Keopp in my mind. THis film is a disturbing, creepy, and original thriller that really does keep you watching. It, from the moment the plot kicks in, never loses a general creepy feeling. It's excellent scriptKeopp's best is character driven, which is always a plus. The tense moments and jump moments really get you. Keopp's direction is excellent. He plays it like a true auteur. Never too much, and never too little. He shows you something just long enough o make it work. He's not a quick cut-quick scare director, but much more trained in delivering well paced scenes and creating and maintaining an intensity in one scene thats more then all of most horror films can do in an entire movie. Keopp is a much more patient director then DePalma. He allows his story time to grow and develop. He doesn't feel the need to thrust in your face. That is what this film needs. This film is far from perfect, and it nearly becomes formulaic in the final few scenes, but its smart enough to keep itself barely out of that trap. However, even with flaws, this will I am sure be regarded Keopp's best work.  "},{"Title":"See this Film before video!!!","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have NEVER Sees that good of acting from Kevin before. This film is one of the top films of this year, and the Academy is going to overlook it because it is classified as a horror. I cannot even compare this film to any I have seen before, as it has a life of its own. Sixth Sence was a laudable film from the start of pre-production. I have actually heard that this film entered production first, but somehow got lost during editing. How convienient. 5 out of 5  "},{"Title":"Sixth Sense the Original?","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Sixth Sense is hardly the original here. Stir of Echos by the fantastic writer Richard Matheson, the book, was out before the Sixth Sense. So lets just start with that, shall we? I find it hard to really compare the two movies beyond the similar plots, since both were really good but I'd have to say that Stir was better. It did the creepy thing much better than the quick, tired, redux of many many many many horror films that the Sixth Sense did. Echoes was more cerebral. The scene of Tom digging up his garden like madman all of dramatic, chilling, comical and showed true obsession and compulsion. Acting shouldn't be the complaint here the acting was done well, quite well. If Stir had a better showing than it did, being a low budget film and therefore didn't garner the audience it needed, I think more people would have found this diamond in the rough. Grab it on video and enjoy, I'm sure you will. The acting was fine, take a look at some of the movies on the top #250 and you'll see that these reviews (including my own) have to be taken with grain of salt. I gave it an 8. "}{"Title":"The blue collar version of 6th Sense","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The things that captured my attention immediately were the likability and believability of the couple at the center of the film.  Kevin Bacon and Kathryn Erbe not only give strong, lived in performances and are appropriately likable, they also project the sense of having to get on with their lives in spite of the nightmare they've fallen into.  They are a wholly believable relationship (a rare item onscreen) and as parents, warts and all.  The kid gives a strong perf, too, and is less mannered than Haley Joel Osment.The jolts are genuinely scary, and the buildup is even better.  One especially creepy scene had Bacon wake up for the day and go through his morning routine while weird things start to happen, leading to a shock - woah! He wakes up.  It was all a dream.  Then he gets up to go through said routine and the same things start to happen.  An obvious screenwriting ploy, perhaps,but the sickening, encroaching dread is a credit to Koepp's writing and directing.  He knows how to deliver.* * * for Stir of Echoes.  "},{"Title":"This film was pretty damned creepy...","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film has the distinction of actually having scared me while I was watching it.  Aside from movies I saw when I was young, there have really has only been one other film besides this one that did that and that was the Sixth Sense.A similar story in that the main characters can see dead people, but entirely different angles are taken on that making for two distinct films.Stir of Echoes is about a man who, after toying with hypnosis, begins having experiences that are showing him things he can't explain.  The plot centers around explaining those visions.This movie really had a chance to make my skin crawl and have me twiching in my seat, but there are portions of the film that are simply, for lack of a better word, campy.  Some of the acting fell short in places, enough that I remembered it after it was over.  And Maggie, the wife in the story, who is portrayed as devoted and loving, never seems to support her husband Tom (Kevin Bacon), even though she takes steps to find out what is going on with him.  She knows that something unusual going on yet she doesn't sympathize with him and a rift develops between them over it.  I thought that was not a believable aspect to the plot.Over all, I really liked this movie, but it scores a little lower than the 6th Sense.  Just a little.  Even still, don't miss it... "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  	This film is excellent. It just had the unfortunate timing of following &#145;The Sixth Sense'. 	Despite many people disagreement this movie was new to me. It had a feel that might have been overdone but not in this manner. 	The slow decent into madness was slowly building up throughout the movie. 	Kevin Bacon did a great job of searching for the thing that bugs him. 	The movie does have some special meanings. They are not climatic but they are scary overall. 	I suggest you see this movie because you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A freaky, post-suggestion thriller","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm starting to wonder if I'm writing about the same movie that the other folks have seen.  I'm not sure why everyone is saying this movie wasn't good.In fact, this movie scared me so deeply that I was afraid to sleep that night.  I thought the special effects were great, and while I don't care much for Kevin Bacon, c'mon folks, you have to admit that you were just a little scared.  And what would be the point of giving away the punchline at the beginning of the movie?  Where would we go from there?  What I found most interesting was the transformation of Kevin Bacon's character from a basically good-natured, loving husband and father, to a man that becomes possessed with finding answers.  Does that happen to everyone, everyday?  I'm sorry to disappoint everyone, but I enjoyed this movie.  "},{"Title":"I'm not feeling thrilled","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I read the comments on this site and went to see the movie based on them. I expected to enjoy it, but I didn't.   I felt dissatisfied when it ended, like the movie hadn't been worth my money or my time. It was a bit creepy and I thought the first quarter to one half of the movie was ok, but then it just kind of fizzled out and became kind of boring.    "},{"Title":"Much better than The Sixth Sense","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My son & I saw Stir of Echoes today & both agreed it was MUCH better than The Sixth Sense.  It is really a creepy & suspenseful movie - good acting & quite entertaining.  If you are looking for a TRULY scary movie be sure to see this one! I was hoping it wasn't another disappointment like The Blair Witch Project & it really delivered! No sleeping thru this one! "},{"Title":"Amazing sounds","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, this film starts off loud, stays loud, finishes loud.  That is my positive and negative review.  If you don't mind lots of noises, sometimes scary, this is your film.  If you love creative use of whispers and the feeling that someone is creeping up on you, go to this film.  When I saw it, there were only 4 other people, way behind my husband and me.  There were in the stadium seating and we chose nearer the screen on the floor.  There was definitely no one sitting near us, yet I frequently had the impulse to turn around and be sure, expecting to see someone about to touch my shoulder.  This use of sound works well!If you really want a clever idea that is completely unpredictable, don't bother.  The film starts off well, lots of creepy atmosphere, but it simply ends badly.  It becomes almost silly.  Kevin Bacon does a very good performance, such as he has to work with, but even his character becomes silly.  I have one question, where do these characters live in Chicago.  I want to move there.  No neighbors on the street, in fact, no neighbors anywhere except at the obligatory crowd scenes.  I guess the neighbors for the parties are bussed in from a nearby town!  The rest of the time, one can destroy a house and yard without so much as a peep out of the row house occupant next to you.  That is incredible!This film is aimed at youth and should hit the target.  I like to call it a movie about a heavily tattooed couple with an incredible kid and only one pair of blue jeans!  This might ruin the film, so stop reading!If you have a loved one who dies, is your best outfit really a pair of jeans and a belly shirt?Ok, end of Spoiler!Seriously, see it for the creepy atmosphere in an empty, extremely dark, cold theater.  Check your brain at the door.  Bring ear plugs if you hate loud sounds.The story may not be terribly award winning, but the sound editing should be.  Too bad it got heavy-handed at times.One more thing, if I hear it compared to Sixth Sense once more, I might scream.  Yes, this has a kid in it and possibly a ghost and it was released in 1999.  So was the remake of The Haunting!  Get over it!!!! "},{"Title":"Above average","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film will provide nothing else than a decent time at the movies.  If you are looking for a few decent scares, a good performance from Kevin Bacon, and a creepy film, then this is a good bet.  It is a little predictable, but it holds promise for better things to come from screenwriter(Jurassic Park) turned director David Koepp. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!  Better than The Sixth Sense too!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yesterday, I saw Stir of Echoes at the theaters with my cousin, and man, it was just awesome!  It is so riveting, so exciting, and so scary, that you may leave the theater shaking!  Unfortunately, it's a great piece of filmmaking that was released at the wrong time.  Rivaling The Sixth Sense, which has a similar premise, it seems that many people aren't going to see this movie.  When I saw it though, the theater was packed!  It definitely worked for the audience.  People were so scared by some of the scenes, I remember hearing loud screams in the theater, and it wasn't coming from the movie.  In a way, Stir of Echoes is like The Sixth Sense, but on other levels, it's not.  The Sixth Sense was more of a psychological film about a boy who had a gift he did not understand.  Stir of Echoes is more of a murder mystery and a scarefest.  The use of subliminals and the camera effects to show the flashbacks and hallucinations was a stroke of genius!  You get glimpses of something, and although you can't quite tell what it is, you know it's something bad.  It reminded me of Altered States on some levels, because of the quick cuts and the bizarre dream sequences.  It is also very well done.  Kevin Bacon is very good in this film, and for me, it's a chance for him to really act, because pretty much all I have seen him in are supporting roles.  The other thing about Stir of Echoes I liked was how much it lacked the typical Hollywood cliches of The Sixth Sense.  I think The Sixth Sense is a more important film, but I think Stir of Echoes is better because it has the ability to function on it's own without borrowing from any genre or any scare tactics.  I was totally unprepared for the scene where Kevin Bacon sits on the couch and the ghost is sitting right beside him.  The whole audience screamed in terror.  The guy who sat behind me was so freaked out by it, that afterwards he was laughing out loud at how much it caught him off guard.  It was just so unexpected.  This movie also reminded me of The Changeling, because it was about a ghost who died as part of a murder plot, and would never rest until it had it's revenge.  The Sixth Sense has a more important message, but Stir of Echoes is a better movie because it has it's own method of storytelling and it's a much scarier film.  I highly recommend this movie to horror film afficianados, but not to people who are unprepared and just plain don't like that kind of genre.  I am into scary movies though, and I was really impressed with Stir of Echoes.  Oh, and don't wait for it to come out on video.  See it in theaters while you still can.  It was designed for the big screen.       "},{"Title":"Great Start, But Doesn't Have the Follow Through","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Echoes starts off promisingly enough, and has genuinely creepy moments (the ghost in this film is especially effective and terrifying), but midway the story and the direction begin to unravel until it ends up as a disappointing mishmash. To the film's credit, Kevin Bacon turns in an excellent performance as the dissatisfied with my life blue collar worker, Tom, and it will be worth the rental on that basis alone. The film also has some wonderful visuals (the hypnosis scene at the beginning of the film is incredible) as well as some highly disturbing scenes that should preclude from the theatre children under 12 at the youngest. It is disappointing that the film didn't follow that same line throughout. 2 1/2 stars out of 4. "}{"Title":"Echo of Sixth Sense","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is worth watching and I can see myself catching Sunday afternoon reruns in a couple of years.  However, like Armageddon and Deep Impact after it, this movie's timing is suspiciously close to The Sixth Sense.  The plots are too similar for this to be coincidence; Hollywood must be a small incestuous place with frequent attempts to jump on the same bandwagon other studios have invested in. Enjoyment of the thrills provided by Stir of Echoes are tempered by my recent viewing of The Sixth Sense, a more reserved and successful movie.My main complaints with Stir of Echoes include too little exploration of the boys' potential to solve the mystery and too little understanding on the part of the mother.  If the boy's contact with Samantha was daily and his father's much less frequent, then he could have posed the necessary questions to spare his father fruitless digging and speculation on the identity of the murderer.  Of course the out here was the mother's reluctance to allow her son to discuss his sightings.  What a tease it was to hear the boy speak with a deep voice and then never to follow through with it again.  The mother is like Dana Scully on the X-Files, despite evidence to support a belief in the supernatural, she would rather bury her head in the sand and overlook critical evidence.The resulting marital tension was more nerve wracking than mysterious and it prevented many opportunities to explore the supernatural (such as the meeting with Neil in the graveyard). Adding to the tension was the steady closeup positioning of the camera, leaving the viewer unaware and expectant of some sudden intrusion on the immediate periphery, a cheap tactic not used nearly as often in the The Sixth Sense.Viewers crave the supernatural in their film viewing.  Witness all the scary movies this summer including Blair Witch, The Haunting, The Sixth Sense, Stir of Echoes and Stigmata.  A few instances of psychic powers in a film like Stir of Echoes work to attract our interest but disappoint when they are used to launch a more conventional murder mystery with marital relation problems as the subplot.  My advice and wish is for filmmakers to give up more instances and explanation of the paranormal.  Haunt us, scare us, but don't tease us with half uses of the supernatural.  Just once, add a half hour to a film after all characters have been forced to believe in the supernatural and find out where that leads.  With all this summer offerings I still want more films like this one. "},{"Title":"A much more fast paced, disturbing film than The Sixth Sense","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunatly, this film had to have the worst release date.  Not even two months after The Sixth Sense was released.  And that's a shame, because a lot of people are gonna be very reminded of 6th Sense when they see this one.  It's also a shame because on some levels, on the horror side, it's better than The Sixth Sense.Kevin Bacon is one of the main reasons to see this psycological thriller.  His performance is so well crafted and very well delivered that it appears he was completely meant for this role.  Everyone else plays there parts just fine but it's Bacon's that takes the cake.  It's to bad a movie like this won't be looked at by the Academy Awards, chances are they'll overlook it and not bother to give Bacon an oscar nomination that he should for Best Actor.The plot is very intriguing.  It starts out kinda slow but right when things are getting interesting it dosen't let up.  I had a feeling there may have been some things cut out of the film to keep it moving at such a fast pace and there is a lot about what happens to Tom that you never see, just hear about.  All in all it moves on pretty well even though it resorts to a rather typical ending with a few twists thrown in to make it feel rather original.Stir of Echos may turn some off due to some of it's graphic violence (close ups of nails being broke off, needles puncturing skin, teeth being ripped and punched out, etc.) and Sixth Sense lovers will feel cheated by some of the similarities (kid sees dead people, temperture drops to being very cold when ghosts are in the room) but it's definatly a good time spent.  You may have to see it a second time to catch a few things you've missed, especially towards the end.  Overall very impressive, it's great to see such great horror films hitting theatres like this and Blair Witch Project.  Definatly pick this over Stigmata which was horrible.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Good Story; Absorbing though overly violent","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I found the first 3/4 of the film to be well-constructed and mostly believable; the last 1/4 seemed to fall apart perhaps with a mad scramble to tie up the ends, though missing a few.  In spit of its flaws, I found it good movie making.    I've read criticism of the rape scene; however, I considered it essential to the story to tie in with Tom's (Kevin Bacon) earlier experience that was pivotal in his exploration into the paranormal.  I felt absorbed during most of the film, even though some of the gory violence which I half watched through my parted fingers.  Tom's obsession was also annoying.   I appreciated Jake (played by Zachary David Cope) and his low-keyed characterization, as I have noticed that children are much more matter-of-fact about experiences that adults name supernatural because they do not fit widely-accepted human ideas.  I generally like Illeana Douglas' approach to a role, but viewed her as mostly outside of and aware that she was playing a role rather than being the character -- tentative in places.  I came away with a list of unanswered questions, which I will not articulate because they reveal too much of the story.  While I saw some inconsistencies, I do not feel frustrated by them.  Comparing it to Sixth Sense....  I found Stir of Echoes to be a much better story, unfolding in a more absorbing way, with a more intelligent script.  (And I think Stir of Echoes is a masterful title.  Hollywood, pay attention!)   "},{"Title":"Good Story; Absorbing though overly violent","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I found the first 3/4 of the film to be well-constructed andmostly believable; the last 1/4 seemed to fall apart perhapswith a mad scramble to tie up the ends, though missing a few. In spit of its flaws, I found it good movie making.   I've read criticism of the rape scene; however, I considered itessential to the story to tie in with Tom's (Kevin Bacon)earlier experience that was pivotal in his exploration into theparanormal.  I felt absorbed during most of the film, eventhough some of the gory violence which I half watched through myparted fingers.  Tom's obsession was also annoying.  I appreciated Jake (played by Zachary David Cope) and hislow-keyed characterization, as I have noticed that children aremuch more matter-of-fact about experiences that adults namesupernatural because they do not fit widely-accepted humanideas.  I generally like Illeana Douglas' approach to a role,but viewed her as mostly outside of and aware that she wasplaying a role rather than being the character -- tentative inplaces.  I came away with a list of unanswered questions, which I willnot articulate because they reveal too much of the story.  WhileI saw some inconsistencies, I do not feel frustrated by them. Comparing it to Sixth Sense....  I found Stir of Echoes to bea much better story, unfolding in a more absorbing way, with amore intelligent script.  (And I think Stir of Echoes is amasterful title.  Hollywood, pay attention!)   "},{"Title":"Expected better. Sixth Sense still rules.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Just got back from seeing this movie. Maybe I was riding on the expectations of others that this would be a really frightining movie, and I admit, I did jump sometimes, especially the VOICE scene with the boy...but all in all, I had been expecting there to be more than just one little haunt. Instead it was the sad demise of one girl, Samantha, and how she becomes more and more in contact with the Father and his Son.When the movie was over, I thought, what's the point here? Yeah I was scared, Kevin Bacon did some alright acting, the boy was pretty much a yawn..Does it hurt to be Dead?(think 6th Sense's Hayley, only a lot more mediocre) and it had it's scary little moments....There were also several different shots in the movie that really had me in awe. The whole Mann's Theatre scene, and the second to last scene in the film, with the UHaul truck.Sixth Sense made me stay up all night. No other movie's done that. So when I heard positive reviews about the film, I decided to give it a try. I'm not looking behind my back and still scared as hell when I think of some parts of the movie.I left the theatre feeling very ungratified, wanting MORE, more scares, more jumps...Hate to compare sixth sense again, but what made it so great was that not only did the Sixth Sense evoke fear, but it was also very touching at the same time. Stir didn't have this advantage to boast.All in all, I would give the film a C+/C in the grading scale. Save it for the rental, but even then, dont expect much. "},{"Title":"Stirred me right out of the theater...","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For those of you looking to turn your brains off and get spooked a couple of times, this is the movie for you. But if you're looking for a story that's witty and engaging, don't waist your money - watch it for free at a friends house. "},{"Title":"i need a cold shower","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  finally saw this tonight. in some ways, it's similar to the sixth sense with the boy and older male figure identifying with the supernatural. i liked the sixth sense, but it could have had a quicker pace. the acting and ending redeemed it. this movie stayed with me more even though the ending leaves you wanting more by it falling into typical cliches from the strange events. bacon, usually the third bill in a movie, proves that he's got acting game. illeana douglas brought some humor and her hypnotist powers. wish she was in it more. the beginning and cinematography were so well crafted that i recommend it, though. my question is this was this filmed in the north or south of chicago? because some of the homes reminded me of the ones close to wrigley field. wasn't sure. so make sure you see it before you see american beauty, fight club, and all the other potentially great movies coming out in the fall.  "},{"Title":"This sure stirred","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ... my boredom.Man, what a pale imitation of the 6th Sense. I can't even believe this got a 7.5 on IMDB.The acting was often mistimed (is this the director's fault?), the plot was full of holes, and I felt no empathy for any of the characters, except the kid.Save a few bucks and go see this at a dollar-theatre. "},{"Title":"MUCH better than the 6th Sense","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of Echoes was MUCH better than the Sixth Sense. Unlike the aforementioned movie, Stir of Echoes was not trying overly hard to be a European film noir (and believe me, compared with European movies and ANY book by Jean-Paul Sartre, the Sixth Sense failed miserably - we Americans are just too uneducated to know any better).Stir of Echoes, instead of Americanizing what SOOOOOOOOOOOO many European movies have done before, instead concentrates on being a psychological thriller by scaring all of your senses - not boring you to death for 2 hours. The end may be slightly predictable, but what does that matter? This film is not about the end -- it is about the path the characters take to get there. And that is what makes it head and shoulders above its boring cousin, the Sixth Sense.  "},{"Title":"Misdirected apathy/disgust","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For all of those reviews bashing this movie, I have one phrase You have got to be kidding me!  Sure, I may be partial to this movie (my roommate is the Actor who plays Adam and shoots himself) however, I did not go into the movie expecting to enjoy it as much as I did.  Stir has the terror of Hitchcock, the eerieness of Sixth Sense, and a wonderful plot and direction to back it up.  Kevin Bacon is as good as I have seen him ever before, and he is supported by a wonderful cast. The criticism of the rape scene is not well placed.  The directors did a wonderful job of making it tasteful, yet as disturbing as it needed to be. The views expressed here are not only my own, but the views of many people.  I saw the movie opening night with two of the actors in it, and the theatre absolutely was in awe of the movie.  They loved it, I loved, and I know you will love it.  Go see it tonight.  Koepp directs the movie to a T, and the setting is marvelous (even down to Bacon's accent).  The portrayal of chicago is perfect, and the cinematography gives the city its due.  I give it a 10/10, ***** out of *****, and any other praise you can think of.  If horror movies won Oscars, this one would be walking with the show.    "}{"Title":"Hot damn, Kevin Bacon shirtless and digging!","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've heard many things about this film, mostly that it's got an ambitious start but slides downhill. So I wasn't expecting a whole lot when I sat down in the theater. I'm happy to say that the movie itself proved its detractors wrong.I found Stir of Echoes to be amazing, genuinely frightening, and chock-full of spooky atmosphere. The only big problem I saw was an extra character thrown into the mix whose only purpose seems to be explaining what's happened to Kevin Bacon's character when it could've been done without the cliched mystery guy.The movie really floored me, and I'm buying the DVD when it comes out to enjoy over and over again. And I'm not just talkin' plot and characterization here... I'm talkin' Kevin Bacon, shirtless and diggin' holes! What's not to like? "},{"Title":"I was shaken and stirred","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  'Stir of Echoes' was a default viewing.  I went to the theatre to see 'Stigmata', but it was sold out, so I bought my ticket for what I assumed would be Stigmata's poor cousin.  I was quite surprised to discover that 'Stir of Echoes' scared me more than any movie I've ever seen.  I've seen better movies, but never a more well-executed thriller.  It is a sleek, gripping bit of storytelling, and as such, it succeeds incredibly well.  I consider myself a fairly critical movie-goer, and find fault in most films, but this one had me on the edge of my seat.  Unlike 'Stigmata', which treats the audience like children, 'Stir of Echoes' delivers an intelligent presentation that will satisfy all but the most jaded of viewers.  If you don't like this movie, you either aren't a fan of supernatural thrillers, or you should stick to novels, because nothing can please you.The acting is impeccable, and Kevin Bacon will get consideration for a Best Actor Oscar for his portrayal of Tom, a Chicago working-class man who complains in the opening sequences that his life is hopelessly ordinary.  As the plot unravels along with his sanity, he only wishes he could have his regular life back.  But something deep inside him has been stirred, and he instinctively knows that he will never be able to guzzle beers and pass out on the couch like his average-guy neighbors again. Bacon seems so convincingly ordinary, and so deeply into character, that I saw glimpses of another magical actor, Ed Norton.  Bacon is even better in this movie than Norton was in American History X, for which he recieved a Best Actor nomination.Stir of Echoes works because it tells the story in a creepy, disjointed way, where you never know whether what you are seeing is a hallucination, a nightmare, or a psychic intuition.  As a result, you feel like you are losing your mind along with Tom, who, unlike most movie characters, doesn't feel compelled to verbally explain everything he is thinking for the benefit of the audience.  You feel like you are a fly on the wall, watching this once-ordinary man's life plunge down an abyss of wild confusion and maniacal obsession.'Stir of Echoes' will initially be overlooked a bit, as the bigger marketing budget for the moron-friendly 'Stigmata', and the inevitable comparisons to 'Sixth Sense' keeps moviegoers away in its opening weekend.  But it is a better movie than either of its two current rivals (although Sixth Sense joins it in a league apart from Stigmata), and word-of-mouth will help this movie gain steam in upcoming weeks.   8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Solid & Suspenseful","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I hate to jump on the bandwagon and compare this flick to The Sixth Sense, but I felt this film had a better script, explored the supernatural elements more thoroughly, and was a better-constructed and better-paced movie. And it's based on a novel that was published over forty years ago, so that should kill any complaints of copy-catting. A bit predictable, but excellent depiction of a specific atmosphere (working-class autumnal Chicago), intense fever-dream type suspense, strong performances. All in all, 8/10. "},{"Title":"all stirred up","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Since many of the other reviewers have carefully taken the time to outline the film, I will just say I liked it's intense moments. Especially when Samantha kept popping up. But I found Kathryn Erbe's performance in the film tiresome and boring. I enjoyed Illeana Douglas and felt Kevin Bacon did a fine job but could have lost the hokey working class Chicago accent. This film had the making of a great film but lacked adequate continuity as well as lacking any real intriguing performances from central characters (Erbe). The supporting cast at least was interesting. This story could have been better served if the role of Maggie had been eliminated since it adds nothing to the plot. This film does not have the performances or panache of The Sixth Sense but was pretty stirring. "},{"Title":"Nice and twisty, Hauntingly enjoyable..","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well it has been a while since I saw a spooky show that wasn't out in space or a Walt Disney production.. It is in someways similar to an old favorite.. 'Manhunter', ,as some may recall that was 'Silence of the Lambs' without the need off big name stars to pull it of yeh Micheal Mann .  Here we have a greatplay  by play of a man under the great  strain of seeing bits and pieces of events, mixed in time and space.. and the ordeals that draw him into a all consuming task. I want to be vague as there are so many great surprises and twists tyhat kept me, if not on the edge of my seat, then always half way there. Some subtle use of photographic wizardry added to the tension in just the right spots.. If you enjoy a movie that will fill the rest of the evening with sharing varying views from your friends, then this is worth a look see.  I was surprised that the theatre was relatively empty , perhaps a result of some negative hype at release about the rape scene, which was just oh so minimal and anything but explicit.. I give this one a fat 7 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"scary, well made, predictable, far fetched (spoilers -- be warned)","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Scary ... but not as scary as Sixth Sense, The Shining, The Dead Zone or bunches of other films that feature communication with some other psychic dimension.Well made (minor continuity problems with Bacon's facial hair, but I quibble) ... nice atmospherics of working class CHI, nice camera work and special effects which contribute well without saying look at me.Predictable ... instead of a descent into madness by the father, or a bonding of the father and son with similar gifts, or, well, I don't know what, we end up with the last 20 minutes remarkably like a Halloween slasher movie, complete with Oh, how lucky that minor character wasn't really dead, like I thought.Far fetched ... Why isn't Kevin Bacon's wife more freaked out over the fact that he is losing/has lost his job?  Why doesn't someone call the police when Kevin Bacon starts digging up his yard and trashing his home (thanks to another reviewer for comparing it to the similar sequence in Close Encounters)?  Why isn't Kevin Bacon searching around for someone to prescribe him antipsychotic medication -- or, alternately, dosing himself liberally with beer, rather than aspirin?  Why aren't the police more suspicious when Kevin Bacon is obviously lying when he says he has never seen the young woman who disappeared?  Why, if the woman who has disappeared is so eager to be avenged, does she let him dig up the whole yard and basement?On the plus side, the acting is fine.  I watched about 20% of it through my fingers.  And I saw it at before 600 p.m. prices.  "},{"Title":"Very impressive","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this movie thinking it was going to be good, and when I left the theater it had become my new favorite movie.  Kevin Bacon gave an excellent performance.  He sure has come a long way since Footloose.  I highly recommend this film.   "},{"Title":"Stir, Imagine, and be entertained...","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much. It was one of those movies you talk about on the entire drive home. I found Kevin Bacon's performance excellent, and Kathryn Erbe's character to be genuine and completely real life. By the way, it was so nice to see Kathryn in a well-made movie with a good script. She is such a wonderful actress when the movie and script are equal to her talent. One small criticism I do have is that I found the movie to take a little too long to develop. But, once it did the film just flowed wonderfully well. I gave this film a solid and well deserved 8 on a scale of 1-10. "},{"Title":"it is a dog, wait for the video","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  see other reviewer comments.   is one is not worth paying for at a movie house.  wait for the video.  not much tension in this one, with a week plot. it was disappointing to see this as one newspaper reviewer gave this bowwow a 5 out 5.   i wonder who slipped him a couple of bucks.  "},{"Title":"Open Packet of Sixth Sense and Add Water","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A predictably wide hollywood path is dug out for the plot and Kevin Bacon does the equivalent of an acting tap dance right through it.  Kevin deserves better, and so do we the audience.  Even so, Kevin Bacon is just about the only thing to shine in Stir Of Echoes.  Watching the story unfold gave me the feeling the producers opened up a packet of Sixth Sense and just added water.It seems the script writers knew Kevin Bacon's character having stirring visions of foul play wouldn't be enough to carry the film.  To work around this, they come up with giving Bacon's son some sort of psychic paranormal abilities (out of nowhere) which help drop hints at what's going on.  We also meet a police officer who seems to be part of a cult of psychic people. He confirms what is happening, yet his character is never really developed. It's not a lost cause however.  The direction is fine, the acting (mostly Bacon's) deserves merit, the overall quality of the film is decent. There were also some clever ideas employed which I enjoyed  Bacon's seeing everything in red, the camera work of Bacon's face morphing into that of the girl.  But the overall script's predictability remains the glaringly weak link in the chain.  It would also seem that hollywood has suddenly rediscovered the shock of having bodies or ghosts appear suddenly out of nowhere.  It's a cheap film device that has big scare payoffs.  Sixth Sense used it, Stir of Echoes uses it even more.  It would also seem that Hollywood likes to bang into our heads that when ghosts are around it gets cold, real cold.  Oh yes Sixth Sense fans, did you really think you'd seen the last of the cold breath shots?If you're a big Kevin Bacon fan you'll like his work in Stir of Echoes.  If you're going to get a few genuinely spooky gotchas, you may also be pleased.  But if you're going to see something original and not predictable, don't waste your time.  "}{"Title":"A Great Sixth Sense/Pulp Fiction-esque Film","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Stir of Echoes today, the second day it was out in wide release. When I first saw the previews for it, I thought it looked...interesting, so I decided to go see it.  It turned out to be much better than I had expected.Stir of Echoes, written and directed by David Koepp, tells the story of a man who goes under hypnosis during a party in his neighborhood.  The effect that it had on him no one had suspected.  He starts to see visions, always very, very creepy and always having to do with the same teenage girl.  After he is led by some clues, he tries to figure out what happened to a missing teenage girl in his neighborhood, the same girl in his visions.Now, I am sure most of you all know why I would relate this to The Sixth Sense, as many people have.  It talks about a man, and his boy, who can both see ghost(s).  The ghost(s) that they can see only a small percent of people can.Now, I know everyone is wondering why I would say this film, in a way, reminded me of Pulp Fiction.  It isn't as drastic a reason as you would think.  Throughout all of Stir of Echoes, when Kevin Bacon would get all of these visions,  you just saw different things that you thought were just trying to creep the h-ll out of you, and they still did.  Also, different things happened.  At the end, it turned out that there was a reason for all of the weird visions to make sense, and when some people said something and you didn't have a clue what they were talking about, it turns out to all come together, somewhat reminiscent of Pulp Fiction, where the same thing happened different times.  Another movie like that would be Go, which I recommend.Kevin Bacon gave one of the strongest performances of his career.  He was very believable at being haunted by all that was happening to him.  Go see this movie, it is very interesting, strange, and different.  All the more intriguing.  My grade B+ "},{"Title":"Must see if you liked The Sixth Sense","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although the acting wasn't as good as The Sixth Sense, you should see this movie if you liked The Sixth Sense.I thought Stir of Echoes was scarier than Sixth Sense, and Echoes had some awesome Cinematography .  For example, there is a scene where Kevin Bacon's character is being hypnotized.  The camera fades in a way that makes you feel like you are closing you eyes, and then you hear sounds like a glass clanking to the side, and other people whispering beside you.  I almost felt like I was being hypnotized.Stir of Echoes is rated R, but the only reason is lots of language and a few shots of a bare breast. "},{"Title":"Well made ghost story","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  On the heels of the great Sixth Sense comes this second kid-who-talks-to-ghosts movie.  In this one, the father can also communicate with spirits, as he discovers (to his horror) after being hypnotized at a neighborhood beer-guzzling party.  Kevin Bacon plays the father in one of his best performances yet, sympathetically portraying a young blue collar worker is is horrified not just by ghosts, but by the way his life is sinking into depressing ordinariness.  The horror plot is developed a bit too slowly for a thriller, but it has some strong moments, and the denouement is thoroughly satisfying, even if it lacks the jaw-dropping climax of Sixth Sense.  The atmosphere and day-to-day details of the working class Chicago neighborhood are very well captured, especially for a genre movie. "},{"Title":"A decent movie, with an interesting idea and good acting.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The second movie to come out this year with the main characters of a father figure and a boy who sees ghosts (the other of course, is The Sixth Sense) Stir of Echoes has a few similar themed moments.But while the Sixth Sense delves into the psychology of a child and the man who helps him, Stir of Echoes follows a different path. This film is more about the father, Tom (Kevin Bacon) who has been given a post-hypnotic suggestion to open his mind more, and stop being so skeptical.  The end result of this suggestion is the awakening of psychic powers in Bacon's character. The reaction is amazing.  Tom, it appears, is one of the 8% of people who are able to achieve a significantly deep level of hypnosis, to the point where the sister is able to puncture his hand with a safety pin, and he does not bleed.  Tom is completely weirded out by the hypnosis, especially after all he can remember are momentary glimpses into something which he is unable to identify.  After awakening, he also finds himself extremely thirsty, suffering from a bad headache.He suddenly finds himself suffering from momentary hallucinations including one where a young ghost is sitting next to him on the couch, trying to tell him something.  Over the next couple of weeks, small clues come pouring in, and Tom's wife (Kathryn Erbe)  soon realizes her husband and her son share a world she knows nothing about. His obsession to know more about the ghost, and what her fate is, serves to bring a rift between him and his wife, which requires enormous patience on the part of the wife in order to keep their marriage together.To compare this film with The Sixth Sense on anything other than this superficial level is a disservice to both films.  Sixth Sense carried with it a superior wisdom--a true character film carried mainly by the two male actors, with some input by Toni Collette as Cole's mom.  Stir of Echoes, on the other hand, has a wider cast, and each of the players is like a piece of the overall puzzle which is finally almost complete by the time the last half hour of the film comes.  There are no truly shocking endings, but there are questions.  There is no answer, of course, but we think, as the audience, can only hope that things will finally work out.The emphasis is less on the child in Stir of Echoes--in this film, as I mentioned, the child is completely aware and accepting of his gift.  It is the man, emerging from a cocoon of life's gravity, and finally being able to open his eyes to all that surrounds him, who has the benefit of the epiphany of discovering talents which finally make him more than normal--a curse he thought would always be upon him.  Kevin Bacon looks tired and thin in this film and is able to convey a world-weary man who finally breaks out of his earthly perceptions in time to discover his inner self.It is a lot more gory than Sixth Sense, and a lot more shocking in places. I would not recommend it to anyone under the age of 14, especially children who don't take that kind of graphic violence well.  But adults should enjoy the film for having a decent plot, and having a lot of things going on in it. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie that shows us Supernatural Echoes of Past Events...","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of Echoes is an excellent movie that takes Kevin Bacon & the audience into a supernatural trip in which we are allowed to see Echoes from events that took place in the past. If I had to choose a close second movie to the 6th Sense this movie is it.     "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Despite what I had heard, Stir of Echoes was NOT all that similar to The Sixth Sense. It was a well made film and quite enjoyable. However, it was a bit gruesome at times, but never overly so. If supernatural thrillers are your type of films, this one should be more than worth the ticket price. "},{"Title":"A very good psychological thriller with a great performance by Kevin Bacon.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Release very recently after The Sixth Sense (a superb film) with many similar plot points, Stir of Echoes manages to be original and very good.  Though not as good as The Sixth Sense, Stir of Echoes contains many riveting scenes and performances.  Kevin Bacon (Murder in the First, The River Wild) stars as a regular guy with a wife and a young son.  One night towards the end of a party his wife's sister, well-played by Illeana Douglas (Message in a Bottle, Picture Perfect), hypnotizes Bacon.  Bacon wakes up feeling sick and begins having visions of different things that begin to command his mind.  Soon he begins acting weird and his wife, very well-played by Kathryn Erbe (Dream with the Fishes, Kiss of Death), begins to break-down because of this and the fact her son seems to have the same problem.  Kevin Dunn (Dave, Picture Perfect) is good in support as a neighbor.  But what makes the film great is the performance of Kevin Bacon.  Always a talented actor (should have been Oscar nominated for Murder in the First), Bacon shines here in a strong performance.  Highly recommended especially if you liked The Sixth Sense.  "},{"Title":"David Koepp finally atones for Mission Impossible","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  With Stir of Echoes, David Koepp finally manages to make up for his past transgressions.  While the script for Mission Impossible was nearly incomprehensible, the screenplay and direction for Stir of Echoes is almost unerringly dead on target. Kevin Bacon plays a regular guy in Chicago.  A good looking wife, a young boy, a tough but okay job and moonlights in a rock band.  When his wife tells him that she thinks she's pregnant again (which means that he'll have to work more and probably give up the and), Bacon begins to feel that his goals in life, his attempts to do something really special, have passed him by. Later, while at a party with friends, Bacon allows his sister in law (played with a great New Age flakiness by Illyana Douglas), to hypnotize him.  While under, Bacon receives images from a dead girl who went missing six months earlier. From this point on, Bacon becomes obsessed with what the girl is trying to tell him.  He begins to feel like this is his one opportunity to do something that matters and it doesn't go down well with the wife.Koepp manages to create a neighborhood we'd all like to live in, only to peel the surface layer away to show us that evil can exist anywhere in anyone. In short, one of the better film out of the current crop of horror / supernatural / suspense films on the market and well worth the ticket price. ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A very good movie, badly timed release","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    This review contains minor spoilersOdd that Stir of Echoes was released so soon after the much better The Sixth Sense.  They are thematically very similar, but where The Sixth Sense approaches the material on tiptoe, whispering, Stir of Echoes hits you over the head with a pickaxe.Both are about a little boy who can see dead people - it's turning into a The Shining - Redux festival.  In Stir of Echoes, the little boy, Jake can see a very particular dead person, a young girl of limited mental capacity who disappeared about 6 months before.  After being hypnotized at a party, his father, played by Kevin Bacon in a stirring performance, can see her too.The look of the movie is dark and creepy from the beginning, and the director manages to maintain that feel even on brightly sunlit afternoons, as when Maggie takes Jake out for a walk in the.... cemetery?   There they meet a big, bald black man, patterned after Dick Halloran in The Shining, who immediately knows the boy has the third eye and suspects that the father must, too. We find out from him that the dead girl wants something, and that Tom will not have peace until she gets it.On cue, Tom is given his task  Dig.  The movie takes the action up a notch with more frequent appearances of the dead girl, as Tom becomes more and more obsessed with his task.  He doesn't know why he's digging, or even where he's supposed to dig, but he pursues his labors with some ardor. Meanwhile the mother, Maggie (played by Kathryn Erbe) through whose able eyes we are meant to watch this story, is getting totally creeped out.  And so are we.I have a real aversion to violence on screen (or in life), and the denouement of this movie is really over the top in that regard.Virtually every performance in this movie is superb.  The little boy (Zachary David Cope) isn't given much to do, except be cute, and rather matter-of-fact about his gift.  Kathryn Erbe is marvelous as the mother, playing the observer of this macabre drama with a perfectly credible mix of indulgence, impatience, worry, fear, and anger. Ileana Douglas does a fine turn as Maggie's sister, a witty and intelligent woman stuck in a world that is too rough for her.Kevin Bacon, rugged and blustering at first, gives us a look at a blue-collar family man who isn't used to seeing quite so much of the world around him, and is not particularly happy about it.  After he is told what part he is to play, he descends into his obsession with a gusto that seems native to a man accustomed to following someone else's orders without questioning.  He doesn't really think about what he's supposed to do, he just does it.  When he finds what he's looking for, his horror is as great as ours.If I didn't have the recent experience of the classier and more tasteful The Sixth Sense to compare it to, this movie would have fared better in my estimation.  Both movies deal with the same subject matter, but The Sixth Sense did it from the perspective of an accomplished psychologist.  It is a film of greater finesse than this gritty, working class take on the afterlife, and its themes are less about violence and retribution than about understanding.  Still, Stir of Echoes is a mighty good psychological thriller, with plenty of moments that make you jump out of your seat. "},{"Title":"quality thriller","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While Stir of Echoes may not finish as strongly as it could have, it is ten times better than most of the crap thrillers out there.  If not for its eerie similarities to Sixth Sense, Stir of Echoes' originality would've shined much more.  Even with the similarities this is definitely worth the price of admission. "}{"Title":"an eerie slip into the crawl space between our world and a mysterious unseen realm","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon headlines in this spooky film about a young man who suddenly becomes a conduit for the paranormal after being hypnotized at a friend's party.  Soon thereafter, the character is besieged by a rapid succession of unsettling visions which gradually decline in intensity as the mystery unfolds.  By the climax of the film, the tension is muddled in a plot which pulls between a paranormal psychological thriller and a family drama.  What begins as a solidly atmospheric and eerie slip into the crawl space between our world and a mysterious unseen realm becomes a cliche' exhibition of obsessive behavior reminiscent of Roy Neary's gradual descent into UFO induced madness (Richard Dreyfuss in Close Encounters of the Third Kind). The climax of the film loses effect and the mystery sacrifices cohesion and believability for two reasons.  First, the viewer already suspects that the visions are leading the protagonist on a quest for understanding and justice for some horrible crime, and second because the mystery fades into an ineffective pat ending.For the most part, however, the film maintains a level of seriousness reinforced by a consistently appropriate performance by Bacon whose interactions with his wife (played by Kathryn Erbie) and young son (Zachary David Cope) are believable and their different perceptions of the circumstances wherein they are immersed are poignant and intense.  The film could have been bolstered by more exploration into what exactly the visions meant, how they fit into a larger scheme -- and the film almost does this by sending the wife on a cat and dog information-gathering quest -- but the exploration falls short of supplying any meaty insight into the supranormal melee.  The film was relatively short, and perhaps inquisitive dialogue and philosophical discussion was traded for the action of uncovering the murder mystery, but that's no excuse.  Shame on cutting a film full of the potential (promised by Richard Matheson's talented story) short.  The quest for brevity seems to be Hollywood's modern downfall.I give the film three and a quarter stars (out of four)  and highly recommend it as part of the latest trend of 1999 thrill seekers.  It's not as powerful as The Sixth Sense, which investigated the same sort of phenomena, and certainly not as scary as The Blair Witch Project, but Bacon's performance alone is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"A real nail biting suspense thriller","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw STIR OF ECHOES today, and was impressed with the story, plot, and the ending!  Kevin Bacon plays a middle class guy who is very skeptical about being able to be hypnotized, and as a result he is taken on a mind-ride he will not soon forget! I even liked this movie better than Sixth-Sense, it keeps you thinking the whole time, and then, as any excellent thriller, it all comes together to make an eye opening ending.  I would recomend this movie to anyone that wants to see a good thriller that keeps you thinking. "},{"Title":"Homogenized, predictable would-be suspenser","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Opening so close to THE SIXTH SENSE does not redound to the advantage of STIR OF ECHOES.  There are just enough similarities between the two to remind you of how superior the earlier film is in every respect script, acting, direction, mise en scene.  There are a couple of frights here, but early on it becomes very clear what the trouble is, and after that it's just a question of waiting until the characters catch up with the audience.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good...","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can remember seeing the preview for this movies a few months ago, and thinking to myself, Eh, I'll take it or leave it.  It wasn't something I was waiting to see. Which is why I'm glad I liked it.  But doesn't it always work that way; when you're dying to see something, and it finally comes out, it sucks.      Anyway, surprisingly enough, and of course in my opinion, Kevin Bacon did a good job as the guy who got his switch flipped. The movies was a lot different than what I expected, and I think that added to it's effect on me.  There were a few parts that creeped me out, also adding to the experience, because usually I'm not affected by these sorts of things.      It will probably be compared to The Sixth Sense in a few ways (see both of them, you'll see what I mean), and I don't disagree, but that doesn't mean it was not enjoyable.  I guess the bottom line is that I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, and I'd recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"best of the summer","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I give this movie a 10 because with so many horror flicks around, Stir of Echoes shows to be superior on many levels. It appeals to intellectuals as well as teen-agers (I saw it with both!) It's not about scaring the living s*#% out of you like all the others. It's about an everyday man (and what a lovely man he is!) living a nightmare that is real and not just a trick. Go s "},{"Title":"Totally brillant movie","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While other studios offered us The Sixth Sense (wich was really bad..) and The hunting (even worse) filmmaker koep came up with this brillant movie that will keep you on your seats till the end. This movie is original while keeping similarities with the sixth sense and even the shining. It's one of the best movies of this kind i've ever seen. Kevin bacon gives an awesome performance and the other characters are very beleivable. You think you know what to expect at every corner of this story but the way it's done always manages to surprise you. For the record, I see more than 2 films a year.. and I really recommend this movie. 8.7 /10 "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT FILM MAKING ALL AROUND","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is good-scary. No adolescent stuff here. Good film making all around! The direction, although I'm no expert, shows a real purpose; the locations, the actors (Kevin Bacon is fantastic), the music, the dialogue and of course the story, make this flick feel real, as if it could happen to anyone.  I loved it. There's a lot of great humor in it too which gives you a respite from the moments jaw-clenching fear. Highly recommend "},{"Title":"A Good Jump-Out-of-Your-Seat Thriller","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If there is one recurring theme for films in 1999, its witches and ghosts. Some films you seem 'em, some films you don't.  Either way, this genre has made significant money for Hollywood on the eve of the millenium, and Stir of Echoes is a worthy contender in this field.Based in the inner neighborhoods of Chicago in present time, Kevin Bacon plays the head of  amid-income family, whose values stem from working for a living, playing football, and hanging out in the neighborhood with old childhood friends.The story unfolds as our protagonist is hypnotized, and something goes terribly wrong.  Kevin is haunted in his dreams and reality by mysterious visions.  The visions will not cease, and his son is all too familiar with the scenario.As he tries to come to terms with this problem of his, side stories unfold within the neighborhood.  Not too long ago, a young girl disappeared form the neghborhood without a trace.  Are these visions associated with it?His life is turned upside down, his wife tries to unfold the mystery, and the fragile bonds of the neighborhood start to fall apart as the visions become more and more powerful.Without giving too much away...  I recall at leasst three moments where I jumped out of my seat, and had to look around to make sure I didn't make a fool out of myself!  Other moments I grimaced in awe at what was happening on screen.It's scary, it makes you think, and it worth the going rate of a flick today.  Leave the popcorn behind...  you'll probably end up spilling it anyway! "},{"Title":"Six Degrees of Echoes","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Poor Kevin Bacon. He's not only the star of a dangerously mind-numbing trivia game, he was cast in this flick. I would only recommend 'STIR' for one reason Illeana Douglas. This sultry, witty, big-eyed reincarnation of Marie Windsor has proven (especially with that little-seen gem, GRACE OF MY HEART) that she is more than 'SCORSESE'S GIRLFRIEND'The film sets things up when, at a party, Ms. Douglas aims those gorgeous goggles at Kevin Bacon, putting him into a hypnotic trance. In this altered state, she convinces Kev that the movie will not embarrass him or the audience. I actually saw this before SIXTH SENSE and it spoiled the latter film for me. I kept waiting for Bruce Willis to see red lights everywhere. For those of you who want to see this farce, the flashing red scenes are the lamest dramatic device to crop up in a 90's film...this is the William Castle school of film making.Sorry, Kevin. Next time, Illeana attempts to hypnotize you...open your eyes and READ THE SCRIPT.  "},{"Title":"A solid supernatural thriller.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Adapted from the 1958 Richard Matheson novel, Stir of Echoes is an engaging tale that starts with a sense of foreboding and builds to a scary, and tense horror film with great atmosphere and some downright creepy scenes. Kevin Bacon is excellent here, convincingly portraying a man who's losing touch with his surroundings and is obsessed with understanding what is happening to him. Unfortunately, two-thirds into the movie, the story shifts from a supernatural thriller to a more mundane, and predictable, murder mystery. A good horror film that came very close to being a great one. "}{"Title":"Not perfect, but entertaining","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I knew almost nothing about this movie before seeing it and enjoying it. Most others in the theater seemed to have a favorable response.  I think knowing a lot about the plot in advance would be a detriment.  Also, I see relatively few thrillers.  If you are a viewer who watches many thrillers, or if you like to pick a movie apart, this one is probably not for you. For people who enjoy movies in general, I would recommend it. "},{"Title":"Best movie I have seen in the last years!","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Saw the world premiere in Frankfurt/Germany at the Filmfestival 99. A movie that makes you nervous and crazy! You never know what´s next. Kevin Bacon was never better. Even in the first minute of the movie you feel the fear and the undiscovered problems. things humans normally don´t understand, because it´s too strange. doesn´t fit in the normal thinking. A movie that everybody who likes thriller and horror movies has to see. Stir of echoes plays with your mind and it will be still in your mind after you are on your way home. Was worth every penny!   "},{"Title":"We've seen this all before, but it's good!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of echoes was the opening film of the Fantasy Filmfest in Cologne on 4th of July. I was surprised Yes, Kevin Bacon has grown up. I always associated him with some teenie movies or something. He really does a good deal of acting in this movie, his facial expression ranging from dumb drunk up to real paranoia I'm supposed to DIG!. The storyline is not so very impressing, we've heard and seen about all this before. Bits of Poltergeist and Shining, the usual dead body buried in the cellar, a classical ghost story. Stir of echoes is none the less a great movie as it works without gore and blood, rather than with psychological horror as in the tradition of good old Hitchcock or Kubrik.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie and I totally agree with Harry Knowles from Ain't It Cool News, who saidSTIR OF ECHOES is impeccable filmmaking, storytelling and crafting in all the traditional ways to deliver chills and a feeling of dread and eerie that's just wonderful.David Koepp is a director to watch because with only his second film, he's building a body of work that is building on it's own themes. "},{"Title":"Not much stirring","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon stars as a man who is very skeptical to the real powers of hypnotism. Going under during a party, Bacon comes back haunted by feelings that a murder has occurred near him recently.  His son has the same visions and the two try to discover what happened to a neighborhood girl who disappeared years before. I understand very easily what director David Koepp is trying to do with this thriller.  Mixing equal parts Exorcist, domestic drama, and TBS original movie ham, Koepp strains to keep this mess afloat.  It's an uphill battle, but Echoes is actually quite effective in it's initial moments.  Koepp is a very seasoned screenwriter (Jurassic Park, Mission Impossible), so the man knows a thing or two about pleasing an audience. When the Bacon character begins the journey into the unknown, the film is packed to the seams with spooky atmosphere and ambitious storytelling. It's very winning to see a movie that's actually trying to creep the audience out (a proven point due to the high level of What the hell... comments during the screening I attended). It's a majestic first half, and one that sets the film up for greatness. When the action turns to Bacon and the strain his madness puts on his marriage, it's there that the film unravels completely.  What was once a creepy and effective thriller now has become a interminable bore.  The resolution of the film, involving a slow rape sequence, is sickening on two levels.  First being that simple fact that Koepp sinks to a new low by showing us the rape - very tasteful, isn't it?  The second being that the movie uses General Hospital type theatrics to get out of, what I thought was, a very complex plot .  It ends silly.  Getting there is even worse.  Koepp had something going but loses it in the closure, what accounts for this I will never know.  Based on a book, Echoes falls apart very cinematically, not like a book would.  It seems like a studio wouldn't let Koepp have his way with the entire movie. Kevin Bacon gets all the credit in the world with his acting.  He usually can be relied on to show us very different characters in each movie he does. It's a talent that many do not even try to discover. In Echoes, not much is asked of Bacon. And he returns the favor with one of his most forgettable performances.  Kathryn Erbe portrays Bacon's wife and she fares better, but in the end her character never really mattered.  Bad character actors like Kevin Dunn and Illeana Douglas round out the cast. Not the best group of performers, but this was not the best script. You decide who's at fault. Stir Of Echoes is a very forgettable thriller.  A movie that might work for people who see 2 films a year. It's always shocking to see a film break apart like this. Koepp's last film Trigger Effect was a more carefully structured movie that was far more successful with half the dramatic raw materials.  I hope Koepp can bounce back from this.  He obviously can craft a crowdpleasing film, just not one so aggressive in it's intent to please.----------- 4  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good (just don't mention 'Sixth Sense')","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of Echos is about a regular guy - Kevin Bacon playing an average Joe kind of guy - who, for a laugh at a party, allows himself to be hypnotised and, as a result, starts seeing dead people. Oops, and there was me trying to avoid Sixth Sense references.Stir of Echos came out in 1999 (the same year as the Sixth Sense) and was kind of overshadowed by Bruce Willis' haunting supernatural offering. If you pretty much read any review of Stir of Echos, it almost always mentions the Sixth Sense (just like I am) because they do share a fair about of similarities.If I had to choose one, I would go for the Sixth Sense, but, don't think that Stir of Echos isn't worth a watch. If you like a bit of spooky drama and solving murders from beyond the grave, give Stir of Echos a try. I guarantee you no one is really dead at the end who you thought was alive all the way through.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Dull Thriller lacking the thrill","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was hoping this would be a real pot-boiling thriller, but such was not the case.Tom (Kevin Bacon) is an average blue-collar worker in Chicago who is skeptical about his future and fearful of falling into a mediocre existence. The news of his wife Maggie's (Kathryn Erbe) second pregnancy and his growing antipathy over his watchful sister-in-law Lisa (Ileanna Douglas), both fuel the anxiety inside him and set him up as a character who is ripe for drastic change. Soon after, Tom openly defies Lisa as she impresses a group of friends with talk of ghosts and of the supernatural powers of hypnotism. In an attempt to challenge her, Tom volunteers to be hypnotized, and in the process unlocks a door, which leads to more than what he ever believed in.A character that from start to finish is literally looking for something, Tom progresses from being frustrated by a mundane existence to being terrified by an unwanted ability to hear spirits' stir of echoes. This premise presents an opportunity to sensationalize the unknown, most clearly seen in the attempts to visualize the protagonist's disturbed mental states.Unfortunately, Stir of Echoes is not much more than an exercise in exploiting the common fears of the average viewer and which shows that nonconformity is a dangerous state of mind that may destroy the family unit, and should be passed over by anyone wanting to be frightened.I would watch something else if you want my opinion. "},{"Title":"Don't miss this great thriller","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of most underrated movies ever as it over Shadow by the little overrated sixth sense, I love sixth sense but it not as good as this movie.Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon) is a typical working-class man living in Chicago with his wife Maggie (Kathryn Erbe) and son Jake (Zachary David Cope).Tom is talking to Maggie's sister Lisa, who believes in psychic communication and the power of hypnosis. He challenges Lisa to hypnotise him, and after putting him under, Lisa plants a post-hypnotic suggestion in Tom urging him to be more open-minded. Later Tom sees a young woman on the sofa and then disappears and then panics. Maggie find out that Tom can see the dead. Tom soon find out that Jake also can see the ghost of girl.Tom soon find why this girl in haunting him and his son.Acting is great so i going to rated this film a 10/10.This is an excellent thriller. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Hard to really recommend","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of Echoes is a mostly bland thriller without too much really going for it.**SPOILERS**Discovering that their pregnant, Tom Witzky, (Kevin Bacon) and his wife Maggie, (Kathryn Erbe) decide to hold a party to celebrate the occasion, bringing her psychic sister Lisa Weil, (Illeana Douglas) along. When he initially denounces her following of the occult arts, she decides to hypnotize him so she can prove it to him, yet when she's finished he begins to start acting strange. Convinced he's seeing some sort of dream or hallucinations, he launches head-first into trying to decipher the strange events and causing her to fear for his sanity. Nonplused, he continues to seek them out, and finally starting to believe he is near the true origins of the mystery, he finds himself and his family in great danger when he discovers the true secret behind the events and what lengths it will go to in order to prevent from getting out.The Good News There was some okay stuff here. One of the better ones is the few jump scares in here that actually work, most of which is during the beginning hypnotizing. This is actually quite creepy, as it's done through his viewpoint of events, and they're quite vivid and uniquely-done, while her voice is heard overlaying everything out. What makes it quite fun is that the whole scene plays out for an extended period of time, not rushing through the process and making everything important which is then completely wrapped up with the fantastic aftermath, where the results of what happened out-of-his-head are explored which makes the whole thing quite eerie and enjoyable. Other quick cuts, such as the first experiences and visions with the power aren't too bad, and a couple of them are rather nice as well. These are all used to build up the mystery, which here is really nice and doesn't take too much out of the film. The last plus here is the film's finale, which is the best part of the film overall. From the full revelation to the different fights that break out and the big wrap-up to everything, it's all quite well-done and makes this the best part of the film, as well as the film's good points.The Bad News There wasn't a whole lot really wrong with this, with the main thing being the film's big all-over flaw. For the majority of the film, the plot basically boils down to simply watching a man go inside, and that's not a very entertaining prospect at all. From initially receiving the signals to the rejection of them coming to him and then finally relenting and trying to understand everything is pretty much what the majority of the film contains, basically being the catalyst for the changeover into the second act, all the way through that and into the beginning of the third act, an astonishing amount of time devoted to an area that doesn't really doesn't do anything of much interest. That it feels the need to subjugate more scenes in here, from the antics with the son and the nights out with friends being interrupted by what's going on, aren't all the least bit frightening and come off as rather unneeded since they reek of just expanding out the film even more with scenes that might've been intended to be scares, yet fail all around. That's what makes the scenes so restless, as nothing happens yet they're played off as intended to be scary when they're not, and then the notion of a man losing his sanity does absolutely nothing as well. It's just a way to try to explain why nothing is happening, and the film just really slows to a crawl during these moments before picking up for the finale. It's too little too late, and these are the film's problems overall.The Final Verdict This is pretty much stuck in limbo, too thriller-ish for the horror crowd and not exciting enough for the thriller crowd. Still worth a look if this kind of film appeals to you or are a fan of the creative cast, but there are other, far better films out there with these same conditions to really recommend this one.Rated R Graphic Language, Violence, Nudity and a mostly-off-screen but implied rape "},{"Title":"good movie....... poorly timed release","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" it's creepy and it's kooky, mysterious and spooky, it's altogether ooky, the stir of echos movie..............kevin bacon in top form, the talented kathryn erbe is good as the concerned mom and wife, she had evolved so much at this stage of her career since 'what about bob' and she's real easy on the eyes, the kid is cute and believable, ileana douglas is a nice addition as the strange sister in law, the plot, storyline, dialog and execution all very good. too bad it was released at the same time as 'sixth sense', which completely eclipsed it. now, so many years later, the film stands up well on its own as an interestingly well done endeavor. see it for the decent entertainment that it is, on its own merit, not as a comparison piece to 'sixth sense'. "}{"Title":"A spooky chiller....","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed Stir of Echoes upon first viewing, even though it may be a little over the top in certain areas. It mirrors the supernatural elements and chills from the Denzel Washington film Fallen, but focuses more on the emotional impacts on a person who cannot rid themselves of their unexpected psychic abilities.Kevin Bacon shines as Tom Witzky and is thoroughly convincing, while young Zachary David Cope proves himself to be a very versatile child actor. Full marks to them both.Stir of Echoes is full of shocks and suspenseful moments, although any special effects we witness are displayed mostly in the first 45 minutes or so. The rest of the film is more of the usual cat-and-mouse thriller, but is still watchable nonetheless. A very satisfying conclusion marks the end to a very intriguing story.Stir of Echoes is a good nail-biting film with polished performances, even if it's rather short for the usual theatrical release, but the eerie atmosphere combined with the sense of evil and fear works to make it another fine supernatural film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A creepy ghost story!","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" KEVIN BACON stars as a struggling telephone lineman/musician named TOM, who lives with his wife MAGGIE & son in a lower class apartment & who struggles to meet the payments at the end of each & every month. One evening, while attending a party, his sister in law hypnotizes him in front of his friends, after he volunteers, only during the hypnosis, TOM sees awful visions & after that is forever haunted by voices & nightmares, someone or something is trying to communicate with him & soon thereafter he starts to go a little crazy, he digs up the families backyard & has a terrible thirst for orange juice, while his wife thinks he's crazy. However just as soon as Tom thinks that he may have things figured out, he finds that there's far more to what this ghost is trying to tell him, something that all ties with the past & something that proves that the people that Tom trusts, may not be as trust worthy as he thought they were & are harboring a very dark secret. STIR OF ECHOES is just one of the many films that went undeservedly ignored at the box office, opening up around the same time as THE SIXTH SENSE, the film was overshadowed by that films hype, which is sad, because STIR OF ECHOES was such a splendid, well acted, well written & well directed supernatural suspense thriller, with a bit of gore & somewhat sick sound effects in some scenes (Loved the tooth popping scene!) Writer/Director David KOEPP who wrote THE TRIGGER EFFECT, has taken RICHARD MATHESON's novel & turned it into a suspenseful creeper, that is always interesting & has some pretty creepy things in it & there's plenty of plot twists to keep you hooked in from beginning to end, just when you think you might know what the twists are, the film switches gears & goes for a twist you never saw coming. Highly recommend to Suspense/Horror fans, don't miss this! Followed by a direct to DVD sequel, STIR OF ECHOES 2 THE HOMECOMING**** stars "},{"Title":"Fabulous premise, decent execution","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I felt I had to add a positive review given all the recent negative reviews. While the timing with Sixth Sense was HIGHLY unfortunate, this is a quality movie with mixed acting and a terrific premise. There are a few too many shock cliché's but they really work. The movie was particularly creepy and the cinematography was very well done. It's been a while but I recall did not particularly care for the child's acting. I'm a big Kevin Bacon fan but even his acting was a bit uneven and at times unbelievable. In the end, had the movie been a bit shorter, relied a bit less on shocks, and the acting more consistent--this movie would have been a 10 in my book. But, a 9 is pretty darn good these days... "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon just Had to DIG","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Great entertaining film for Halloween and great photography in Joliet, Illinois and the Chicago Metro area. Kevin Bacon,(Tom),Trapped,02, plays a telephone lineman and his wife, Kathryn Arbe,The Addiction,'95, move into a home that they rent and they also have a son who likes to talk to himself and carries on a very good conversation. As the movie progresses, we find out there is a young girl who seems to appear to Tom, who has glasses and is average looking. Poor Tom hears all kinds of things in his head and even stops working; the reason being, he has a big project in his own home that needs a jack hammer. Tom is so upset with all the visions and voices, he even interrupts love making with his wife and runs out of the bed. Great entertainment, but Kevin Bacon wore me out just sitting looking at this film.! "},{"Title":"Creepy Fun","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Based on a book of the same name from Richard Matheson, directed and adapted by David Koepp (Secret Window, Spiderman, Jurassic Park, Carlito's Way.) Fantastic film! It has a great story with compelling and believable plot and characters, scary visuals, tight subplot and it's just plain creepy! I like what David does with his script's and characters. In Echoes he leaves no room for doubt from every aspect, of being 100% believable. That is what draws ME in. I am also a fan of Kevin Bacon (Tom) and he shines in this role. The supporting cast is excellent, especially Zachary David Cope as Tom's son Jake. There is no wasted time setting up the story, and from each scene hence it moves quickly and draws you in moment by moment. Tom's motivations are the jewel of Kevin's acting and characterization. *SPOILER* Apart from being a supernatural thriller it is also part detective story, with Tom discovering what happened to the girl Samantha and who did it. Both having separate issues they need to settle and can only do so with the others help. (Tom's directly and Samantha's indirectly.)Tom's obsessive behavior is well derived.Viewing the DVD (special ed. Widescreen) please check out the deleted scene It's a Girl (beginning portion of the scene) I truly wish it could have remained in the film because it ties in title and theme, perfectly. This is a top-notch ghost story! "},{"Title":"Another very good sixth sense movie.","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Not too original, true, since The sixth sense there were tons of movies like this one... but definitely I liked it.Without having a huge amount of special effects or tons of walking deads as in other films, this one gets u keep watching the screen without even wink...The plot is not very complex indeed, but the conversations, development and acting are just great.As told, if u liked acclaimed films as 6th sense, gothika or the ring (stir of echoes is even 100 times better than the last one...), u'll sure enjoy this movie. I did!I say better be simply amazing than a complex rubbish... ;P "},{"Title":"Definitely a good creepy movie!","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of Echoes is a movie I have enjoyed over and over. When I have friends over, and if they haven't seen it, time to pop it in! I have always been a fan of horror/suspense movies. I have never been a huge Kevin Bacon fan, but he seems to fit the part perfectly. I enjoy a good movie that can make you jump and Stir of Echoes delivers. The movie is about a man (Kevin Bacon) who gets hypnotized at a party. After he wakes up from the hypnotism, he is able to see things that other people can't. This leads him on quite an interesting adventure, if you will, of something that happened in the past. How far is he willing to go? Watch it and find out! If you are going to see this, try to watch it without interruptions and in the dark. The way any scary movie should be watched! "},{"Title":"Great supernatural thriller","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon) is having ghostly visions of a young girl after a hypnotist opened his mind. Haunted day and night by the dead, he begins explore the reasons for the visions and looks for ways to rid himself of the burden. His family and friends all get caught up in the chaos, ultimately leading to a solid conclusion.Released in the same year and very similar to the Sixth Sense in many ways, Stir of Echoes was overlooked by many, but remains a fine film. The Main difference between the two movies is the end, while Stir of Echoes is faster paced and probably has more consistent suspense, its end is massively inferior to the Sixth Sense, that is not to say it is bad, just that it has not got the brilliance or the surprise.Recommended to everyone who enjoys a good supernatural thriller.8/10 Also watch The Sixth Sense (10), What Lies beneath (8), Gothika (6) "},{"Title":"PAINT IT BLACK","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I see my red door, and I must have it painted black<<this movie rocks, but just the fact that they modeled a large part of the movie plot around this song makes it a 5 out of 5...>>  "},{"Title":"Bacon sizzles and Erbe shines","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon mesmerised the audience with his haunting portrayal and Kathryn Erbe captivated the audience with ease as she surprises everyone with great screen presence. Stir Of Echoes is one of the most frightening and well-made horror films in recent year. Stir Of Echoes is a prime example of a film that will have the audience covering their eyes and will leave everyone terrified at the end.Bacon has proven once again that he capture the essence of each character and turn it into a performance that will leave everyone smiling. Furthermore, Bacon is one of those actors you just know will turn in a good performance for you. This movie is no different. I'm not sure I would like this movie as much if there were a story that had some mystery and substance behind it.By the same token, we have an actress that is the perfect compliment to Bacon as she steals the spotlight from her co-star with each scene she is in. Erbe has quickly become one of my favorite actresses as she has the subtle quality to draw people in to the plight of her characters and leaves us in awe with her great screen presence. Watching Stir Of Echoes was like reading a good book that couldn't be set down. I didn't want to push pause on the VCR because the writing was engrossing, the performances drew me in and scares were so good I almost believed it was a real event. The characters were particularly well represented. The screenwriter did an excellent job at writing it so the audience cared what would happen to them.Stir Of Echoes is scary and psychologically thrilling. WATCH IT.  "}{"Title":"watchable but unremarkable supernatural thriller that can't hold a candle to sixth sense.","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of echos is a movie that I had heard was superb. I am a real fan of Sixth Sense and understood this came out around that time, though, unlike sixth sense I did not have the opportunity to view it in the theatre. When Echos came to TV and I started watching it, my main thought was that this wasn't necessarily bad, as much as forgettable. Str of echos lacked the intrigue of Sixth Sense and didn't have the mysterious quality, even, of a movie like The others which I didn't like much either but Others did have a kind of mysterious quality that kept you glued to the seat.In the case, of stir of echos, I think the main problem is the timing. It just had as it's competition, other films that did the story better. I didn't feel the need to keep watching this, there was none of that wow factor that would have kept me from changing the channel or kept me glued to my seat. It was just another ghost story. It lacked as mentioned, the wow factor of Sixth Sense. Not a bad movie, just didn't do anything for me. My vote is 5 of 10. "},{"Title":"Caught this one on tv and found it was rather good.","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Some had told me this one was actually better than the Sixth Sense and I found this to be true (they get compared because they were released about the same time).  The plot has a guy hypnotized at a party.  He wakes up from the trance finding that he was very receptive to hypnotic suggestion.  He even learns that the gal who hypnotized him stuck a pin through his hand (if someone did that to me, I would be ticked).  He also now is very thirsty and he seems to be able to receive messages from beyond the grave.  His son also has this talent.  A very good suspense that has more of a plot than Sixth Sense did and it moves much better.  You should be able to figure out the mystery though fairly easily, but that does not diminish how good this film is.  Kevin Bacon is great in the lead role and all in all this was a very entertaining flick. "},{"Title":"Several plot twists, and an A-grade performance by Bacon","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of Echoes (1999) D David Koepp. Kevin Bacon, Kathryn Erbe, Illeana Douglas, Zachary David Cope, Kevin Dunn, Conor O'Farrell, Liza Weil, Lusia Strus, Mary Kay Cook. Extremely creepy film with some moments that border upon terrifying. A man is hypnotized by his sister-in-law and begins seeing haunting visions of a girl's mysterious disappearance, much to the dismay of his understanding wife and neighbors. Several plot twists, and an A-grade performance by Bacon, keep this afloat through the film's 99 minutes. RATING 8 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence, grisly images, sexual situations, and profanity.  "},{"Title":"GREAT PERFORMANCES BY Katheryn Erbe AND Kevin Bacon","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Everything about this movie is soooo great. I love the plot even though it is a little reminiscent of The Sixth Sense it is still different. From the domestic situation to the little boy to even the movement of the ghost. It was an all around great movie. "},{"Title":"GREAT, and then it ends","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot. I havent seen it for a few years now, so i have a fading appreciation for it, but i think that my love will come back if i see it again.  My most dinstict memories from this movie are  the blatant knock-off of the Shining, where the kid has that special gift;  a new love for Kevin where none had existed before, great shivers in all the scenes where he is totally possessed, the digging, the running for his kid, and the orange juice; and how disappointing the ending was after such a great stretch of movie. "},{"Title":"A classic an absolute classic","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is definitely one of the best movies that Hollywood has produced in recent years.  It is scary at times, funny at times and an all around good solid movie.....big v gives this one a 9 on 10........If there is anyone out there that does not like this movie...I would like to know why  "},{"Title":"Excellent Ghost Story/Thriller BETTER THEN THE SIXTH SENSE","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Stir Of Echoes the same week I saw The Sixth Sense. Stir of Echoes is a much better film. Dont get me wrong I liked the sixth sense but it was blown away by this film.Kevin Bacon is great as skeptical Tom Witzky whose range from confused to terrified to p**sed off is flawless. Also Kevin Bacon is gorgeous.L&O Criminal intent's Kathryn Erbe does a wonderful job as the long suffering Maggie. She is scared and isolated and determined to protect her family and she plays to it all to perfection.The Kid, Zachary Cope is brilliant as the plucky Jake, whose only concern is the reaction his parents have to his friend Samantha. He is younger then Osment but it much more convincing. Douglas is perfect as the hippie sister and adds the needed comic relied.Bottom line though is this movie is scary and even though some parts of the mystery seem obvious most are exceptionally surprising. It has more scares then the sixth sense and the storyline is much more streamlined. All in all this movie is FANTASTIC, A MUST SEE!       "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent, intelligent  movie, very scary with great suspense. The kind of movie you enjoy all the way and that you leave thinking you got your money's worth.  What a shame that feeling is so rare.  Came out a little before The Sixth Sense, and statements on this site that Stir of Echoes is actually better are not outlandish (although incorrect in my opinion). "},{"Title":"there are some ghosts missing","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It is interesting to see that almost everyone tries to compare this movie to other in the same genre, like 'The Sixth Sense' or 'The Dead Zone'. Fact is that 'Stir Of Echoes' will disappoint you if you are a real fan of the former two movies. However, it is quite an interesting thriller, although not so thrilling as it could have been, about a man (Bacon) who gets hypnotised and starts seeing things he can't explain. His son knows where it's all about, since for some reason he has the some abilities, but Bacon doesn't understand what's happening and soon he drives himself crazy. Except for the fact that the story is far from original or creative, the thing that most disturbs you watching this flick is the fact you can't feel any sympathy for Bacon's character, since he really has an unfriendly look all the time. The boy is touching, but the makers couldn't decide whether to make his part a leading one or not, so in the end the movie floats somewhere in between, and I guess this is caused by the difficulty of turning a boring novel into a movie. With an original script this could have been a real good one, now it is just entertaining, especially towards the ending. At least the ghost of suspense should have come out and take over control. Instead, we have to make do with the ghost of cliché. "},{"Title":"Edge of your seat!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A classic Edge of your seat who done it.  this flick was very well scripted.  There is a lot of intensity about this movie.  Even though I loved this flick, it was hard to believe that someone can solve a murder by being hypnotized. "}{"Title":"Better than the sixth sense.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film a year ago and now have it on DVD.It is brilliant.Kevin Bacon plays a distinctive performance and the movie itself is just perfect,better than the sixth sense in my opinion.Must be one of the greatest horror thrillers of our time and it is one you can watch again and again without getting bored.The story is about a man (Kevin Bacon) who has a wife and son.The son has a sense to see things (ghosts etc).One night at the party his father is hypnotised and starts to see a ghost as well.The ghost is a of a teenage girl of about 13 years old and wants them to know something which leads into a terrible truth.Stir of echoes is eerie and never fails to scare or shock.I think one of the messages being passed across is that there is a darker side,a force that wants us to know that they are around us.To me,Stir of Echoes was more of a thriller,it had the elements of a thriller more than a horror.You won't get bored I can assure you.I rate 5/5. "},{"Title":"Very Good Indeed","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of echoes is a really frightening film. Kevin Bacon is hypnotized and comes around with some real problems, suffering flashbacks that he can't explain. The film is well made if sometimes a bit unbelievable. However I recommend it to anyone who hasn't seen it. "},{"Title":"A Good Thriller","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An interesting and entertaining story about a man that has been hypnotized who later sees things in his mind that allow him to chat with a ghost with a terrible secret.  The lead is played by Kevin Bacon, and he does a workmanlike job if nothing else.  He has this gift and he shares it with his son, who it seems already possesses it.  The acting , as a rule, is adequate with no stellar performances nor any terrible ones either.  Illena Douglas and Kevin Dunn are effective in their roles.  The story bends the wall of credibility a good deal, but all is done in so entertaining and suspenseful a fashion as to only heighten the viewer's sense of accepting implausable situations.  The direction helps make this film succeed.  David Koepp does a fine job with his pacing and creating a tense, sometimes eerie atmosphere.  I particularly liked the sense of community he was able to capture as part of the setting. That is not always a very easy thing to do.  The ending is not particularly shocking in terms of not knowing what will happen but more in the unravelling of what will happen. A great difference between this film and The Sixth Sense.  I see there are some understandable comparisons to that fine film.  This film is a fine ghost story, generally well-made, but is not in the class of The Sixth Sense when it comes to scripting and acting.  Nonetheless, Stir of Echoes is an exciting, thrilling film to watch.   "},{"Title":"Very good if unbalanced movie","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 99 minThe direct claims the best horror movies are those that begin by presenting a solid domestic setting and he may have a point. He takes his own advice and in the case of Stir of Echoes it works well.The movie successfully exploits the viewers own curiosity and imagination by not giving too much away until the the last act. The wifes behaviour is difficult to follow at times but Bacon and the kid are very good.7/10 well worth watching. "},{"Title":"It scared the s**t out of me!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Before I see Stir of Echoes, I've heard of it, mainly when it was released in theatres. Ultimately, I ended up seeing it on TV.  I can't say how much this movie scared me. I'm not much of being scared; neither I get really disturbed when I see lots of blood. But this movie was the scariest thing I've ever seen. Of course, the Exorcist, not being a good movie, is scary to everyone who sees it. I couldn't sleep straight the following night. What sets the bar higher between the two movies is that this one was good and scary, and the Exorcist was scary but not that good. Also, when one sees this movie, you can see traces of Sixth Sense, which I thought was great; now, Stir of Echoes is my favorite scary movie. What amazed me the most where the Special Effects. You may be wondering why. Although when you see the end credits, you see one or two big Hollywood SFX  creators, the movie is not full of those SFX of people being crushed in a million peaces, or a 20 foot monster. The only effects here were the characters cold breath. Sound familiar? Beautiful. Take my advice. I loved the Sixth Sense which I thought was very well made. But Stir of Echoes is much better. Every jump scene is scary, every cold breath is scary, even the SEX SCENE was scary. Check it out, and you'll know what I'm talking about. 9 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"The better 'Sixth Sense' and the better 'What lies beneath'","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Waiting to be watched in my VCD rack for months I myself do not know why I did not watch it before as this is another must see if you like scary movies. Definitely better than 'What lies beneath' and slightly better than 'The Sixth Sense' comes a Kevin Bacon that seems to be apologizing for his performance in the crappy 'Hollow Man'... Of course you can discuss about the storyline and its orientating on 'Sixth Sense' but I was thrilled until the very end and especially loved the performance of the young Z.D. Cope, nearly better than Haley Joel Osmont. So if you are into scary movies, liked 'What lies beneath', 'The Sixth Sense' you will have a good time with this one...  "},{"Title":"overshadowed, well-made ghost story","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  STIR OF ECHOES had the bad luck to open post-THE SIXTH SENSE (even though it was filmed and completed before it), and suffered badly because of it. Too bad, because it's a much superior film featuring everything the other movie lacked outstanding acting from the entire cast, an engrossing (and suspenseful) story, and some very effective scary moments. Kevin Bacon gives his best performance to date as an everyday guy who starts seeing the ghostly image of a young girl who used to live in the neighborhood, and is swept up in a suspenseful quest when he sets out to uncover the reason behind her mysterious disappearance (and obvious murder). Suspenseful from beginning to end, STIR OF ECHOES is everything THE SIXTH SENSE should have been. Skip that one, and watch this instead. A+ for director/writer David Koepp. "},{"Title":"The Sixth Sense (Alternate Cut)","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Comparisons to The Sixth Sense are inevitable when talking about Stir of Echoes. Both feature a character whose gift is to see dead people. Here Kevin Bacon's powers are awakened by a post-hypnotic suggestion telling him to truly see things. But his world starts slipping as he can't handle the visions he is seeing - that of a missing girl from years ago.Kevin Bacon is good here. He starts off as an average worker, but gradually slips into paranoia and complete obsession, as he tries to figure out what all the things he is seeing and hearing actually mean. His cute son - ably played by Zachary David Cope - can also see some of these things leading to interesting conflicts as Bacon's character, Tom Witzky, almost assaults his son searching for the information. Troubled wife Maggie (Kathryn Erbe) looks on in horror as the man she loves becomes a reclusive loon.The script of the movie has echoes of The Sixth Sense but is different enough in it's executions that the comparison eventually becomes unfair. There's a darker, more downbeat tone here as the mystery becomes unravelled. The actual mystery is somewhat boring but the lead up is done well enough - with hints here, and there - that we're not left falling asleep ever.The direction - by David Koepp (who has a string of movies under his writing credits) - is actually decent. The colours are generally muted in tone. Sound is kept sharp. The visions Bacon receives are done intensely, with quick violent cuts and his obsession is handled well with the apparitions having a suitable menacing feel. As we rarely see beyond the house, we get a suitable claustrophobic feel for the situation.Stir of Echoes isn't quite as good as The Sixth Sense but, in the supernatural genre it's well above average and has a suitably chilling feel. Well worth catching - 7.9/10 "},{"Title":"A Twisted Thrilling Horror Movie.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    Stir of Echoes is a great horror movie that has great acting by Kevin Bacon, Kathryn Erbe, Illeana Douglas, Zachary David Cope, and Jennifer Morrison. The movie is especially scary and Kevin Bacon makes a very believable performance. The film is scary, and thrilling and has lots of twists and turns. I give Stir of Echoes an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"surprised","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  How did i miss this film when it was released ?. I believe it was released about the same time as the Sixth Sense. The Sixth Sense was more for the grey matter but for all round entertainment, shock and horror, Stir of Echoes beats the above hands down. I can honestly say that Stir of Echoes has been one of the very few films over the past 10 years or so that has actually made me jump from my seat. The actors were superb with Kevin Bacon giving one of his best performances. Unlike the Sixth Sense you can see the plot unfolding, but this does not spoil the film which has you gripped all the time. At times you are wondering 'why did he do that' or 'what did he say that for' but as the film progresses all becomes clear. If you did not see it at the movies go and buy it. "}{"Title":"An excellent film","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is very like 'The Sixth Sense' but i actually think it is better! Its a lot like 'The Bone Collector' too and if you enjoyed either/both of the above films you will, almost certainly enjoy this one!Excellent performances by all involved, especially the kid who played Jake.Quite a freaky film, especially if you believe in that sort of stuff (eg. ghosts). & if you didn't like feathers or plastic at the beginning of the film, you definitely won't like them at the end! "},{"Title":"Very good movie and IMHO better that TSS","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm probably one of the few that enjoyed this movie better than The Sixth Sense...I think I have a bit of a bias since my band used to do a great cover of Paint It Black, but I just found the movie fascinating...I agree the digging scene went on a bit long, but I also understand why...this was to illustrate his determination to find out what he was after.I felt the ending was a bit rushed, but still liked it as opposed to a lot of horror movies these days.*Semi-Spoiler* I also have to take issue with the post about violence towards women...the girl was the victim of the attack, but it was hardly glorifying that act...the two guys got their just deserts...I suppose now the only ones who can have violence against them are white males age 25-45? How boring would that be? These types of movies hardly glorfiy violence against women...I could get off on a whole new rant regarding the treatment of women in movies, but I'll save that for my website ;)Overall, a great movie with a few chills, a few surprises and solid acting. 9/10 "},{"Title":"When is Kevin gonna bring the bacon home ?","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon is a great actor. He is extremely underrated. This is not surprising as long as he goes on making movies like this one and My Dog Skip.Stir of Echoes is just plain dull.The scene where Kevin digs up his basement and back yard goes on for what seems an eternity and the story does not grip at all throughout the running time. For a thriller, it does not thrill. The problem with Kevin Bacon seems to be that he is difficult to cast.He does not really have the  conventional Hollywood looks for a romantic lead  and ends up playing baddies or other questionable characters in most of his films. Still,who knows what's going to happen next in the rollercoaster movie world? That juicy character role is out there somewhere. "},{"Title":"gosh, i wanted to like this film","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, it stars Kevin Bacon. It features Illeana Douglas, whose work I have come to admire through the all-too-short-lived Action. I adore a good ghost story. And Richard Matheson, whose novel served as the basis for this film, is easily in the last century's top five writers in the genre. I have to admit that it started off well. The initial characterizations are very good, emphasizing the ordinariness of the characters while the staging and cinematography lead us--and Mr. Bacon's character--into a world underlying this one that is anything but ordinary. That said, while the world that only those who have the eye can see does contain some real chills (and some heartbreak), the underlying plot is old hat by now. The novel was published in 1958, and the premise has been used in countless films since then. That's not an insurmountable problem, however. The central conceit of the work was old when Matheson penned it--as is almost every other conceit in literature or film. The triumph or the downfall lies in execution. I mean, I knew whodunit and could guess why very early in the film. That doesn't have to be a problem if something else is made the focus. And what this film lacks is focus. It shifts too much among the central characters, and Kevin Bacon going over the top in his performance does not constitute giving his character that focus. Instead, it made me feel alienated from him, no small statement given that he's such a recognizable and real sort of fellow at the film's outset. I did watch it all the way through, and it wasn't a torment to do so, but I did become restless and annoyed--not the hallmarks of audience reaction to a good ghost story. I was able, however, to forgive the picture its faults until the very end, at which point . . . well, I won't include any spoilers; I will say only that the film cheats, and I can't forgive that. As an aside, I would like to comment that while some found this film misogynistic, I found it completely otherwise. The crime that is perpetrated in this film bears strong similarities to a crime committed in my area a few years ago, and I'm glad that the film conveys the brutality and horror of such an experience, made worse by the nature of the victim. The depiction of violence against women does not in itself constitute a glorification of violence against them, and in fact the film's depiction--as well as the entire script--does quite the opposite. "},{"Title":"Disappointing...","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I expected Stir of Echoes to be a great horror film, I had heard many good things about it. Stir of Echoes was far from a great film, and even good is exaggerating. It was really dumb, actually. It was one of those movies where if you expect too much, too less is what you get.Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon) is a blue-collar worker, a family man, the most ordinary guy in the world ... who is about to be plunged into a shattering encounter with another world. It doesn't matter if Tom doesn't believe in the supernatural, because something supernatural has started to believe in Tom. After he is hypnotised at a neighbourhood party, Tom changes. He sees things he can't explain and hears voices he can't ignore. As the horrific visions intensify, Tom realises they are pieces of a puzzle, echoes of a crime calling to be solved. But when his otherworldly nightmares begin coming true, Tom wants out. He desperately tries to rid himself of his eerie unwanted powers - only to be seized by an irresistible compulsion to dig deeper and deeper in the mystery that is consuming his life. When at last he unearths the truth, it will draw him into the long-buried secret of a ghastly crime, a vengeful spirit ... and the lethal price of laying the spirit to rest.Stir of Echoes is a throughly disappointing mess. The camera tricks don't work, the script is out-of-this-world horrible and the direction is effortless. You'll leave at the bits when you're supposed to scream, and you'll scream in the bits you're supposed to laugh.Like it's title, Stir of Echoes is a big, stirred up mess.I rate Stir of Echoes 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not bad at all.","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Looking over the other comments, I noticed something that IMHO, I should do something about. While I'm not a huge kevin Bacon fan, I guess he was what got me into watching this movie. Well, at first I was disappointed, until about the time I see him interact with the ghost for the first time. WHEW!It's probably gonna sound creepy, but Jennifer Morrison plays a ghost very well; almost better than some theater actors who've practised Shakespeare's tragedies most of their lives.I just wanted to give credit where I thought it was due.Just, WOW. You know? "},{"Title":"a mix of the sixth sense, poltergeist, the shining with average acting","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A mix of the sixth sense, poltergeist, the shining and takes the worst of all of them. Add to that a chaotic script with lots of lose ends, average acting, irritating beeps and a cool Kevin Bacon and you have stir of Echoes.(6/10) "},{"Title":"Effective but ultimately familiar","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A moody tale of a Chicago working-class stiff (Bacon) whose paranormal talents are suddenly, and acutely, vivified during an ad-hoc hypnosis session. Slowly but surely, brief flashes of a sorrowful specter in his home turn to increasingly disturbing glimpses of the ghost's demise. Compounding his confusion are the discovery of his young son's identical proficiency and the simultaneous estrangement of his skeptical wife. Bacon impresses as the victim of his newfound ability whose once-regrettably ordinary life takes an abrupt about-face after his transformation into a receiver. Cope is equally affecting as Bacon's son whose already developed psychic aptitude is as natural for him as bouncing a ball. It is unfortunate that a few elements of the story mimic the concurrent Sixth Sense, but the facsimiles are forgivably minor. It is, however, the presence of other key plot points that make Stir Of Echoes too familiar for comfort. The blue-collar perspective is a welcome change of pace, but aside from that approach little is shown that hasn't been seen before, particularly when the payoff is all too similar to a featured sequence from 1983's memorable The Dead Zone. The faintest recall of that haunting mini-classic will immediately telegraph the climactic events of Stir Of Echoes long before Bacon begins to put the pieces together. "},{"Title":"OK, but not too bad, horror film","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not everything in this film is bad.  I personally enjoyed kevin Bacon's performance as he transforms through the film as a sane person to a insane maniac and also enjoyed the novel that this film is based on.  But there is just something that seemed kooky about it.  Maybe that there was a reason for Bacon's insanity (caused after Ileanna Douglas hypnotizes him) and we find it out.  Not that that would be completely bad, It's just that when you have such a good actor like Bacon in this role, you want him to do the explaining.  Still, It's worth a look if you don't have anything better to do, and It's good to see Bacon in action and better than he's been in years.  B+ "},{"Title":"This movie is awful !","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There's someday you're just wondering Why the hell did I do that And the day I went to see Stir of Echoes what that kinda day. I guess I have been duped by the trailer. In the trailer you have the feeling of a Dark/Occult movie that will give you the creeps or the uncomfortable feeling of a glaucous atmosphere. But finally nothing, zip, nada, rien. It's just a bad thriller with the same old plot. The first 30 minutes of the movie are pretty good though. But there is so much nonsense and the lack of details is really annoying. All the part that could have be good are just unexplained. After the 30 first minute you came to realize the story is blurry and the plot became nonexistant. I guess the guys that have make this movie wanted to profit of the Sixth Sense's success by making a sorta ghost plot but they blew it up and finally made out a boring movie. If I hadn't pay 7$ to see it I wonder I would have leave the theater after 45 minutes. Anyway I could spend hours and hours telling you how bad the movie is but I will stop wasting my time and yours by giving you a final advice. Go rent End of Days it sucks too but at least it has EZ watching action. "}{"Title":"To cover myself here, this review contains *SPOILERS*","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When one watches the opening sequence of this film your automatically going to say 'Oh yeah, Sixth Sense rip-off'.  Although these two movies were produced very close together, it is difficult to look beyond this rather prevailing aspect and enjoy the film for what it is.  Fortunately I thought the Sixth Sense sucked extremely badly............so much that I had such poor expectations for this movie that the worst that could possibly happen would be that I walked out with the same feeling I had walking in.However, apart from the fact that this little boy can communicate with SOME dead people is as far as the similarities go.This film opens with Kevin Bacon bathing his son and for some reason we're informed that his wife is pregnant........which does not come into play at any other time during the movie, though I think it is an attempt to inform us of the family's low socioeconomic statusHowever we also find that the son talks to himself..........One thing I must point out here is that I really, really, really liked this little kid.  I mean, he wasnt the slobbering blubbering messed up basket/head case that Haley Joel is.. oooops I meant his character in the film.  As a matter of fact this kid is a bit of tough little guy.  He never acts scared, and when he doesnt want to talk to these ghosts, he tells them!We later find Kevin Bacon being hypnotised by his sister-in-law and apparently being left with what is know as a post-hypnotic-suggestion. However it becomes more than that when we find Kevin seeing things that are about to happen, as well as seeing things that have happened in the past.Apparently a girl disappeared a short while ago, and we learn that her name is Samantha, and she is one of the ghosts communicating with Kevin's son.The thing that shocks me the most about murders in movies is the thought of the person as they were in real-life, and then their subsequent reduction to what they become after they have been killed.  We are apresent to a simple girl with learning difficulties that probably enjoyed life as much as anyone had a mother and sister who loved her..................and then we see her, still slightly recognizable, as an ashened, blackened corpse that has been walled up in the basement of Kevin Bacon's home.  This brought back memories of the Vanishing, when we see Sandra Bullock's character as being full of life and energy...........and then being systematically reduced to a corpse after she is bruied alivePeople tend to complain about the ending to this movie but it actually provided a good change to the usual pschological thriller-style endings (Did I mention I hate the Sixth Sense).  You're left with a compulsion to explain to the person next to you in the cinema 'THATS WHY HE'S KILLED HIMSELF!' or in our case it was 'Ah....FEATHERS!'.But the actual ENDING was creepier than one might think.One has to wonder about the problems that kid is going to have "},{"Title":"A good film despite the enormous holes in the script","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A suspenseful and scary film, but the holes in the script left me dissatisfied at the film's conclusion.In a nutshell a man she a ghost after being hypnotized.  His son also has this ability and both now know it.  The ghost wants her body found as it is buried in the house where the family now lives.  The man is driven to dig for the body, but instead of the ghost logically informing him, or his son, where the body is, he randomly digs up the garden, then the basement before finally finding the body.The wife, who is caring and supportive of her husband, becomes uncharacteristically confrontational.  Her character was not consistent. Although well acted in each phase.  Kevin Bacon's performance was also very good.The story also throws in a red herring of another `sensitive' person (the policeman) who seems to offer to help, but nothing comes of it.  Why the wife didn't take him home to talk to the husband is a mystery.Finally, there is the second shot in the basement.  This leads us to believe that somebody has committed suicide.  Instead, this man appears at the end of the film saving the family.  No logic here.  "},{"Title":"no Sixth Sense but decent enough little thriller","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  We all know that Hollywood, always in search of the guaranteed, sure-fire, boxoffice formula, is ever the slavish devotee to its own successes.  But, every so often, two or more films with similar plots or concepts will arrive, one on the heels of the other, strictly by coincidence of release dates.  And, more often than not, it is not quite the case of great minds thinking alike.  Remember having two volcano movies in the spring of 1997 and no fewer than three life-on-the-farm movies in 1984?  Now we have Stir of Echoes, which revolves around a young boy (and, in this case, his father as well) being able to see and communicate with dead people - and, if it hadn't been produced simultaneously with The Sixth Sense, one might naturally accuse one or the other of plagiarism.  As it is, Stir of Echoes, though not in the league with that other boxoffice smash, rates as a moderately effective, occasionally creepy and reasonably intelligent supernatural thriller.Kevin Bacon stars as a brooding, unsuccessful musician, living in Chicago with his pretty, longsuffering wife and his cute-as-a-button son who, unbeknownst to either parent, is already deep into secret communication with a dead soul.  After Bacon allows himself to undergo hypnosis at a local party, he too begins to have strange visions of a ghost plaguing the house they have just recently rented.Like so many horror films of recent times (and unlike The Sixth Sense), Stir of Echoes is more effective at creating atmosphere and mystery in the early stages than it is in maintaining suspense as the details of the plot begin to emerge.  As is often the case, the revelations are much less interesting than the enigmas they attempt to explain.  Still, Stir of Echoes provides a number of effectively eerie moments thanks to fluid direction, brooding cinematography and a moodily effective musical score.  It also, for the most part, respects the intelligence of the audience watching it.  The resolution may be a bit flatfooted, but the film provides some thrills getting there.  It doesn't stand up there with the masterpiece of the genre - 1962's Carnival of Souls - but it is good enough for these times. "},{"Title":"Dial 911","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film came on the heels of The Sixth Sense, and pales by comparison.  I found it entertaining, but long.  An easy 15 minutes could have been trimmed from the final print.  One amusing comment that my companion made to me while were were leaving the theatre was; it never occurs to anyone in these type of films that in dangerous situations you should call 911 (for the police).  Everyone, from small children to young women, brave all the elements and go forth alone! "},{"Title":"One of the most tense, nail biting, pulse pounding films I have seen","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen some scary movies in my life.  Some of them were actually part of this summer's crop ( Sixth Sense, Blair Witch).  And I have to say that I would rank Blair Witch up there with ten of the most frightening films I've ever seen, and if Blair Witch is in that category, then I have to put Stir of Echoes up there with it.  This next statement is not a metaphor to prove how much this film scared me, it is not a hyperbolic statement, this is the truth, the honest to God truth.  I was sitting in the theater for the first half hour curled up in a ball.  My finger nails were shortened from my nibbling on them and my skin was a little pale from the utter fear that was washing over my body like a storm cloud enveloping the horizon.  Again, poetic words to describe a situation, but absolutely true.  Most of the films that I have seen that scared me were seen on video, but this summer I am convinced that film makers have rediscovered what it takes to scare an audience.  I am a die hard, hardcore horror movie buff/fan.  It takes alot to scare me and I can generally be a cynic when it comes to todays pathetic excuse for horror.  Take your pick and I generally hate it, from films like Urban Legend to all the Chuckie films to Idle Hands to whatever, none of them know what true horror really is.  So believe me when I tell you that the first half hour and the last twenty minutes are some of the scariest moments I have seen on film.Kevin Bacon gets hypnotized and apparently a door to a catacomb of his mind is opened and he can now see things that he shouldn't be able to.  But it is all a mystery to him because he can't understand any of it.  Then a mystery man comes into play to tell us about this awesome power that not only he has but his son as well.  This mystery man is an exact copy of Dick O'Halloran from The Shining.  Instead of calling it the SHINING, he calls it the third eye.  It doesn't matter that people will say that this borrows from Sixth Sense and Shining because this novel was written some 40 years ago, so all the ideas in here are original.  And David Koepp does a masterful job of directing.  He is more known as a writer but here I really think he studied some of the scarier horror films and not only emulated but went one step further and perfected what the camera can do to us.  The editting is also top notch as there are some quick and blurred cuts to show us what Kevin is feeling and seeing.  Especially well done is the scene where he goes under hypnosis.  And it is here that the movie takes off.  Delving into his paranoia and his reality is what makes this movie terrifying.  Even when it settles down to become a good mystery, it still moves well and keeps you interested enough to get to the rest of the scares.  Stir of Echoes is a terrifying film and if you are like me and were turned off seeing this because of the terrible trailer, take my advice and the hundreds of others that are saying that this is a great film.  I really hope people give this a chance.  If you like to be scared, then you will love this one.  If you want a summary of what this is about, then read Roger Egerts review, but if you can trust a horror buffs view, then take this opinion and run with it.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Thriller..My wife could not watch the screen.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a wonderful motion picture. The acting is stunning and the film as a whole is a great piece of cinema. It keeps you going the entire length of the film. This film is put together extremely well...Look out Academy Awards...Stir of Echoes is coming. Money well spent. "},{"Title":"Engrossing, well-made ghost story","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Solid, satisfying thriller may have been even better with a more capable lead. Adaptation of Richard Matheson's book A Stir of Echoes involves husband and father Kevin Bacon (just adequate) who is touched by the supernatural after being hypnotized at a party. Some of the fancy directorial touches have gross-out leanings which are unwelcome in these more-or-less realistic blue-collar surroundings; and, while the movie manages an effective scenario and builds to a good climax, the mechanics of the plot are somewhat familiar. Still, this is one of the few scary movies in recent years that doesn't fade in the stretch--it actually improves after an iffy start. Bacon's halfhearted work is a liability, but the appealing, grounded supporting performances are first-rate. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Very good!","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Despite the other review here, this movie was quite good. I knew there was something wrong with the person who wrote the that review when they said that they would certainly avoid seeing this movie again but then went on to say that they like it less each time they view it (???!!!). Also, the ending was well done. The other reviewer found it nasty because they have a teenage daughter but they they go on to rip on the small boy that played the son in the movie. If anything, that is nasty and mean-spirited.The movie was suspenseful and the story was interesting. The acting was quite good as well. My wife claims that she and I just saw an old b&w movie with the same plot even though I don't remember it. But she must be correct that such a movie was made because she could tell me precisely what was going to happen next. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror/thrillers of the 90's.","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" **** out of ****Kevin Bacon is Tom Witzky, a normal man who's just moved into a new Chicago neighborhood with his wife (Kathryn Erbe) and young son. Going to a party one night, he's hypnotized by his sister-in-law just for kicks, but once he's out of his trance, he receives dark visions and strange messages that lead to a mystery that occurred in the very neighborhood he now lives in. Underrated financial failure(somehow, the awful Stigmata managed to gross much more money on the same opening weekend) from writer/director David Koepp is an engrossing thriller and one of the most effective horror films of the 90's, it's intelligent, superbly acted (Kevin Bacon delivers possibly the best performance of his career), and most importantly, suspenseful and frightening. Stumbles a little in the finale once the revelation is revealed, but for almost its entirety, this is a highly, highly entertaining and compelling film that casts an effective and enjoyably dark web. See it, see it NOW. "},{"Title":"Really Good movie.","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first watched this movie, I borrowed it from a friend and after I watched it I had to go buy the DVD. I thought that the acting was great and the movie kept me on the edge of my seat. I especially liked the hypnotizing scenes, how it got the audience to feel and see what he was doing...It was completely scary to me, until I found out that the ghost wasn't there to hurt anyone but to try and get their help. It was kind of like the Sixth Sense, but not as dull and slow. I personally thought Kevin Bacon did a great job, I like most of his movies...I gave this a 10 because I'm just a type of person that likes these types of movies, and it really freaked me out a lot. Anyhow if you like good ghost stories this is the one for me. It was sad at the end when you actually find out about what happened to the ghost. Check it out though you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Very Effective Thriller","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After a summer that saw two excellent cinematic ghost stories, The Blair Witch Project and The Sixth Sense, the release of Stir of Echoes in the early autumn could not have been more poorly timed. And it's a shame, since Stir of Echoes is a very effective, well-crafted and well-acted movie.Set in a blue-collar urban neighborhood in Chicago, we're introduced to the Witsky family and their friends. They're the type of people you'd love to know; young, stable, and, family-oriented. And they like to party. At the end of one such party Tom Witsky (Kevin Bacon) is kidding his sister-in-law (Illeana Douglas) about her New Age ways. To settle an argument he agrees to let her try and hypnotize him, and does she ever. It turns out that he's in that small percentage of the population that is very susceptible to hypnosis, and he goes way down deep. While under hypnosis a door to the 'other side' is opened, and is not entirely closed when Tom is brought back. And so begins a very creepy tale.For those that love movies like The Sixth Sense and have not seen Stir of Echoes, look no further when a fright is needed.  "},{"Title":"suspensful, gripping ride","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this is a nice thriller. lots of suspense. u'll be hooked till the end.after seeing it a second time, it loses its first time appeal. as with lots of thrillers (sixth sense, unbreakable)  once u've seen it thats pretty much it. not one for purchasing, but u'll be thrilled for the 90 odd minutes.the characters in this film are very real and lifelike, with good performances alround. the whole film is believeable in some respects, not some geroge lucas/spielberg fantasy. this is definitely a plus point.overall, the excellent plot, nice sound effects and good acting make this a gripping cinematic experience. highly recommended "},{"Title":"Underrated minor spoilers","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time a few weeks ago on TNT and although the movie wasn't without it's fair share of problems, I still found it to be one of the best thrillers I've seen in a while. The movie stars Kevin Bacon as Tom Witzky, a blue-collar worker and family man to a wife in kid. One night while attending a party with his wife Kathryn Erbe, he is hypnotized by Lisa Illeana Douglas and it's not long before he starts to change. I won't give away any more details since the strong premise is just one of the many reasons to see this excellent, yet underrated film. It must be said that Kevin Bacon gives an extremely strong performance and that the screenplay and direction from David Koepp is first rate. After seeing the movie on television, I rent to my local video store and rented the DVD, which has a ton of great special features including commentary by David Koepp, a detailed featurette, an awesome music video, and much more. I look forward to buying the DVD very soon.   "},{"Title":"Effective and under-rated","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Inevitably overshadowed by The Sixth Sense,this is a chilling and powerful movie that should have fared better with critics and the public than it did Featuring a powerful performance by Kevin Bacon as Tom Witzky,a blue collar Chicagoan,who through being hypnotized at a party on a dare finds he possesses the ability to see ghosts,the movie focuses on his emotional and physical traumas through involvement with one particular spirit who has passed on in the house where he and his wife now live with son Jake who also possesses the gift but is able to better control it. The other performance are strong and direction skilfully builds up the tension to a strong climax.Operating on a grittier more real social level than The Sixth Sense it lacks that movies subtlety and killer twist but it is still good enough to repay the time taken to see it "},{"Title":"Should Have Been Better","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This sometime compelling film, suffers from easily solved mystery (you'll have it by about the 1 hour mark), uneven plotlines, and unlikeable, uninteresting, potty-mouthed characters.  Kevin Bacon's fine performance and some truly creepy and suspenseful moments help save it from being a complete washout.  I still recommend it; but it could and should have been a better film. "},{"Title":"Haunting visions play havoc with a young family.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you liked SIXTH SENSE, you will probably get into this one. A young man(Kevin Bacon)is hypnotized at a party and later becomes privy, by way of haunting visions, to a murder mystery that happened in his neighborhood. Not only does he see these visions, but his little son(Zachary David Cope)witnesses them also. I guess, because he is a little boy and some kids just have that power. The visions lead to the discovery of a neighborhood girl that was sexually attacked and accidentally murdered.Also in the cast are Kathryn Erbe, Jennifer Morrison, Kevin Dunn and Conor O'Farrell.Bacon can change attitude in a split second. As a wild man he ranks with the best. "},{"Title":"Great out of the blocks, faded in the stretch","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Caught Stir on cable tonight.  It had been on my list of things to see, but I never got around to it.  I was very taken in by the story and characters from the beginning, and having recently moved to LA from Chicago, it was a pleasure to see some of my old acting cronies in it.  BUT, as is usually the case with good old Hollywood, there seemed to be no one with an idea of how to end it, and the obligatory gunplay at the end really clinched it for me as just another run of the mill wannabe thriller. The kudos to the actors all around, especially Kathryn Erbe and young Jake.  Kevin Bacon does yeoman work, not particularly extending himself, but he's got a high standard to uphold.But  is there no one in this town who can write an ending?  And do without the completely unbelievable gun-and-fireplace poker fight scene at the end.Five out of ten.  Would get a six or seven, but penalty points for once again setting up a terrific premise and then completely disappointing. "},{"Title":"Probably wrong!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of Echoes is a fairly average supernatural horror and for most of it it is quite boring.  Really It's only saving grace is Kevin Bacon.  Who, in my opinion, puts in quite a good performance.  The ending however is poor but thanks to the plot it would be hard to end the film well.All-in-all it wasn't bad for £4 and did hold some frights and does pass the time but don't expect anything great from it. "},{"Title":"average effort","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Despite a strong cast, well-developed characters and an unusual (for America) blue-collar setting; this film doesn't really work. There are many holes in the storyline, and you work out the ending half-way through. As a supernatural thriller it fails to spook the audience. The comparison with 'The Sixth Sense' is interesting. Similar topics, well-acted and not scary. 'The Sixth Sense' was salvaged by it's ending, whereas this isn't.    "},{"Title":"Stir away!","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was pretty good. It was straight forward but there are a lot of scenes that were pretty cool, pretty funny and some that were actually pretty scarey. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and the plot, though kinda obvious was very good at keeping my interest. Kevin Bacon has a pretty good performance in this as does Ileana Douglas. The end was very well done and kinda made the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. There's nothing left untied at the end, everything is wrapped up in a neat little package. All in all it was a very entertaining horror/whodunit? type of movie. "}{"Title":"Decent entry in the Supernatural thriller genre","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of Echoes had a great opening, a couple of excellent jump scenes, a terrific performance from Kevin Bacon, but a dissatisfying ending.Stir of Echoes combined the atmosphere of The Sixth Sense with the characters and story of The Shining. Kevin Bacon gives the best performance of his career, he goes mad quite convincingly.It's the ending of Stir of Echoes that disappoints. A supernatural thriller must have a theory on the dead, not a fight scene.It's quite a good movie, not a classic, it's just the best kind of forgettable movie.PLOT 7 DIRECTION 7 ACTING 8 SCRIPT 7 SPECIAL EFFECTS 7OVERALL 7 "},{"Title":"It was better than The Sixth Sense","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I figured out most of the movie half way through, but I still liked it alot. Creepy type movie.  Not really scary, but then again I haven't been scared by a movie since I was 6.  It was worth the money to rent, and I would not have been disappointed if I had seen it at the movies. "},{"Title":"starts well, ends weakly","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Its unfortunate that Stir of Echoes ends like a bad episode of the X-Files.  Some of the movie's early moments, particularly the hypnotism scene, are extremely effective.  Alas, the movie entirely loses its edge halfway through, and, by the end, you probably won't care what's happening.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Stir of Echoes","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Unlike a previous reviewer, I cannot discount a film just because it is disturbing. Disturbing is what happens every day.As someone who has had the misfortune/fortune of experiencing, for lack of a better word, spirits, both alone and in the presence of others who were experiencing the same, I found the film to be one of the more realistic interpretations of paranormal phenomena.I found the grittiness of the working class environment portrayed to further heighten the feeling of reality in the film, as working class life is usually pretty antagonistic to fantasy. The one touch that I really didn't like was that of the voodoo priest character which I found gave the movie a pulpy feel. Despite this one, over-the-top addition, the understated acting of Bacon and the other principal actors helped heighten the suspense of the story.I liked the premise of the film that the paranormal is just a hairsbreadth away from us, that it exists side-by-side with us at all times. Just because we may not understand a thing, doesn't mean that it doesn't exist. As Shakespeare wrote, there is more in Heaven and earth than is known in your philosophy. "},{"Title":"I guess I'm in the minority, but I liked it","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thought this movie was good. It was well acted, the music was very creepy and appropriate and the story was solid.As a ghost investigator, I have always wondered why some people can see ghosts, and others can't (I, myself would love to take a picture with something in it, but never have!) This movie puts forward a plausible explanation.This isn't a perfect movie. It takes itself far too seriously for it's own good, but it's a minor flaw. Some well placed jokes (not too many, and fairly well spaced) would have made this a much more watchable movie! "},{"Title":"Highly over-rated, but still enjoyable.","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie has received extremely good ratings. While it is a good movie, it is definitely not all that it is made out to be. It is quirky, startling and even tense at times, but frankly, there are many other movies which are along this same premise that are much better movies, in my opinion. The Sixth Sense, What Lies Beneath, Poltergeist 1 & 2, Amityville Horror, and Thir13en Ghosts immediately spring to mind.Kevin Bacon is quite believable as the insanity-driven victim of amateur hypnotism who must fit together the pieces of the puzzle which is presented to him. Co-starring as Bacon's wife is Kathryn Erbe, whom I first noticed in the comedic smash, What About Bob? Both are completely genuine in their portrayals.Zachary David Cope stars as their son, Jake. Jake can see ghosts.Sounds OH, so familiar, does it not? Released the same year as The Sixth Sense, this movie, regardless of its quality, is a cheap and obvious rip-off of a much better movie.I wanted to like this production, and honestly I DO like it. It is watchable, enjoyable and has some nice tense moments. It has good direction, great performances, believable effects, and even a well-written story, but the obvious parallels between this production and The Sixth Sense, lessen my opinion of this work.Every dog has its fleas, and obviously, this is one of the fleas.My advice? Definitely see this movie, but only after you see The Sixth Sense. Judge for yourself.I can't bring myself to give it more than a 5/10 from...The Fiend . "},{"Title":"Myth about Sixth sense comparisons","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Just to set the record straight about the ongoing comparisons to this and Sixth Sense (which I liked as well.)  Stir of Echoes was completed before Sixth Sense.  Through various Hollywood string pulling Sixth Sense managed to be released first though, which is one reason for ones success over the other.  This movie is a first rate thriller.  The only similarity between the two movies is the boys contact with the dead.  Stir of Echoes has a darker grittier feel. "},{"Title":"Nice, Very Nice...","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I like this movie, not only because it is suspensful and thrilling but also because it has an accuracy not usually seen in horror films. The whole story has some startling similarities to real cases that have been researched by the Society for Psycical Research (SPR) and the hypnotism is very realistic. The acting is good and the story is gripping. I recomend it for anyone whos interested in ghosts, hypnotism and other weird stuff and who'd also like to see a great move wth lots of scenes that will make you jump.Grade I give it a A for great writing and directing. "},{"Title":"Didn't reach it's potential","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A little too wink-wink, nudge-nudge to be truly clever.  The little hints that make 6th Sense and other movies that whisper secrets in the viewers' ears interesting were a little too obvious to be interesting.  Also, the tone is inconsistent- sometimes a laugh riot, sometiems scary, sometimes porn.  The scary scenes were based on shock-- camera tricks, lighting, music-- rather than getting into the viewer's head and making him afraid. The characters were shallow and rather boring-- i really didn't care about any of them.  But if you're in the mood for something you can watch with a large group of people and scare every one of them, pop in Stir of Echos. "},{"Title":"An excellent film","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having missed the film on it's cinematic release, having bought the DVD, I was quite pleased. The film was fantastic, but ot really a cinematic event-film, which may have brought about disappointment.The story is the strong aspect of this film, which is actually better than it's counterpart Sixth Sense, it doesn't capture the I can see death theme as well as TSS, but it's not supposed too, as it's not the driving thrust of the film.The dilemma is- can this one man overcome his distrust of paranormality to make sense of the visions he is seeing and understand them enough to unravel a mystery.The film's ending was quite well done, with the viewers knowing that the child (at least) still retains his ability and is unlikely to get rid of.A strong flick I thought. 10/10.Ydna. "}{"Title":"Stir of Egos","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's Kevin Bacon's one-man performance. He's a child with SIXTH SENSE awaken by hypnotism. Is it scary? Yes. Is it fun? No. Is it thrilling? No.This is more mystery movie than horror. We ended up understanding he's being lead to solve a murder happened in his neighbourhood and opens a sinful facts of his environment. The other characters are fair and good. But in some ways, there's a good deal of irrelevancy and illogical acts in this movie. Well, it is not suppose to be categorized as high as the Sixth Sense or Shining or even Frighteners, so it is fair in this movie.To be honest, I believe the sequel will be more thrilling and scary. (If the decided to make it). And it's a good opportunity to involved more people to this plot. Kevin Bacon's actually playing alone and almost nobody do anything here, nor helping him solve the case or stopping others from killing more people. Everyone's dealing with their own egos. A standard weekdays-evening movie for those who loves horror movies.  "},{"Title":"Better than 'The Sixth Sense'","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As much as I love 'The Sixth Sense', I've always felt that 'Stir Of Echoes' offered a more interesting take on the whole 'I see dead people' angle. It was under-rated merely because it made the mistake of being released just a short time after 'The Sixth Sense'.Yes, Haley Joel Osment was great but for a child so young, the little boy in this film was wonderful as the psychically gifted child who was so casual at being able to see dead people. Kevin Bacon was also great in portraying the role of 'average guy' who descended into obsession over his newfound gifts and the need to solve the murder of the girl who haunted him.While there was no real twist endings, 'Stir Of Echoes' did well in showing how the dynamics of a normal, happy family were quickly interfered with by a joke which brought about an eerie power. It's just a shame it never achieved the recognition it deserved. "},{"Title":"Excellent film!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great film, I thought and well done. It's nice to see more of these things of the unknown coming out in the past few years, obviously trying to make people aware of things they mostly ignore. The typical unbeliever becomes aware of everything character is obvious for a reason, as stated above. The performances were good... some of the characters were flat, but if you were paying attention to just the story, then it didn't matter. This is a film I would watch again. I thought the ending was perfect with the child's head cluttered with voices as they left town. For the gifted, it's quite normal. =) "},{"Title":"Absolutely Amazing!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir Of Echoes is just a simply amazing film which is very unique. It includes brilliant acting, great twists all the way through the film and much more. Kevin Bacon puts in a brilliant performance too. (As usual.) He was perfect for the role. Stir Of Echoes definitely deserves a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Better than the sixth sense","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very underrated movie and to me is even better than the sixth sense. To me this movie was thrilling all the way through unlike the sixth sense which was only thrilling in the last minute. You should go buy this movie right now. "},{"Title":"predictable, but entertaining","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" first, i'd like to mention in response to another review posted, this movie is based on a novel that was written in 1958, thus ruling out it ripping off the sixth sense- if anything, sixth sense was more of a rip-off of this0- but the story was interesting, simple, and the movie didn't run too long. it can compare to sixth sense nonetheless, due to the kid seeing ghosts, although these movies seem to be two very different types of films... sixth sense seemed to need more of a shocking ending, unlike this one... the acting was fine, as well as the directing. personally i liked this more than sixth sense, but i KNOW many would disagree. you might like this movie, you might not, it's just a matter of seeing it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Annoying rather than frightening","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I marked this down because I got intensely irritated with the characters not talking to each other.  Why on earth did Maggie go see Neil herself instead of sending hubby so he could get some reassurance about his new-found powers?  Why did the two of them just have a shouting match instead of discussing the appearance of Samantha quietly with their son?  Why couldn't Tom explain DIG to his wife instead of going psychotic about it?  Why didn't Tom just call 911 as soon as he found the body and thereby avoid the final fracas with the hick neighbours?There was so much irrational behaviour in this movie that I found it annoying rather than entertaining or frightening. "},{"Title":"missed opportunity","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"     This film started off intriguing and then took a left turn into typical Hollywood garbageland.   Although it might not be fair, it is impossible to not compare it to The Sixth Sense since it was released around the same time and it seems to be based on the same idea (obviously someone talking too much at some Hollywood party), although with not near the results.   If the film ended at the 2/3 point it would have been great, but unfortunatly it continued to its ridiculous conclusion.  Cliff "},{"Title":"A flim to beat Sixth Sense","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film was released around the same time as Sixth Sense, as a result it was overshadowed by the hyped-up block buster. Anyone who enjoyed Sixth Sense would probably like this film too. A cracking film with a nice twist. "},{"Title":"A chilling and hauntingly scary thriller","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really good one. Much better than THE SIXTH SENSE, in my opinion. What makes STIR OF ECHOES better is the fact that at the end, you are not shocked into realizing that something that you thought was true the whole time, wasn't. *SPOILERS* Kevin Bacon plays Tom Witzkey, a blue-collar worker who begins seeing disturbing visions of a dead girl's ghost after being hyptnotized at a local party by his sister-in-law. Now, this movie was original. The little boy, Jake (Zachery David Cope) acts very well for being as young as he is. His performance was one of the better ones! Although Kevin Bacon and the rest of the main cast we great also. When we finally figure out who the killer is, we are shocked. We think wow, I didn't see that one coming. Which is true, and that's what people should look for in a suspense thriller. Mystery and suspense. Unlike movies where you already know who has done what and who is bad and who is good, this movie keeps it all in up until its final thrilling moments. It was also nice to see Kevin Bacon in a movie where he is a good guy. He played a real bad guy in HOLLOW MAN, which was released after this one. Kevin Dunn was also outstanding. He really breaks himself down in this one. And there is something else that makes you like this movie, something like the eerieness and the creepiness of the atmosphere. When the opening scene comes on screen, you just know that something creepy is going to happen. And that is basically what scares you. The fact that you don't know what will happen next. JURASSIC PARK writer, David Koepp takes another great novel and brings it to the screen. I hope that he can find another book as good as this one and make that one a reality too. While I found the ending somewhat disappointing, the rest of the film is enough to make up for that. See this one if you're in the mood to be chilled....5/5. "}{"Title":"Taut Thriller/Horror","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nice balance of the quirky Lisa and poor confused Tom with Maggie in the middle trying to make sense of it all. The neighbourhood group is believable as is the premise that hypnotism opens windows in a closed mind. (Star Trek shows that anything is believable if it's done properly)! Did anyone feel the deja vu with Richard Drefus' obsession in 'Close Encounters'? My only problem was a clunky ending, which lowered the tone slightly of an otherwise excellent movie, which stands comparison with the supurb 'Sixth Sense "},{"Title":"Very Predictable Mystery Thriller","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"19 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It is perhaps David Koepps and Kevin Bacons worst movie. I mean you wait and wait until something happens and then you know already what comes next. It´s no doubt a waste of time because only the last ten minutes of the film develops some tension and twists. This movie tries very hard to create creepy and scary moments but it´s far away from suspense. Okay there were some scenes to remember that this movie should be a scary thriller. I expected simply more from the writer, the director and even Kevin Bacon couldn´t save this disaster. I had the impression to watch a normal creepy cable movie. My wife and me vote 4/10. Too overrated. See instead THE GIFT or WHAT LIES BENEATH. "},{"Title":"MUCH better than Sixth Sense","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"20 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There is an intelligence and honesty to Stir of Echoes that doesn't exist within Sixth Sense - the entire movie doesn't rest on a singular, easily deducible device either.  It took me about thirty seconds to realize in The Sixth Sense that Bruce Willis' character was, in fact, a ghost - but in Stir of Echoes nothing is revealed ahead of its time.There is a humanity and sincerity in the relationships as well - no stereotypical, strained single mom/difficult kid relationship like in Sixth Sense, but in fact an honestly written and acted relationship with genuine tensions and joys and hardships.Ileana Douglas deserves a special mention for a fantastic performance in a supporting role - as usual.  What a wonderful, talented actress she is, and deserves to be more widely known - she can act rings around the Julia Roberts of the world.  "},{"Title":"Was the film shot in Lincoln Park?","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It looks like this film was made on location in Chicago's Lincoln Park neighborhood (after all, 'It's a decent neighborhood'). When I lived in Schaumburg, a family suburb, we referred to Lincoln Park as 'Yuppieville' but I visited friends in Lincoln Park often. In fact, it's the first place I ever smoked pot.Kevin Bacon is great, as is the rest of the cast. I thought his wife was portrayed by Courtney Cox and not Kathryn Erbe. I also thought his brother with the killer-son football star was Jim Belushi, and not Zachary David Cope. Apparently, the son of the co-conspirator (cop's son) was not killed by Jake Witzky (Zachary David Cope). There was only one casket at the cemetery along with the tombstone of the murdered girl whose ghost drifted off behind a moving car. The credits only showed Bacon and Cope's names. At the end of the film, aired on TWC's 'free movies,' (Sundance) the ending credits flashed by so quickly, I had to Google IMDb after the film ended just to view the cast.I don't see any comparison with 'Stir of Echoes' to 'The Sixth Sense.' This film was much more believable. The best parts were the unforgettable Chicago neighborhood, even if it wasn't Lincoln Park, and the brief shot of Kathryn Erbe's cute butt before her shower.I hope the Witzky family moved to Schaumburg, which really IS a 'decent neighborhood.' Lincoln Park is not a good family neighborhood. I'll take the suburbs any day. Besides, I'm not a Cub or Bears fan. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the more interesting and captivating thrillers/horrors I have seen in this particular genre. The movie takes you by the ankles right from the beginning and takes you on a thrilling ride as it unfolds.The story told here is really good, and there are so many really nice details and effects throughout the entire movie. You will not be left bored at any time throughout this movie.Casts and acting was superbly done, and nice to see Kevin Bacon in a movie like this. Goes to prove that Kevin Bacon actually does have talent.The 6th Sense is filled with thrills and lots of suspense. Even had me jumping out of my seat at one particular point. I will not tell you where, but I am sure you will find it out when you lean back in your couch...There is a constant build up of suspense throughout the movie, and it all comes together for a grand ending. I must say that this is one of the better thrillers I have seen. It is a marvelous mix of suspense, thrills and horror.This movie definitely have repeated watching value, and I have seen it three or four times already. It is just one of those type of movies that you don't easily tire off watching.If you are planning for an evening with some thrills and scares, you should put The 6th Sense in your DVD player, it is guaranteed to deliver! "},{"Title":"Tortuous trip through the supernatural.","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Not having seen the credits, I first thought this was a Steven King story. Kevin Bacon and his wife, Katheryn Erbe, attend a Friday night party at the house of their Chicago neighbor. Half drunk, Bacon allows himself to be hypnotized by his sister-in-law, Ileana Douglas. She induces the trace by suggesting he is alone in a dark theater with only the huge screen to look at. The blurry letters on the screen gradually develop, like a Polaroid photo, into the word SLEEP. Boy, does Kevin sleep.But after he is awakened he finds shards of strange visions are haunting him. First instantaneous and meaningless, then apparently involving an ordinary looking but rather dead young woman. The visions are annoyingly shocking, following the latest editorial fad.His son too is showing some extraordinary qualities, talking to the same young woman who is invisible to everyone else except Bacon during his seizures.Erbe and the boy meet a big, black, friendly Chicago cop who follows them around and seems to know something about what's going on. Erbe corners him and demands to know what's wrong with her husband. He's a receiver, explains the cop, like a man with a flashlight that goes on and off. The girl he's been hallucinating is a ghost and eventually she will ask him for something. And the boy? He's got a much bigger flashlight. So saying, he closes the door and isn't heard from again. In an attempt to rid himself of these ictal states, Bacon has Douglas rehypnotize him, but this time the word that appears on the screen is DIG. So Bacon starts digging -- first the back yard and then the cellar. Finally, accidentally, he bangs a hole in the wall and uncovers the mummified body of the girl in his vision.So far, so Steven King. In particular, a blend of The Shining, with Scatman Crothers as the twigged black guy, The Tommyknockers with the digging and Firestarter, in which the little girl has a much bigger flashlight than her father. Seeing the credits, realizing that the story was based on a Richard Matheson novel, cleared things up a bit. It isn't that Matheson cribbed from King, but the other way around. The Matheson story appeared earlier. And (I suppose), Poe's The Cask of Amantillado was even earlier.The first two thirds of the movie I found a little unfocused. Those nightmarish fragmented visions are as pointless to the viewer as they are to Kevin Bacon. They seem implanted in the story to provide the generic shocks that jaded fans of horror movies have become accustomed to. Clichés, one and all, and not very interestingly done.When, in its last act, the film turns into a story of murder and the circumstances endanger Bacon, all the supernatural business comes together and things get a lot more prosaic and a lot more interesting. A question is raised, a new question. Not, What the hell is going on?, but, Will one friend kill another in order to protect a loved one? Bacon does an efficient job. Katheryn Erbe isn't a magnetic actress but the script provides us with a shower scene from the rear in which she seems to glory in her bilateral symmetry. Their little boy is just a little boy and I don't know why he's there except to pump up our worry quotient. He should be stomped on.One of the ancillary virtues of the movie is that it does such a splendid job of capturing a working-class Chicago neighborhood without any obvious display of effort. We get to know those musty, decaying houses pretty well. We can almost smell the black soil of their back yards. And neither the Sears Tower nor The Loop appears in any of the shots. "},{"Title":"Sister Sixth Sense","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" David Koepp's Stir of Echoes had the well-known misfortune of being released mere months after The Sixth Sense--with its subtle storytelling and now-famous you-didn't-see-THIS-coming-now-did-you twist--took in a king's ransom at the box office in 1999. And while Sense is probably the better film (in spite of the pretentiousness that's come out of M. Night Shyamalan since), Echoes is not entirely without interest. Kevin Bacon plays Tom Witzky, a Chicago telephone lineman who, during a neighborhood block party, allows himself to be hypnotized as a lark; but the act ultimately triggers a string of visions regarding a dark secret kept hidden by his neighbors. A screenwriter long associated with high-profile Hollywood pictures, Koepp handles his directorial duty fairly well (the last act is particularly effective); on the contrary, it's the script's loose ends (the how do I know that song segment that goes nowhere), unexplored threads (particularly the cabal of psychics, and the son's own seeming clairvoyance), and underdeveloped supporting characters that left me feeling less than fulfilled by the experience. It's as if chunks of necessary exposition went missing from the script, leaving the structure frequently disjointed. That being said, Stir of Echoes is an efficient return to the classical ghost story, the performances are admirably real, and the dream-sequences are appropriately chilling. Flaws and all, it still makes for a fine alternative to the current crop of crap wearing the banner of horror infecting multiplexes these days. "},{"Title":"Perfectly serviceable scary/mystery movie","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Possible spoilersI think that those who say Stir of Echoes isn't as good as Sixth Sense are really saying, Kevin Bacon isn't as famous as Bruce Willis. That's unfortunate, because Stir of Echoes (the vague title probably should have been changed to something more chilling, even though it's the title of Richard Matheson's novel) stands up very well. I think of it as a whodunit that happens to have a supernatural element.I liked it that practically the whole movie takes place on one working class block in Chicago where everyone seems to know each other. Some of these people are keeping a terrible crime a secret. I liked it that when Bacon finds the corpse and comes to discover what the crime was, it's not the ending of the movie. More surprises to come, and the revelations make perfect sense.Also, the movie has Ileana Douglas, who I always enjoy seeing. "},{"Title":"Good mystery film with a decent Bacon.","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir Of Echoes is a mystery (/thriller -p) starring the much underrated Kevin Bacon. Stir Of Echoes isn't a masterpiece but all the good plot twists and exciting moments are there to make a very enjoyable film. Especially if you like mystery films, you'll love this one. It reminded me of The Sixth Sense a lot of times, which is the main reason this film wasn't a blatant success...(the unfortunate release date...same year as TSS).I'd recommend it, but don't expect another Sixth Sense because there is simply no mystery film that ever comes close. "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon as Jack Torrance","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" My Horror Movie Collection is small, so my Horrors that start with the letter S are very few. THE SHINING and STIR OF ECHOES are right next to each other, so I usually watch them together.Contrary to the ongoing similarities of the two films, they are very different from each other in many ways. One is about a family stuck in a Haunted Hotel and the other is about a family being haunted by a Rape and Murder victim. One kid had an imaginary clairvoyant friend and could see horrible visions of the past as well as hear other people's thoughts while the other sees dead people and has premonition powers. One Mother is Docile and Enabling while the other seems to be stronger and more rationale than her husband. Still, they both are two of a kind due to the Powerful Center character known as DAD. Kevin Bacon does a fantastic portrayal of a Dad gone nuts.THE SHINING is one of my all time favorites and am glad to have been able to see this similar story in Theatres when it opened.In STIR OF ECHOES, Kevin Bacon's DAD role shines and electrifies, the rest of the plot and story fall into place beautifully and makes you wonder how much we or you really know about the supernatural world.As said in the DVD Production notes; Fred Murphy, director of photography, shot the ghostly character of Samantha at the rate of six frames per second. This movie was done way before THE RING, which makes this movie, that much better considering that particular effect is truly scary.I strongly recommend this movie to Haunted House and Ghost fanatics "}{"Title":"Ghost story set in working-class neighborhood","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I love this film. I've seen it many, many times. It's so unusual to see an American film about ordinary working-class people. Without portraying them as losers. In Hollywood movies the main characters are always rich even if they're supposed to represent standard middle-class people. They always live in either huge villas or very expensive apartments in trendy areas. Another horror film I like is Session 9. It's also about working-class people and the characters are not portrayed as losers in that one either, just because they're not rich. Only realistically portrayed as ordinary, everyday people. I find this a big problem in American cinema that they almost never portray real people. People that are not extremely successful career wise nor have a huge bank account. If people in American movies are not very wealthy they're portrayed as either miserable losers or as just plain bums. Like there's no people in between living in America. What else is really refreshing about Stir Of Echoes is to see other kinds of urban American environments, that is not featuring bums, gangsters, drug addicts nor upper-class architects, Manhattan people. Fantastically realistic production design and photography. It's also unusual to see such realistically portrayed everyday people. Fantastic down to earth performances by all the actors. It's very rare to see such fine performances by actors in horror movies. I think that's another reason I'm also so found of Session 9. The script of Stir Of Echoes is very well written by David Koep. Dialog feels naturalistic and never draws attention to itself. The movie is also featuring some very good camera work and skillfully directed scenes of suspense. The commentary on the DVD by David Koep must be one of the best DVD commentaries out there. Informative and entertaining and gives great insight to how the film was made. Very much in the same class as of DVD commentaries delivered by John Carpenter. The king of commentary directors.I would also like to take the opportunity to recommend David Koeps feature film debut as a director, The Trigger Affect. Another thriller with very well drawn characters and a careful set up of story elements before the dramatic scenes of suspense sets off. "},{"Title":"Great script hindered by some terrible acting","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Taking into consideration that this movie was released around the same time as The Sixth Sense, you cannot help but compare these two paranormal suspense thrillers. Stir of Echoes tells the story of Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon) and his family. After being hypnotized Tom begins to see visions\flashbacks he cannot understand, what sends him of a journey to find out their meanings. Now as in The Sixth Sense, this movie has a great script that really keeps you interested throughout the movie. The greatest fault of this movie, in my opinion is the acting. Kevin Bacon's acting in this movie is less than second-rate, which really ruins some of the more intense scenes in the film. Larry Neumann Jr. and Kevin Dunn's acting are also sub-par, and so are some of the other side characters. In Zachary David Cope's case (who plays Bacon's son Jake), I want to say that I don't normally criticize child actors as they are usually inexperienced and it is hard to judge them fairly, but again, there's no escape from the comparison with The Sixth Sense. This is probably the greatest contrast between the two films. Considering the rather similar roles, Cope's one dimensional juvenile acting is immensely overshadowed by Haley Joel Osment excellent mature and refined acting.Try and watch this movie without referring it to the Sixth Sense, you'll find it's a pretty enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome...KB's best comedic role ever!","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When I entered the theatre i was expecting some cheesy re-made horror crap with some beautiful people running away from some psycho for 2 hours. Yawn. But what a blast! I've always been a fan of Kevin Bacon, his comedic talents are simply astounding. He can make you laugh by just looking at the screen. This film delivers the laughs from the outset and just doesn't stop. It's easily Kev's best comedic role, ever. What a riot! I never knew a movie about such a macabre subject could be so funny! Kev's head-turn moment on the couch had me in stitches, as well as his drawl-ly accent. And the little kid in it, what comic timing! Don't be afraid of it Daddy...Samantha told me! And the Im supposed to dig...Jake...is...helping! And the immortal line, when he's at the party, and wants to be hypnotised by the googly-eyed chick, Yeah! Do me! I have since dressed like Kev and used this line at nightclubs on googly-eyed chicks...with varying results but it's always a GREAT TIME had by all concerned! This film is rollicking good fun for the whole family. Get a KFC-big-bucket, some popcorn, gather your timid brethren and ageing Aunt Judy and roll out those bean-bags for a night of family fun and feasting in front of the ol' boob-toob. My Aunt Ethel loved it, it comes with Ethel's Recommendation of 4 out of 5 patty-cakes.In all seriousness, i love this movie. I'm a big fan of David Koepp's work, and the commentary track on Stir of Echoes is entertaining and informative. This is a nicely done thriller, and I believe it has more replay value than Sixth Sense (a movie it is often compared to)..in fact, it took me maybe 8 or 10 viewings to realise the subliminal message just before Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon) is hypnotised. Check it out, if you haven't heard it already right after Lisa (Ileana Douglas) says ...listen to the sounds of the room around you. You can hear Samantha's voice, so low it is almost inaudible (u gotta crank the volume)...whispering...I won't give it away...oh what the heck, she says I don't know why but I'm scared... "},{"Title":"The Sixth Sense of Kevin Bacon","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A better than average ghost story, and somewhat a parallel of The Sixth Sense. It's a viably spooky story in its own right, however, with some interesting plot twists revealed at strategic points.A skeptic named Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon), accidentally acquires (through hypnosis of all things) a sporadic ability to see/hear a mysterious female figure, who it becomes clear is a benevolent spirit, but is unsettled for reasons unknown. His ability to hear her goes on and off like a flashlight with a low battery' as one character explains. His son Jake, (Zachary Cope) however, in a superior child-actor performance reminiscent of 6th Sense's Haley Joe Osment, has a flashlight that's always on. The mystery of what the ghost wants is sorted out by the principals effectively, with a choice balance of thrills and frights throughout. The terror and denial of both father & son is very human and believable. The supporting cast are all strong, as well. In particular, the performance of Jennifer Morrison, as Samantha, was especially sympathetic.Things come to a confrontational conclusion in a well executed finale. A good story for any ghost movie fan. "},{"Title":"Koepp and directing...I'm glad","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'll never know if it was because I had seen a terrifying play a while before, or because the weather was cold, but Stir of echoes gave me a lot of chills. In fact, it scared the hell out of me. Based on the novel A stir of echoes by Richard Matheson, the script by David Koepp is what only a gifted writer can achieve.But Koepp went backwards, if you can put it like that. With his writing talent intact, he failed in generating the necessary tension in the closed environment of Secret Window, years after this movie. But with this movie we can see the real director in Koepp; a fresh man full of interesting ideas in a film that not only deals with the mystery, but also with the psychological side of the characters.That's a thing you miss, however; and it's not so important as the gripping and unstoppable tension well handled by the director. After Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon) is hypnotized by Lisa (Illeana Douglas), he drifts away and starts seeing things&#133;In a state of constant sleep, he feels the time has come for him to do something in his ordinary life; and he leaves his son Jake (a young and impressive Zachary David Cope) and wife Maggie (Kathryn Erbe) aside.Suddenly, Jake is filled with flashbacks he can't identify and the apparitions that become the scary moments of the ride. There's a mystery to be solved, of course; but the good thing of Stir of echoes is that it offers help for us to guess what's going on and also leaves things clear as the film begins. You will not believe it, but that help is not enough; and the movie is incredibly unpredictable.I believe this is because of two things first; the film doesn't recur to the typical 'twist' to achieve an effect (as in Secret Window) and it succeeds grandly. The other reason is Kevin Bacon's performance. The actor hardly looses focus and his little understanding of the events instantly becomes the viewer's little understanding, because he transmits it with a big amount of credibility. I'm writing something about actors without Academy Awards this week&#133;But talk about actors without nominations (Bacon).Together with James Newton Howard's precise score, Bacon is the film's best element after the script, although Douglas is very convincing as the weird Lisa and Kevin Dunn doesn't fail in the role of the caring good friend. I wonder if David Koepp will come up with a movie as good as this one again one where there's no need of a lot of blood (The Descent) to be daunting, and one where he finds the balance between his amazing writing and his fresh direction.I remember The Others; it didn't have much blood but it was completely creepy. I could honestly say about Stir of echoes that I hadn't been so frightened since The Others&#133;And Stir of echoes is older than The Others. "},{"Title":"Quality Horror--of the kind you rarely find","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I love this movie. It is not on the level of modern-classic horror films like The Exorcist or Rosemary's Baby, but similarly presents occult themes in an otherwise plausible world, in this case a relate-able working-class neighborhood. The script successfully reinvents clichés, and unfolds with relentless creepiness (broken only by a hokey sequence involving an African-American seer, the standard voice-of-experience psychic...the parallel to Hitch in Rosemary's Baby).Kevin Bacon's descent into haunted obsession combines vulnerability and freaked-out, thuggish behavior; it's a great performance. The wariness of his neighbors (and the treachery hidden behind their concern broadens the movie's themes to comment darkly on over-indulgent parenting. I also love Illeana Douglas as the comic-relief hypnotist and the kid is fantastic.In one tight (if gruesome) sequence, the reveal ties a dozen threads together and, though marred by a dubious deus ex machina ending, is truly haunting. Several notches above most so-called horror films. "},{"Title":"Good cast, setting and storyline....","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was reviewing Silent Hill (a disappointment) and remembered this gem of a smaller horror film that came out around the time of the Blair Witch Project.Kevin Bacon, Ileana Douglas and Kevin Dunn round out the cast in a believable, strange story set in Chicago. The neighborhood of old brownstones reminds me of the beautiful historic neighborhoods of Boston, and I am sure this section of Chicago is also quite historic. If you have ever seen or lived in a brownstone built in the 1890's it is easy to believe it may be haunted.Bacon begins tearing up the basement (with a sledge hammer no less)!. While there are elements of the occult (well portrayed by Douglas, as a sort of medium) it is not overdone, the special effects do not snowball into science fiction. This in my opinion is what makes a film like this so much better. No childish violence or far-fetched haunting. Something scarier, more feasible, more Hitchcockian.Rent or buy this film for Halloween!. You won't be disappointed. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Better Than The Sixth Sense If You Ask Me...","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir Of Echoes is an excellent supernatural thriller film, and while it was overshadowed and constantly compared to The Sixth Sense, I think that I like Stir Of Echoes more. The movie is about Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon), a normal guy with a wife named Maggie, (Katherine Erbe) and a young son, Jake. After Tom gets hypnotized at a party by his sister-in-law, Lisa (Illeana Douglas), he starts to experience really strange visions. He begins seeing things in red, and he has terrifying visions of a murder of a disabled girl that took place in his home. Plagued by the terrible nightmares, Tom appears to be losing his mind, but is convinced that the ghost of the murdered girl is trying to use him to solve her murder. It's up to Tom to find out what really happened to her, or she may continue to haunt him for the rest of his life.While most people compare this movie to The Sixth Sense, this movie is a lot different and a lot better in most ways, particularly that this film doesn't tack on a twist ending like The Sixth Sense did, which I thought was a little too much. The story, while it may seem slightly derivative of The Sixth Sense, is rather original and is nicely constructed, not to mention some really believable characters as well. The acting is great, Kevin Bacon was excellent as was the rest of the cast, including Erbe and Douglas. There were some really disturbing scenes in the movie, one that really freaked me out was the sudden dropping-tone of Jake's voice when he's talking to his parents, that was plain creepy. The other scene was the attack and murder of Samantha, the girl whose ghost is haunting Tom. The attack on her was extremely disturbing, mostly it was because it felt so realistic, and the fingernail shot was cringe-inducing, along with the remake of the Rolling Stone's Paint It Black blasting in the background. That scene gives me shudders to this day.Overall, Stir Of Echoes is a top-notch supernatural thriller with good performances and an excellent story. I liked it better than The Sixth Sense, although most people didn't, and I found this movie to be a lot better. If you enjoy supernatural horror movies, definitely watch this one. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Footloose and Tremors to Stir Of Echoes....","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Kevon Bacon has grown up as an actor. Originally a pin-up actor more or less, with his most famous roles in Footloose and Tremors, he was looked upon fondly as a comedic role mostly. In this dark movie, he plays very much differently to his 2 previous roles, and combining that with the role in Holow Man, is now viewed in a different light. The story is well known, but the way the story is developed is different in that it uses a obscure way of providing Bacon's character the possibility of being able to see ghosts. His son, who is struck with a similar problem, is both creepy and slightly a sad sight as he will always be troubled by such things. The wife, with the smallish role that is required, keeps up the pace and doesn't let them down. The extras, who slowly rise to the foreground and become more vital to the movie as it continues, put in a worthwhile performance and add credibility. Now I eagerly await the sequel which i hope to prove not a cash-in sequel but a worthwhile sequel.Tom Witzky is a lineman for a utility company. He's a typical working-class guy who lives in Chicago with his pregnant wife Maggie and his son Jake. Tom likes to hang out with his friends, who include Frank McCarthy and Harry Damon. One night at a party, Tom ends up in a discussion with Maggie's sister Lisa, who believes in psychic communication and the power of hypnosis. Tom challenges Lisa to hypnotise him, and she plants in him a post-hypnotic suggestion to be more open-minded...with results that were never, ever expected. That night, he sees images of violence and the ghost of Samantha Kozac, a young woman who disappeared from the neighbourhood some time ago, and is now believed to be dead. Jake also sees Samantha's ghost, but while Jake is calm about it, Tom always seems angry that the images won't stop coming. Jake's baby-sitter Debbie Kozac is Samantha's sister, who is still distraught because of Samantha's disappearance. When Debbie discovers that Jake has been talking to Samantha's ghost, Debbie becomes frantic, and she thinks Jake may know where Samantha is. Determined to figure out what's going on, Tom begins a hunt for Samantha's body, and it's a hunt that threatens to kill Tom, Maggie, and Jake, because there is someone who does not want Samantha's body to be found. "},{"Title":"Just about perfect","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When i first saw the trailer, i did not think it would be that good. Just some guy who got hypnotized and freaked out, but that is not it. This movie also has a mystery, and it is fairly creepy. Through the whole movie, you are constantly trying to understand what is going on, and it isn't until the end that you realize that everything happened for a reason, or at least most of it. Don't go by the trailer of this movie, it does not do the movie justice. If you like the kind of movies where you think about the whole thing afterwords in your head, then see this movie, you will not regret it. By the way, joeadcock from Boulder, Co was completely wrong, this was definitely not a disappointment, in fact, this is one of my favorite movies, but i suppose you have to like creepy mysteries to like this film. "}{"Title":"A Great Little Film","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A Stir of Echoes may not have the buzz that The Sixth Sense has, but don't let that keep you from seeing this film. I've watched this film at least a dozen times and I never get bored with it. That's because I always find something new to grab my attention. The photography in this film is unbelievable, specifically the shot of Kevin Bacon high on a telephone pole with downtown Chicago and the three El trains in the background. Thank god the director chose to film this movie on location in Chicago and not a back lot in Hollywood. By filming A Stir of Echoes on location, the city becomes as much a part of the movie as the characters in it. What I liked most are the great performances by Kevin Bacon, Kathryn Erbe and Kevin Dunn, who play their parts so beautifully that you never ask yourself why their characters' acted the way they did. I would recommend this film to anyone who likes an intelligent horror film. "},{"Title":"Too Predictable","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of Echoes is a film belonging to the same genre as The Sixth Sense and The Others. Unfortunately, whereas the latter two have a really inspiring, fascinating and completely unpredictable plot, the same cannot be said for this movie.To be fair, Stir of Echoes is not terrible; simply put, it just cannot get anything above the passable 5/10 mark. Why? Well, its main problem lies with the plot The story is about Tom Witzky (Bacon), who after a hypnosis session with his sister-in-law Lisa (Douglas), he suddenly becomes a receiver who is able to see and hear paranormal things. His son Jake (Cope) has already this gift (or curse, depending on the way you see it), and they both watch enduring and chilling visions involving a girl unknown to them. In the middle stands Tom's wife Maggie (Erbe), who although she is unable to figure out what is happening, she is stoically trying to help and restore normality to her home.Despite a good start, the plot quickly gets more and more predictable; in fact, from some point onwards things became so clear that my thrill mostly evaporated.Bacon's acting is good, while the rest of the cast manages to get satisfactory performances. Koepp makes a decent direction, but with such a predictable plot his job becomes quite difficult. All in all, the film gets a passable grade as I said previously, namely 5/10. "},{"Title":"Close Encounters of the Sixth Sense... sort of...","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  STIR OF ECHOES (3 outta 5 stars)Pretty decent weird/creepy/suspense story about an ordinary average joe (Kevin Bacon... of 6 Degrees fame) who is put under hypnosis at a party for fun and wakes up with heightened powers of supernatural perception. Mostly he is troubled by images of a young girl from the neighborhood who was rumored to have run away from home. Bacon's visions hint at a more sinister fate for the girl. The movie is well done even if the storyline is fairly predictable. (You won't need to have enhanced psychic abilities to figure out who did what.. and what they are going to do next.) At times the film's premise seems a little too close for comfort to that of The Sixth Sense (which was also released in 1999). Maybe that accounts for why a lot fewer people have seen this movie. Still, it does stand on its own merits. Certain (less effective) sequences I also found somewhat reminiscent of Close Encounters of the Third Kind. A lot of currently popular TV actors appear throughout the movie, prompting a lot of exclamations of Oh! Isn't that what's her name? From that show? Based on a book by famed horror writer Richard Matheson (who also wrote a lot of Twilight Zone and Night Gallery scripts)... so it's well worth your time.  "},{"Title":"Similar to Sixth Sense but still good.","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen The Sixth Sense before, I did get a flashback. But although the movies are quite similar to each other I tried not to think about that when I viewed it. And I think I succeeded. The movie is kind of mystical and creepy and you are always waiting to be scared, or at least I was. It is dark but it isn't that scary. It is more of a suspense kind of a movie so you won't be jumping out of your seat, at least not very often. Without spoiling things for the viewer I will try to tell what this movie is about. Hypnosis, mystery, solving and Kevin Bacon. There, hope I didn't ruin it for you. If you liked The Sixth Sense you are going to enjoy this as well, I know I did. I rate this movie 7/10 "},{"Title":"Similar to Sixth Sense but still good.","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen The Sixth Sense before, I did get a flashback. But although the movies are quite similar to each other I tried not to think about that when I viewed it. And I think I succeeded. The movie is kind of mystical and creepy and you are always waiting to be scared, or at least I was. It is dark but it isn't that scary. It is more of a suspense kind of a movie so you won't be jumping out of your seat, at least not very often. Without spoiling things for the viewer I will try to tell what this movie is about. Hypnosis, mystery, solving and Kevin Bacon. There, hope I didn't ruin it for you. If you liked The Sixth Sense you are going to enjoy this as well, i know i did. I rate this movie 7/10 "},{"Title":"Taut, Tense and Well Done","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This really isn't a rip-off of The Sixth Sense despite many hostile claims to the  contrary.  It's just another good, strong and fairly creepy ghost story thathappened to come out around the same time as the far more popular SixthSense.  That doesn't make it a pale imitator by any means.  Stir of Echoes has  quite a bit going for it.  Blue collar worker Tom doesn't believe in the paranormal, dismissing hisspacey, New Age obsessed sister-in-law Lisa and somehow oblivious to the fact  that his son Jake frequently talks to an unseen friend in their house.  But Tom  has a rude awakening when Lisa hypnotizes him at a casual party for a jokeand plants a suggestion into his unconscious that he become more open. Suddenly, Tom is seeing things, not least of which is the stark and insistent form  of a teenage girl in his house.  When he desperately tries to turn off hisnewfound sensibilities with Lisa's assistance, things only intensify and themessage in Tom's unconscious is now crystal clear DIG.  Soon, the cellar ofTom's house is a gaping hole and the sad story of a retarded girl's final moments and the person(s) who were responsible for her demise revealthemselves to Tom's absolute horror.This is a tense thriller, filled with realistic emotions and some really great acting  by everyone, especially Ileana Douglas as the free-spirited, pot-smoking Lisa.   There are quite a few jumps and scares here, and the reveal is both horrifying  and terribly sad.  The only thing it has in common with Sixth Sense is a little  boy who can see ghosts - and that scene lasts for all of 1 minute.  Don't befooled by naysayers - this is quite a good little ghost story that deserves better  attention.   "},{"Title":"Bacon sizzles, Erbe shines","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon mesmerised the audience with his haunting portrayal and Kathryn Erbe captivated the audience with ease as she surprises everyone with great screen presence. Stir Of Echoes is one of the most frightening and well-made horror films in recent year. Stir Of Echoes is a prime example of a film that will have the audience covering their eyes and will leave everyone terrified at the end.Bacon has proven once again that he capture the essence of each character and turn it into a performance that will leave everyone smiling. Furthermore, Bacon is one of those actors you just know will turn in a good performance for you. This movie is no different. I'm not sure I would like this movie as much if there were a story that had some mystery and substance behind it.By the same token, we have an actress that is the perfect compliment to Bacon as she steals the spotlight from her co-star with each scene she is in. Erbe has quickly become one of my favorite actresses as she has the subtle quality to draw people in to the plight of her characters and leaves us in awe with her great screen presence. Watching Stir Of Echoes was like reading a good book that couldn't be set down. I didn't want to push pause on the VCR because the writing was engrossing, the performances drew me in and scares were so good I almost believed it was a real event. The characters were particularly well represented. The screenwriter did an excellent job at writing it so the audience cared what would happen to them.Stir Of Echoes is scary and psychologically thrilling. WATCH IT.  "},{"Title":"Be afraid, very afraid","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon mesmerised the audience with his haunting portrayal and Kathryn Erbe captivated the audience with ease as she surprises everyone with great screen presence. Stir Of Echoes is one of the most frightening and well-made horror films in recent year. Stir Of Echoes is a prime example of a film that will have the audience covering their eyes and will leave everyone terrified at the end.Bacon has proven once again that he capture the essence of each character and turn it into a performance that will leave everyone smiling. Furthermore, Bacon is one of those actors you just know will turn in a good performance for you. This movie is no different. I'm not sure I would like this movie as much if there were a story that had some mystery and substance behind it.On the other hand, we have an actress that is the perfect compliment to Bacon as she steals the spotlight from her co-star with each scene leave with her great screen presence. Erbe has quickly become one of my favorite actresses as she has the subtle quality to draw people in to the plight of her characters. Watching Stir Of Echoes was like reading a good book that couldn't be set down. I didn't want to push pause on the VCR because the writing was engrossing, the performances drew me in and scares were so good I almost believed it was a real event. The characters were particularly well represented. The screenwriter did an excellent job at writing it so the audience cared what would happen to them.Stir Of Echoes is not to be taken lightly because it is scary and psychologically thrilling. All I have to say is WATCH IT. "},{"Title":"Nice eerie film","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not a fan of the other 'dead' people thriller that came out about the same time, The Sixth Sense. But I do like this film. It's got a wonderfully gritty atmosphere, you're never sure what Bacon's character will do and Kathryn Erbe is terrific.Strong imagery and a great soundtrack, as well as good acting by Bacon (an extremely underrated actor) and Erbe, make this a terrific thriller. "},{"Title":"A good movie indeed","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie once and i enjoyed it, its not bad, is even good for a terror movie, except it has some unexplainable parts, that let us think that it cannot be possible to be true, but movies are just like that, they have both possible scenes and impossible scenes. I also liked the Kevin's Bacon acts in the movie he's one of my favorite's actors. It worth to be seen. "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this movie and I have seen it 3 times now. I can recommend it to everyone that likes ghost/horror movies. It is much better than what lies beneath for example. So don't hesitate and watch this movie "},{"Title":"The best ghost story movie in years","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen several comments about Stir of Echoes where it is mistakenly called a spoof or rip-off of The Sixth Sense. This is completely untrue, because SOE was made BEFORE Sixth Sense, and was just released to theaters a month or two later.That being said, Stir of Echoes is a dark, suspenseful thriller that surpasses all of the ghost story movies of recent years. It is about an average working class family living in Chicago. When the husband Tom (Kevin Bacon) is hypnotized at a party, his mind is opened to all the supernatural elements he has always been so skeptical about.Stir of Echoes is dark and eerie, with a great story and very good acting, especially from Zachary David Cope, who plays the little boy. Overall this movie is creepy and suspenseful, and quite possibly will leave you some things to think about. "},{"Title":"part horror, part tragic comedy","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think comparing this movie to The Sixth Sense is comparing apples and oranges. This movie has a subtle campy humor running through it, whereas The Sixth Sense is as serious as a funeral. It's worth repeating that the humor is somewhat subtle, so fans of Mr. Bean might miss it. It's not necessarily their fault however; it was clearly marketed to the Sixth Sense audience in a if you like The Sixth Sense, you'll LOVE Stir of Echoes... kind of way. You can hardly expect the audience to think for itself (and see the differences) nowadays. "},{"Title":"Derivative,but good.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad movie at all,some very good shock moments,including one,sadly,where the woman opens the bathroom cabinet mirror,and you know what's gonna happen when she closes it... I also found myself being constantly reminded of other movies,namely;Poltergeist,The Shining,The DeadZone(two SK movies,strangely)and a few others...these similarities are from specific scenes,but the underlying current is,of course,The Sixth Sense.Having said that,I didn't really mind too much...as long as it's not completely ripping off other things,but taking ideas to make something new,that's fine...not that it's a particularly original movie,and the ending does fizzle out slightly,but you could do a lot worse for your video rental money.  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Better than the Sixth Sense. Its better because the ending in this film is less predictable and it explains everything clearly. Some of the explanations in the Sixth Sense are as clear as muck. Another thing the film isn't predicted in the first 5 minutes. Its also scarier.Its about a man who is hypnotised and he can see ghosts just like his son. He starts seeing a ghost more than a few times in his house. The ghost belongs to a girl called Samantha Kozak. The next time he is hypnotised he becomes obsessed on finding out how she died.This is an underrated horror and is better than the Sixth sense. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Scary and extremely worth while!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As the other user comment on this film - I'll have to compare with Sixth Sense. Which is not really fair to this movie. I own it on DVD and must say that I've seen it about 10 times now (something that I would never do with Sixth Sense). Beautiful effects when Tom has his visions. It is somehow much easier to relate to than Sixth Sense. I love it. I hope more people will check this one out o) "},{"Title":"Throat-gripping","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I want to make a comparison that may be a SPOILER so do not read any further if you want to be thrilled to the very end of the movie. What have we here  an alternative version of Poe's Black Cat? I used to wonder why so seldom a good film of any story from this master of horror has been realized by anyone. As a matter of course I always searched between the obvious titles. I should have known better  Poe isn't obvious. So here it is, with no reference to Poe at all. Stir Of Echoes is an EXCELLENT horror-movie. The idea is transformed to a credible know-a-days situation, with a plausible story and present-day people of flesh-and-blood (...?) and yet ... just look for yourself. Stir Of Echoes shows a THRRRILLING story with several intense scenes and unexpected throat-gripping shots that make you hit the ceiling. Kevin Bacon is just right for the job. A previous reviewer (jangu, Sweden) was bothered too little is explained. On the contrary I'm just grateful there was just enough explanation, more would have been annoying and make the end to long.  "},{"Title":"Worth Owning or Renting","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This underrated thriller from 1999 is still being unfairly compared with The Sixth Sense, probably because they were released at about the same time.  Yes, this is a ghost story, too, but it's a single ghost that is trying to contact Kevin Bacon to get him to solve a murder mystery.  While a little boy (Bacon's son) does provide the initial contact with the spirit world because of his sixth sense, he isn't the focus of the story. Bacon is very good, as are the little boy, Cope, and the smart-aleck sister-in-law, Douglas, who hypnotizes Bacon and gets the whole show going. Erbe, as the annoying and immature wife, is less successful because of the thankless role she's been given, but the other characters are fine, and the story fairly rips along with a lot of creepy and scary scenes along the way.My complaints include a few plot devices and threads that are started and then abandoned.  At first, much is made of Erbe's unexpected pregnancy and Bacon's surly I didn't expect to be this ordinary response to it, but that is all forgotten by the middle of the film.  I also thought more was going to happen with the huge black cop, who like Scatman Crothers in The Shining, senses and is drawn to Cope's gift, but his character serves only to educate Erbe about what is going on with her husband and is quickly eliminated.  It seemed like a chunk had fallen out of the plot here.  The resolution with the neighbors was a little choppy and rushed, too, with a slightly unsatisfying climax, especially concerning the suddenly homicidal landlord and his Jason-like offspring.  It seemed like the filmmakers were running out of time or money and had to cut it down and wrap it up. Overall, though, this is a keeper for ghost story nuts (I'm one myself) and anyone who enjoys a good scare or two on a dark night with the lights out. "},{"Title":"IN EVERY MIND THERE IS A DOOR THAT HAS NEVER BEEN OPENED","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this film I was not sure it was better than The Sixth Sense. After I bought both The Sixth Sense and Stir of Echoes I found that I enjoy watching Stir of Echoes more. Granted, Sixth Sense is a great movie but I didn't find it more shocking or creepy than Stir of Echoes. Echoes is graphic but the violence is so dark and surreal that it makes the film even more scary. Actually, one thing I think made the film have such a big impact is that there have been cases of hypnotizing causing increased brain activity. There actually are parts of our brain that we dont use that can control e.s.p, psychic, and even seeing other spiritual realms. I give Stir of Echoes a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"IN EVERY MIND THERE IS A DOOR THAT HAS NEVER BEEN OPENED","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this film I was not sure it was better than The Sixth Sense. After I bought both The Sixth Sense and Stir of Echoes I found that I enjoy watching Stir of Echoes more. Granted, Sixth Sense is a great movie but I didn't find it more shocking or creepy than Stir of Echoes. Echoes is graphic but the violence is so dark and surreal that it makes the film even more scary. Actually, one thing I think made the film have such a big impact is that there have been cases of hypnotizing causing increased brain activity. There actually are parts of our brain that we dont use that can control e.s.p, psychic, and even seeing other spiritual realms. I give Stir of Echoes a 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Stir of Echoes is a new psychological thriller about a man haunted by a sixth sense.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Tom (Kevin Bacon) is an average blue-collar worker in Chicago who is skeptical about his future and fearful of falling into a mediocre existence. The news of his wife Maggie's (Kathryn Erbe) second pregnancy and his growing antipathy over his watchful sister-in-law Lisa (Ileanna Douglas), both fuel the anxiety inside him and set him up as a character who is ripe for drastic change. Soon after, Tom openly defies Lisa as she impresses a group of friends with talk of ghosts and of the supernatural powers of hypnotism. In an attempt to challenge her, Tom volunteers to be hypnotized, and in the process unlocks a door, which leads to more than what he ever believed in.A character that from start to finish is literally looking for something, Tom progresses from being frustrated by a mundane existence to being terrified by an unwanted ability to hear spirits' stir of echoes. This premise presents an opportunity to sensationalize the unknown, most clearly seen in the attempts to visualize the protagonist's disturbed mental states. Stir of Echoes, however, is not much more than an exercise in exploiting the common fears of the average viewer and which shows that nonconformity is a dangerous state of mind that may destroy the family unit, and should be passed over by anyone wanting to be frightened. "},{"Title":"warning","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie contains the most graphically frightening rape scene that I have ever heard of, and for that reason alone I hated it.  I wish that I had not gone to this movie, because the rest of the plot could not come anywhere near making up for sitting through that scene.  And it's a little girl, too.  I cried and almost threw up.  What makes me angry at the moviemakers is that the scene was not put there to drive home to us the horror of rape, but rather to add excitement to the movie.  In my humble opinion, that is shameful. "},{"Title":"I'm suprised this was never picked up by a larger mass of people","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    But then horror movies really never are.  Sure there's a couple popular ones, Psycho, Silence of the Lambs, if you can call those two scary (though they're both superb films), and The Shining, probably one of the scariest movies ever made.  Sorry for digressing.  Stir of Echoes really wasn't that bad at all.  It falls into that forsaken category of mid to late nineties where movies were either big hits or they weren't anything at all.  Well, lot's of good films fell through society's very loose grip on good taste, so to speak.  Coming back to the point, Stir of Echoes really was a good movies.  It was scary at points, had good lighting and sets, good visual effects, and at points, was pretty scary.  The plot was also very entertaining.  It's more than just the average hanted house movie where wierd things start happening and people die for no reason, it's really more of a mystery.  It's really about a missing girl and the people who try to solve the mystery of her death.  The afformentioned scary parts were the parts where the missing girl's ghost was visible as she stalked around the house.  It was very neat the way that they filmed her.  She seemed to shake, almost vibrate, like she's fighting to be there or something, and it ends up being a very interesting effect.  Altogether, it wasn't completely scary.  It was interesting.  It showed the lifestyle of an average blue-collar family in urban Chicago, not really urban urban, but more likt suburban urban, a little in between.  The lighting in the movie was very dismal and dark, not like depressing and frightening in Silence of the Lambs or Se7en, but like more of a Chicago Spring setting.  Very cool.  Good lighting really makes or brakes a movie.  Consider the ill-fated Manhunter movie, by director Michael Mann.  The entire movie looked like it was made by the beach boys, it was so bright (except for a few scenes, which were darkly lit, to my great pleasure).  It's more famous successor was the opposite.  It had that wonderful autumn element that made it all the more scarier.  Sorry, for once again digressing.    But in summary, this movie really was good.  It had great acting, mostly from the talented Kevin Bacon, and a great supporting cast.  The ending was excellent and complemented the great plot.  All together                        My Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Seen it already","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you have already seen What Lies beneath and the Sixth Sense, maybe you'd be better off not watching this one as well, because you kind of already have seen it then. This film really does not add a whole lot to the supernatural genre. This does not mean this is a bad film, but having seen the other two I must say it was not a very surprising or scary film.6,5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A rare thing these days A thriller with thrills","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ===== Rating System ***** Must see **** Very good *** I liked it, but you might hate it ** I hated it, but you might like it * Avoid ====Similarities with 'the Sixth Sense (1999)' will inevitably be drawn, and it ends with the fact that it's also about a person who can see ghosts. The lucky one here is Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon) who, after he's hypnotized by his sister in law, has strange visions about a girl who's obviously trying to tell Tom something.  The movie starts with confusion; Tom's little son can talk with dead people, so (especially after 6th Sense) you might assume the focus will stay on his son. As the film moves on, Tom suddenly acquires the ability, and it forgets about his son who turns out to be a useless character.The movie retains its power, though, and as soon as Tom starts to investigate his visions and the things that happen in the neighborhood the movie grabs you and never lets you go until the excellent climax.It's not as accomplished a product as The Sixth Sense, but it manages to stand on its own as a great thriller with some excellent performances and neat camera-tricks (the ghosts move at a slightly slower speed than the living). If you like Kevin Bacon and thrillers in general, this is definitely one to watch. Enjoy... **** "},{"Title":"Quite thrilling","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After having watched House on Haunted Hill before, this movie was a revelation. It tries to give us some subtle horror instead of cheap shock effects, and especially the first scenes with Bacon having visions are very strong and spooky - the kind of scenes you instantly look away from the screen.Though the movie cannot keep up the high suspense level and though the overall background story is pretty obvious after the first hour, it is still interesting to see how the story unravels. The finale I liked rather well, especially because it was intelligently hinted at in a previous dream sequence. Kevin Bacon is giving a good performance and though this movie won't be a classic, it's much more worthy of watching than many of todays shock effect gore horror movies. If you liked What lies beneath and The Sixth Sense, you might try this one as well, though it is not that good than those two. "},{"Title":"A combination of The Sixth Sense and The Haunting","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was ok.  It wasn't as good as it could have been.  It's sort of a strange combination of The Sixth Sense and The Haunting, with its quality being somewhere between them as well.  It's nowhere near as good as TSS and much better than TH.The plot was a little too unbelievable and inconsistent.  It appears to take on the same type of see and help dead people theme as TSS and also has the same theme as TH where a victim attempts to communicate to an open mind the story of her own murder.  So far, so good.  But then there are a few scenes where he sees the FUTURE?!?  That's when I lost interest.  That's far too inconsistent of a story to be interesting.  It's almost as if they were half-way finished making the movie and didn't think it was good enough, so they through in the ESP stuff.  It doesn't work.  It hurts the movie.  Very badly.All the acting and cinematography was good, but the story was just too lame to give it a high rating.  Get TSS instead and watch it several times.  It's that good. "},{"Title":"Well made film, however...","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film begins as a well-above-average supernatural flick (set very firmly in modern suburbia), despite its similarity to the superior Sixth Sense (1999), but where this film's flaw lies is that the mysteries of the first half are all pretty-well explained 40 or 50 minutes into the film, what follows is a (well made) down-to-earth drama/thriller. Expanded on, and shown as separate films, either part of Stir Of Echoes would receive a pretty high rating. But as it is, after the supernatural beginning I wasn't all that interested in the main character's domestic problems. In summation, this film is well worth a look, if you've already seen all the 'classic' horror films (ie. In The Mouth Of Madness (1995), The Shining (1980), The Sixth Sense (1999) etc.). "},{"Title":"ESPECIALLY APPEALING TO ME","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A great I can see dead people film with fine acting by Kevin Bacon and the supporting cast.  Why this man has never been nominated for an Academy Award puzzles me.The picture is especially appealing to me since I grew up in the Polish/American neighborhood in Chicago where I grew up. I recognized many of the locations such as St. Hyacinth's church, the Logan Square L terminal, etc.One goof though was filming in the Jewish section of a cemetery since all of the participants were Catholic.  However, it may be that church authorities would not allow it. "},{"Title":"Good, effective terror film","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good and effective terror film, one of the best of 1999, far better than the overrated, pretentious (and somewhat similar in plot) The Sixth Sense. Actually, the plot of Stir of Echoes seems lifted from 1979's The Changeling, a very good terror film starring George C. Scott that deserves to be better known. The scene where Kevin Bacon starts an excavation in his backyard hoping to find the remains of the person who has become a ghost has a very similar scene in the Scott movie. But similarities aside, this film will most likely satisfy those looking for good chills. "}{"Title":"nice work","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good film that has a great plot and an enjoyable ending. Kevin Bacon plays Tom Witky,a telephone engineer who is hypnotized by his sister in law at a party,and this opens a door in his mind allowing him to see images of a girl who was said to of run away 6 months earlier. Tom must try to unravel these images and work out what has happened to the girl. Kevin Bacon is a truly great actor and performs well as the ordinary sceptic who starts to decend into madness,and Zachary David Cope is great as Jake Witzky,Toms son who was been a reciever for some time. Trust me,see this movie and enjoy the great performances given by the actors who have chosen to work on a film that has a great storyline.  "},{"Title":"Good horror movies are finaly making a comeback !","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has a very good thing going for it to begin with. It´s an adult horror movie, and there are no teenage babes getting butchered every 10 minutes of the film. Finally after endless slasher movies the past 20 years, it seems that good classic horror movies are making a comeback. I realy enjoyed STIR OF ECHOES, even with that incredibly boring predictable ending wich almost ruins the entire story. Fortunely the atmosphere of the film is very well created and that manages to save the final result. And let´s not forgget that when this story was writen that ending must have been very original and unexpected.I love the Sixth Sense and i realy liked STIR OF ECHOES despite that predictable ending, both are very good movies and both have very good classical story lines, like we haven´t seen in a very long time. It´s unfair to compare both movies just because they have little kids who see dead people in it. Both are very good movies in its own right. STIR OF ECHOES, has a good story, predictable but good and filled with creepy details, good acting, good scares and suspence and doesn´t uses special effects to scare people. It uses atmosphere instead and this movie has a fantastic haunted one. The only reason i don´t think this is as good as the Sixth Sense is only because of the lack of surprises in the plot, but other than that it´s a terryfic movie for audiences who prefer their horror stories with atmosphere rather than buckets of blood, CGI special effects and cool Pop soundtracks.Please someone, make more like this. Just do it less predictable next time, and with even more chilling moments.And forgget about bad reviews, if you like serious horror movies, you will like this. "},{"Title":"Overlooked","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I feel compelled to point something out.  Stir of Echoes is based on a novel by Richard Matheson of the same name, published in 1958!  Now, if anyone can explain how Matheson ripped of The Sixth Sense, I would be truly impressed.Unlike The Sixth Sense, Stir of Echoes actually maintains a story arc and is peppered with believable-not bland-characters.  If you liked The Sixth Sense, check out this one-and the book-and perhaps you too will be enraged that such shameful lifting of material garnered an Oscar nod for the other guy. "},{"Title":"Errie and Different","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon's performance was good, as the phoneman who gets something unlocked in his mind, but a little over the top at times. But he, at least, gives the audience the feeling that he is learning about his newfound power and that he is on the verge of understanding more about the mysterious visitor and himself.His wife's, Maggie, performance was a little more unbelievable at times; being over-emotional at times and showing no emotion at other times. Better casting could have been done in that aspect, I think.But probably the stangest and creepiest performance was by Zachery Cope, who plays Bacon's son and who can be compared to Haley Joel Osment in The Sixth Sense even though Cope doesn't have as big a role as Osment did in Sense. His age and appearance make some of his dialogue and actions seem strange and unsettling all at once. I think for a child, he did a pretty good job at performing his part.Not quite as good as The Sixth Sense but with a strange power, a mysterious guest that keeps visiting Bacon, and a son who also has some powers Stir of Echoes is definitely an entertaining horror movie. 3.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"someone call the scary movie police","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I would like to offer an insight into Stir Of Echos (featuring the sometimes interesting Kevin Bacon) but unfortunately my recliner become airborne from the floor and i suddenly had this really strong urge to SLEEP. What should that tell you ?Arthur P. "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this is one of my favorite movies.  kevin bacon is fantastic, and so are all of the other actors in the film.  i bought this movie and have watched it so many times.  the movie never gets old, and it is great every time i watch it. "},{"Title":"Jumpy jumpy!","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  OK maybe there is a quality of the seventh sense about this but it's actually pretty good. For the whole of its length it grips. To the final reel one is unsure what is going to happen. Ok occasionally perhaps fantasy and reality get a little mixed up and why is it shot in Chicago? Is Chicago full of the Supernatural?Overall though it's exciting, scary and much better than the schlock teenage death fests that are currently smothering the market. "},{"Title":"Sixth Sense II","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (NB contains possible spoiler for The Sixth Sense) The first ten minutes of Stir of Echoes is so reminiscent of Sixth Sense that it looks like a re-make. Fortunately it then develops a life of its own. The horror aspects of Sixth Sense (sharp editing to portray the dead people) is perhaps even better developed - I jumped out of my seat quite audibly several times. Unfortunately it doesn't have the emotional depth of Sixth Sense, or the same degree of mystery, or the deja vu that makes you want to see the movie a second time to check your own recollection of what really happened in each scene. The suspension of disbelief is marred towards the end with real life violence as this is a slight shift of genre from the supernatural thriller we have been lulled into watching. In Sixth Sense, by comparison, the supernatural horror aspects are more frightening precisely *because* of the genre-shift from the emotionally loaded human dilemma film to unexpected horror. Having said that, Stir of Echoes turns in fine performances from Kevin Bacon and young Zachary David Cope. A well-made movie, well worth seeing, though some will judge it as not being an outstanding one. "},{"Title":"Forgettable, despite good acting and an excellent climax","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  	Of 1999's three major supernatural thrillers, Stir of Echoes is likely the worst of the three, and it's weak box office returns reflect this. That's not to say it's bad, it's still a perfectly good movie, it just could have been a lot better.	Bacon and Kathryn Erbe both deliver excellent performances, and have great chemistry, unfortunately the movie wasn't long enough, and they didn't have enough screen time together to harness that. Illeana Douglas is adequate, but her character isn't on the screen enough to develop into much.	'Echoes' is closer related to 'The Sixth Sense', last year's suprise megahit, in terms of plot and atmosphere than 'Stigmata' (the film's box office competition through opening weekend) is, and it almost feels like the type of movie that appears fourteen months after 'Sense' to capitalize on its success. Director David Koepp seems almost incapable of creating a mood, or any sort of suspense, and the film suffers greatly because of this.	All in all, skip it unless you're a Kevin Bacon fan, or else you're bound to be disappointed. In my opinion his performance isn't nearly a good enough reason to see this flick.5/10 "},{"Title":"An excellent supernatural thriller","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  &#145;Stir of Echoes' is one of the better supernatural thrillers I have seen in some time.  It is a frightening and gripping story, well presented and well crafted.  Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon) and his wife Maggie (Kathryn Erbe) live a normal middle class life with their son Jake (Zachary David Cope) in a Chicago suburb.  Normal, that is, except for the fact that young Jake is communing with the dead.  One evening Tom dares his sister-in-law to hypnotize him to prove it is a bunch of baloney.  The result is that Tom begins to get visions of a young girl named Samantha; the same girl Jake has been talking with.  When Tom gets a message to find her, he begins an all consuming and obsessive quest.  What he finds turns out to be an evil and sinister revelation that puts him and his whole family in grave danger.The story is very effective, presented more as a psychological horror film rather than the grisly gore so prevalent in the genre.  Numerous comparisons have been made between this film and &#145;The Shining' and &#145;Close Encounters of the Third Kind', somehow implying that because this film used some of the effective devices from those films, it is without value.  I couldn't disagree more.  There is a difference between ripping off a story and adapting effective devices used in other films.  This film did the later par extraordinaire.  This story used a novel approach to a well plowed genre.  It combined the supernatural element with a mystery to produce a powerful hybrid.  Forget the comparison with &#145;Sixth Sense'.  The only thing these films had in common was dead people.   Writer/Director David Koepp did a terrific job in both capacities.  The story was plausible, frightening and drew the viewer in.  There were some dangling dead end plot lines (Maggie's pregnancy disappeared as a plot element after the announcement; and what was Neil about?) that just wasted our time. But mostly, everything fit together well.  The direction was fabulous.  It was designed to scare the hell out of you and that it did.  Koepp created incredible suspense without the use of expensive special effects, simply by using the camera and sound effectively.  The five speaker surround on the DVD was particularly good and added impact and eeriness to each scene.Kevin Bacon was at the top of his game in this film.  His obsession with finding Samantha was played with intensity and single mindedness.  Kathryn Erbe was also good as Maggie, bringing both strength and passion to the part.I rated this film a 9/10. This is an excellent thriller.  Don't miss it.  "}{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As I watched this movie, I detected similarities that I'm sure many others picked up on as well. A precocious little boy with clairvoyant powers, the father steadily going mad, the mother anguishing at the weirdness of it all...sound familiar? Well, this movie may seem like merely a collection of elements snatched from The Shining and looking a bit too similar to The Sixth Sense (even though they were produced too close together to call their similarities anything but coincidence). Despite all this, I happened to enjoy this movie, probably because I got sucked into the suspensefulness and an overall good premise and storyline. It did languish there a bit in the middle, but the end had some thrill to it, and thus redeemed itself.So, I say to everyone out there that even though this movie wasn't too original in its essence, it's still not a bad flick, so go easy on it when you write your own little review... "},{"Title":"A Scary Sixth Sense","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is more of what I expected the Sixth Sense to be like.  This movie is also similar to The Shining. Watching it on DVD with 5-1 sound is excellent. A well directed movie. I especially like the way he did the hypnosis section. "},{"Title":"One of the best thrillers of the year","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I waited until pay per view for this film. I wish I had seen it inthe theater.  The plot is great, the people BELIEVABLE. Seeing this movie made Kevin Bacon go up two notches inmy book.  I will not give this away, but all I have to say it SEEIT. "},{"Title":"CLON OF SIXTH SENSE BUT I THINK IS BETTER","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoy the movie, at the begining has the same parameters as Sixth Sense, but I think it´s better done, great perforamce from Kevin Bacon, i think this is one of his best movies, and from the girl that works as his wife, I saw her working in OZ, the TV show and I think she is a great actress and also beautiful, she is wonderful and the kid does a great JOB, he could be a star in the future.  Well I recommend to watch this movie and remember that this movie and the director deserves a good credit for this work.  WELL DONE!!! "},{"Title":"Brian from Minn. not too bright","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The last guy who posted a comment.... doesn't know Sh^t for shinola....he probably wouldn't know if a great movie came out and bit him on the a$$!  Stir of echos was grrrrreat!  I'd even say it was better than Sixth Sense...well maybe not that much better...but still, it kicked butt!!! Not to mention Stir of Echos was filmed in the greatest city in the world! "},{"Title":"Much more than an above-the-average horror film","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  All the reviews I had read about Stir of Echoes before seeing it were making a comparison with one of last year's best films, The Sixth Sense. But no one can say this is an imitation, just because Echoes was released only one month after Sense. And that's why it wasn't a big success and didn't have the attention it deserved.The film tells the story of an ordinary man (Kevin Bacon) who starts to see and feel strange things (in another words, to have his mind 'open') after he is hypnotized by his sister-in-law. I'll stop right here, because I can't reveal you some secrets. All I can say is that the whole film is a big puzzle, where nonsense things start to make sense while the story goes on. So it's better to pay attention.What I really liked in Stir of Echoes was the way it is suspenseful, intriguing and creepy. It kept my attention in every moment, and I never got bored. Ok, it's not a very original film. But this mixture of The Shining and The Sixth Sense works out very well, resulting in one of the best horror films of '99, much better than the unwatchable The Blair Witch Project (which was not a horror movie, but a fake) and the so-so The Haunting. However, it doesn't come close to the sweetness and the intelligence of The Sixth Sense. But watch Stir of Echoes for the suspense, the frights, the twists. It's very above the average, and more than a worth seeing.8/10 "},{"Title":"A very chilling film-- ***1/2 out of ****","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have heard many good reviews of this film.  So I decided to rent it at my local video store.  I get home and I start to watch and all those critics were right.Kevin Bacon stars in this movie and he plays Tom.  Tom and Maggie's (Tom's wife) kid seems to have an imaginary friend named Samantha but they don't pay much attention to it.  So Tom and Maggie go to a neighborhood party and Tom gets hypnotized by a friend.  Then he starts to go insane.  He sees the same person his kid sees.  And now he has to try to get to the bottom of this.There are some really good performances in this film by Kevin Bacon and the kid who plays the kid.  In fact, pretty much all the performances are done pretty well.So I highly recommend this film.  Some compare it to Sixth Sense but they are remotely different.  But they are both very good films.  Sixth Sense it rated PG-13 and this film is rated R.  But the only reason it is rated R would have to be language.  If it didn't have those several uses of the F word, it would've easily been PG-13.  Rent this film today. "},{"Title":"After it's all said and done, how could you NOT like it?","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of Echoes was one of the best movies I've seen to date.  All in all, between the great acting, thick plot, and gripping screenplay, I was on the edge of my seat the whole show long.  I've heard some bad reviews, and the only thing I could muster to say in response was, Were we in the same theater?.  I was actually disapointed to see how low the average vote was when coming to the site.  I'd hate for anybody to miss out on this movie because they didn't like the reviews it got... "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was great!  It's just the type for ages 18 to 60. I'll probably end up buying this movie too, when it comes out on video.  Kevin Bacon is outstanding in this movie too!  Just make sure...if you haven't seen this movie...it's one where you have to watch it to understand.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a awesome movie!  My friends and I walked in not knowing what to expect.  I had heard from several people that it was good, but I didn't expect to be so involved with all the characters in the story.  I have to admit we jumped several times, but more than those scares, we were on the edge of our seats for the whole two hours!  Talk about tense.Forget about comparing this to The Sixth Sense.  This was far better storytelling.  Hats off to the writer for making this movie more earthbound and realistic!  I urge everyone to see it.  I'm taking more people tomorrow night. "}{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Stir of Echoes recently. While some of the earlier scenes were well-done and creepy, it soon descended into a predictable bore that never improved. The movie has been compared, unfairly IMO, to The Sixth Sense, and, while it has similarities, it is totally different and not as good. Kevin Bacon is the reason to see this movie; it wouldn't have worked without him. His character starts out normal and decent, but ends up losing his mind due to all the visions he sees. I loved the scene near the end where he kept insisting to his wife that he had to dig(What are you doing? I have to DIG!). There were some similarities between that scene and the scene in The Shining where Jack Nicholson blows up at Shelly Duvall(That is so @#&$ typical of you!).  In the end, I was bored from the predictability that this once seemingly inventive movie had fallen into. I mean, what about the scene where Bacon's wife goes to a receiver and finds out what is wrong with her husband. What happens? She still treats him like he's nuts! That's bad screenwriting. One last thing in comparing the two little boys who can see ghosts, Haley Joel Osment in TSS and Zachary David Cope in this one, you'd have to go with young master Osment, who gave the better performance. Cope was too cutesy-cutesy to be taken seriously. 2 stars out of 4. "},{"Title":"Better than the Sixth Sense","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has Kevin Bacon as young married adult who get put the spell of hypoisos(sp) by a friend of his family. Afterwards, he starts seeing visions (some are very strange) . But he is not the only in his family seeing things.His little boy is also talking to someone who the wife cannot see. The movie tends to look into the visions as way to tell people about the spirit who lives in the house with them. Then it becomes a thriller/mystery with you guessing who murdered the young woman and where is she in the house. The ending is creepy enough with the family leaving the city,because the son can hear and see the ghosts in every house. It was better than Sixth Sense because instead of giving us a variety of ghosts(with little or no plot involved),this movie gives you a ghost story (with a plot) and the plot actually revolves around the ghost in the house 4 stars "},{"Title":"Wonderful performances of a rehashed script.","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The strong point of this film is it's setting and the characters that inhabit it. These are normal people doing normal things. Even Kevin Bacon's character admits at the beginning that he never thought he'd turn out this ordinary. And that's what really gives heart to a rather boring premise. The buildings are the type that have been lived in by generations of families. The kind of neighborhood where block parties and barbecue's still happen. Everyone knows each other and the potential of discovering skeleton's in your next door neighbor's closet is dangerously possible. This movie portrays events of what would happen if strange things occurred to the layman. These aren't ghost busters, rich doctors, or detectives that know precisely how to handle bizarre situations. Kevin Bacon plays a telephone repair man with such realism you would expect him to leave the movie studio after filming and go back to his regular day job. But the real scene stealer is Kathryn Erbe. Her costuming, her acting, the strength and realism of her character... everything about her kept me watching with interest even though I had a fairly good idea of what was to come.We've seen this story before. The only twist is one that can be predicted if one were to think hard enough. A movie like this is an unfortunate victim to bad timing.  Riding into the box office on the coat tails of 'Sixth Sense' makes for a rather trite comparison. It's not a bad date movie but it will not go down into the annals of movie history.  "},{"Title":"One of then better ghost stories for some time","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not knowing exactly what I was in for when attending the Screening for A Stir of Echoes, I was rather impressed with the startling on screen presentation.  Kevin Bacon playing Tom, a semi skeptical young married father, who at a party agrees to undergo hypnosis.  After a posthypnotic suggestion to have an open mind he awakens to all sorts of odd visions and experiences.  The film starts off mostly on a simple creepy note but as it progresses, Director David Koepp does a good job of making it rather scary. Using a sort of montage technique, Koepp is able to turn a rather, uncomfortable love scene between Tom and his wife, into a rather frightening, almost Poltergeist experience.  One of the most unsettling scenes is Tom's flashback into the mind of Samantha, a young girl who was raped by to neighborhood boys.  Koepp handles the scene rather well, by shooting it in a first person perspective.  The basic bottom line is that Stir of Echoes, is clearly not the best ghost story ever. But if you are looking for a good ghost story that will definitely make you, and the audience around you, jump practically out of you seats, than it absolutely is worth it. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film the another day, and I really liked it. It's scary, mysterious, fun. But I especially liked the characters. They are really well constructed, and developed. The main character, for example. We are told a lot about him. Far more than one would expect, in a mystery film. The first scene tells us a lot, in the beginning, when he is hypnotized, and wakes up, and he is crying; we learn that is because he was talking about being bullied and beaten up by a former classmate at school, as a child. That, already, tells us that he didn't have a very easy childhood, that he's probably a very sensitive guy. We, later, are told that he used to play the piano as a child. The relationship with his wife is very believable. Is a very lovable character, and one can relate to him.I have only one criticism That black gay, the one the wife meets, and who explains to her what happens to him (her husband). What's the need of that?, one understand what is going on with him, WE DON'T NEED AN EXPLANATION.Apart from that, the film is great.I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Better than 6th Sense","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie through word of mouth.  I had heard very little about it, and it wasn't out at the theaters very long.  This movie did not get very much press, however it is one of my all time favorite scary movies.  Great Movie!!! "},{"Title":"6 on a scale of 10","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie would have been much better if it had been titled Stiff in the Basement. As it was, it was just barely passable as a time-killer considering it was a free rental from my neighbor.Essentially, this was a moderate horror film - ghosts and all. Haunted houses, hypnosis, death, murder, etc. But, it was weak. It wasn't so much a problem with plot holes or sets or acting. None of that was above average, but not horrible either. It was more a problem with the plot in general. Who cares. I would have really hated having spent money on this film.If you want to see a ten times better film that is vaguely similar - and you are the only one in America who hasn't seen it - then see the Sixth Sense.  "},{"Title":"derivative?","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I realize that this film was based on a book, but still, aside from being overly predictable I couldn't help but find elements of The Shining, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, The Sixth Sense and many others. Am I being overly-shrewd and critical or is this a merited perception? "},{"Title":"Best thriller of the decade","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In the giant wave of recent supernatural thrillers, Stir of Echos really came out on top. Superior even to The Sixth Sense this amazingly crafted horror film knows all the weak spots of the audience and jabs at them over and over with some of the most nightmarish images and realistic dream sequences ever filmed. In a genre full of copycats and duds, it's nice to see a film that gets *everything* right.Watch it on a good sound system to get the full effect. 9/10. "},{"Title":"No real good reason to see it","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you've seen The Sixth Sense, The Shining and The Ring, you've seen everything that's in Stir of Echos, and done better. Bacon and Erbe play a very believable married couple, so normal that you might as well watch your neighbors. The script is clumsy in places, such as when the psychic cop asks if the husband is psychic, asks several questions about how it started, and then suddenly explains his behavior in detail. He also warns that the ghost is getting more and more angry. The ghost expresses its anger by doing... nothing. We go visit the cop again, he provides no new information. Yawn. A couple of times the ghost appears. The wife can't see it, doesn't react, the ghost does... nothing again. Yawn. There are no secrets or puzzles in this movie, no surprise ending. If you're a Kathryn Erbe fan, you get a good look at her rear. If you're a Kevin Bacon fan, watch Flatliners. "}{"Title":"Big Swing and a Miss","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  From the very opening of the movie I waited for the characters to be given some kind of depth, for the plot to be laid out, and for the film itself to come together. None of these things ever happened. It appeared that this film suffered greatly in its final edits as scenes that seemed to begin to draw the story together -- like when the Neal the cop says to have Tom come see him for an explanation of his visions -- are not played out and stick out like so many sore thumbs. Basically the movie starts nowhere, goes nowhere, and winds up nowhere. "},{"Title":"Based on the same lines as The Sixth Sense!!!!!!!!!","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you like the Sixth Sense you will like Stir of Echoes. The idea's in the film are all original there is no copied ideas in the film. In some sense parts of the film do get a bit scary but you have to watch and pay attention to the saroundings. Kevin Bacon did an excellent job when he did this film.Also the film features a little boy who is around 4 or 5 years of age this young boy did an excellent job at acting in this film i have never in any film seen a little boy do such a good job he makes the film what it is with is expressions and everything this film is a must for Kevin Bacon fans but if your not a fan of Kebin Bacon this film is still a must thats why i gave it a 10star check it out!!!!! "},{"Title":"The Seventh Sense.","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At first glance, Stir of Echoes is yet another average scary movie - the type with the plot Hollywood has been shoveling out since The Sixth Sense was released in 1999. Stir of Echoes, based on the novel of the same title (save a missing A), came out the same year as The Sixth Sense, and no doubt the reason it did poorly at the box office is because of this fact. But in all truth, this film, though very predictable, has a lot of twists, and I guessed The Sixth Sense's ending long before this'un's. The ending, like many of these films, falls apart a bit and becomes quite average, but then the twists come into play and totally redeem the film.Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon) is a telephone lineman, living in Chicago with his wife (Kathryn Erbe) and son. The neighborhood he lives in isn't exactly a bad area - everyone knows everyone, everything is out in the open. Or so it seems. Amanda's sister puts Tom into a deep hypnosis one night at a party, just for some fun, and when he snaps out of it he has become a Receiver, one who is open to everything around him. He starts seeing things, flashbacks. One character describes the flashbacks as a flashlight that switches on and off. And as the flashlight continues to flutter, Tom slowly loses his mind.A girl's ghost haunts their home. Tom's son is more of a Receiver than Tom, able to converse with the being and see it constantly. Soon Tom realizes that the ghost is trying to tell them something, trying to get them to do something. But what?Kevin Bacon gives the performance of his career here. I've never seen him channel a character so well - he's even got the gruff Chicago accent down pat. After seeing this film, I still firmly believe that Bacon would be perfect to play a werewolf, as well as Ted Danson. Just look at him - his face is just like a werewolf! Forget Wolf with Jack Nicholson - Bacon and Danson (who I really dislike as an actor) should get together and make Wolfs!, a tale about two werewolfs trying to cut it in the real world. Okay, maybe not, but seriously, he should play a werewolf sometime.The ending to Stir of Echoes didn't really blow me away, I had long guessed it (as always), but there were some small plot twists along the way that made the story much more fun to follow. Such as the feathers element. Trust me, you'll understand what I mean after you see the movie.Regarding the feathers, it took me a moment for it all to register at the end. Unlike a lot of other cheap horror/thrillers out there, Stir of Echoes does do one thing that seperates it from the ordinary - it gives its audience a chance to be an active audience, not just a lazy, sit-back-and-watch-it-unfold audience. Scenes DO unfold, but there are many other elements of the film that you must pay attention to. Stir of Echoes qualifies for a second viewing.4/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"**** An excellent film","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Enjoy this film as a 'ghost story'. Don't compare it to other films. View this film with an open mind and you will enjoy it as I did.A note to those who are considering getting this on DVD -BUY IT!! The back of the package says Full Frame BUT it is LETTERBOXED (at 185) Read the production notes on the film it explains a lot. I was skeptical after reading so many negative reviews, but I decided to buy it and see for myself and I am glad I did! My wife and I throughly enjoyed this film and recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Creepy tale has enough loopholes to drive a herd of elephants through...","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Shades of THE SIXTH SENSE pervade this tale of a man who willingly undergoes hypnosis only to be put in touch with horrifying visions of a dead girl. He discovers that both he and his son are now psychics who occasionally know what's going to happen before it does.It's rather gripping in the way it unfolds, with KEVIN BACON giving a very intense performance as the blue collar worker with the macho attitude and an anger management problem that doesn't seem to disturb his sweet wife at all. She just thinks it's odd that he likes to dig up the garden with help from his cooperative little son.In fact, the only clue the girl from the other side is willing to give about why she is haunting him is the word DIG, which he sees printed on a huge theater screen. This insufficient clue is typical of what we can expect from the denouement of the tale, and leads to the cellar scene where Kevin really goes to town digging up the basement with power tools. And it's there, in the cellar, that he discovers the truth behind his visions.As stated above, there are compensations for all the things that just don't make a lot of sense. But there is no doubt that KEVIN BACON, KATHRYN ERBE and ZACHARY David COPE (as Jake, his son), all give fine performances and weave a spell that keeps you glued until the film's wrap-up scene.The finale raises more questions than answers, as is typical with this sort of story, but let's just say it's a horror tale that almost feels like something out of TALES OF THE CRYPT.But if you start thinking about it, there are enough loopholes to drive a herd of elephants through. "},{"Title":"Mostly successful sleeper hit","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing 'Stir of Echoes' shortly after its release in 1999, and not being overly impressed with it. Having seen it again, I've got to say that I'm still not overly impressed; but the finer details have shown through, and it has to be said that director David Koepp has turned a frankly mundane story into a skilfully challenging and sinister slice of horror cinema. The attention to detail is what makes this film what it is, and by keeping the focus on the main character, Koepp is able to keep the audience enthralled for most of the way through. The director has, of course, had much more success with writing than directing, having written successful films for the likes of Steven Spielberg and Brian De Palma, and it's clear that direction isn't his strongpoint. The plot follows the common idea of hypnosis leading to a macabre discovery, as after being put under by his sister-in-law; Tom Witzky begins to hallucinate and receive messages from beyond. It would appear that hypnosis is to blame; but maybe not, as his son is seeing the same eighteen year old girl that is haunting his father...The absolute, hands down, best sequence in this movie involves a babysitter and a baby monitor; and it also sums the whole movie up. This sequence is not very original, but Koepp knows what is frightening, and in this film it feels fresh and is genuinely quite chilling. The rest of the movie is similar, as most of it has been seen in cinema many times before (some the same year with the inferior 'The Sixth Sense'), but by keeping it interesting; Koepp's screenplay succeeds. My only criticism on this front is that sometimes the plot focuses too much on just the one character, and the film can feel a little bare as the plot is overly drawn out at times. Kevin Bacon is a great actor, however, and he does very well in the lead role, as he delivers a performance that is very down to Earth despite the other-worldly nature of the plot. The way the film plays out is good as we're always left guessing, and Koepp keeps up the chills until right at the end; when he lets us down. Despite a dark and sinister atmosphere all the way through, the director sees fit to land a sloppy, sentimental climax on the end; and it really spoilt my enjoyment of it. Still, this is a nice little horror film and comes recommended. "},{"Title":"A good film lost in the shadow of The Sixth Sense","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It came out the same year,and basically,although with differences,has the same plot as a certain other film about a young child who saw dead people,Stir of Echoes,in my opinion,is a very good film.Kevin Bacon is excellent as a man tormented by the visions of a murdered girl,shortly after being hypnotized.It has become popular,with new technology,to make the dead move somewhat faster in films,which is effective,I suppose,but to me,the dead can be just as scary moving at a normal pace.This was an excellent leading role for Kevin Bacon,and I consider this film amongst his best work.Sadly,since it's release came so closely to that certain other film and had more or less the same story line,it will probably be overlooked for years to come. "},{"Title":"Shouldn't The Apparition Be Wearing Glasses?","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I caught this one a few nights ago on cable. I was scurrying back to the TV after quick bathroom and refrigerator runs so as not to miss anything. I don't do that for a movie that isn't pretty entertaining. This one is.I'm not saying, however, that it's a good movie. Good movies are the ones that demand to be watched again. As much fun as this was, once is really enough. It's doubtful that there is anything more to be learned about the human condition or even about the paranormal from repeated viewings. But I was curious about the user rating it would have here and the accompanying commentary. I'm a little surprised that more than 300 comments have been posted for such a minor piece, it's watchableness notwithstanding. As well, the opinions being expressed seem to be polarized to an extreme, often implying that the movie is utter crap but just as often citing it as excellent and underrated.Again and again it is likened to 'The Sixth Sense'. In retrospect, the producers probably should have withheld it from release after 'Sixth Sense' hit the theaters and recut it without the kid in it. The awakening of Kevin Bacon's ability to receive visions and messages from the dead as an unforeseen bi-product of having been hypnotized is sufficient enough explanation to propel the plot forward. The kid's abilities are not truly needed to make the story move. He isn't really a part of the main plot; rather, his part is a sub-plot that actually goes nowhere. Coming up with another (perhaps something that would have utilized Illeana Douglas more?) could have made the movie better. And without the kid nobody would think to compare it to 'Sixth Sense', a comparison that does not favor 'Stir Of Echoes'.A much more complex film, 'The Sixth Sense' is able to carry three major plot lines - the main plot of the boy being tormented by horrifically unwelcomed knowledge of the dead; the side plot involving the uncovering of a child's murder; and the sub-plot twist pertaining to Bruce Willis' state of being. Okay, SOME of us may have guessed early on as to the Willis thing, but I really doubt that anybody could foresee how all three plot lines would be resolved. And resolved they were, each one as convincingly as could ever be expected. Not the case with 'Stir Of Echoes'.I'd suggest to reviewers who think this is the better piece of cinema that they seriously need to re-assess the criteria by which they judge.Nevertheless, though significantly flawed, this was quite an entertaining experience. The first half implants fear by using sudden 'appearances' of a not-too-happy looking apparition. By the third or fourth jolt our jumpiness has us set up to think we may be on to some classic horror here. Additionally, these jumps follow in the wake of the well-crafted hypnotism scene. Shortly after these early sequences however, the film descends into a kind of ordinary-ness and the reprieve from tension begins to clear our minds (and our nerves). I began to wonder about something and, by the end, several somethings.A surprisingly buff Kevin Bacon almost keeps the pace from lagging with his driven-ness, semi-maniacally digging up the backyard and basement. But the son with the psychic ability is removed from the film suddenly and does not return to the screen again. It's obviously not about him.So I have questions that will probably remain unanswered forever as I'll likely not watch this again. Why was the apparition of the murdered girl so unlike her? What's with the mascara on her eyes? She didn't appear to use it in her real-life look. Why isn't the son afraid of her appearance? Is she appearing scary to Kevin Bacon but unscary to the boy? Also, she apparently carries on entire conversations with the kid but for Kevin Bacon she can only manage the word 'dig' which is rather unhelpful considering she's behind a wall, not under the ground or floor. Glasses back on, where down the street is she going at the end? What was the purpose of turning out the light when Kathryn Erbe was alone in the basement? When Kevin Bacon leaves his neighbor (Kevin Dunn) in the cellar there is a gunshot, prompting us to assume suicide. But it wasn't, so why the gunshot? What did he shoot at? And WHY did this same neighbor inform the villains of the body's discovery? So that he could (surprise!) pop up and kill them with an unexpected heroic gesture? Ultimately, a promising beginning is undone by the use of way too many clichés.Finally, I need to say this about the title. 'Stir Of Echoes' sounds too much like a romance novel or something. Maybe not the best title for a horror movie. Still, it made me jump a few times and I stayed with it until the end. Modestly recommended timewaster "},{"Title":"Echos All Right","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is just a rehash, echos, of other minor films. The only interesting thing here is Kevin Bacon. Seems like he's the only extended Brat Packer to survive as an actor.Filmmakers like him because he shows up and delivers without getting in the way. He is without pretense and understands his role as the instrument of someone else's composition. How refreshing -- especially compared to so many of his peers. The disease of celebrity convinces them that they are somehow at the beginning of the creative food chain instead of at the end. problem is that many of these folks are dumb, dumb, dumb. And they sully everything they work on.Bacon is not a great actor. But he is a very good one, and that is rare enough. He doesn't quite save this movie, but it is reassuring to watch him work. "},{"Title":"Great title, shame about the movie!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Now here's a flick I could certainly avoid seeing again and one of the few that (for me at least) worsen with each viewing. Maybe I just see more things wrong with it!Problematically, not that easy to pinpoint really. I have plenty of time for Kevin Bacon's work (Ok we'll forget WILD THINGS). The topic of paranormal phenomena is an interesting one and production wise A STIR OF ECHOES is up over the average mark.  I merely find it tasteless! Perhaps having two daughters much the same age as the unfortunate character Samantha Kozac, doesn't help and indeed I find the film somewhat disturbing, the conclusion being totally and irredeemably nasty.Somehow I cannot ever distance the actors from their roles here and at no stage does it seem to be anything other than a film set. The regression scene in the theater while Bacon is under hypnosis for example, I found neither scary or believable...merely contrived. Another death rattle for the flick is the total lack of any likeable character, especially young mega-wussy Zachary David Cope as Bacon's son. Surely one of the most uninteresting and irritating children ever foisted onto an audience.Together with THE INVISIBLE MAN, two semi-voyeuristic Bacon outings we just don't need! "}{"Title":"Great Previews... Great Disappointment","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"18 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  From the previews it appeared to be a very promising film.  After much anticipation on my part, I found the film pretty disappointing with the potential it held.  Not to give away too much, but was it just me, or did the previews never show the kids ability to hear them too?  In its defense, the ending was perfect, and left the possibility  open but not necessary for a sequel.  Maybe an Echo of Echoes will take it to its full potential. "},{"Title":"Annoying horror film","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"19 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film starts out OK but quickly falls to pieces.  There's a little boy who talks to dead people (sound familiar?) and one of his friends has disappeared and since he is talking to her she's (allegedly) dead.  His father (Bacon) is hypnotized at a party and starts seeing her too.  Then the movie, which was quite interesting, turns into a very ordinary univolving who done it.  The supernatural angle seems to have been tacked on because of the success of The Sixth Sense.  The acting is good (especially Bacon), but the artsy camerawork is continuously calling attention to itself and the movie is just slow and dull.  Also there are tons if unexplained questions at the end.  Slow, dull and a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"LAME!","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"21 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I'll admit that Stir of Echoes had a couple parts that made me jump, but that's hardly sufficient for it to be a good movie.  The writing for this movie was atrocious!  The lines for the little boy were just pathetic, and his baby sitter's character was inconceivable!  Obviously the writer's never had a sibling die... In any case, this movie was just complete blah, not coming close to the majesty that is The Sixth Sense. "},{"Title":"Bland, boring and Bacon","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"32 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing the trailer, I was certain this film was going to be a winner. Unfortunately, I was wrong. The plot, while basically enthralling, keeps plodding along.This is not the only contradiction I found in this film. The highly interesting topic of apparitions is built well upon, yet the ending is as flat and uninspired as can be.Stir of Echoes honestly is the first film starring Kevin Bacon which I give two thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Like a made for TV movie","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"36 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a major disappointment. Two good things, fail to redeem it; The photography on the opening shots which lead us to believe we may be in for something special, and Kevin Bacon's portrayal of a sad and bored suburbanite living a life he rather wouldn't.This plays like a TV movie or episode of 'The Twilight Zone'. It offers nothing of real merit and fails to impress. There is a fleeting glimpse of a surreal special effect involving a ghostly apparition, but it would be more chilling if we hadn't seen it before in one or two slightly earlier movies of the same ilk.Aside from Bacon's character we learn and care nothing about the rest. Bacon's son can be likened to the central character in 'The Sixth Sense' in that he can see and speak to a ghost residing in his house, however this strand seems underdeveloped and 'light'.You will form your own conclusions before the conclusion actually arrives, and if you have paid to see this movie you will start to think about other worthwhile items you could have purchased instead.I am sorry; This is the most negative review I ever wrote, but I found this a complete waste of around an hour and a half of my time. "},{"Title":"Appalling","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"46 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Summary. Chap gets hypnotised, sees dead girl occasionally,solves her murder.Whether this film was written before or after The Sixth Sense, thereis no denying that it is truly terrible. The reasoning behindsituations and why they are set up is non-existent (why for exampledoes the dead girl insist on turning the light out on the wife in thecellar? Cheap shocks - thats why). The dialogue is also terrible(Was the cop only there to deliver the unbelievably poor line 'Samething, better flashlight' when explaining why the son can see thedead girl all the time?). Also, why doesn't the girl give a bettercommand than 'dig'  on the cinema screen rather than allowinghim to waste his time (and ours) wrecking his garden? Probablybecause this entire film is based upon a single, poorly thoughtidea which is stretched to fill an unbearable amount of time. Thisfilm neither entertains nor explores any original ground. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Hard to watch, middle of the road flick","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why i had such a hard time watching this movie. i just predicted every thing that was going to happen and there were no real reason why i should have kept watching it was all just really predictable and middle of the road Kevin bacon plays a stupid role in this movie his acting was really bland and annoying, i haven't seen many of his movies so i don't know if all of his movies have the same bad acting, kiefer sutherland should have played the lead of this movie i think he would have been a much better fit. Some things don't add up to in this movie to me but i really cant say with out giving some stuff away. Should you watch this movie? I would not go out of your way to see it but there are many worse movies out there. "},{"Title":"Beats The Sixth Sense any day","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of Echoes and The Sixth Sense seemed to be rival movies. Both had very similar story lines and came out within a month of each other. However, since The Sixth Sense got the drop on this movie by a month, Stir of Echoes never seemed to get the recognition it deserves. Everyone praised the Sixth Sense, loved it, and its on IMDb's Top 250 movies. Everyone I know has seen it. Stir of Echoes however, was soon forgotten it seems. It still stands with a 7.0 rating (as of 2/19/08). No one I know has seen or heard of this movie. It soon fell to being aired only at night. I first saw this movie at midnight on the SciFi channel. And I was impressed immediately. This movie is extremely underrated. I even go so far as to say it was WAY better than The Sixth Sense. Also, The Sixth Sense's ending wasn't as shocking and was a lot easier to guess than this one's. Nothing seemed to lead you in the right direction to the ending in this movie, which is what makes it so great. This movie kept me entertained, was spooky at parts, and always kept me guessing. Please, do yourself a favor and see this movie. Don't have the Its a copy of The Sixth Sense attitude. Unless the makers of this film saw the Sixth Sense and made this in a month just to copy it, then don't say or think this is a copy. I recommend this to horror and suspenseful movie fans. 9/10. (Please, watch and keep in mind its not trying to copy the Sixth Sense). "},{"Title":"It's all about the Bacon","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Kevin Bacon is a fine actor. We all know that, right? But it's not until you see him in this fairly weak flick, a rather poorly plotted and paced derivation of a classic ghost story, that you know just *how* fine an actor he is. And I'm here to tell you, Kevin Bacon is a *FINE* actor.The material here is pretty sketchy. We have a protagonist who is an average Joe with a few aspirations which never amount to much (in an early scene, he makes a vague reference to being in a band, a plot line that strangely disappears at once), a ghost story that takes place almost entirely in a well-lit suburb (not the most haunting of circumstances), and some shoddy dialog (the supporting characters mostly seem to drink beer, swear, and watch high-school sports). The motivations are absent (why does this average Joe have a sister-in-law who is clearly an art-ees-teek hypnotherapist? Why would he let this flake experiment her technique on his brain?). The special effects and camera angles and mechanics are strictly functional (save one well-handled early scene of hypnosis, on which they apparently blew their entire SFX budget).Yet Bacon rises above all of this petty mishandling to deliver some real soul to his part. When he gets a sudden premonition about danger and tears through a crowd to follow up his instincts, you find yourself breathing hard along with him. When his wife confronts him about how his new obsessive behaviors are tearing their family apart, his rage and frustration are palpable, as his his sweetly delivered, completely nonverbal, guilty apology. It's really a remarkable performance, and worth the price of admission to an otherwise very straightforward story, one which would have been downright boring without the man's talents.Well done, Kevin. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance!","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Kevin Bacon delivers yet another great performance in the terrific thriller/horror movie Stir of Echoes. The film seems to have been slaughtered by it's comments and it's all down to todays modern horror genre. This film was really the only movie from the modern horror collection I found watchable; it beats your average 'oh somethings gonna jump out at us' scenes which are far too predictable these days. The jump scene where Tom (Bacon) sits on the sofa startled by the spirit lurking in his house, it gets me every time I watch the film. The plot is fairly basic but the elements to it make it one hell of a good movie! So don't slaughter it just because it's different! "}{"Title":"This movie sucks!!!!","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Its creepy in the beginning but, besides from a few disturbing images, nothing works. Kevin Bacons character Tom is stupid and selfish and not someone you like at all, which is a problem when hes in practically every scene of the film. And its amazing that his sweet, sexy pretty wife wife doesn't leave him, considering how he treats her. In the scene where she finds him and their son digging in the garden, he doesn't explain a thing to her. He just gets mad and acts like a jerk instead of just telling her whats going on. And as a viewer I got mad at him for not explaining a thing to his poor wife. And whats the point of his wife being pregnant when its never talked about during the rest of the film???? And again, the way Tom reacts when he hears his wife is pregnant. This guy got a serious attitude problem!!!!! His wife accepts his reaction just like all the other abuse he subjects her to for the rest of the movie. And whats up with the stupid idea that every time Tom has another vision he gets thirsty and drinks lots of orange-juice?????? Completely stupid and pointless!!!! And the ending *spoiler* is so dumb, that its offending. The father of a kid that shot himself, is told that his son and a friend murdered a girl that they tried to rape. He orders Tom out of the basement and you hear a gunshot. But the guy is not dead. Because when the badgers tries to kill Tom and his wife to cover up the murder of the girl, the guy in the basement pops up out of nowhere and shoots the badgers. And another thing that doesn't make sense. How the hell were the badgers able to bury the dead girl in Toms basement without Tom knowing about it????? This piece of crap is so bad, that I must warn anyone to ever watch this. Not even if you can watch it on cable.And one more thing. Would you people please stop saying this movie is better than The sixth sense!!!! The sixth sense is a good movie. The only thing these two movies has in common is the plot. Only The sixth sense has a good plot. This movie just stinks!!!! Plain and simple!!!!! "},{"Title":"Very well made suspense...","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is was a very welcome surprise! I had the choice between Star Wars A New Hope, and Stir of Echoes, and for some unknown reason I picked the latter! It turned out to be a good decision! I ended up very surprised both by the quality and the fact I was very entertained. The story is actually you basic guy have gift to talk to dead people and see the future and his wife doesn't understand and his son has the same gift-story, pretty much! But the story tend to surprise you and leave you ends that you don't understand until the very end. Some small things that you end up forgetting. This is the main thrill, and Kevin Bacon as well is great, also the young Jack is very entertaining. The film refers to many well known suspense and horror films, like Encounter of the third kind(the garden digging scene), The Shining(the boy's visions and the guy telling the mother his boy got the eye) and even The Dead Zone(in the way the plot goes).I liked the film a lot! Maybe I will even watch it again! "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie (no spoilers)","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I loved the songs they chose for it, and the actors were great. I hate the sixth sense, but this movie I really loved. It's truly not a rip off, in my eyes. The wife and husband were great together, they showed a real life perspective of life. I liked how you sometimes had no idea where the ghost girl showed up, and they had an answer for almost everything. The little boy was very good, and I love the hypnotizing philosophy. YOU HAVE TO SEE THIS MOVIE. It was good directing as well. Kevin Bacon did well as the man torn between his family and trying to find out where and what happened to the ghost he's seen ever since he went to the party. Maggie was great as the scared wife trying to keep everything together but keeping a level head. They were punk rock almost and their son was very well as confused but unafraid. Loved it!!  "},{"Title":"Another wonderful  performance of K. Bacon","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie. The scenario was telling the story of a young man of the next door, disappointed by his ordinary life (something very common to many of us). When he suddenly realizes another way of receiving messages and has to admit that there is something more than the external world we can see. The reaction, the acting of Kevin Bacon was once more unique and he gave his best I think. He offers us a real spectacle. Even than the film has a mystery, a kind of thriller. "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Poor Sixth Sense clone features a solid turn by Kevin Bacon and a few effective jolts, but for the most part bores and confuses untill a rather good finale. Bacon begins to be haunted by the ghost of a young girl who was murdered after being hypnotized by his sister in law at a party. He actually steps into the girl's mind at times and beings to have visions of exactly what happened to her. As a result, this puts him and his family's lives in danger.Rated R; Violence, Profanity, Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"Mistakes Unpleasantness for Horror","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's like a foul-mouthed, made-for-USA Cable movie; slick and competent, but limited and run-of-the-mill. The director, David Koepp, keeps the audience guessing up to a certain point, but the hints and twists don't add up to anything extraordinary or chilling the way they did in The Sixth Sense. It's a murky, joyless film with some real obnoxious performances. Kevin Bacon's character goes so far off the deep end, that he completely loses audience sympathy and never gets it back. And Illeana Douglas is enormously unappealing as his snide, pot-smoking sister.There are a couple minor scares and smart touches, but this is mostly a routine production that mistakes unpleasantness for horror, confusion for suspense.      "},{"Title":"oye!","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this movie is interesting, but it sparked annoyance in me. Aren't we all sick of movies that glorify violence against women? I'd like to see one thriller that can sustain a storyline without it. Just think, if we see violent acts against women over and over again in movies and television, don't we eventually begin to normalize these acts? They eventually become acceptable and they instill fear in every woman that she too will become a victim. Substitute any other oppressed subculture of people and we all would be a lot more offended when it showed up as a topic of a movie for the 100th time. It's time to change the victimized woman cliche, people. Who else is with me on this? "},{"Title":"Brian Onrdorf has no taste","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  it's true it's true, saying not much stirring I realize we like to make little cutsy comments if we're the first person to comment on it but he has no taste at all! This is a great movie and it should be in the top 250. Kevin Bacon does a great job, as usual. The ghost of a girl that was killed by 2 boys is buried in his basement and he starts to get visions of her wanting the truth to be revealed so that the two boys will have to pay, see this movie 9! "},{"Title":"We want more!!!","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   Now, I usually write my reviews the morning after watching the film unless they are old ones, and write with them fresh in my mind, and this is no exception.There may be SPOILERS in this review, but don't worry reader, there is not THAT much of a plot to contend with.   Having said that, this film is rather good.  It's pacy, with some small wittisisms throughout, and made me jump a few times with quick camera cuts revealing things.  Kevin Bacon, Catherine Erbe, and especially Zackery David Cope (the boy) were very convincing and added to the tension on screen.  Kevin Bacon has such piercing eyes!     The only let down for me was that it ended to quickly.  There is a point in the movie where a cop called Neil shows up offering Maggie help for her husband because more people have the same problem of seeing the dead, but this avenue would have been great to explore, but it was shoved aside and we never saw them again! Quite a waste I thought.   They could easily have added another half hour to the film, and explored the ghostly possibilities, maybe a group sighting of the girl? and gone into more detail about what happened to him when he was hypnotised, and why Jake could already see the dead without being hypnotised.A very enjoyable film, worth watching, but don't take the easily spooked as they won't get to sleep tonight!NeilP.S. Check out my other reviews, I want feedback people!  "},{"Title":"Odd sense of humor","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As I was watching the film, I began to laugh at what  seemed to be unintentionally funny parts. I began to  wonder how this good cast got into this film. When thefilm was over, my first impression was that it was a silly attempt at horror, sort of a second-rate 6TH SENSE, to  which it must be compared and contrasted because of someglaring similarities.But as I thought about the film, I began to think thatmaybe the unintentional humor was actually intentional.Even though a murder in involved and a ghost appears  periodically, I began to get the feeling that much of what leads up to the genuinely well-done climax was much ado  about nothing. There is melerdrama which is corny  melodrama -- in other words, corny corn. There is mumbo-jumbo about x-ray eyes and typical movie versions of hypnosis that have only passing resemblance to real  hypnosis.But I guess it was the final line of dialogue in the filmthat convinced me that this is a comedy with an odd senseof humor. If I am right, I commend everyone for bringingthis off. And if I am right, the film can be viewed as aspoof of 6TH SENSE. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good ghost story.","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stir of Echoes is set in Chicago where Tom Witzky (Kevin Bacon), his wife Maggie (Kathryn Erbe) & their young son Jake (Zachary David Cope) have recently let a house. While at a party the talk turns to hypnosis & Tom scoffs at the idea, he goads his wife's sister Lisa (Illeana Douglas) into hypnotising him in an attempt to disprove the process. This idea backfires on Tom when Lisa does hypnotise him & while in a trance she suggests Tom should 'open his mind' to things around him which at first sounds harmless but Tom starts to see disturbing visions & hallucinations which turn out to feature a girl named Samantha (Jennifer Morrison) who mysteriously disappeared six months prior. Tom is haunted by the visions & figures out that they are some sort of message which he is determined to work out & act on...Written & directed by David Koepp this is a surprisingly good ghost film which probably is unfairly dismissed because of it's similarities to The Sixth Sense (1999) which was released only one month before Stir of Echoes. The script was based on the novel 'A Stir of Echoes' by Richard Matheson & has lots going for it, the working class environment which the film is set is very effective & gives the film a certain reality which many will be able to relate to, the film is littered with subtle shocks & jumps which actually work for once for instance the scenes when Bacon sits down on his couch & the ghost of Samantha appears next to him, the basic story is told in an engaging & gripping way with with intelligent character's you end up caring for as the strain on their relationships are portrayed & the dialogue is good too. At 100 odd minutes Stir of Echoes sounds quite a long film but while watching it last night the time flew by & in the end I actually wanted it go on longer, the film has lots of nice moments & some unexpected twists & turns which made this much, much better than I had anticipated. On the down side the ending is maybe a little so-so & it doesn't have much replay value as once you've seen the twist & turns they won't have the same impact on a second viewing.Director Koepp does a really good job here, the film could have ended up confusing & a bit of a mess but it's structured very well & makes perfect sense. While not the most action or incident packed film ever made the pace is good & it keeps moving along. This one also has a really nice, creepy atmosphere as well as a few jumpy moments. There's no gore or violence in this as it relies on good storytelling for it's impact. Stir of Echoes unfortunately did nothing at the box-office probably due to a year packed with ghost themed horror hits including the very similar The Sixth Sense, The Blair Witch Project (1999), The Haunting (1999) & Stigmata (1999) & I confess I was one who dismissed Stir of Echoes as not looking particularly inspiring, one also has to say the film doesn't have many 'moments' in it & not trailer friendly, in fact I'd have thought the films theatrical trailer would be rather dull & maybe one reason why it didn't do much at the box-office.With a modest sounding budget of about $12,000,000 this is well made, filmed in Illinois in Chicago. The acting is good by all involved although most of the cast are relatively unknown which is maybe another factor why this wasn't a big box-office draw. Even the little kid isn't that annoying & he doesn't feature that much either which is a relief.Stir of Echoes really was a surprise to me, I thought like many other's at the time it was released that it looked like another dull ghost story but while one could say it is it's a film I really liked & is very strong in every way. Followed by the made-for-TV Stir of Echoes The Homcoming (2007) which seems to have nothing to do with the original. "},{"Title":"Makes no sense.","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was very disappointed with this film especially having read some of the comments comparing it with 'The Sixth Sense', it shouldn't be mentioned in the same breath as that film. I'm sure others could have made a half decent film from the original source material of the book but this was an appallingly made film. Kevin Bacon is a fine actor and has made some good films but I've never seen him so bad as he was in this. The structure and direction were completely off, the script was not good at all and it just felt like a bad TV movie desperately trying to compete with proper movies like the aforementioned 'Sixth Sense'. In fact it works better if you think of it a spoof of that movie or those kind of movies. (3/10) "},{"Title":"Freaked the crap outta me the first time I saw it","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Kevin Bacon gives a very credible performance. There are some good scares in unexpected places. As the story continues, we see him becoming increasingly overwhelmed by these visions. What could it be? They consume him and I was left feeling sad for him and his plight. Luckily for him, the son shares the same gift/curse of being able to commune with the dead. The supporting cast helps to move the story along. His wife, played by Kathrin Erbe tries to be the glue which holds the family together. Yeah, good luck with that. The pacing of the film continues to build until the key elements are finally revealed. With a gasp of relief, the story comes to an eventful conclusion.Overall, I highly recommend this film to anyone looking for something different. If you liked The Sixth Sense, you'll really enjoy this gem of a film. "},{"Title":"Hardly a rip-off!!","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Forever compared to The Sixth Sense, which came out during the same year, Stir of Echoes is a greatly twisted tale of supernatural hauntings.Blue-collar man begins to believe that his Chicogo home is being haunted by the ghost of a missing teen girl and he must find her.Based upon Richard Matheson's novel A Stir of Echoes, this film is often unjustly seen as a knock-off of The Sixth Sense (because a young boy who sees ghosts is present in both films), but Stir of Echoes is a film that solidly stands alone as a truly intense chiller. The story is engulfing and tightly suspenseful. David Koepp lends some great direction that not only provides some great cold atmosphere, but a number of hypnotic elements as well. The band Gob does a great cover of the old Rolling Stones song 'Paint it Black', making a perfect theme.Kevin Bacon does one of his best performances as our troubled hero, as does Kathryn Erbe as his skeptical wife and Zachary Cope is good as his young son.Over all, an excellent mystery and a genuine bone-chiller.*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The 3 Bad F's - Forced, flawed and forgettable.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  STIR OF ECHOES (1999) Rating 4/10I am a big fan of supernatural suspense thrillers, but how forced and disappointing the highly anticipated Stir of Echoes was really the only shocking thing about the film. Lets start with a few reasons why Stir of Echoes doesn't work. Well, to begin with, it had no mystery. Do we really care about what the murder case was or whatever was happening? Do we really give a crap about why Kevin Bacon keeps getting these weird 'feelings'? And finally, even if we do, it provides no really atmospheric mystery, and is a dull-looking film. Second, the movie is rarely fun or easy to watch. I'm sorry, but seeing Kevin Bacon destroy his house and look at a black screen while his wife goes mental and his Haley Joel Osment wannabe kid sees dead people is at all new or sounds even the slightest bit entertaining to you, get help. Third and finally, the movie is not memorable. I can remember no good one-liners and only the rape scene was in my head after viewing. I can't really remember what happened with all the characters, what their motives were and in general what the hell was going on all that time. You may blame my memory, but I personally think this movie was way too shallow to be memorable. Stir of Echoes is a big mistake, and I wish I could've enjoyed myself, but I really just found this movie to be nothing more than an exercise in copying other plot points. Sure, some good performances might've mildly saved the film from being a horrible disaster, but I recommend you not to waste your time. "},{"Title":"A mixed of Sixth Sense and The Shining. Result an offal","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A child who talks to the dead, a child who has the shining (in this film, the shining is called `the eyes' and `the lantern', what a wooden bowl!). Where had I seen that thing?This film is a copy of two great movies (Sixth Sense, The Shining), but is worst in all the aspects. It has a few moments of suspense, and nothing of horror. There is a lot of annoyance, above all because half of the time Kevin Bacon (what a poor  actor) is digging in his house.Moreover, this movie has many unpardonable foozies, the screenplay is neither credible nor  attractive at all, and it has one of the worst finals I have ever seen in my life.3 out of 10, never more.  "},{"Title":"Another Cheap Knockoff","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"19 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just another one of those cheap knockoffs of current boxoffice hits.  (Has anyone else noticed that movies come out in pairs now?  There must be some guy in hollywood who just goes around stealing scripts or something.)  This movie involves a kid who can see dead people (what movie does that sound like?), and Kevin Bacon puts out a wanting performance. This knockoff of the 6th sense was predictable, and not near as good as the real thing. "},{"Title":"A good scary movie, that accomplishes more than killing people.  It is scary and has a point.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"20 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stir of Echoes is a scary movie that has a good story to tell.  It is not a shallow film, like many in the horror genre.  Stir of Echoes is a mystery-thriller that unravels itself through supernatural means, and offers horror in a meaningful package. "},{"Title":"underdog","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"28 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i usually fight for the underdog in these movie wars. stir of echoes was trying to compete against the cutest little kid who ever was (eye rolling), H J Osment. it fell flat because kevin bacon just isn't as edgy as osment is adorable. go figure. but. stir of echoes should have been named echoes of other movies. it was not as uniquely clever as The Sight, and did not hold the charm of Ghost. it was not as scary as Poltergeist, and it was not the eye candy treat The Haunting remake was. it was not as atmospheric as Rebecca and did not hold the charm that The Bat held. it was not as intelligent as Vertigo and was not as charming as Casper. it did have a decent story, but it was obviously ripped off from The Changeling. obvious to any horror buff. unfortunately, i cannot recommend its viewing. i suggest instead, any other movie i've listed above. "},{"Title":"Blame it on Matheson's decline.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If the movie is just average stuff as far fantastic movies are concerned ,the reason is to be found in Richard Matheson's decline.His novel was banal,trite,you can hardly find the touch of a man who wrote shrinking man-as a private joke,the baby-sitter relishes with this book-,time bid return and I am legend and countless startling short stories.The story of a man who can go back in the past(or in the future) with his mind has been told and told and TOLD.See eyes of Laura Mars,Dead Zone,to name but two.Too bad for Kevin Bacon who was ideally cast as the hero.His performance is remarkable as ever,but he deserved a better script,he's too subtile an actor to be content with this spate of clichés.Ilean Douglas -who was frightening in the last sequence of to die for- has a face strange enough to be featured in this kind of movie.Alas,her part ,after the hypnotism scene,is uninteresting. "}{"Title":"yawn","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  more Kevin Bacon tripe.    nuff said.   doesn't hold a candle to 6th Sense. If you have seen Amityville Horror, then you have done better. "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon is a tease...","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As soon as I hit the Eject button on the old DVD player, I thought to myself -- for the love of Christ in Heaven, why the heck did I subject my small town sensibilities to that festering bowl of Dog Snot?  The best part of the film was the funky/trippy soundtrack to the interactive menus.  I was totally hoping to see Kevin's massive bacon like in the stellar film, Wild Things.  I was waiting for the shower scene but alas, it never came. "}]